---
video_title: "LaTeX Course for Beginners"
video_id: 4lKbesI5eLI
channel_name: "freeCodeCamp.org"
channel_id: UC8butISFwT-Wl7EV0hUK0BQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lKbesI5eLI
video_date: 2026-05-21T13:06:59+00:00
video_description: |
  LaTeX is a professional typesetting system that uses a "code-first" approach to create high-quality technical and scientific documents with perfect consistency. This course guides you through the essential syntax, from basic document architecture to mastering complex mathematical formulas and automated citations. You will learn step-by-step the real workflows used in the industry. 
  
  Course created by @abaelamaier 
  
  Code: https://github.com/ammartahamohamedy/latex-course
  
  ❤️ Support for this channel comes from our friends at Scrimba – the coding platform that's reinvented interactive learning: https://scrimba.com/freecodecamp
  
  Part I: Core Document Setup & Text Formatting
  00:00:00 - Introduction & Course Backstory
  00:06:45 - Part 1: Document Structure & Creating Your First Document
  00:12:47 - Part 2: Text Formatting & Typesetting Basics
  00:27:43 - Part 3: Paragraph Control, Indentation & Spacing
  00:47:54 - Part 4: Multiple Column Documents, Mini Pages & Marginal Notes
  00:59:47 - Part 5: Font Families, Styles & Size Customization
  01:08:54 - Part 6: Listing Text (Numbered, Unnumbered & Description Lists)
  01:34:38 - Part 7: Page Layout, Margins & Running Headers/Footers
  Part II: Cross-Referencing & Mathematics
  01:54:18 - Part 8: Cross-Referencing Mechanism Fundamentals
  02:03:14 - Part 9: Advanced Cross-Referencing Packages (varioref & cleveref)
  02:26:27 - Part 10: Writing Mathematical Equations (Inline & Display Modes)
  02:41:08 - Part 11: Advanced Mathematical Typesetting (Fractions, Roots, Arrays & Matrices)
  03:26:23 - Part 12: Math Practice: Formatting Complex Equations & Formulas
  04:13:16 - Part 13: Typesetting Theorems & Proofs
  04:39:29 - Part 14: Advanced Theorem Customization (phfthm & mdframed Packages)
  Part III: Program Code, Algorithms & Figures
  04:58:20 - Part 15: Custom Source Code Blocks & Verbatim Layouts
  05:32:12 - Part 16: Typesetting Algorithms & Pseudo-Code
  06:13:00 - Part 17: Introduction to Floating Objects (Figures & Tables)
  06:18:54 - Part 18: Inserting External Pictures & Managing Image Paths
  Part IV: Tabular & Table Customization
  06:54:22 - Part 19: Table Construction Basics (The Tabular Environment)
  07:12:12 - Part 20: Table Column Width, Cells Rotation & Text Wrapping
  07:34:51 - Part 21: Coloring Tables & Row Highlighting
  07:55:17 - Part 22: Advanced Tables: Nested & Multi-Page Tables (longtable & supertabular)
  08:24:34 - Part 23: Footnotes in Tables & Multi-Column Document Tables
  Part V: TikZ Graphics, Vector Drawing & Presentations
  09:59:51 - Part 24: TikZ Graphics: Drawing Shapes and Rectangles
  13:11:00 - Part 25: TikZ Nodes and Advanced Style Management
  15:29:31 - Part 26: TikZ Paths, Curves, and Arc Construction
  16:25:19 - Part 27: TikZ Automation: Programming Loops with \foreach
  17:19:22 - Part 28: TikZ Plotting, Functions, and Data Visualization
  19:33:15 - Part 29: Making Presentations with the Beamer Class
  Part VI: Advanced LaTeX Programming, Bibliographies & Custom Packages
  23:11:15 - Part 30: Bibliographies, Citations, and the thebibliography Environment
  26:58:30 - Part 31: Splitting Bibliographies using bibunits (Multiple Bibliographies)
  28:11:11 - Part 32: Automation Scripts for Building LaTeX and BibTeX Files
  29:21:19 - Part 33: Advanced Custom Commands & Optional Arguments
  31:36:38 - Part 34: Conditional Logic and Switches in LaTeX (ifthen / Toggles)
  32:12:47 - Part 35: Creating Advanced Environments with Conditional Behavior
  33:44:01 - Part 36: Custom Counters and Ordinal Formatting in LaTeX
  33:55:11 - Part 37: Reusable Environments for Custom Counter Formatting
  35:23:18 - Part 38: Programming in LaTeX: Creating and Customizing Loops
  38:01:28 - Part 39: Storing Code and External Files with the filecontents Environment
  39:26:58 - Part 40: Writing Custom LaTeX Packages and Style Files (.sty)
  39:59:03 - Part 41: Modular Document Design: Combining Files with \include and \input
  41:27:42 - Part 42: Global vs. Local Options, Overrides, and Final Course Summar
  
  🎉 Thanks to our Champion and Sponsor supporters:
  👾 @omerhattapoglu1158
  👾 @goddardtan
  👾 @akihayashi6629
  👾 @kikilogsin
  👾 @anthonycampbell2148
  👾 @tobymiller7790
  👾 @rajibdassharma497
  👾 @CloudVirtualizationEnthusiast
  👾 @adilsoncarlosvianacarlos
  👾 @martinmacchia1564
  👾 @ulisesmoralez4160
  👾 @_Oscar_
  👾 @jedi-or-sith2728
  👾 @justinhual1290
  
  --
  
  Learn to code for free and get a developer job: https://www.freecodecamp.org
  
  Read hundreds of articles on programming: https://freecodecamp.org/news
---
LaTeX is a professional type setting system that uses a code first approach to create high quality technical and scientific documents with perfect consistency. This course guides you through the essential syntax from basic document architecture to mastering complex mathematical formulas and automated citations. You will learn step by step the real workflows used in the industry. Ammar Taha created this course. Greetings, internet folks, and welcome to this gigantic Leitek tutorial.

It might very well be the last one you'll ever need. Who knows? Before we jump in, I want to give you a bit of context about what this is, how it came to be, and why I'm finally dropping it here on YouTube. If you don't care about backstory, you're absolutely welcome to skip ahead to part 1. So, first things first.

The very beginning of this course was originally recorded back in April 2021. I'm speaking to you now in late January 2026. It's been a while, and a lot has changed since then. including the fact that I stopped thinking about monetizing this material. That's why I decided that releasing this on YouTube felt like a pretty good New Year's gift to the tech community.

I don't know how much you love LaTeX, but I'm mesmerized by this piece of software. I fell in love with it during my senior year of college, when I wanted to document my team's graduation project using LaTeX for the first time. And as I dug deeper, I realized, as many of you probably have, that there isn't a really proper complete video course out there. So as any stubborn engineer would do, I decided to make my own. I planned the syllabus, recorded the first few videos, those are the ones you'll see at the beginning, and you can definitely actually tell that I hadn't mastered production quality yet.

And actually just a quick heads up, the quality throughout the course is far from perfect, but I worked with what I had back then and tried my best. This entire project took me more than two and a half years to finish, with plenty of interruptions. The workflow was always the same. Study a concept, sometimes for the first time, practice it myself, prepare examples and timelines, write a full script with planned actions, record, usually in the middle of the night, edit, and then repeat in a loop. Since this was my first attempt at educational content, the pacing evolves over time.

At the beginning, I may sound like a robot reading a script. But at the very end, in the last advanced section, you'll start noticing that I will improvise just a little bit. So don't overthink it. You will get used to this version of me. And if you don't, well, at least you didn't have to pay for it.

My hope is that this course serves you well in your own projects. And I welcome constructive criticism and suggestions for other topics you'd like to learn. Just to let you know, I skipped the history of tech analytics. and did they include installation guides for distributions or editors? I don't think you need those here, but I've linked useful resources in the description along with my website where you can download the source code and slide decks.

One last thing, this is a big course and it's going to be a long journey unless you densify your learning schedule. So don't wait until the end to use LaTeX in your projects, actually start practicing after each milestone. This is important because you will likely feel overwhelmed at the beginning. LaTeX is huge and it takes time to get comfortable with. Throughout the course, I try to make every concept as clear as possible to reduce the amount of confusion and save you time while practicing on your own.

Sometimes you will notice that I don't cut out some simple mistakes I make. And that's intentional. It gives you a chance to learn from them and see how to debug instead of panicking when you hit a new error and overestimate the issue. Also, in some cases, the level of detail might feel intimidating, but it's not as bad as it seems, for two reasons. First, LaTeX is highly customizable, so it often needs lower level control to get the result you want.

And second, many details simply cannot be skipped, otherwise you wouldn't learn enough to turn your ideas into a real output. At the same time, I do skip redundant or overwhelming details whenever possible to give you some reading room. Especially when covering multiple packages in one topic. And of course you're always welcome to check the official documentation for any package we cover if you want to dive deeper. And that's also why some videos might feel long, but I prefer that you finish a lesson and actually know how to apply it in your projects without constantly checking docs or searching online extensively.

The size of the course follows the same idea, giving you enough LaTeX tools to build well-structured model-looking documents confidently. Lastly, if you watch the tutorials like a movie, you're doomed. You'll get frustrated by the amount of jump cuts I make, and you won't learn that much. So don't leave anything unpracticed. Try the examples, tweak the formatting, play around.

It takes time. Okay, enough chit chat, here is the first part.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we're going to see how a LaTeX document is structured and how to prepare our first document. So a LaTeX document is composed of two main parts, the preamble and the body. And the preamble is the first part in your document and it contains the document class definition, which is the type of class or document you're going to use and we will talk about this in a minute. And it also contains the overall page formatting, the settings for header and footer, the packages used declaration and of course new user custom commands which is you can say kind of routine frequently used but stated once in the preamble at the beginning of your document and so much more and we will address those in detail in future videos.

Okay, so what about the body? Well, it simply contains the whole content of your document from text to tables and figures, equations, diagrams, lists and so on. And this is the place you're gonna use most of your time while working with LaTeX. Oh, you may have noticed that later commands start with backslash and they also contain braces or killer brackets. And those hold any mandatory argument or main arguments for your commands, packages and environments.

By the way, an environment is the begin-end sequence and inside the braces is the name of your environment. We will see various environments to insert figures and tables and type setting text later. So enough chit chatting and let's do something. We will go to Techmaker and type document class. We will talk about this bracket in a minute.

of type article we say begin document autofill and following the old convention we will type hello world and compile and run

And you can see the output immediately in the PDF viewer. Let's make it bigger. Let's zoom. You can see it right here. And there is a note you should know, which is TechMaker automatically generates a PDF file for you, which you can view.

As you can see, it outputs a PDF file that you can view while working. And this file is updated whenever you made any changes in your LaTeX code just by refreshing the document itself here. Okay, one more thing about LaTeX document structure in nature which is optional arguments. Those appear in brackets after killer braces in commands and packages. For example, in the document class we could have specified an optional argument to define the document paper size and font like this.

You type in square brackets, A4 paper, 12 point or any other paper size you want and font to output an article document of paper size A4 and font size of 12 points rather than the default one which is 10 points. Putting an optional argument in the document class before the curly brackets is the standard here. and also in the figure environment we will see that you can specify the position of your figure by putting it in a bracket after the curly braces here the edge indicates that here at that same location of the latex code because latex tends to position your figures and tables in a way that embraces the inner settings so the tables and tables may not appear in the same or in the location you expect them to be so that's an important thing because if you didn't allocate your tables and tables as we will see they will appear in weird places

About the document classes. There are four major document classes in LaTeX. Article, Book, Report, and Letter. For all except the Letter class, Letter provides minor sectional units. like the part.

This is an optional unit in your document if it's huge and it contains major divisions. The chapter, which is the top level sectional unit for both book and report document classes, meaning that you can start partitioning your document from chapter to down to small units.

and sections which are the top level sectional units for articles and it embraces the subsections and sub subsections as we will see. And finally paragraphs and sub paragraphs. We will construct many document classes as we walk through the course and you will be exposed to many partitioning schemes as we evolve with our content in time. Remember that the only way to match relating is by practicing it continuously.

Okay I think this is enough for today, I know that we didn't do much with LaTeX but I think it's very necessary to embrace the LaTeX methodology at the beginning. I hope you found this beneficial, thanks for watching and see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we're going to learn about text formatting and type setting in LaTeX. We will mainly work with a book document class but we will also see some concepts from the articles.

I want you to focus and keep up with me while I'm working in TechMaker and I also hope you to be able to document the most of what we're going to explore today. So let's jump into it. LaTeX has a default formatting routine for the document sectional units. For example, For the Book and Report Document classes, it numbers the partitions from top to bottom, accordingly, like that, with the lowest level being the subsection. And for the Article class, it begins with the section and ends with the sub-subsection and the numbering is the same.

Note that the paragraphs and the subparagraphs aren't numbered in both. And you can ensure the next risk to suppress the autonaming system by putting it before the braces in all of them as we will see.

So let's see how this works in action.

and by combining this and running it again.

You can see that LaTeX automatically generates the title chapter one here, followed by the name of the chapter that we specified in a beggar font. And then it prints out the section and the subsection numbered as expected. For the section, the first number here is the number of the chapter, and the second one is for the section itself. And the same for the subsection.

And if you try the second subsection, you can see that LaTeX changes the third number for the subsection accordingly. So we can type subsection, second subsection.

Compile and run. And here we are. You can see that the third number is 2 according to the second subsection.

We've mentioned that this numbering scheme can be suppressed by adding an asterisk before the braces. So we can try this with the chapter. Add an asterisk, compile and run. And you can see that the chapter one title has disappeared. Latex has emitted it.

Now also, if you look now at the sections and the subsections, you can observe that the first number now is zero. As if Latex is treating those sections as belonging to no chapter now. So when we omit the auto numbering and the title in the chapter command, the chapter number turns to zero. if you try the asterisk with the sections and the subsections later we'll delete only the numbering as it didn't generate a title for them in the first place unlike the chapter command so let's do that let's add an asterisk here and one for the first subsection compile and run and you can see that the numbering disappears You may be now wondering about the document title, and this is a simple issue. Add the title command in a preamble with a descriptive one, like the title.

And to make the title appear, you must insert the make title command in the body, and it's usually put in the beginning of the body. So we can add this.

Make title. Run.

You can see that immediately for the bug document class, LaTeX generates an independent title page with the date auto-typed to be today.

If you don't want that or you want to change the date, you can easily do that by using the date command in the reample.

and if you don't want a date you probably want to leave the braces empty let's draw that and the date disappeared and of course you can put any date you want with any format it's very flexible let's type 12 by 2021 compile and run and you can see the date has appeared again

Now by inspecting the document through the PDF viewer, you can see that LaTeX by default generates a second playing page after the title page, which is a standard thing in the books.

Okay, two last concepts about the document class for now. The first one is the style of the blank page. If you look closely, you can observe the number two at the top left of the blank page. And this is of course indicates the number of the page. If you don't want that, if you want to delete it, you can simply use the this page style command in the body.

this page style and we type empty by combining this and running it and the number now has gone second issue is the first numbered page by default the title page isn't numbered and you've just removed the second page the blank page number In fact, we only didn't print it out, but the number is still there in the Latex engine. For both, for the title page, it's numbered as 1 in the background, and the second is numbered as 2. That's why the third page, the chapter 1 page, it's numbered as 3.

If you want to start the numbering system here, i.e. from the chapter one page, you can use the set counter command with the arguments, with two arguments. The first one is page and the second one is one or the number you want to start this page from. So we can use set counter.

The first argument is page and the second one, we want to start from one. So by running this, you can see that the chapter one page now starts from number one. That's exactly what we want.

Oh, by the way, the default numbering system in LaTeX is the Arabic numbers. Okay. And if you want to change that, you can by using the page numbering. There are two other numbering schemes or formats, which are the Roman and the alphabetical. So we can use the page numbering, page numbering, and we can type Roman.

Compile and run.

And you can see that the Roman letters appear.

And for the alphabetic, type Alf and it will start by A, as you can see here.

There is an important thing by using the page number which is it omits the second plain page of the book. LaTeX has deleted it. We'll stick with this for now and we'll learn how to insert a plain page later.

Okay, now let's add some text and play around with it. To auto-generate a text, we will use the package Lipsum to generate a paragraph from the dummy text delivery Lipsum. Under the document class, we type use package, Lipsum.

And in the body after the subsection, we type paragraph without a heading and then Lipsum and inside square brackets, we type the number of paragraphs we want. For now, we want one.

And this command prints out a one paragraph of Larim Epsom indented by the effect of the paragraph command. Let's see that.

And here we are. It printed out a block of the dummy text indented by the paragraph command effect. Of course, if you want more than one paragraph, you can specify the number you want inside the brackets with a range. So you type from one to two.

And here we are. There are two paragraphs according to the number you entered in the code.

Now about the subject or the topic of the aligning. By looking at .dummy text, you can see that LaTeX printed it aligned from both sides by default.

There are three text aligning environments. The flush left for the left aligning, the center for the centering content, and the flush right for the right aligned text.

So trying this in action under the first lipsome block in the second subsection, we open the environment flush left. So let's do that. Begin.

Flush left.

And then we type the paragraph with a heading of left aligned.

And then we use the left-hand package to generate a one paragraph. And we do the same thing for the flush right and center commands.

Run. And now by navigating through the PDF viewer, we can see that the second subsection is left aligned as we want it. The third subsection is right aligned. And also the first is centered as you expect. Okay, there is another way or format you can use those environments with, which is the so-called switch commands.

For example, for the center environment, you can use the switch command backslash centering. And let's write this in a fifth subsection.

and by running this and you can see that the fifth subsection has a paragraph centered by the backslash centering switch command but be careful with this type of commands as it has a global effect and tends to format all the content that follows it until another formatting scheme is implemented which means if you have any kind of content it would have the same effect centered or left or right aligned as the one before it. To emphasize this, let's create a new subsection without aligning structure.

and burying this

And now we can see that the new subsection is centered, although we didn't specify any aligning structure because of the effect of the backslash centering before it. So be careful with this kind of command. If you put it inside an environment, its effect will be limited to that environment, okay? But it's now outside an environment. Finally, if you want to restore the fully justified format, you may consider the package ragged2e.

So going to the preamble, we say use package ragged2e. And for the new subsection, we use the justify command.

and now our default both side aligned text is restored by the justify command of the package ragged2e this is a useful package we may talk about it in the future and first you can see the documentation on the ctan org I will stop here to simplify this video as possible and to give you a time to harness the concepts you received today. Keep practicing and don't stop learning. I hope you found this beneficial, thanks for watching and see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will continue exploring text formatting.

As we saw in the last video, to create a paragraph we use the paragraph command but there is a short, direct way to create them without headings which is to use the backslash par command. Let's see how this works.

I just copied some text to make the paragraph and then we'll run.

Okay, and you can see that the ended paragraph has been created successfully. Now about indentation. If you want to remove it from a paragraph, you may use the noindent command. And if you want to specify a space or size for the indentation, you can use the parindent equals the value of the space in millimeters, centimeters, points or inches. Let's apply those.

Run.

and you can see that the indentation has disappeared and if you want to restore the indentation you can do so by using the backslash indent command and then try the par indent command let's say one centimeters run

And you can see that the paragraph has been indented by the value of 1 centimeters or 10 millimeters. If you want to insert a vertical space between two paragraphs, you can use the parse kib command. Let's see how it works.

And we'll type parse keb 1 centimeters to make a vertical space between those two paragraphs.

Let's run this.

And you can see that the two paragraphs has been separated by 10 millimeters vertical space. And so by now you have the ability to create format and control paragraphs up to a good level. I know that the parse skip command created a vertical space above the paragraph that is called in. So if you want to insert a vertical space above a certain paragraph, you may use the parse skip command. Also, you can use commands like parindent and parskib, which have a global effect in the preamble to apply them for all paragraphs you have in your document as a general formatting scheme.

While working with text in Latex, you may face the situation of having to insert new lines to break text at certain locations. And that's an easy thing to do. just by using the double backslash at the location that you want to break that line in. You may have noticed from the paragraphs that we created before that LaTeX doesn't create a new line in the output PDF file just by hitting the enter key on your keyboard while working in the input file. And that's why we need to use such commands like the double backslash and the new line and the line break commands to make new lines or to break lines.

I usually prefer to use just the double backslash as it's easy and fast and it will appear frequently in the future like for example in tables, matrices and equations. Let's create some new lines. okay if we came here and put a double backslash and hit run you can see that latex breaks that line at the word another let's just zoom in and the text following the double backslash it has been printed on a new line and of course you can use the new line command

Let's run.

And also it gives you the same effect. If you want to break a text and also create a new blank line at once, you can use backslash four times without spacing.

If we would like to come here and backslash, backslash, backslash, backslash and hit run.

You can see that Lasik breaks this text at the word universe and also creates a blank line after that. And the text following those quadruple backslash has been printed on a new line. Also in the input file, if you leave a blank line, this will create a blank line in the output PDF file with the following text indented. Okay, let's break this text here and another line. And let's run.

And you can see that it breaks the text and creates a new line after the word mass. Note that leaving more than one blank line in the input file wouldn't change the effect and you will still get one blank line in the upper PDF file. So we can break another line and run. So nothing changed. And finally, if you want to specify a vertical space later gives you the ability of increasing it between two consecutive lines by inserting the value of the space between brackets after the double backslash.

So if we came here and put square brackets and type like one centimeter, hit run. And you can see that the vertical space of the word another has been increased to one centimeter. So you can specify any value you want also in millimeters, points or inches. Now let's have a look at some of the most common text manipulation commands.

First of all, to make a text of bold font style at any place in your document, you can use backslash textbf command. Let's try it out.

Just take some text, say backslash textbf, paste, run.

And you can see immediately that this chunk of text has been converted to bold style font.

Next, to emphasize a block of text, you can use the backslash emf command. Let's try it out.

We'll take some text from here.

Backslash emf.

And run.

and you can see that this text has been emphasized till here next to put a line under a text fairly enough you can use the backslash underline command let's do that

And as expected, you can see that this sentence is underlined as expected. To change the size of some text without disrupting the state of the rest, you can group them by using parentheses and use one of the font adjusting commands. Let's do this using backslash large command.

And you can see that this group sentence has been enlarged by the effect of the backslash large command If you want some text to be very small you can either use the backslash footnote size or backslash tiny commands Let's try those out

Run.

And you can see it's there. It takes the size of the footnotes. And for the backslash tiny command, we can see its effect here.

And you can see its vanishingly small text.

If you want to restore the default size of a text, you can use the normal size command. So you can change that to normal size.

And run.

And we go back again to the first state. To give a text some color, you may want to use the xcolor package. So let's insert it here.

and you can group some text like this and type text color and for the first argument you type the color you want let's say red and in the second parenthesis or the second argument you can you may put the text itself so we made that bold text red now okay now about coded text to code a block of text in a single quotes you can do that and run and you can see it's there this quote on the left you can find it in the bottom of the tilde at the far top left in your keyboard and the right one is the known one at the left of the enter key on your keyboard and of course you can double those to get the double coded text and it's there successfully If you're writing a book and you want to insert quotes of some known people, we're just avoiding plagiarism. Latex is providing you with two environments, quote and quotation. Both are working the same way, but you can say that quotation is for big chunks of text or to quote several paragraphs. So let's create a quote of Newton, which is a famous one.

And I just pasted the famous quote from Newton if I've seen further it's by standing on the shoulders of giants. Then to insert the name of the author we can use the switch command ragged left.

Which is the switch command for the flush write environment to write online the name of the author.

And then type dash dash Isaac Newton.

Let's run this.

and it's there okay let's first break this line to bring this hyphen down and run okay that's nice to make this quote look nicer we can add double quotes and some line spacing between the code body and the author name by using the set space package so let's insert this here

set space and we will wrap the quote and the author name inside the spacing environment and put the value of the spacing equal to one and a half Let's run this. Okay and it's working. And we can put the code body in double quotes.

Run.

And then it's better looking now. Finally we will look at inserting blank spaces. There are two types of blank spaces in Leitech, predefined which means that it has a default unadjustable value for the spacing and user-defined which will set its value. those are divided into two categories either vertical or horizontal and we have a big skip which is a predefined vertical space quad q quad and the thin space which is a predefined horizontal spacing command Also we have the VSKIP which is a user defined vertical and the V space parenthesis which is a user defined vertical also and the H space parenthesis which is a user defined horizontal. Let's see how this works in action.

Let's write the big skip space.

Run.

And you can see that it inserts a large vertical space with default built-in value between the two lines. Just right here. Now let's see some horizontal beautified ones.

For the thin space.

Quad. And Q Quad. Let's run.

And you can see the various effects that everyone produces. So you can choose between them. If you want a certain vertical space between two paragraphs, you can use the VSCAP followed by a value after a space, like this.

Last run.

And you can see that it breaks the text at that location with a value of 1 cm. Now for the V space and H space. You can simply put your value inside the parenthesis and put them anywhere you want. Let's try the V space instead of the big skip.

And run.

And you can see that the vertical space has been increased to the value that we put inside the parentheses, which is 2 centimeters.

And the edge space ensures a horizontal space between two words in a line. So we can try it here. 2 centimeters. Run. And you can see that gap in the third line.

okay last thing if you want your content to fill the page either vertically or horizontally you can use the hfill or vfill commands let's make the two paragraphs that we have in the code to fill up the page vertically by putting vfill before and after the code

and after the code backslash v fill and run and you can see that the first paragraph is at the top of the page the quote is in the middle and the second paragraph is at the bottom of the page okay let's just use one inch margin and a4 paper size with the geometry package so you can feel the difference

and run okay that's nice for the horizontal case we can do that

And let's insert a big vertical space to separate the header from the first paragraph by using the backslash big skip command.

And run.

And you can see that the two sentences or the two words fill up the whole line horizontally. Okay we will stop here for now. Keep practicing and don't stop learning. I hope you found this beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and see you in the next video.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will discuss some more concepts about text formatting. Specifically, we will look at multiple column documents, many pages and marginal notes. Ok, first of all, let's talk about multiple column option. By default, Leitech produces a single document for article, book and report document classes.

And to make a two-column document like most of the research papers, you can use the two-column option in the document class definition. Let's see basically how this works.

And let's use the ellipse and back edge.

Now let's generate five paragraphs.

and run.

And you can see that we got a classic two column document. Now is this document tied to the two columns only? No, you can add a single column content in a two column document by putting it in the brackets of the two column command.

Okay, let's try this. Let's make a title first.

And let's add the tool column command.

And let's run.

And we got that paragraph in a single column as we wanted. You can adjust the gap between two columns by using the column sep command and the width of the vertical line separating the two columns by the column sep rule command. You can see by default that this value is assigned to be zero to make the line invisible. Okay, let's add both.

Run. And the effect is added. And you can manipulate each the way you want with any values to satisfy your needs. Note by using the two column command to produce a single column content, you can only print one single column content per page. And if you add another one, it will be printed in the next page even if you have enough space in the current one.

Okay, let's examine this.

And let's run.

And you can see that the second paragraph is printed in the beginning of the second page. And you cannot overcome this issue as long you're using the two-column option in the preamble. Of course, there is a solution regarding this problem, which is to drop the two-column option and use the multi-col package and the multi-cols environment that comes with it.

Okay, I've deleted the two-column option from the document class definition. Let's try the multi-col package.

Now we will define the Multicodes environment with three columns.

I've just created a normal paragraph at the beginning followed by the Multicodes environment declared with three columns as mentioned. And after that, another paragraph using the ellipsum package right here. So let's run.

And we got the three portions as we wanted. And notice that the last paragraph is printed just after the multiple columns paragraph, not in the next page. Of course, you can increase the number of columns up to 10 with the multicolors environment. Let's try five.

And let's run.

Now coming to the mini pages. A mini page is a portion of the page with specified width that holds any kind of content from text, tables and figures and so on.

You can create the mini page using the mini page environment with one optional argument within the brackets which is the vertical alignment This argument can handle three positions. Center, which is the default, top and bottom. And one another, mandatory argument, which is the horizontal width. And this can be specified in two ways. The first one is to use explicit values.

And the second is to make it a percent of the line width of the mini page. Let's illustrate this by doing it to make it clear. Let's create a top aligned mini page with horizontal width of 7 centimeters.

And let's run. And here we got our first mini page. Now let's create a second one to talk about the line width.

And here we will define the horizontal width as a 60% of the line width of the main page.

And now let's run. If we keep increasing the explicit value of the first one, let's say 10.

and run you can see that the second mini page is corrupt out of the main page and of course we don't want that to happen that's why this isn't a practical way to define the horizontal width of a mini page rather use the second method which is a percent of the line width of the main page if we did so in the first one

Let's try this. You can see that both of them are aligned properly.

And make sure that the percent of the successive mini pages doesn't exceed 100%. There is also the boxed mini page environment that comes with boxed mini page package. Both are working the same way, except that the content in the letter is placed in a box. Okay, let's try this out by making the first mini page here a boxed one.

And of course, let's ensure the boxed mini page package.

and let's run and here we got the first one placed in a box the mini page is somewhat similar to the main page so for example we can add the footnotes in the mini page let's add a footnote in the first mini page

And let's run. And you can see that here the footnotes are marked with lowercase alphabets. The last thing that we will talk about today is the marginal notes. Latik provides a command to insert a margin note, which is backslash margin par. Let's try this out.

And let's add a margin node after this line.

Let's run. And the margin node is added here. And you can see that this node appears next to the line where we typeset it in the input file. which is this tides line. Now let's see some commands used to manipulate the marginal nodes.

The first one is margin part width that controls the width of the marginal node. Let's change the width to two and a half.

And let's run. And you can see that the width has increased. You can also observe that from the increased space between the two words first and marginal. The second command is margin parsep, which defines the horizontal space between the text and the marginal node. Let's also increase that to one centimeter.

And let's run. and the space has increased. Finally, if you have two successive nodes, you can separate them vertically with any value you want by using the margin power push command. Let's add another margin node.

And now let's make the distance between them one centimeter.

And let's run. okay and we've got the vertical space one centimeter as we want as you can see here we have an article document class which is of one side type so the margin power command prints the note in the right margin for a book on the other hand which is two side document for an odd number page the marginal note is printed in the right margin while it's printed in the left margin for an even number page Okay, this is it for today's video. I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video.

Today we will talk briefly about types and styles of fonts in LaTeX and how to choose them.

Okay, first of all, let's talk about measure font types. In LaTeX font types can be divided into family, series, shape and size.

Let's begin with the font families. LaTeX has three standard font families. The first one is the server family which is the default and you can access it by three ways through the commands backslash text rm or you can group some text and use the rm or use the switch command rm family. The second standard font family is the Sans Serif and this also can be accessed by three ways the text sf command or backslash sf for grouping or the switch command backslash sf family. The last one is the typewriter family and this also can be accessed in three ways as shown similar to the previous ones.

Okay, let's try this to see how they look and run.

Okay, they work just fine and you can see the result. This method allows you to adjust the font of individual blocks of text. But what if you need to typeset your whole document in a specific font? For that matter, you can use the Renew command to redefine the default font family for your document. Let's do that with the Sans Serif font to make it the default instead of the serif.

Let's use the lipsyn package.

And we will use the renew command in the preamble with two arguments only.

The first argument takes the thing that you want to change its value. And that thing here for us is the default font family type for the document. So we'll type family. default and the second argument is the value you want that thing to possess here we want to change the family the default family for our document to be the sensory family so type sf default let's make two paragraphs to see the result

and run ok and we got the entire document type set by the sans server font first we can do that also for the typewriter family let's type ttdefault and run

And as you can see that the entire document now is type set using the typewriter family font.

Now about the font series. By default, later font is of medium width and height. And you can restore text state to the default settings by using the backslash text MD or MD series commands. The second series is the boldface fonts and we saw in a previous video that this can be called using the backslash textbf command and alternatively you can use backslash bf or bf series commands. Okay, let's talk about font shapes.

The default font shape in LaTeX is the upright and you can invoke it using the shown commands.

Next we have the italic shape, the slanted shape and the last but not least the caps and small caps shape and the respective calling commands are shown. Let's see the difference between them.

And let's run.

And you can see the various shapes printed.

OK, coming to the font sizes. Leitech has 10 dynamic different font sizes, which are tiny, script size, footnote size, small, normal size, which is the default. and three different large sizes and finally two different huge sizes and note that when I say dynamic fonts I meant that those sizes are tied in a relation with the specified font in the document class definition so they are proportional to it and they will be different from 10 points document to 12 14 and so on

Okay, let's see how those fonts look like for a default 10-point document.

I've just inserted different sizes using the grouping technique to limit the effect of each one to one sentence. And some width caps. And let's run.

okay and we got the 10 sizes and you can choose whatever fits your needs you can combine font sizes and styles to produce any custom font you want for example let's create a huge size bold emphasized text so we first open a parentheses and then we type huge max dash emf

Backslash text BF for bold text. Huge emphasized bold text.

And let's run.

Okay. And we got what we want. And you can play around with different fonts, families, shapes and sizes to gain more intuition about this issue. If you made any changes to your document font settings, like changing the font family, series, shape or size, you can always return to the default setting using the normal font command. So let's make a large size typewriter font paragraph.

okay let's run okay and we got our paragraph let's return to the normal state so we type the command normal font and let's experience it with another paragraph to compare the both of them and let's run okay let's make a vertical space

okay and here we're back again to the serif upright default font okay this is it for today's quick video I hope you found this beneficial thanks for watching and see you in the next video Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will discuss text listing. Both the ready to use built-in list types and how to make a user-customed list. Lists in LaTeX are three types. The first one is the numbered list and this type can be initialized using the numbered environment.

The second one is the unnumbered list and to create it we will use the itemize environment. The last one is the description list and the description environment is used to create it. For all of them to insert an item we will use the backslash item command. Okay, let's begin with the numbered lists. We see that we will use the numbered environment and items will be inserted as shown using the item command followed by the content of that item.

The default number scheme is the Arabic numerals and we will learn how to change that in a few moments. Okay, let's create a numbered list.

And let's run.

And here we got our RGB list. And you can see that the vertical space between the items is predefined in latex inner settings. And to change that, you can use the backslash item sub command and adjust that gap through the set length command after the enumerate environment declaration. This increased the gap to 10 millimeters. So we'll use the sit-length command to adjust the item sub command to make it a value 10 millimeters and run.

Okay, that's perfect. And the vertical space has increased already between the items. You can list up to four enumerate environments to get a hierarchical listed list structure. Let's write that out.

And let's run.

So this is the first list. To nest an enumerated environment inside another one, you should put it under an item as follows.

And let's run.

Okay, that's great. Let's insert another one.

and let's run and let's make it again under the item canada okay and let's run and here we are let's make a fruit nested list under san diego

and let's run ok that's great now we've reached our maximum allowed number of nested lists which is 4 if you try to insert another one you will get an error let's make sure of that let's run

And you can see that LaTeX produced a number and it's telling us that this is too deeply nested list and it's not allowed. You can see that the default numbering scheme for the first nested list, which is here California and Washington under the USA and Montreal and Ontario under Canada. Those first nested list uses lowercase alphabets and the Roman style for the second here and uppercase letters for the third nested list. Now to change the number of an enumerate environment, we will use the renew command with two arguments.

The first argument is the command label enum i.

where this command refers to the first enumerate environment labeling.

And in the second argument, we will insert the numbering scheme that we want. Let's leave that for the first list to be the Arabic numbers.

So we type Arabic of enumoi. And here enumr refers to the first enumerative list in our structure.

And let's run.

You can see that it only prints the numbers because we only told it to do so. So we can put the dot after the braces of the Arabic command like that. And let's run.

okay that's great now let's change the numbering of the second list which is the first nested list so we'll use the renew command again this time we'll use the command label enum double i to refer to the labeling of the second list

and in the second argument we will make the style of this list uppercase alphabets so we will use enum double i also to refer to the second enumerative list ok let's run ok that's good and the same issue that we didn't put the parentheses so we will wrap the whole alph command inside them

and run.

Okay, that's better looking now. Now coming to the third list.

And you get the idea. We'll use the command label enum triple I to refer to the labeling style of the third enumerative list. And we'll make the style of this list lowercase alphabets.

and run okay and the last one which is the fourth ivy and we will make the style of this list roman okay let's run

Okay, let's insert a dot also here.

Okay.

And we've now altered the labeling scheme of the four numerative lists. The first one and the three nested lists under it. Okay, let's say that you type setting multiple choice questions and you want to label your list of questions as Q.1, Q.2 and so on.

How can you perform this automatically? Well, you can use the renew command again, but this time we will change the second argument as follows.

where the command the enum i refers to the default labeling scheme for the first enumerative list.

Let's create a list to illustrate this.

I've just created a list of questions using normal item commands. Let's run to see the result.

Now as you can see that the label of the first list which holds the questions is composed of the uppercase q letter followed by a dot and the default numbering style for the first list which is the Arabic numerals. So the num i again refers to the default numbering scheme of the first enumerate list that we have. Notice that this renew command is inserted in the preamble which means that all of the document first numbered lists will be labeled the same way. Let's make sure of that. Let's copy and paste the same numbered list to make sure that the effect is global.

Okay, and as you can see, they have the same numbering style because the Renew command is typesetted in the parameter. To limit that effect, you can move the Renew command to the inside of the target list environment. Let's make it the first one.

Okay, and let's run.

Ok and as you can see that now the effect of the renew command is limited to the first list only.

This method of redefining the renew command each time for each list is fine for a small number of lists in a small document. But it is not convenient by any means if you are working on a large scale project so there is a better way to work with list numbering for each numbered environment. which is to use the enumerate package. This package allows you to define the numbering style as an optional argument in the definition of the enumerate environment. Let's insert the package first.

Let's make a list labeled with uppercase letters.

So we'll insert the labeling style in the brackets as an optional command to this environment.

We'll group it to make it a boldface font.

And let's run.

Okay, there are a couple of things to note here. First of all, a number package allows you to format your labels with five tokens, which are the number one for the Arabic style numbering.

Let's try this. Okay, example one and two. The lowercase and uppercase i for Roman style. lowercase i okay and uppercase and it works and the lower and uppercase letter a for alphabetical style lowercase a

and we've seen the uppercase a at the beginning. The second thing to note here is if any of those five tokens appears in your fixed text in the label inside the optional argument, you must insert it then inside parentheses to preserve it. It's like telling the package to leave this token as it is. Otherwise it will deal with it as a counter. Let's remove the parenthesis.

And as you can see that the a in the second example word is turned into b. because we removed the parentheses. So the package did with it as a counter. Just like the letter A at the end of the label. That's why I inserted the A inside the parentheses in the first place.

Okay, let's move to the unnumbered lists. The unnumbered list can be created using the itemize environment and the default labeling is the solid bullets. Let's create one.

Okay, let's run.

And like the enumerate environment, he can nest itemize environments and adjust their marketing scheme.

Let's try the nesting first.

Okay, let's run.

And it works.

Let's change the bullets using the Renew command in a different way.

Here we use the renew command asterisk or star and the label item i as you may expect is referring to the first itemized or unnumbered list marking scheme. And we will change it from solid bullets to asterisks. And let's run.

Ok and it works as expected.

And let's run.

And note that the write our command must be inserted in between two dollar signs to work. Okay, about the description lists. Those can be created through the description environment with a user defined labels provided as an optional argument for the item commands. Let's create one.

And let's run.

Okay. As you can see that the label is printed in boldface font already. Know that you can nest several different lists inside each other. Now here's an example. I just created a first innovative list with three items.

And under each one, I've inserted a nested list. Here for the first item, I've inserted a numerative list. And for the second item, an itemize list. And for the third item, a description list. Let's see the result.

Okay, and it works just fine. Okay, the last thing that we'll talk about today is the user defined lists. Latex provides you with the list environment that allows the users to create custom lists through two arguments after the environment declaration. The first one holds the label type setting commands.

And the second argument holds list content formatting commands. Those are followed by the items as shown. Let's make an example to illustrate the list environment usage.

And first of all, we will define a new counter through the backslash new counter command in the preamble.

Okay, the second argument here will hold the labeling scheme.

And this argument is composed of two parts. The word label, which is a fixed text. and the counter formatted with uppercase alphabets through the alph command inserted inside parentheses and for the third argument

And you can see that the first command must be the usage of the counter to make it work. Through the use counter command. Followed by the formatting of the left margin through the set length command.

As an example of this content formatting. Okay and the last thing is the items themselves.

And let's run.

Okay and here we got our customed list. This picture shows different formatting commands for length, adjustment and spaces that you can use to custom your list. Those commands that you just saw you can insert them here to custom your list as we said. Using the list environment to create custom lists isn't the most robust way to do it. And if you have a large document you will be prone to errors, more frequently as you keep using it with similar commands several times.

Rather, you can encapsulate the list environment inside a new environment to have a standalone reusable custom list. The new environment command takes three arguments. The first one is the environment name and the second one holds the starting routine and you can consider this as the body of the environment.

And the last argument takes the ending routine that will be performed while the environment terminates. Let's insert the list environment inside a new environment command to make it more clear. We will leave the previous counter as it is to use it with the new environment. In the preamble, we initialize the new environment as follows.

The first argument is the name. and name it my list.

The second argument will hold the declaration of the list environment, the label commands and the text formatting commands.

okay the second argument of the new environment command as we said holds the starting routine of the environment or the body of our new environment And we said that this will hold the initialization of the list environment itself, the built in one. And as we saw earlier, this environment takes two arguments. The first one holds the labeling scheme and the second one holds the formatting of the environment. So the last argument will hold the end of the list. environment.

So again to recap, the first argument of the renewal environment takes the name, the second one takes the initialization or the starting routine of our new environment, which is for us here the initialization of the list environment with its two arguments, the label and the body or the text formatting. And the last argument for the new environment is the ending routine, which is just the end of the list environment. Now let's use it in the document.

Okay, let's run.

And it works as expected. You can increase any length formatting command in the body of the new environment declaration to type set the custom list the way you want. For example, let's increase the left margin and the horizontal gap between the label and the content of the item.

And let's run.

Okay, this is perfect. And you can use the different formatting commands that you saw in the picture to typeset and custom your environment as you want. Okay, I think this is enough for today's session. I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we'll take a look at the page layout and style.

The standard page layout in LaTeX is determined by a lot of factors. The paper size and the printing option are considered some of them. Besides those, size of fonts also affects the page layout. The shown figure contains various width and height commands that can be used to custom the page layout through manipulating different spaces between the content of the page. and note that this theme and its default values are for 12 point article printed on one side for an A4 paper size, so they are different from this setting to another one.

To redefine those commands, you have two ways, the first one is to use exeplacy declaration and the second one is by using the setlength command and of course both ways are used in a preamble if a global effect is required Sometimes you may face the situation of needing to have a certain content to span a single page, but still it breaks the target page and completes printing in the next one. In this case you may want to use enlarge this page command. to increase the page vertical height. The command has one argument which is the value of the increased area. Let's see an example to make this concept more clear.

As you can see that there are two lines from the text printed in the second page. Let's use the enlarge command to increase the page height by 10 millimeters.

and let's run ok now the entire content is wrapped in a single page there is another way to use this command with a star for the argument and this form of the command reduces the spaces between the lines to give you more space for excess content let's put a star here and let's run

Okay, and it produces the same effect. Notice that there is a maximum value beyond which the increased height won't change. For our text case here, it's 9 millimeters. Let's try it.

Let's run.

Okay, the same result, but what if we make it 8? Let's run.

Still there is a missing line in the second page. So increasing this value here above 9mm won't produce a different effect. Let's examine this by increasing it to 15mm.

Okay the same effect. So from 9 and above you won't get a different effect. But below 9mm you won't get what you want. Okay that's fine. This method is applicable for various types of contents, not only texts.

It's also valid for fixing tables and figures and so on. Now coming to the page style and the running header and footer. To adjust the style of pages of the entire document, you can use the page style command. And to do so for a specific page, you can use this page style command. Usually page style command is used in the preamble to produce a global effect, while this page style command is used in the document environment for a specific page.

Okay, let's talk about some widely used page styles in Leitech. The first one is the empty style and this makes the page completely blank regarding the header and footer and the page numbering. The second one is the plain style and this makes the header only empty and the footer contains page numbering at the center. And this is the default page style produced by book and report document classes. The third one is the headings style.

And on the contrary, this makes the footer empty and puts the page numbering and the title in the header. The myheadings style is the same as headings style, but here the title isn't automatic, rather it's user-defined. And the last one is the fancy style for producing a user-defined header and footer with either the fancyheadings or the fancyheader packages. let's begin by examining the effect of the heading style on the article now let's run

As you can see it formats the header as composed of the title information on the left, beginning with the highest sectional unit on the page, which is the abstract section here, besides the page numbering and arbing style on the right. with an empty folder the same format is done for the second page meaning that for an article document the heading style exhibits the same theme for all the and even number pages if we change the document class to book and let's insert a chapter

Let's run.

You can see that the title of the chapter as expected is printed in the front page. And in the second page, the page number is on the left.

And then for the first non-front odd page, the title for the section is printed on the left and the page numbering is on the right. so the heading style behavior changes from article to book now returning to the article document class and to side printing this time and let's run

you can see that now the format has changed and for the first page we have the page number only on the right in the header and for the second even page we have the page number on the left while the section title is now on the right Note that this two-sided option doesn't affect the book document class as it's by default two-sided. So the behavior of the heading style doesn't change for the book document class if you put the two-sided option in the document class definition. You will still get the same effect as described previously. Now let's talk about the fancy style under the fancy header package. we'll work an example to illustrate the simple usage of this package and let's change the style now to fancy okay beginning by the first command which is the rhead this command is used to format the right portion of the header and the command lhead for the left part

The footer also has similar commands and since this is a single-sided document, we'll insert one side of footer to bear the page numbering, which is the right side. I've just added some content here in the document environment to see the effect of the fancy style under the fancy header package. And now let's run.

Okay. As you can see that we got the right and left parts of the header over a line spanning the page content. And for the footer, we got our format for the page numbering as typesetted. But there is an issue. Which is the default printing of the page numbering at the center of the footer of each page This can be dropped using the backslash cfoot command with an empty argument This simply tells the package to leave the center part of the footer empty And as a result, this emits the page numbering here.

Now let's try this.

Okay, and it's gone. Alternatively, you can use the backslash fancy hf command, which clears the header and footer for the default plain style.

Okay, the header also has a central command. Let's try this.

Let's run. Okay and it's there. Okay now coming to the rule of the header and footer. You can know that by default the rule width for the footer is set to be zero to make it invisible. And you can insert one by using the foot rule width through the renew command.

Let's try this out.

Let's say foot, rule, width. And let's make it half of a point to be the same size as the header default one.

And let's run.

Okay, and it's there. You can also increase the default half point width for the header line by the same method.

let's copy and paste the renew command and let's type head rule width and let's make this two point and let's run

you can see that the thickness of the line is increased. Now note that this line covers only the main text of the page. And you may want to span also the marginal note if you have any. So in order to do that you will need to increase the width by an amount of margin parsep which is the distance between the main text or content and the marginal note and also increase it by margin par width value which is the width of the marginal note. Both are done using add to length command as follows.

we type head-width which is the value that we want to increase and we'll increase it firstly by margin-parsep let's copy and paste this and now we'll increase it by margin-par-width

Okay, and the line width has increased to the right, which is the default place for margin nodes in articles. Let's add a marginal node to see the effect.

Now let's use the command margin part to insert the marginal node.

Okay, let's run.

Ok and it works perfectly. Remember that the margin power step is this space and of course the margin power width is this space. So we've increased the width of the rule to cover the entire marginal node. Now let's change the document class to book.

now and as you can see that the increased width will be on the right for the first odd page right here and on the left for the second even page and so on which is the normal sequence for inserting marginal nodes for two-sided documents like books. Now let's ensure two-side printing to know how to deal with double-sided documents with a fancy header package.

In this case, we will use the fancy head and fancy foot commands. Let's begin with fancy head.

In the first part in this command inside the brackets, we type the letters L and E, which stands for left and even. And in the second part, we typed R and O, which stands for right and out. So we're telling the package to print the sentence book name and the header on the left for even pages and on the right for odd pages respectively. So here the first page is page one, which is an odd page. So this book name is printed on the right, right here.

And for the second page, which is an even one,

the book name sentence is printed on the left and using the same methodology we inserted the chapter title on the right for even pages so the second page is an even one we have the chapter title on the right and on the left for odd pages LO Now let's say the fancy foot command. And we'll insert the chapter name and number at the center of the photo.

where the left mark command ensures the name and number of the top level sectional unit, which is chapter for books.

Let's insert a chapter.

And now let's run.

Okay that's great. Now the name and the number of the chapter is printed in the center of the footer. And finally let's add the page numbering.

So we'll use again the fancy foot.

We'll put the page numbering on the left for even pages and on the right for odd pages.

using the command the page now let's run okay this is the second page which is an even one so the page numbering is insured on the left and the third page is an odd one so the page numbering is insured on the right edge as you can see You can look at the documentation of the fancy header package for more information. Now we have a grasp about the page style and numbering that enables you to format your document the way you want. Use the commands shown in the figure at the beginning of the video to adjust the spaces between the different elements of the page. This gives you more power to control your document. Okay, this is it for today's video.

I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. We're going to look at creating references in our document for various parts through the cross-referencing mechanism in LaTeX. The referencing is nothing but referring to a certain part in your document that could be a chapter, section, subsection, list, figure, table, or math equation, etc.

This functionality in LaTeX is what behind quickly browsing the document we knew for example click on the number and refer to section 2.1 and then it takes you immediately to that section. So now the referencing mechanism in LaTeX is very simple. It's composed of two parts, the label and the reference. The label is what marks that specific part in your document and needs to be defined just right after the declaration of the target component.

And the reference is what generates the embedded link and the number that corresponds to the marked part by the label. The arguments of both the label and the reference commands are exactly the same, and it takes the following shape. Two user-defined names separated by a colon. The first one is the document component name, being a chapter or section, etc. And the second one is the specific name of that part, like introduction or conclusion and so on.

So a best practice to define labels is to make shortcuts of the part name. So for example, if we're referring to a chapter called introduction, we can make the argument like the following one. Chab is the shortcut for chapter, then a colon and intro for introduction. So now let's see it in action. First of all, we'll create three chapters.

And now let's mark the introduction chapter. So for that, of course, we'll use the label command just after the declaration of the chapter itself.

And let's make some lips and paragraphs.

And from here, let's refer to the introduction chapter in the conclusion one.

So here of course we use the reference command with the same label name that is generated in the label command. So now let's see that.

Now to view the number of the referred chapter instead of those double question marks, we actually have to run the file again.

And here you get the number one that corresponds to the introduction chapter. Okay. And now to embed a link in this number, to navigate to the referred chapter by clicking on it, we should use the hyper ref package.

So let's see. Okay. If you've got this error, just run the file again.

everything is working properly and let's navigate to the last chapter okay now we can see that the cursor changes to this hand by hovering the number you can click on it and it will take us to the chapter one And actually Leitech is very flexible with references handling, which means you can use or insert the reference command before creating the label. Let's try this while referencing a section. I will insert the two ellipsum paragraphs in the second chapter in a section and mark it by a label.

And now let's refer to this section in the first chapter.

Let's run twice and see.

Okay, here we can click on this 2.1 and it will take us to the second chapter in the first page where the cool concepts section exists. So as you can see, you have a complete freedom of placing references and labels wherever you want in the document. And LaTeX will scan the input file searching for labels and assigning references before building the output file. And most often we don't leave the references in the output file as plain as we have here.

And that's of course to make them eye-catching and to inform the users that they are clickable if they are browsing an electronic version of the document. And styling references is pretty simple. Just wrap the entire reference command in any text formatting command. Let's make the reference in the conclusion chapter be of boldface font. This one here.

So we just put the entire reference command inside the TextBF command. So now let's see it. K, and the one is now bold. And additionally, we can change its size by grouping with a switch command.

Let's see it. Okay. And this now builder and actually we can give it a color. So let's try that with the reference in the first chapter, that one here using the color command.

And before running, let's ensure the X color package.

So let's see it. And let's actually limit the coloring effect to the reference only by grouping. So we'll wrap this entire color command in a pair of color brackets. Now let's see. Okay, here we are.

The 2.1 is only got the blue color. And besides the reference command, we have also the page reference command, which produces the corresponding page number to the given label name. Let's try in the second chapter.

Here we give it the label name of the introduction chapter.

So let's see. Okay. And indeed the introduction chapter is in page number one. You can use this page ref command multiple times. So let's mark the last chapter and refer to it here.

And let's see. Okay, now the last chapter is in page number five. And the same thing applies for the normal reference command.

So let's see it. Okay, again, we've used the reference to the section cool concepts. And finally, let's try referencing an item in a list.

And note that the referencing mechanism requires an internal counter of the component or the environment. So here we have to use the enumerate environment, not the itemize one. And just put the label after initializing the target item. So here in the second item, we put the label.

Let's refer to it in the last chapter.

Now I see it. Okay, this is the item number two. That takes us to the fourth page. So that was it for today's short video. I hope you found this beneficial.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will discuss two packages regarding cross-referencing. In the last video, we saw how to use Latex-based cross-referencing commands and how to simply format them. But now we're going to use more powerful alternatives that produce a better intuitive referencing schemes that could be handy in different situations.

The first package we have is the very riff package and it's a part of the LaTeX tools to use it directly without installing. So let's load the package.

we will look at four commands offered by the package. The first one is called vref and the output produced by this command is of three possibilities depending on the position of the label command. Let's see the first case.

So now here I've just inserted the style vref command and in this first case it will produce the same output as the normal reference command that we saw in the last video because we have the label and the reference command in the same page. So now let's see it. Okay, we have to load the xcolor package.

Let's see it now.

Okay.

We've got the number one here. So in this case, when we have the label and the reference in the same page, the vref command has nothing to offer. And for this extra space before the reference number, we can get rid of it using the no space package option.

Let's see it. Okay, and it's gone. Okay, the second case is conserved with the label and the reference commands being in two consecutive pages. And here the vref command will produce an additional string besides the reference number. So let's see this case.

So here again we have the vref command styled with this section. So now we'll bring the page and create this reference section.

So now in this case we have the reference command in a page and then we have the label in the second page or in the following page. So let's see what will happen.

So here at the end of page one, we have a reference for section 1.1 besides the text on the next page that is generated by the package referring to the position of the referenced component, which is indeed where the label command exists in the import file here. And alternatively, if you're referring to a part that is in a previous page, you will get the text on the preceding page. And if your document is two-sided, you will get on the facing page text. And finally is the third case for the vref command, which is for the label and the reference commands to be separated by more than one page.

So let's try this. Let's read the page again.

So here in this third page, we are referring to the intro chapter, which its label is defined in the first page. So let's see it now. And here we have the reference one on page one, which is a reference number and a page reference, both generated by one command, which is the vref. So those were the three cases for the vref command. The first one for the label and the reference to be in the same page, you will get the same effect as the reference command.

The second one is the label and the reference being in two consecutive pages. In this case, you will get on the following page or on the preceding page. And of course, the third one is for the label and the reference to be separated by more than one page. And in this case, you will get the reference number and the page reference. So moving on to the second command we have in this package, which is the vpageref command.

And this is the command that is meant for page referencing in the vref package. And it produces the same strings as the vref command, but of course for pages only. So let's try in the second chapter.

And let's see. Okay, we're referring to the first chapter on page one. So here the vpageref command produces the string on page, which we don't have here in the input file. And let's use this command again with a new section that we'll recreate in the next page.

So now we have the vpageref command and the label being separated by a page break. So let's see it. Okay. Okay. By running the file again, it produces proceed to the next section.

Okay. On the following page for further information, which is the basic insights here. Okay, now the next and final two commands are for range referencing, for both reference numbers and pages. The first one is the vref range command, and it takes two mandatory arguments. Those are the ranges first and last label, which define the limits of the range itself.

Let's write this command in the last chapter for three sections.

So here I've just created and labeled three sections. Now let's reference those sections in a range using the vreference command.

Here we'll start the label for the first section and ends at the last one.

OK, let's see it. Run again. And now it says referring to sections 3.1 to 3.3.

And the last command for this package is for page range referencing.

The command is vpage refrange. And it also takes two mandatory arguments.

We'll make the first one the label for the intro chapter.

And the second one is the label of the basic concept section.

So let's see this. Okay, and it says, recall the first chapter line pages one to two. And this kind of range referencing commands may be extremely useful for set of equations or tables, figures, so put it in mind for later use. Okay, now we're done with the very riff package and for the sake of a speciality and to begin working with the second package we have today, I will move on to the next tech file to keep things classified properly.

Okay, and this is the new file. Now the second package we have today is the Clever Riff package. And actually this is one of the most powerful lighting packages for intelligent cross-referencing. As the main feature of this one is to allow you to have multiple referencing formats according to the type of the object you're referring to. That being a section, equation, table, and so on.

and many other magnificent features that we'll experience later. So let's load the package.

And just a quick note here is that if you're using other packages for cross-referencing stuff, you must load Clever Riff at last to avoid possible collisions. Now let's play around with the packages commands to see what it can do for us. And the very first command we have here is the CRiff command. Let's try in the first chapter referring to the second one.

Let's run again. Okay. And you have, let's refer to chapter two here. The command produces the word chapter and the number two as a reference for the input label. Let's additionally make a marked section here and refer to it in the second chapter.

And here in chapter two, let's refer to this new section.

And let's see this.

So here chapter two, we have, this is a reference to section 1.1. And this means that the package detects the type of the referred object, here a section, and produce then the appropriate reference. Now Leite cannot detect the position where the reference is inserted in the input file, regarding whether it's at the beginning or in the middle of a sentence. That can be problematic if you are referencing an object with an abbreviated label name, that is at the start of a line or a sentence.

And to solve this issue, the package provides a capitalized version of the cref command for this job. Let's insert an equation in the last chapter and refer to it in the second one.

And before moving on, we have to insert a package called amsmath.

and make sure that this package is loaded before the clever ref package. So let's use the capital C ref command to reference this equation in the second chapter. Okay. And now let's see it. question marks let's run again okay we have referenced the equation in the second chapter here two times the first one using the capital C ref command and this produced the word equation capitalized and not abbreviated Unlike the normal CRef that we've used before, it generates EQ dot, an abbreviated reference for the equation in lowercase.

And just like the variable ref package, we can reference a range of labels through the CRef range command. Let's add two more equations in the last chapter.

So we'll just change the label.

And let's ensure the range command in the section of the first chapter.

And of course, this command takes two mandatory arguments, here the starting label and the ending one.

Let's see this. run again. Okay, and now we have this abbreviated equations from 3.1 to 3.3.

And this range command also has a capitalized version. So let's make this C capital. See Okay, the whole equation's capitalized word. Okay, now coming to another powerful feature of the clevrf package, which is bulk referencing with one command. Aside from referencing a range of labels, if you have multiple labels for different objects that you want to reference at once in a consecutive manner, Following the standard LaTeX referencing or even the previous VREF package, you would do so by inserting multiple reference commands.

But with the ClearVREF package, you have the advantage of combining Do's label in a comma-separated list as an input to one argument of the CREF command. Let's combine first the equations in the last chapter in a marked section.

Okay, and now let's combine all the labels exist in this chapter in a CRF command in the section of the first chapter. So we have here the label of the chapter and the section and the three equations. So we'll put it here.

So here in the only argument of the CRef command, we'll begin by the label of the second equation, comma, and then the first one, comma, the third one, and then comes the chapter and the section.

Note that in order for a label in this list to appear in the output file, you must keep the entire argument in one line. Because if you broke this line, you will get an undesired double question marks that have ruined the sequence. So now let's see how this looks. Okay and we have this is about preference in the last chapter equations 3.1 to 3.3, chapter 3 and section 3.1.

Now if you look close and you may have noticed this already that the labels of the equations in the CRef command here in the input file are not sorted properly. We have the second equation and then the first and the third. And yet in the output file we have appropriate range from 1 to 3. And actually sorting the labels is yet another powerful feature exhibited by the package. So you can comfortably miss with the labels order in the input file without worrying about the output one.

If only you want to do so or just it did happen unintentionally. So now this behavior of sorting consecutive related labels, like this one of the equations, and compressing them into range references in the output file is the default work of action of the package in this case and of course we can change that through different package options if you will. The first one is sort.

This option source the list of labels only, but disables the compression, which is the range reference here. So let's see its effect. So now we have disabled the compression. So we have one, two, and three. And the second option is compressed.

And obviously this enables the compression only without sorting.

Let's see. Okay. Where is actually the compression? We have here the labels two, one, and three, just as inserted in the input file, not sorted because this option disables the sorting action. This is actually because the compression alone requires pre sorting in the input file.

So nothing happened in the output one. And to see the options effect, we must sort the labels. So let's copy and paste this command. And let's make this the first one.

And this is the second equation. So now we have first. OK, sorry, second and third.

Let's see it. K says equations 3.1 to 3.3. So by using the compress, we have turned this sequence of labels into a range reference.

But of course it needed to be sorted first in the input file. And lastly is the no sort option, which deactivates both sorting and compression of lists.

let's see. And now we have both of the CRF commands here, typeset it exactly as they are in the input file 213123. So let's return to default settings. Let's also limit this second CRF command to the equations only. Okay, now choosing the options of the package to control its behavior, of course, exhibits a global effect to all lists of references in the document.

And you may want to apply only for one command, meaning to stop compression, for example. And indeed, you can do so locally. And this is done by adding an extra comma at the location we want to break the compression. So let's say for example, here in the second C ref command, we want to break the compression before the third equation. So we'll just insert an extra comma here.

So let's see what will happen. K and the back edge broke the compression. So we have equations one, two, the word and, and then the equation number three. Now note that this break applies only for this reference, the third one, and doesn't extend to the end of the list. Meaning that if we have another references after three, they will be compressed automatically.

So let's add two more equations to see that.

here, fourth, and fifth.

So let's add the fourth label.

Then the fifth one.

And let's run. Okay, and as you can see, the package broke only the compression for the third label and compressed the labels from three to five in a range. So we have here 3.3 to 3.5.

Okay, now, as we saw in the previous video, to embed hyperlinks in the reference numbers, you should use the hyperref package. So let's ensure the package before the clever ref.

Okay now and all the reference numbers has links. The cleaverf package offers a starred version of the referencing commands that prevents this action. So let's increase an asterisk here and run. Now by hovering over this number two, we don't have a link here. So this type of starred versions of the commands is there if you need it.

Now of course the package offers commands for page referencing, but those don't come with new functionality except for accepting list of labels. And those are the C page riff and its capitalized version and the C page riff range and its capital also. and you can try those on your own. Okay, finally, we will end today's video by two relatively important package options. The first one is the capitalize.

As the name suggests, this option makes all the references in the document capitalized regarding of the command used. So let's insert this option.

You can change this Z to S if you want. It will work also. So now look at those abbreviated references. Okay, now all the references in the document are capitalized. You can see it here also.

And speaking of abbreviations, the second option we have is noabrep. This one produces all the typeset references in full name, just in case you prefer to typeset your document that way.

Okay and here we have equations in full name and here also. If you go to this chapter 2, previously we had equation abbreviated and now we have it in full name. So that was it for today's video. I hope you found this beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will begin our exploration of the equations writing topic in LaTeX. There are various ways to include mathematical expressions in your document. Let's begin by the inline expressions. Those are the three formats in which you can insert an expression within a running text.

The first one is to encapsulate the expression inside the dollar signs. The second one is to insert it inside a pair of backslashes and parentheses. and the last one is to use the math environment. Let's see how this works. Here I've copied some text and as you can see here the equation in the first row between the two dollar signs and this hat symbol represents the power of two to the speed of light.

And then we repeat that with the method of the backslash and the parentheses and finally we use the math environment. Let's run this to see how it works.

okay everything works perfectly and those three methods inserted the equation in line now coming to the second method which is to print equations centered in a new line We can do that in two ways. The first one is by inserting the suppression in a pair of backslashes and square brackets. And this is used for single equations that are not numbered. On the other hand, the second method which uses the equation environment is used when starting a sequence of equations and we want to track them by numbering each one. Let's see an example.

And let's run.

And as you can see in the output file, we have the equation centered in a whole line. And for the second print, you can observe the number one appearing at the far right of the equation, which starts the numbering. And if you try to insert another equation environment, let's call it that.

And run.

You can see that it continues with the second equation. This method could be useful in typesetting mathematical proofs or when presenting the evolution of an equation from state to another. You may be wondering by now about how to control this numbering scheme or how to reset it. and this can be done in various ways the very basic one is to use the set counter command as follows in which in the first pair of color brackets the thing or environment that we want to reset which is here the equation environment and zero in the second which means start from the beginning

and run and here we go it starts from number 1 again if you want for some reason to start your order at a specific number let's say 2 here you can put 1 instead of 0 let's see that

okay and it gives the first equation in the new order the number two and so on if you're late to start numbering from three you put two here okay here we got it okay now let's separate those equations into two sections to try the second method

In this method we will force LaTeX to automatically restart the numbering at the beginning of each section by adding this command in a preamble.

The counter rethink command restores the numbering of its first argument, which is the equation environment here at the location or at the beginning of the second argument, which is the sections here. And this asterisk is to emit the section number from the equation numbering scheme. And let's run.

Okay, so we begin with the number one at the beginning of the second section. You can also perform this action on subsections if you will.

Okay, I've just created a subsection and another equation in it to see how Latik will live with that. So let's run.

Okay, so we have also started from the beginning at the beginning of the subsection due to the counter within command applied on the subsections. If you remove the asterisk from the first command, LaTeX will insert the number of the section before each equation's number.

Let's see that and run.

and that's true the section number is here also if you remove the asterisk from the second command the numbering of the subsections will appear and here we are in some cases you may want to repeat the number of an equation when for example you're showing various forms of an equation by expanding its parameter utilizing other laws or equations You can do so by inserting the command backslash tag after the expression in the second environment. So for example, if this is the first equation, number one, and we want that equation to be also number one. So we put the command tag of one here.

And for this to work, we will need to insert the AMS math package.

And let's run.

Okay, and we've achieved the target again. Here we have the two equations with the same number. Of course, he can perform the same action for other equations.

So if this is the equation number two, and we want that to be repeated as number two, we put the tag of two command after the second one. And let's run.

Okay, and we here we have the second equation with number two and the repeated with number two again. case you want to differentiate the repeated equations, you can insert them inside a sub-equations environment.

So here I've just inserted the first two equations in a sub equations environment and the second two equations in another sub equations environment. Let's see how this works.

Okay. And as you can see, this environment as an alphabetical scheme to the numbering order of the equations, which can be handy in some situations. As you know by now, equations are centered by default. But if for any reason you want to change that, you can left align them in two flavors. The first one is to add the FLEQN option to the document class definition to globally left align all the equations in your entire document.

So let's see that.

FLAQN. Let's run.

Okay, here we got it. All the equations are left aligned. The second way is to left align a specific equation only. Let's drop the option first.

So let's take this first equation and put it in the FL align environment.

For this environment to work, we only need to encapsulate the mathematical expression between two amber stands.

So let's see how this works.

Okay, and here we got the first equation only left aligned. Oh, by the way, if you want your equation to be unnumbered or unformatted, you can use the command backslash no number after the equation.

So here we have the first equation unnumbered and it won't be taken into account for the counter of the equations. It may seem overwhelming for you by now to insert that number of equation environments to make multiple equations, and that's true. Latik provides several environments to add multiple equations, including gather environment, equation array environment, align and align at environments.

Let's see how they work. The gather environment allows you to insert several equations separated by a double backslash at the end of each one, except the last one, of course. So let's see an example. Here we just created the gather environment with the first equation ended by the double backslash to create a new line.

And then the second equation.

Okay, this is fine. Have these equations aligned around their equal signs, use the equation array environment. So change the other two equation array.

Let's try this.

Okay, and here we have it. The equal sign of the two equations lies in the same place. Next, the align environment works similarly like the equation array. Let's see that.

Let's try this. okay and also gives us an automatic aligning around the equal signs. Now the last one is the align at environment which allows you to align your equation around multiple locations like equal signs and plus or minus signs at the same time, which means that we will additionally make the two equations lie in the same place regarding those plus signs. Let's run this to see the result and we'll walk through it.

okay here we have the three equations aligned around the equal sign and also around the plus sign we do that by surrounding the plus sign in each equation with two ampersands to understand what's happening we will learn about the mandatory argument in the align at environment this number is derived from the number of ampersands we choose to put in a single equation in our system If that number of inverse hands is an even number, we take it, divide it by two, and then add one. And we will put the result in the argument. If it was odd, we will add one and divide by two then. And then we will take also the result and put it in the mandatory argument. for our case here, we only needed 2 m% in a single equation to align the equations around the plus sign so that's an even number so we take 2 by 2 is 1 plus 1 is 2 so that's why we put 2 in the mandatory argument of the environment if there are other signs or operators you want to align around follow the same method okay that's it for today's video we'll continue on from the next one i hope you found this beneficial thanks for watching and i'll see you in the next video hello and welcome you guys to this video in the last one we learned about the general methods of how you can insert an equation or a mathematical expression in a litig document Today we will learn about typesetting the basic building blocks of a formula, from a super and subscripts to defining functions with conditional expressions, arrays and matrices, text and math mode and much more.

This video will be longer than usual and it will be split into parts. So you're welcome to stop at any part and come back later. Let's jump directly into LaTeX to begin.

okay let's start with the superscripts and run that's pretty simple and straightforward as you saw in the last video you simply put your base on the left of the hat symbol and the bar on the right if the power isn't just one number or symbol we can simply use curly braces for grouping as follows

and run.

Okay, and as you can see, we raised the A plus 2 inside the trillion races to the base of A. Okay, now coming to the subscripts.

And for the subscript, we use the underscore to put the letter that follows it under the base that comes before. Additionally, Leite gives you the ability to nest server and subscripts like the following examples.

Let's run.

And as you can see, we raised the n that is raised to the 2 to the base of k. And here is the result. Let's go further by nesting the n itself.

And let's run.

Okay. And as you can see, the power itself can hold a group. Okay. Let's try this thing with subscripts.

And let's run.

Okay, and it also works. See that the subscript m for the capital M base holds a group subscript l plus two. Can go crazy by nesting superscripts and subscripts. Let's combine the previous both examples.

to erase any confusion simply start by empty braces for high level superscripts and subscripts and then fill in the details and let's check the subscript let us run

And as you can see, we raised the power of n that is raised to a group i plus 2 to the base of C. And the same goes to the subscript. Note that the order of grouping a superscript and a subscript in one variable doesn't matter. It can begin by either. It's up to you.

So let's change that to begin with the subscript instead of the superscript. And it will also give the same results. Okay folks, lastly a pop quiz. Try to type set the message suppression in the figure, pause the video and go for it. Okay let's do it together.

At a higher level we have a superscript and a subscript on the letter D. So that's what we're going to begin with.

So we'll begin by making the groups first.

Now the upper power is itself a simple combination of scripts.

So type X underscore I raised to two. Now coming to the lower part, the lower part itself is a combination of a superscript and a subscript. So I'll type J.

And again, begin with the groups. This holds 2n and this holds k and v. Let's run to see the result.

Okay, we forgot to put the line break. Let's put also a vertical space to make it more readable. Let's increase that and run.

Okay, and as you can see, we've typesetted this unreasonable messy expression. Okay, let's move next to the fractions. First of all, you can simply insert a fraction by using the slash, like this example.

And let's run.

Again, as you can see, we've printed a simple inline fraction. For more sophisticated expressions, we'll use the command backslash frac. And here's an example.

The first, this takes two arguments. The first one is the numerator and the second one is the denominator.

Let's try this.

Okay, so far so good. Try to type in the fraction in the figure, pause the video and come back when you finish. Okay, let's begin by inserting the fraction command with two plus signs.

Then insert the numerators two fractions around the plus sign.

That's a and that's x minus y. The second fraction in the numerator holds b and x plus y. Now coming to the denominator.

It has one and a fraction also which is a minus b and a plus b.

Let's run. Okay, here we go. The whole process gets easier when you start by the construction of the command before trying to put any details in the expression. Okay, next let's move to the roots.

Then search routes will use the command backslash squared. And here's an example of a square root.

We'll put 16. Oh, the dollar signs.

Four. And let's run.

Okay, that's nice. For other roots, we add an optional argument to the command as follows. kube roots, for example, will be like matchless squirt. And in the optional argument, we put the root indices. Here we want to make a kuber.

So we put three here and we type eight and then equals two. Let's see that.

Okay, fair enough. In case you're a control freak, Latik provides you with two commands that will enable you to control the position of the root indices. Let's explain this by example.

let's run to see what is happening okay it appears that we've achieved something here which is lifting the mu letter above the root for clarity and by inspecting the code we use the left root command and the uproot command to move the letter to the right closer to the root and slightly above it through the two commands respectively. There are two things to note here. The first is the command left root originally pushes the letter to the left as the name suggests. But because we've used a negative value, it reverses its working action pushing the root index to the right. And the second thing is that the values that we're using in the commands argument are arbitrary distance defined in LaTeX.

And you can try various values to see what fits your needs. So, wrapping up, if you want to control the root index position, you put left root, up root before the root index itself in the optional argument of the squared command. Okay, folks, another on the fly exercise. Try to print the formula in the figure. Okay, and here is the solution.

and let's run okay now as i said before try when you solve such a small exercise to put the construction of the skeleton of the formula itself here we have on the high level a fraction so that's why we inserted the fraction in the first place This fraction has the denominator and the numerator, which has a cube root consist of minus k plus a square root of a superscript and a subscript. Okay, let's talk about inserting text in math mode. If you try to insert some text within dollar signs or an equation environment directly, you will get inclined Italian looking text that has no spaces between its words. So instead, we should use the command backslash text or backslash mbox. And here is an example.

Let's check first the text inserted directly. As you can see, it gives us an inclined text with no spaces.

And let's run. Okay, let's put some line breaks.

Okay, as you can see, the second try gives us a normal upright text just because we used the backslash text command in the math mode. Alternatively, you can use the backslash inbox and you will get the same results. Let's try this and run.

Okay. And we got the same result. And finally, the command mathrm is used to insert text as a superscript or subscript in math mode. And let's make a text subscript with a mathrm command.

Mathrm. Let me put the text. And let's run.

As you can see it inserted the word text as a subscript for a. Now let's explore some common math expressions and how we can typeset them. Let's begin by functions defined on a conditional basis. We'll run the following example first to see the output and then compare it with the source code.

Let's run first.

OK, here we define the function f of x based on two cases. Let's examine the code. I've created an equation environment first for the cases environment to work. simply at the first we type f of x equals and then we begin the cases environment that enables us to make this form inside the cases environment we put the value normal expression and then the second part of each line we put the condition itself and for this condition to be aligned with the second one we use ampersand here and here The backslash in EQ is the not equal psi. And also in the second line, we put the value and percent for alignment and then the condition.

And of course, we can't forget the double backslash to end the first case. So that's the basic construction of the cases environment, a value followed by a condition and for alignment we use the ampersand for the separation we use the awx slash and we repeat the same process for the second case try to format the function in the figure to practice with the case's environment pause the video and return when you finish and here is the solution let's run

okay and as you can see we inserted the begin cases inside the equation and then the value the end percent for alignment and the condition followed by the double backslash for separation and this tilde is used to insert some space Okay, next we will talk about function evaluation and delimiters. Delimiters are characters include parentheses, curly braces, backslashes, square brackets, arrows, and much more. Take a look at this example. Let's run first.

Looking at the result, there is a difference between the first expression and the second in the size of the parentheses. And looking at the code, at the first expression, we just inserted directly the left and right parentheses without explicitly telling LaTeX that this is a delimiter. So it doesn't account for the size of the thing or the expression that it encapsulates. For LaTeX to know that this is a delimiter, meaning to account for the size of the expression between the delimiter, you have to seamlessly tell LaTeX that through the backslash left command and right command, which you put before the delimiter. So whenever we want to encapsulate an expression inside the delimiter, use those commands before the left character and the right character part of the expression.

Now that we know about delimiters, let's create a function evaluation expression.

Let's run this example first.

OK. Here we have two delimiters, the parentheses and this upright vertical evaluation symbol. So for the parentheses, as we saw, we put the left command before the left part and the right command before the right part. And for the evaluation symbol, we need it on the right. So we put right before the symbol itself.

And then as you saw, we insert the x equals 0 as a subscript. here since we only need one evaluation operator on the right of the expression we put for the left one backslash left and dot as a placeholder for the left one because the right command doesn't work without the left one you have to put both in each expression for every delimiter. So to erase the left one, we put after the left command a dot. If you try to delete that, you will get an error and it won't work. Know that usually you will find this operator for the evaluation the same key of the backslash on your keyboard above the enter key and to type it use the shift before if the delimiter sizing didn't work make sure that you're inserting the suppression in an environment not within inline fashion meaning to use it in the equation environment or other environments You may face the situation of having to insert an overline or underline exopressions.

And of course, he can typeset such a form here using the overline and the underline commands. And that's what we're going to talk about now.

Here we just inserted two equation environments. In the first one, I've used the underline command with the expression encapsulated as an argument for the command. And the same thing goes to the second expression with the overline command, just here. Let's run.

Okay, so whenever we want to put a line under or over an expression use the underline command and the overline command with the expression itself encapsulated in the argument. Additionally, you have the luxury of inserting over and underline braces for an expression. Let's see an example.

Let's run this example.

As you can see Leitech puts an over brace for B plus C plus D using the over brace command and an under brace for the three letters that following using the under brace command. And for this matter, you can add a notation as a superscript for the overrace command and as a subscript for the underrace command. So let's try that.

A note for the underrace command, we ensured that as a subscript down note. Let's see that. Okay, great. Post the expressions over and under the braces. That can be great for explaining the relation between variables or various terms in your equation.

Now moving to splitting equations into multiple lines. Let's imagine that you have a long equation like that one in the figure and it won't fit in one line. You can split this formula into multiple lines using the split environment, utilizing the double backslash as the splitting operator and also the ampersand as the aligning operator. Here's an implementation of this expression using the split environment.

Let's run this example first. Okay, let's see what is happening in the code. In the first expression, to generate the limit, we use the backslash lim command. And to ensure that X goes to zero, we insert it, of course, as a subscript for the lim command. And in between the parentheses, we put the expression X, the command right arrow to generate this small arrow, and zero.

followed by a normal fraction consisting in the numerator, the backslash sign, x, and for the denominator, the x. Then we complete in the next line with the same fashion till we reach that group. Here before the equal sign, we put the ampersand for alignment, as you can see. And of course, the double backslash for separation to end this line. And at the beginning of the second line, we put the ampersand.

So we're telling LaTeX to align this limit expression with this equal sign, as you can see here. And the rest is self-explanatory. You can just observe the new command len for natural log and infinity to print the infinity symbol. The next concept is quite similar or related to splitting equations, which is to print a side by side equations. Let's make an example to illustrate this.

Let's run this.

Okay, let's see what is happening. The new subsection, I've inserted the equation environment with a star for dismissing the number of the equation. And for the alignment, we used the aligned environment, which we've inserted the first expression with a double slash for separation. and then the second expression. And to print that sideway expression, we insert another aligned environment in the same equation environment and put inside the expression itself.

That's the way or the method you can use to insert side by side equations is to nest multiple aligned environments inside an equation environment. Let's make a fourth expression.

okay that's nice you can consider this as inserting a matrix of equations and of course this method can be handy in a lot of situations the next section will be on the variable stacking and typesetting chemical equations if you saw such a form in the left figure or this in the right figure before and i bet you did this is called stacking it's done using over set and under set commands and other commands and environments that we will talk about now. Let's begin by the I over the X.

Let's run.

Okay, this command takes two arguments, and it puts the first over the second. You can consider this as telelactic to put i over x. And the same concept goes for the underset command.

And let's run.

Oh, we forget to put the dollar signs.

Okay. And that's run. Okay. And as you can see, you've used the under set command to put J beneath X.

And as always, you can combine both using either of the commands. Let's see an example.

Let's run this first.

Okay, the same result, x has an i over it and a j beneath it. We've achieved this in two ways, beginning by the overset command or the underset command. Here we're delighted to put i over the expression in the second argument, which is itself an x with a j beneath it. So you put i over the x, which has a j under it. We'll get this result.

And then if we begin by the under set command, we're told later to put j beneath that expression, which is itself also an x with i over it. Using the same concept of nested commands, we can generate the summation as follows.

Let's run this first.

Okay, let's see what is happening. In the first expression, we use the underset command to put i equals zero. under this expression which is an overset of the n over the sum that's the same concept as you saw before and there is an easier way to do it but it should be in a math mode it won't work if you try to put this expression in line which is just to use the sum command to put this summation symbol raised to the n and then subscripted with i equals zero this stacking scheme can be extended to make the summation for example hold two or more lines above and below it using the substack command and here's an example

let's run this first okay this is the result the summation symbol has two lines above it and two lines beneath it this is achieved using the substack command first of all we used the sum command and the subscript This part followed by a superscript. This part. And inside the subscript, which will be the lower part, we use the sub stack. Inside the sub stack, we insert our expression, meaning the two lines separated as always by the double backslash. Now first we just use the text to insert iod and then i with the backslash to command for inserting this right small arrow.

And the same thing goes in the superscript, which is the upper part, using also the substack command and separating those two lines by the double backslash. Okay, now onto typing chemical equations. We use for that the stack rel or stack relation command with two arguments as follows.

Let's run this first.

Okay. Okay. This command acts just like the Overset command in which it stacks the first argument, which is here the word two over the second argument, which is the command backslash two to make the arrow. So stack rel acts like the Overset command. Let's insert a slightly bigger equation.

Let's run this first.

Okay. The only difference here is the command long right arrow. and the second argument for the stack rail command. So we just insert this expression and that expression in the mathrm command. And then we use the stack rail to put the word heat over a long right arrow.

The right left harpoons command makes this double arrow reversible symbol. You can sense from those examples that this method is only fine for small expressions. and it doesn't accommodate for the content over the arrow and that's true let's make this here again

as you can see this right left harpoon doesn't accommodate for the size of the heat word for more flexible and automatically resizable arrows we will use either of four commands over left arrow over right arrow under left arrow and under right arrow I will explain only two of those and you're encouraged to test the others let's try first the over right arrow command

Let's run this to see the result.

Okay, let's see what is going on here. First of all, for the over commands to work, you need to insert them as a subscript for other elements. Here just the empty braces before it. So you can just use it. It won't work.

You should insert this command as a subscript for other element, which is the empty braces. Okay. And as you can see that the sentence put thing here is printed under the arrow and that clarifies the intuitive name of the command. meaning that the overwrite arrow refers to the positioning of the arrow itself being on top of what you insert in the command. So this command simply tells LaTeX to put an overwrite arrow on top of this content.

Hold on this intuition and try not to forget it to erase any possible confusion. Let's put some spaces in this expression.

Let's run.

Okay. I'll just use a tilde before the right arrow and after it to make some spaces here and some backslash comma between the words here. The second example is for the under right arrow.

Let's run the example first.

okay and again with the same concept the underwrite arrow command puts an underwrite arrow beneath the content in the argument which is the same sentence thing here And this under commands should be inserted as a superscript for another element, which is also the empty braces here. So it's kind of reversed. The over commands should be inserted as a subscript and the under commands should be inserted as a superscript. Okay, last but not least, what if you want to combine content above and below the resizable errors? Well, then we will need to combine those commands with the under set and the over set commands.

Let's construct an example and run it to know how to do that okay let's see what is happening here the big layer is the under set command with its first argument the text ni and we know that we're telolating to put this expression under the expression in the second argument so this entire line is the second argument of the under set command which is itself an underwrite arrow with the pot content sentence Try to use other variations of those commands to harness your understanding of this method. Now, one of the most important use cases of arrows commands is vector notation. See what that means. Let's run the example. Okay.

You can put a right arrow for the vector notation using the backslash vec command, but that only will work with one letter. So let's make another letter.

You can see that this right arrow only spans the first letter. So that's why we need the overwrite arrow command and of course the over left to make this expression. This can be very handy if you're typesetting a linear algebra related content.

Now what about integration and differentiation? We can't just talk about math dismissing calculus. Actually when it comes to differentiation there is nothing new except the partial differentiation part.

This is a normal differentiation using the Leibniz notation and it has nothing new. we put the f dash of x and some commands. So just a normal type setting. Now for neutral notation, you can use the following variations of the dot command up to four dots.

Let's run the example. Okay, you've used the backslash dot to insert one dot over the x

to these and the dot to make two dots, three for three dots, and so on, up to four dots, as I said, so if you tried to make this four, it'll work.

Okay, four dots, but five won't work.

You'll get an error.

Okay, coming for partial differentiation. For that matter, we'll use the command backslash partial. And here's an example.

So here we made a fraction and in the numerator, we use the backslash partial to make this del operator before the X and also before the T. and of course you can raise this operator to 2 if you want and also of course you can raise this to any power

And using those building blocks for differentiation, you can end up with a lot of complicated formulas. For integrals, we use a variety of the backslash and base commands. And here are some examples.

In the first one, we use the backslash int x, a lot of space, and dx. For different integrals, to ensure those limits, we use the usual superscript subscript convention. The superscript is the upper limit, and of course, the subscript is the lower limit. I will leave a PDF file in the resources for this video that contains a lot of symbols and commands to insert delimiters, commands for integration, differentiation, letters, a lot of things you will find in this 19 page PDF file. So go and try some of the commands to make your own expressions.

Now coming to the final topic, vectors and matrices. There are five basic environments for generating a vector or a matrix, with the delimiter being the only difference between them. Let's run some example.

okay let's see what is happening first of all all the environments that generate a matrix must be inserted inside a math mode environment like the equation environment second you separate the columns by an ampersand and you end rows by the double backslash so that's how a matrix is constructed in LaTeX you type the elements of a row separated by an ampersand and you end the row by the double backslash Those regulations apply for all environments, and the rest, as I said, is in the delimiter surrounding the matrix. So in the first example, we see that the matrix environment created a naked or delimiter-free matrix. and the P matrix environment created a parenthesis based matrix and hence the P for parenthesis and the third one the B matrix created a bracket based matrix and B is for bracket V and capital V matrix environments created matrices with this absolute value delimiter, the small v for single one and the capital V for the double case. Note that there is a limitation here on using those environments regarding the metric size which is limited to a maximum of 10 columns. So if you want more you will have to insert the following command.

You'll have to reset the max matrix calls command using the set counter command featuring the number of columns you want to reach as n. Okay, regarding the limitations of the previous environments, if you want to be more flexible with inserting matrices, you may go with the array environment. And here's an example. Let's run this first.

Okay. The array environment takes an argument that determines the aligning style of the content made by three letters. C for centering, R for right aligning, and L for left aligning. Here we construct the array environment, of course inside the math mode of the equation environment, with one column centered. The curly braces surrounding this vector are generated through the usual left and write commands but the difference here with the braces is the existence of the backslash before each brace and this is because the color braces in latex are prohibited characters meaning that you can't just print them because as we know they refer to a grouping action or the beginning of an environment or an argument So in order to print them, you have to precede each one with a backslash and of course the left to tell it that this is a delimiter.

Inside the vector, we met rows separated by the backslash and the command here vdots created those three vertical dots. Let's see another example that uses the array environment.

Let's run this example. Okay. First of all, we used the array environment with five columns centered using those five Cs. The new command here is the array stretch. That command is used to control the spacing between the rows.

You can play around with its argument value to build an intuition about its effect. the first line or the row inside the matrix we used the command l dots that created those horizontal dots in the first row and the same thing goes to the second row the third row doesn't exist instead we used the command h dots 4 This command is used to print an entire line or row of dots extended over the number of the columns specified in each argument. So here we're creating a line of dots over four columns 123 and the four and alongside with that using the amber sand, we put another redot for the last column and the second row is just as the first and the second one. And don't forget to encapsulate the entire array environment inside the left command and the right command to make the parentheses. The very last example is about inserting a tiny matrix in an inline fashion.

Let's see an example.

Let's run this.

Okay, you can see that this small matrix has been generated using the small matrix environment. Okay, that was a bit intense introduction to the fundamental concepts of typesetting math in LaTeX. I hope you found this beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video.

In today's session we will practice typesetting some random math equations and formulas and we will learn some new concepts too. I do encourage you to add section titles and layout your document for easier free visiting in the future. We will begin by making computer diagrams such that one in the figure. And in order to be able to do that, we will need to use two packages, the AMS math and the AMS CD for commutative diagrams.

The AMS-CD package defines an environment called CD that may be used to create simple and quite limited diagrams that include vertical and horizontal connectors. For example, let's create this simple diagram in the picture. We'll begin by the declaration of the CD environment in the math mode.

We'll begin by the upper left corner that includes the part A.

And to make the write error we'll use the notation of the package, which is to add the add symbol followed by three write errors from the keyboard. Now let's see that.

Okay. To proceed further we need to end this line because the CD environment acts like a matrix. So we'll add double backslashes.

By following the structure of the diagram, in this second line, we'll put the vertical connectors. The left down arrow will be created using a triple capital V letters. So at triple capital V letters. And the right up one is made by triple A letters.

And a separator. And let's see that.

okay let's make some alignment here as you can see here we have three components in the first line the a and b letters and the right arrow but in the second we only have two up arrows so you can see that the package detects the corners of the diagram and stacks the vertical arrows right below the a and b letter So coming to the last row, we have the left horizontal connector between C and D. So D and then the left horizontal connector is just right, the right one. Add and then three left arrows from the keyboard. And then the third component is the capital C and the separator.

Let's see that.

Okay, now we've completed the square. So now coming to the letters attached to the connectors. For horizontal connectors to insert an above element, you can put it after the first arrow in the notation. So in the first line, we have the horizontal connector between A and B. And after the first right arrow, we put the letter that will appear above the line itself.

Let's see that. okay and for down elements you put it after the second arrow it's coming to the last row after two arrows we put the K element okay and the same thing goes for vertical connectors but for left and right additions Meaning that if we added a letter, let's say the H, after the first character in the vertical line, it will appear on the left. Okay. And if we put it after two letters, it will appear in the right.

Here it is. and to produce double lines he can use the combo add equal for horizontal ones let's make him here so add and just equal okay and for double vertical lines you can just insert the bar that is above the enter key in your keyboard

Let's convert it to double-lined. Now the length of the connector is adjustable and related to the attached element. So for example, let's remove this F letter and replace it by the statement long element.

And we'll see what happens.

Okay, the package stretches the length or the arrow itself to span the word. It is possible to have null or empty connectors in your diagram. So for example, we can add an extra column in the first row without having to add it in the second one. So let's add the letter E and the lift connector from A to E.

Let's see what will happen.

Okay. That's not actually what we wanted. We just wanted to add a new connector from A to E to the left of the ABCD square. And the thing here for the package to work properly is to add a placeholders in the second and the third rows that will act as an invisible substitute to the extra E element. And we can do that by using the dot after the add symbol and add dot.

And in the third row, add dot. And now let's run.

Okay again going through this symbol structure. In the first row we have the E letter and a left arrow from A to E, the A letter and a long right arrow from A to B and B. In the second row we have a placeholder for the E. double vertical line and then the single vertical line from C to B and then third row we have the same substitute for E and then the letter D a horizontal double line and the C letter If you want to fix the horizontal connectors for certain length for shape compatibility, you can use the following command before the declaration of the CAD environment.

The command is just minimum CD hour width. and the value of the fixed width is attached to the command just pay attention to the city is capitalized let's see that okay now we have that down double horizontal connector having the same length as the above one in this command of course we can use other units like let's make it two centimeters, then last run, and it'll work. Okay, as stated earlier, this package provides only horizontal and vertical lines. So in order to make diagonal lines and typeset complicated diagrams, we will use the package xypick.

The xypick package has a command called xymetrics. Okay you need to focus here because this package acts a little bit differently than the previous one. In this example we will replicate the above diagram closing the left part between A and D. But first let's see how this command works.

Okay the command backslash ar and brackets is used to produce the connectors or the arrows here with inputs represented by single letters or a combination stating the direction of the arrow. Okay let's see it in action first. ar and brackets.

Let's run this first.

Let's add a little bit of vertical space

Okay, that's better. The R letter of course refers to right arrow from A to B. And here we need to separate the A from B by an amber cent. And that's why actually this package is different than the previous one. Because it considers the A part and the arrow as a portion that needs to be separated from the second part.

Besides, if you try to remove the B part

you'll get an error so here in this package you have to put an element to point at unlike the amscd package where we can remove elements freely let's remove the C

K and the structure is still there. So that's an important thing to put in mind when working with the xypick package is that you have to have something to point at. You can't just point at empty space here. And that means you would probably want to lay down your structure using pen and paper before trying the code. Because mostly you're going to have to typeset large portions of the structures in the input file to see in the output one.

So now let's try to reverse this arrow to make it points from B to A. So we'll remove it from this side and go to the B side, AR brackets, and then L for left.

Okay, here it is. Now we will construct the previous diagram using the xypick package, closing the shape with a diagonal line connecting E and D. I will insert the code and run it, then we will walk through it in detail. Okay, now let's run this to see it. Okay, now again, as we said, the first row has three portions.

The E has a down right diagonal arrow to D. A has three arrows coming out of it. The first one is the left to E and then the right one to B and then the down to D. and B has no arrows coming of it and it just receives arrows coming from A and C and in the second row we have also the D part just like the B part receiving arrows so it has no arrows in this section and then the C part has two arrows one above to B and one left to D and that's it so as you can see we combine all the arrows coming out of some part in this section separated by the ampersands from the other sections or corners in the structure so you have to be careful with that okay now try to typeset the structure in the figure and notice that the additions are normal super and subscripts typeset it after the backslash ar command okay and here is the solution let's run it first okay let's also increase the space

Okay, mainly here we have two rows.

The first one holds the A and B parts and the second one holds the C and D parts. Again, the A part has two arrows coming out of it. The first one is right headed towards B and we inserted the F letter above the line through the superscript. And then the second arrow of A is a down right one. and it has this group of F and G subscripted to print it down and then comes to the B part which has also two arrows coming out of it first one is down straight to C The second arrow is down right to D. The second row holds the C and D. C has one arrow which is right to D, subscripted by the letter H and the D part is just a receiver.

You have to be careful when constructing commuter diagrams using this package when it comes to subscripting and superscripting. In this example here, we have only right arrows. So if you superscripted an arrow, it'll print the power or the superscript above it. And if you subscripted it, it'll print it right beneath it. But this stream is reversed when it comes to left arrows.

Let's make a minimal example to show what I mean.

Here we only have A with our arrows and then B with a one left arrow subscripted and superscript. What do you expect that we will see?

okay this is a weird thing about this package also because if you have a left arrow the subscript will appear above and the superscript will appear below so be careful with that in some situations you may want to define your own function name or operator if you didn't find that function in the standard LaTeX or in MS math package. You can do so by using the declare math operator command. This command takes two arguments and it's only used in the preamble. The first argument holds the name of the command that you will use to invoke the name of the function. Let's say any function and The second argument holds the name of the function itself that will be printed in the output file.

Let's say my new function. And let's use it in the math mode.

Just use it as a normal command. Any function, empty parameters. And then let's run. okay here it is this actually can be useful if you have long function names and you don't want to typeset it again and again in the input file to reduce the amount of characters that you have so you can just use this command here in the preamble once and make the name of the command that will print the function like shortcuts of the entire name of the function or the operator and just use it as a normal command as we said in the math mode

Okay speaking of operator names, you don't actually have to keep all of the commands for mathematical symbols in your mind. There is that spectacular website called Detexify in which you get to draw the shape of the operator that you don't remember in a panel and will just produce you a bunch of options close enough to the drawn shape. Let's test it out. So go to this link or simply type Dxify in Google and hit the first link. And additionally they have a mobile app if you want to check it out.

So just draw the shape in the window with the placeholder draw here and wait for it. Every entry here contains the required package, the command of course, and the mode in which you're allowed to type it in. And if the symbol or the operator you're looking for didn't appear in the first time, just give it another shot and try to be accurate with your drawing. Now let's talk about something related to matrices which is the border matrix such that one in the figure. This type of matrices has a label on each of the rows and columns of it and it's initiated using the border matrix command.

And the way this command works is that it considers the first typeset row and column as the outer borders of the matrix. And the actual content of the matrix itself inside the delimiters starts from the second row and the second column. Let's see that.

So this row will be the corner label and the labels of the columns. And the row breaking here is done through the command backslash cr instead of the double backslash because they won't work here. Okay, now I will complete the rest of the metrics and run so you can see the result.

so again as stated the text here in the first row holding the word corner appears on the upper left corner outside the matrix followed by the labels for the columns and then the first column in the input file is actually the labels for the rows And the actual content delimited by the matrix starts from A11 and ends at ANN. So staying with matrices, let's create a system of linear equations perfectly aligned using the matrix environment. Let's run this first.

Here each equation is considered as row and each term is considered as an element of the metrics including the equal signs. So we have here every single element separated by an amber's hand, rows ended by double backslashes and to have the equations aligned we put the equal signs in between amber's hands also. Now if you're trying to solve such a system of equations, you'd probably want to make an augmented matrix that combines the right and left hand sides of the system, such that in the figure.

And actually there are multiple ways to do that. And the first one is to use the array environment.

Okay, let's run. Here we have in the second argument of the array environment, five centered columns. And the vertical line is created by this bar delimiter between the fourth and the fifth columns. And the second way is by using the B matrix as follows.

And here to separate the sides of the equation we've used the command big M followed by the same bar in each of the four rows. Let's see it.

Okay, of course the B matrix environment creates a bracket delimited matrix and of course you can have it the P matrix for parentheses.

Let's run.

So one more thing about matrices. When presenting data in a matrix, you may want to highlight some parts of this data or mark them for illustration purposes. Such this one. To create such form of matrix, we will make use of the big delim package and is distributed with the multi row package. So install the letter, which is the multi row and you're good to go.

So let's begin a P matrix.

Now there are two commands that we will check out. The R delim for right delimiter and the L delim for left one.

Okay, now those commands take the type of the delimiter followed by two mandatory arguments and one optional argument for the text. For the type of the delimiter, we will use the right color brace.

You recall that of course the right curly brace is a special character for latex so we have to insert the backslash before it. So now coming to the two mandatory arguments. The first one takes the number of rows you want the delimiter to span. Here for us two. So we want this right brace to span two rows.

And the second one takes the width, which is the distance between the delimiter and the outer delimiter of the matrix itself. Let's make it two centimeters here.

And finally, the optional text.

And let's end this row. And let's create the second row.

And let's run.

Okay. So as you can see this right killer brace and the adjacent label has been created by the rdelim command. Here is the delimiter. Those are the number of rows which we have here too. And then the distance between the delimiter and the outer delimiter of the matrix.

Actually if we try to reduce this make it one and a half a part of the label will be outside of the matrix. So make sure to fine tune this according to the optional text you're inserting if you want to. There are two things to note here, which is the placement of the delimiter command in the input file. You put it in the row that it will start from. only.

The second thing to note is that we've left an empty column for the left delimiter that will start from the second one to the end of the matrix unlike the right command. So let's make this left delimiter command.

We'll make it lift bracket for three rows

two centimeters and then a left label.

And then let's in this row and add the last two ones. Then let's run this. Okay. Again, we've inserted the right delimiter in the first row spanning two rows and the left delimiter starts from the second row to the last row. and for the left delimiter to work, we've inserted an empty column at the rest rows.

This package is used also in a tabular environment, and we may use it when we come to the table creation section. Okay, continuing the work of matrices, there is a nice package called delarray that enables you to define two different delimiters for your matrix, such that one. Let's use it.

This package is actually a part of the latex standard tools bundle so use it directly as it is pre-installed on your system. You may find the use case for this package and to create this matrix we will define the delimiters in the declaration of the array environment as for this example.

And the trick here is to put the delimiters around the positioning argument. So left parentheses, and then the position of argument, two centered columns, and then the right delimiter, which is a right bracket. Let's see that.

A quite common use case of this package is that it can actually create a cases like structure by emitting the right delimiter, replacing it by a dot and then make the left delimiter a left brace. Let's see that. Okay. Now look at this matrix in the figure and see if you can construct it using the array environment. Ok this is basically a 3x3 matrix with 3 nested matrices along the diagonal and indeed you can make it using nested array environments.

As you may expect that the first element in the first row of the big matrix will be an array environment itself of size 2x2. So let's initialize this one here.

And now this small array is followed by the two zeros which end the first row.

Okay now coming to the second row, it starts with 0 and then comes the 3 by 3 nested matrix.

And eventually the third row is composed of two zeros at the beginning and the end is again a nested 2 by 2 matrix.

And let's run.

Okay, the first row again consists of the array that contains A's and then two zeros. and here after comes the second row with zero and then the three by three nested matrix of B's and then comes the last zero and the third row consists of two zeros at the beginning and the nested two by two C matrix. By the way, this isn't the only way to make a nested or sub-metrics. And in the future, we will explore the package nice-metrics which basically enables you to construct and create and manipulate any shape of metrics you can almost imagine. Okay, next, if you have a system of equations represented in the matrix vector form, like this one in the figure, and it's noted by under braces for terms illustration, the under brace for the scalar are at the beginning of the right hand side won't be at the same vertical level as other ones.

And of course, that's due to dimension differences. Let's construct this system first to see what I mean, and then we'll fix it.

Okay, and let's run. Okay, just quickly walking through the structure. The left hand side consists only of the binomial, which takes of course two arguments. And then the right hand side consists mainly of two portions divided by the add sign. The first part is the R scale under raised by the word scaling and then a C dot.

And then comes the P matrix, which itself under raised by the word rotation. and then comes this vector and the plus and then another binomial under raised by the word translation. Okay, and as you can see, what I was talking about is that the scaling under brace word is lifted up above the other braces. And the trick that we will do here to fix this small height is to add an invisible two by one vector using the V phantom command. And this vector will be put just right after the R letter in this first argument of the under brace command.

So V phantom,

and then another binomial let's call them a and b they won't appear and let's run

And now we have all the under braised words aligned horizontally. Okay, another thing to fix here. We have two white spaces just right after the R scalar and after the plus sign. And simply we will add the command H space at those locations with negative seven points. So the first negative space will be before the C dot.

and the second one is after the plus sign and let's run okay seems pretty good We've talked about stacking before. Now I'd like to introduce to you the handy package called stack engine. This package provides versatile stacking schemes for objects in a vertical manner. We'll try to use this package to type set the formula in the figure.

Now let's set up this formula using the vector stack command.

Okay, let's run.

Okay, notice first that the V letter for vector in the command is capitalized and the command actually takes one argument, which is the parameters that will be stacked vertically. You can actually fix the size of the parentheses to fit this divider here.

Okay, much more better. Okay, and optionally you can control the space between the stacked terms using setStackedGap command.

Okay, and you can see that the terms get closer into each other since we made the distance to be 80% of the baseline skip. And the letter in the first argument stands for long stack, which means that the inter-item baseline space is constant, meaning between the H and the greater than and the lower than and the another H item. Okay a quick note here for clarity which is that the default stacking scheme for this package is actually short meaning that the present gap in the figure here between the end of an item and the beginning of the another is constant and it defaults to three points stored in the sstackgap parameter. For more information go to section number two in the package documentation. Okay now let's go back to normal formulas.

Try to type cdx expression in the figure by any method. Pause the video now and return when you finish. Okay let's walk quickly through the implementation. I will use the start version of the align environment.

The left hand side is solely a fraction with sine function.

And of course we will align the X-Repression around the equal sign. So using the ampersand before it. And then the four lines of the right hand side.

Now let's run.

Okay so far so good. Now moving on to the next formula which is that one in the image. We'll use also the align environment start version and the alignment here will be around the fraction mu over r and the plus sign in the second line.

The left hand side.

And then the first part of the right hand side.

and then the second part.

And let's see this.

Okay, it looks like this first sum is not working properly because I've dropped out the underscore. Let's fix this.

Okay, here we are. I also have a couple of other mistakes here actually. This right delimiter for the fraction re over r isn't right, just a parenthesis. Then the same thing with the second summation. I also dropped out the underscore.

It's working properly now. Then capitalizing the C and S and changing D to P. Okay, now I think that we fixed all the defects that we had. just happen is totally normal and you will be faced by those situations all the time so be careful with the input file especially with such quite complicated or compound structures okay next is a thing that you might arrive at so often when solving equations which is terms being cancelled out by diagonal lines or maybe x-signs and for that you may want to use the cancel package So let's ensure that the package is so simple, contains the command backslash cancel that takes one argument, which is the mathematical content that will be canceled out. So let's see that cancel.

Let's say 2x plus 4y. Then let's see it. Okay. As you can see that the cancel command draws a slash or a line over the expression given to it. Likewise, the bcancel command draws a backslash over the expression.

Now let's see that.

Okay, and the X cancel draws the X line.

Okay, here's a quite practical example with the last command in the package.

Okay, this arrow is made by the cancel to command that takes two arguments. The first one is the value that you will cancel to maybe zero, but that will make sense here. And then the second argument takes the mathematical expression that will be canceled. So next, we will look at the cases package, which provides you with a normal cases structure, but with numbers for each case through the environment num cases. Let's load the package first.

Let's make an example.

In the argument of the environment, we will put the left side of the equation.

And in the body of the environment, we put the equations themselves.

And let's run.

And the equations, of course, or the cases should be inserted inside the math mode. And if you want the equations to be sub numbered, you can add the word sub to the name of the environment to be sub num cases.

Do you recall earlier when we talked about the delivery package and how it can be used to produce cases like structures? Try to replicate this formula by the delivery method as a small exercise and you will find the solution in the presentation attached to this video alongside with two simple formulas to practice math typesetting a bit more.

Sometimes we want to fill in the distance between an equation and its number by dots. And you can do so using the package dots EQN. So let's load it.

And the only thing you want to do is actually to insert some equations. Let's see that.

Okay.

But you have to be careful with this package, because it acts on all the equations that exist in the document and make them left aligned. So use it only if you want to format your document that way. Okay that'll be it for today's video I hope you found this beneficial as always thanks for watching and I will see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will look at how to type set theorems and proofs in LaTeX in some details.

We will begin by the basic AMS theorem package for classical theorem type setting. So let's invoke the package.

The way this package works is that you create a new environment in the preamble, and then you get to utilize it in the body of the document. And for that, we use the command new theorem.

This command takes two arguments. In the first one, we put the name of the environment that we will use in the input file. Let's say theorem.

Okay, and in the second argument, we put the word that begins the structure and that will be printed in the output file in boldface font.

So that way, using the new theorem command, we've made a new environment called theorem that will be used to create a theorem structure that begins with this word theorem as its title. So now let's just use it.

Begin theorem. And inside this environment, we just put the content of the theorem.

And now let's run.

Again, as you can see, Latex printed the capitalized word theorem, which we put in the second argument of the new theorem command with auto numbering with Arabic style. And the content of the environment, which is a text here, is printed in a math mode. Okay now the counter here for this environment starts with the first one and just keeps going, paying no attention to the sectioning at all. And to view that let's add two more environments.

And let's separate the first environment from the second and the third by a section. Okay let's see that.

We have here the three theorems numbered one, two, three without incorporating the number of the sections. It will be more convenient if those environments are numbered according to their sections. And actually we can do that by adding an optional argument to the new theorem command. This argument here holds the sectioning level at which the counter should reset to one and will also tie the theorem number to the sectioning level number. So we want the counter to to reset at each section.

And let's see that. Okay, and here we have in the first section only one theorem. And the first number, of course, is the number of the section. And in the second section, we have one, two, the counter has reset. And this is, of course, indeed the second section number.

Okay, you can actually use the new theorem command to create this same structure with any title we want. So let's create a new environment and call it result.

Notice that this method of using the new theorem command is just a naming convention and actually can name those two arguments, anything you want. Okay, and let's use this new result environment. Okay, let's see it. Here it is. And here, as you can see that the package assigned a new counter because this is a totally new, different environment than the theorem ones.

And indeed, we can tie it to the section's number through the optional command section.

Okay, here are two level numbering. Naturally, you can dig deep with a counter and make it reset. Let's say whenever a new theorem environment is created. So we'll change this section argument to be theorem.

Okay, here we have three numbers. The first one is of course the number of the section. The second one is the number of the theorem environment that is created just right above the result one. And of course, the third number is the number of the result environment itself. So that way you can control the representation and the structure of the theorem environments and the theorem like environments like the result one that exists in your document.

Okay, speaking of control options, the newly created theorem like environments can actually take an optional argument that represents the name of the environment. And that will be added here in the title. So let's say theorem name.

Say that And here we got the text theorem name after the environment declaration inside the payroll parentheses. Okay, one last thing about controlling the numbering scheme of these environments. Let's make a new environment, call it lemma to illustrate this concept.

And let's use it.

Okay, let's see. And again, the package gave it one number because it's totally a new environment. And just as before, we can add a section.

So Lemma two, the section one theorem.

Follow up with the last theorem, which is number two. So Lemma two, two, one.

And you can actually put the result.

And here it will follow the numbering of the result environment. OK, the thing here is that we have a different placement for this optional argument. Let's pull it back to theorem.

And we can actually put it in between the two mandatory arguments. And that will change its effect. Let's see it in action.

OK, and what happened here is that by so placing the optional argument in the lemma new theorem command, we're telling the package to make the counters of the lemma and theorem environments to work in conjunction with each other. So that's why the lemma environment here in the second section got the number three after the two theorem environments one and two. Actually, if we made another theorem environment here, After the lemma, it will get the numbering to four. Let's see that. Okay, two, four.

After one, two, three, four. So again, by placing the counter option at the end makes the counter of the new environment follow that of the optional argument and placing it just like the lemma case here forces the package to make the counters of the two environments lemma and theorem work simultaneously. If you feel lost a bit, practice with the command by making new environments and play around with the optional argument placing to sense the change in the effect. And eventually you can get rid of the numbering scheme entirely by utilizing the asterisk version of the new theorem command. Let's make a new one, call it plain and just put an asterisk here.

Let's make a new environment.

Let's see that. Here we are. OK, now if you're working on a large project and it contains different modes of the theorem structures, like definitions and problems, corollaries and propositions, and so on, it'll be better if you can differentiate them from each other. And actually the package provides a styling functionality for this matter. The theorem style functionality is all about giving the title of the environment a display style that is different from its body.

And this is done by three options. The first one is the definition style. And this gives you a boldface font for the title and Roman style for the body. And it's used primarily in definitions, conditions, problems, and examples. And the second one is the plain style.

And this gives you a bold title also, but with an italic style body. And this is what we have been using so far. So you can say it's the default style. And the last one is the remark style, which gives you an italic title with a Roman body. And those are the use cases of this style.

So now let's try the definition and remark styles. And to assign a certain style to a new theorem environment, you will put it inside the command theorem style before the declaration in the environment here in the parameter.

So we'll begin by the definition.

And let's create a new environment, call it definition.

And let's also add the remark style.

So first of all, to make everything crystal clear, the words definition and remark in the theorem style commands are predefined by the package. So you have to stick to them. And as you saw earlier that in the new theorem command, we have free for choice of how to declare the command that will be used to create the environment in the input file and the word that will be printed in the output file. Okay. And now let's add instances.

OK, and let's see them.

OK, and as presented earlier, the definition style gives us a boldface font for the title and normal Roman upright text for the content, unlike the plain style. And the remark gives us italicized style for the title and upright Roman text for the content also.

Okay, now if the predefined styles by the package doesn't satisfy your needs, you can actually create a custom theorem style using the new theorem style command. This command has nine main data arguments. The first one is the name that you'll give to the style. And this will be the alternative for definition remark and plain in the theorem style command. The second and the third are the spaces above and below the environment, and these are equal and only visible between similar theorem environments.

The fourth and the sixth are the body and the title fonts. The fifth is the indentation of the environment from the far left end of the document. And the seventh is the punctuation after the title, which was originally just a dot, and then comes to the space between the title and the body. And lastly, the head specification, and we will leave that empty. Okay, and let's make an example.

And then go to the preamble.

Here the H shape command is actually a switch command that gives an italic shape font and parent is the amount of the paragraph indentation and BF series is the boldface font family. And then let's make use of this new style.

So theorem style, just type the name, my style.

Let's create a new theorem.

Let's make an instance of this.

And let's see

Okay, a quick correction here I've unexpectedly dropped out the backslash for the BF series. So adjust it and run. And here we are. The title is upright text bull face, and the body is italicized through the italic shape command. And we've got a separation distance of one centimeter, a punctuation of a column.

Let's add another custom environment to see the one centimeter distance above and below. Okay, I said it earlier, this value is equal to this value, and they are only visible in between two environments. Okay, one important thing here, regarding the title on the body of the environment, you can actually replace this distance by the command no line.

And that'll break the line between the title and the body. And as a consequence for that, we get to see the value of the part indent here. And you can actually remove it.

And here we can see that the title on the body has the same indentation. Okay. And finally, you can play around with those arguments and change those values to create your custom style that fits your needs. So that concludes our discussion about the aim is theorem package regarding the theorems. In the resources section of this video, you will find the PDF file called theorem, which is a useful package made as an extension of the basic latex theorem structure.

And it gives you more styles and separate commands to customize your environment. Go through its documentation and try out some examples. And additionally, if you want to extend your knowledge further, you can also take a look at the n theorem package, which you will find in the resources also.

Okay, now we will briefly discuss a relatively important package for theorems called theme tools. And we'll use it to create a shaded theorem environments making use of its support to the shade theme package.

The theme tools package has its own command for creating theorem like environments, which is the declare theorem command.

The command takes one mandatory argument, which is of course the name of the environment that will be created. And inside the optional argument here, we will make use of the shade theme package as follows.

Okay, and to make the theorem shaded, we put the word shaded and equal sign curly braces and the option background color and the sky blue color. Let's actually load the x color package.

Okay, and let's create an instance of this shaded theorem environment.

And let's see this.

Okay, and as you can see, we've got a background shaded theorem with the title of the theorem auto capitalized by the package, because we've inserted only one name here, which is the name of the environment in the input file. And of course, you can give the environment a name by inserting that name in the optional argument of the declaration here.

And let's see that.

And actually, that will override the auto generated title by the package from this argument here to this. And additionally, we can have also a world environment by changing the shaded options here.

Okay, here we've encapsulated the rule color and width inside this curly braces and then the name of the environment. And let's make an instance of it.

Let's see that.

Okay. And we can change the default gray background color using the same BG color option.

Let's make it white.

The theme tools package gives another support for a useful package called theme box. Let's see that.

And then in the preamble, we'll construct three different shaped theorem environments.

Those are three different shapes offered by the thin box package. Let's create an instance. Okay, and let's view those three shapes. Okay, so far so good. The theme tools package offers a style customization functionality through the command declare theorem style.

But I'll leave that up to you to try out and you'll find additional info in the package documentation. Okay, and now let's move on to proofs.

Now we will return to the ams-theorem package. It provides a ready to use environment called proof. And it acts like the theorem environment with a marker at the end and without numbering scheme.

Okay, let's see that.

Okay, now it looks like we have a clash here, because this isn't how the proof environment looks like. And this is because of the theme box package. So now we'll just comment out all the sections related to the theme box package.

Okay. And the three declarations here.

Let's see this.

Okay, as you can see that the proof environment produces this structure, which has an italic title followed by the content and upright text. At the end, you can find this empty squared which is called QED symbol that indicates the end of the proof. And the symbol can be altered by the Renew command in a preamble.

And then we will put directly the command QED symbol.

Okay. And additionally, the symbol can actually be a text. So let's try this.

And let's run.

Okay, and we've got the word ended here in a box. And if you don't like the title here, which is the word proof, you can actually change it by an optional argument attached to the environment.

Okay, a quick side note here about QED symbols. They're not special attributes of proofs. You can actually attach a QED symbol to a normal text. Let's load the ellipsum package.

And to view the symbol, just insert the QED command after the text.

Okay, we've got the if box ended word after a paragraph of Lipson. So by the way, there is an issue related to the placing of the QED symbol explicitly after some math related environments, which is that the symbol may appear in an unwanted position, like this example.

Here I've made a proof environment and renewed the QED symbol to be the club suit. And then I've used the start version of the equation environment, simple equation, and then the QED symbol. And do not forget to use the AMS math package to work with the start version of the equation environment. Let's see that.

Okay, and as you can see, the symbol appears twice. Right after the equation, we put it in the input file and once at the at the end of the proof environment. So let's say that we only want it to appear at the far end of the equation line, then we would have to use another form of the QED command just to insert the word here. Let's see.

Okay, that way we have forced the symbol to appear only at the location which inserted in the input file. And eventually, if you don't like the QD symbol and you want to remove it, you can add the renew command with empty entry at the end of proof environment.

Let's see it.

And it's gone. And of course, if you want this effect to be applied for the entire document, put this command in the variable Ok that will be it for today's video, I hope you found this beneficial, thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video when we continue working with theorems and proofs. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will continue working with theorems and proofs and we will discuss two important packages which are the PHF theorem and MDFramed. Both packages are quite large and span multiple use cases.

And what we will do is to look at how to use them to create a better looking theorem-like environments. We will begin by the phf-theorem package.

One of the most useful features of this package is the amount of the predefined ready-to-use theorem environments. Those can be invoked with the package loading by one package option called themset. Let's load the package.

By doing so and inserting the package option theme set and set it to rich, you are ready to use 12 different theorem like environments. So that way we don't have to construct them explicitly anymore. And now let's make some examples.

Let's see that. Okay, and we've got a typical looking theorem environment. Let's try another one. Maybe the question.

Okay, let's try another one. Maybe the corollary.

And let's run.

Okay, so by using this package, you can save yourself some time and lines of code and will reduce the complexity of the input file. And of course, the package provides a start versions for all of those environments.

Let's see. Okay. And now the car Larry has no number. There is an important package option to add here that facilitates working with big set of environments. And this is the separate counters option.

Let's insert it. Let's see its effect.

OK, previously we had theorem one, question two. Now we have theorem one, question one. Because of the separate counters option, the package assigned a separate counter to each instance created from a specific environment provided by the themset option. So this option here can be extremely useful if you have lots of theorem-like environments in your document and you want each type of them to be counted separately. And additionally, if you want to create a new theorem-like environment that doesn't exist in the theorem set provided by the package, then you would want to use the built-in environment called theme heading.

And this is an example.

OK, and here we've passed the new name of the theorem like environment in the mandatory argument of the same heading environment. And let's see.

OK. And notice that the package didn't assign a number for the theorem like. And this is the way that the them heading environment works. So that will be nice if you want to create one of a kind environment that won't be repeated. For extra functionality over user defined theorem environments, we'll use the make theorem command in the preamble to build an environment manually.

And we'll set some options. So let's insert the command in the preamble.

The command takes two mandatory arguments, which are, as before, the name of the environment that will be used in the output file. Let's call it answer. And the second one is the name of the environment itself that will be printed in the output file.

And here we will set some options. The first one is the dev star that allows for a start version of the new environment.

So let's set it to true.

And the second option here is the style of the environment through the option theme style. We'll make it plain.

And then let's create an instance.

And let's see it.

Okay, here we have the answer title, and this has a number. Okay, now moving on to the package support for proofs. When you invoke the phf theme package, it overrides the ams theme proof environment. And if for any reason you want to keep it just add this package option is called the proof environment equals false.

Okay, now again, by setting this package option to false, it deactivates the phf them package proof environment functionality and leaves you with the normal proof environment of the ams theorem package that we saw in the previous video, if you're using the letter package as your main proofs driver. So we will just set it to true to work with proofs with this package. And we'll add two more options.

Okay, now as the name suggests, the first option here prints a black square as the QED symbol. And the second option makes the proof title, which is the word proof italic boldface. And let's insert a new proof environment.

And let's see. So as you can see that the word proof has an italic shape and the boldface font. And the QED symbol here is a black square, unlike the empty one for the AMS stream package. Okay, and let's move on to the second package we have today, which is the MD framed package. This is a quite useful package for various purposes.

And essentially what this package is doing is drawing a frame around a certain content. And at the same time, it's very powerful because it spans a wide range of use cases. such as enhancing the appearance of theorems, for example. And that's what we're going to look at in just a bit. And indeed, we will revisit this package in the future.

So first of all, look at this figure to learn more about the length parameters that can be modified to customize the only environment this package offers, which is the MDFramed environment. Till now this package has no predefined styles, so we will create our style first using the command mdf define style. So let's first load the package.

In the first argument goes the name you desire for this tile. And in the second one, we put the different parameters and the values in a comma separated list. So let's just name it MyMDFStyle.

And let's initially begin with the line color and width of the frame.

And let's create the MDFramed environment.

And we put the style here in the optional argument of the environment.

Let's load the ellipse and package to put some content.

And before running, we actually have to insert the word style here in the optional argument that defines this style. Let's see it. Okay, and as stated earlier, this is the main function or feature of the MDF frame package, just to put frames around some content. So next is a very handy styling command offered by the package called MDF app to define style.

This command allows us to apply extra styling options to an existing style, which can save you a lot of time if you have defined the style somewhere in your document, and you want to make use of its features plus new styling options. So let's say we want to enhance the style my MDF. So we'll just put it in the first mandator argument of this command and by doing so we have actually invoked all the features that this style Embraces and the extra functionality is to be put in the second argument So let's begin by inserting some margin options for

And those, of course, increase the space between the content and the frame. And let's also insert a front color and a background color.

The default background color, of course, is white, as we saw here. And the used syntax to alter the background color means take 5% of gray and 95% of white. And let's use this enhanced version of the style.

And before running, we have to insert the package x color.

And let's see this new environment.

OK. So let's actually break the page to convert these toolboxes.

Let's actually increase the gray percent for visibility. Let's make it 25. OK. So now by overloading the style, my MDF style through the command MDF app to define style, we preserve the line color and width from the original declaration of the style plus the increased inner margins and the changed colors of the font and the background. And as you may expect, the extra options applied to the style will survive for all of the MDFriend environments created with the same style.

So let's just copy and paste another example. Let's see it. Okay, again, we have the same style as the previous one. And of course, as we know, if you want to limit those features, group them with a targeted environment in a pair of curly brackets. So let's say we want those extra options to be applied to this environment only.

So cut.

Let's see it.

Okay, great. And the package also provides a line control functionality that allows you to hide in the line you want. Let's leave only the right line in the second box here.

So now we've inserted the three options top line, bottom line and left line and assign them all to false. see it. Okay, and the package has removed all the three lines set to false and left only the right line because of course the default value is true. One of the most nice features of the MDFramed package is its automatic accurate page break of its environment if it doesn't fit in one page. So let's increase this to have two paragraphs.

Let's run.

Okay, and we have the box divided between the two pages. The MDFramed environment takes more options alongside that one for style. So let's show some title options in the second environment we have here. We will begin by making a frame title and allow for a rule down the title and the word width.

And finally, some skips above and below the title.

Let's view the shape.

Now if you would like to have a consistent styling scheme for framed environments, it will be useful to use the command new MD environment in the preamble that allows you to create a new environment that is supported by the functionality of the MD framed package. So let's create a new environment called MDF custom

And inside the brackets, we put some options. We'll begin by the subtitle functionality.

And then we'll insert the background color of the environment itself.

And then comes the title configuration.

And now let's create an instance of this environment.

And here we insert the subtitle itself through the command MDF subtitle.

Okay, I'm actually sorry for those strong colors. But just I wanted you to easily visually differentiate between the different sections of the environment. So this is the title in yellow. And we have the content or the body of the environment itself in blue. And this is the subtitle in green.

And lastly, the packages support for theorem environments. This is done using the command md theorem, which acts exactly like a new theorem command, but with extra space for optional arguments provided by the md friend package. Let's first set up the style for the new environment that we will create in a primal using the mdf define style command.

And now let's define our new theme environment using the command MD theorem.

The first mandatory argument, of course, goes the name of the environment itself.

And then the second goes, of course, the name that will be printed in the output file.

And here in the optional argument, we actually put the name of the style.

Okay, and ready to use this new environment.

So let's see this environment.

And of course, we can actually add a name for this new environment.

Let's see.

And also there exists a start version for unnumbered theorems.

The MDFramed has so many options that we didn't cover and the package generally provides a powerful functionality for framing content. As mentioned before, it has much more use cases other than supporting theorems. So it's worth spending some time exploring the package documentation and playing around with its options. So that will be it for today's video. I hope you found this beneficial as always.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we're going to look at how to type zip blocks of code in LaTeX using multiple packages. We'll begin by the most basic way to insert code in a document, which is by using the LaTeX-based verbatim environment.

The word verbatim means literally or exactly, and it's used to typeset blocks of text that include special characters and delimiters as they are in the info file, and hence LaTeX will ignore any prohibited character. This is a Python code to transpose a matrix. So let's see it. You will find this code in a docs file in the resources section of this video. And here as you can see that the environment printed out the code exactly as it is typesetted in the input file, preserving the spaces and the annotation exists in it.

And actually, this package can be used to typeset later code also. Let's try that out.

Let's see. Okay. And again, we've got the exact same three lines with spaces and the two blank lines separating them while ignoring backslashes and curly brackets. Let's undo that.

There is also a command that allows you to insert an inline lathe command, for example, or any other verbatim text, which is the backslash verb command. Let's see an example.

and inside those pillars you put the verbatim text.

So let's see it. Now the verbatim environment can be handy for classic or quick use. But as you can see, it's of limited features and cannot be customized for further specific use. However, there is a package called fancy verb that produces a highly customizable verbatim environments. Let's look at this example to sense the capabilities of this package.

Let's load it first with the X color package.

Okay, and can make this later code look cool in the output file by inserting a backslash. Okay, and now let's see the verbatim environment provided by the fancy verb package.

This verbatim environment is capitalized, so let's end it.

So that's a totally different environment than that's of the standard latex distribution. This new verbatim environment accepts an optional argument that takes the styling parameters like setting up a frame and a fill color.

And then we put, of course, the content in the body.

And let's see.

Now the fancy verb is a nice package and you may want to use it, so explore its documentation to learn more. But still this isn't actually the best way to approach code listing in LaTeX as there are other specialized packages to do that. But I just wanted to briefly explore the verbatim stuff for you to know that this type of environment exists. If you want a simple straightforward way to do a simple verbatim task and maybe with some basic styling. Now let's really begin the code list and work.

The first package is the listings package. Let's load it.

There are three ways to use this package. The first one being the inline snippets of code and this is done through the command list inline.

The code is inserted inside a pair of exclamation marks, but those can be replaced by any special character that is not in the code. So let's see. Here we are. If you try to insert the character enclosing the code inside the code itself, it will exclude what comes after. So let's put an exclamation mark here.

And this range is in black now. So be careful with that. As stated, we can replace this by any character. So let's make it Ambersand because it doesn't exist in this line of code. And it'll work just fine.

Here it is. Now let's actually make this forward headline looks in line.

here I've just inserted some text before and after the code and inserted the list listing command inside the nav box. That's the thing that you can do by the way with the verb command. So let's see

Okay, and that looks more convenient. Okay, and the second way to use the listings package is to insert normal blocks of code written in the input file just like the normal verbatim environment. And that can be done using the environment list listing. Let's look at an example.

And let's see that. Okay now, and the third way is by using the command ListInputListing to invoke the code from a source file.

This command takes the path of the source file as an argument. And this path should be relative to the path of the input file, the tech file that we're typing in right now, which means simply if the source file is in the same folder with the tech file, you will need to type the name of the source file, of course, with the extension only inside the argument here. But as for my case now, and to make it general, I've separated the tech file and the Java source file that we will use in different folders. And that's because if you're working on a document that includes many code referencing, usually you'd like to put the tech files and the listed code source files in separate folders. So let's see them.

Those are the two folders, the tech files. and the source code files. Of course, we're here now when running the tech file. So to go to the source files, you'd like to type the path as this one here. The dot dot back tells the directory to go back one folder.

And then with the forward slashes, we enter different folders and then comes the name of the source file. So let's ensure the path here and run.

Okay, let's see the original file. And here it is the source file, which is a no bat file, and they are exactly the same. Okay, now this command is your friend if you're listing a long program, because it won't make any sense to distort and complicate the input file with tens of lines of code. So that may be extremely useful in different use cases. So that was the basic use of this package.

And now we will look at how to customize the code look through offered options. We will construct the code block in the figure. And to customize the style and listings, we should use the command list-define-style in a preamble.

And of course, Python code is the name of the style. But before assigning values for the style options, we need to define four new colors. One for the comments in green and one for the numbers on the left that count the lines and one for the background. And lastly, for the strings like the sentence, the result is at the last line. And of course, we'll do that using the command define color.

The first argument here takes the name of the new color. The second one takes the method of defining that color, here being the RGB values. And the last one holds the RGB values themselves in a comma separated list. I will copy and paste the four colors. And of course, you can do so from this tech file in the resources.

And of course, you're welcome to change any one of those colors. And you can get the RGB values of any color you want by any online or local color picker or just from an online palette. And if you don't want to define new colors at all, just look for colors in the package x color and select what is close enough to the programming language that you're listing. Okay, and now let's fill in the style command. Beginning by color options, we will type the name of the predefined parameters by the package and give it a value by using the command color with a corresponding custom color name we created as an input.

So let's see that.

And for the general style of the code, meaning the font family and size, we can use the option basic style as follows.

The first one is the typewriter font family followed by the small size. It is useful to allow for automatic line breaking, so activate that.

And to position the caption,

Of course B here stands for bottom and T for top if you want that. And for the numbers on the left.

The second command number sub controls the distance between the numbers column and the code or more specifically the left outer frame of the whole block and the options of the frame.

And finally the tab size, which is the horizontal inner distance between the code and the lift frame.

And now let's create the block itself.

We will add three optional arguments. The first one being the style.

And the second one is the language.

And the reason for using this argument is that it allows for keywords and comments and strings identification. Basically, for example, telling the package that whatever follows a hashtag is a comment. So apply this style giving to comments associated with a programming language and the listings package documentation contains a list of full supported programming languages to make sure to check it out to make sure that the language your type setting or listing exists. And please note that this Python word is capitalized. And then comes the last option, which is the caption.

And let's ensure the code. Again, you will find it in the docs file in the resources section with all blocks code used in this video. Okay, let's see this.

Ok nice, can you observe that strange looking character here in this last line? This is basically a special character of LaTeX for spaces. And to hide it, we will add one more option in the defining style in our preamble.

The option is called showStringSpaces.

OK, perfect matching with the figure. The package offers a very handy feature, which is continuous line numbering for two different listing environments. And to do that, we need to add an optional argument to both of the environments called name and give it the exact same value in both environments. Let's first insert it in the first one.

And now let's create the second environment.

Can consider this lips and paragraph as an illustration of the above block of code.

So let's see it. Now as you can see that the first line in the second block starts at 12. If you're facing any problems with the indentation of the code in the PDF output file, make sure to insert the body of the listing environment, the code itself at the same vertical column with the declaration of the environment, meaning to eliminate the indentation in the input file, as I did here. If you're a Python user, you may want to give a color to the function name. Unfortunately, there is no predefined option for that.

But it's achievable through emphasizing specific words using the list set command as follows.

This is another command used for customization. And inside it, we'll add two options, the M for emphasizing and the emphasizing style.

Of course, the first option here takes the word that we want to style and the emphasizing style takes the color or any other thing you want. So let's see that. Okay, and we got the function name approximate E with a brown color. we can actually remove the bottom line of the frame of the first block and the top of the second one. That will make more sense for those two blocks to appear more relevant.

And to do that, we will override the frame style defined earlier with another configuration given as an optional argument to the two listing environments. So going to the first one before the caption, we'll put frame equals

left top right.

And the second environment frame left bottom right. So here we give this frame argument a subset of four letters top bottom right and left. So for the first environment, we want only the left top and right frames or lines. And in the second one, we want the left bottom and right. So let's see that Okay, but now there is no much of a space between the last line of the first block and the first one of the second block and the frame.

To increase it, you may directly think of margin options for frames that are offered by the package. But if you try to use them, they will work only with the printed frames. And since we omitted one frame line for each environment, the margin commands won't simply work. To solve this problem and make the document more readable, we will use the phantom command to place an invisible line. But before that, we need to learn how to actually use later commands inside listing environment.

If you try to insert any command right away, like this, here in the second block, The package will just print it out. To activate this command and make it work, we will use a styling option called escape character in the defined style in the preamble.

That way we first the package to skip the backslash. And finally, to make the command work, we encapsulate it in percent signs.

So let's see it. Okay, great. And we now have two invisible lines. And to make the code symmetrical regarding the margins here and here, we add a styling option called frame step and set it to the baseline skip in the parameter.

So let's see the margins now.

But it appears that we need to increase the number separation space. So let's do that.

Let's make it 20 points.

Okay, one last thing about those blocks of code is that the invisible lines here got counted as existing lines. And there is no easy way to avoid that now. If you hate it, just emit the numbering scheme. And when we get to the advanced section of the course, we may return to fix that. And eventually about the listings package, which is printing specific range of lines from a file or a typed code in the input tech file.

And this is done using the optional argument line range in the list input listing command.

And now let's see. Those are the lines from 13 to 18 in this source file. This option can be a savior if you have a giant program but you only want to typeset a part of it so you don't have of course the explicit put it in the input file or even separate it in a standalone source file. So that was it for the listings package. And by now, you may have got a sense about the size and the importance of this package.

And it contains a dozen of options that we didn't cover here. So check back the documentation of the package if you have a task in mind to achieve. Okay, staying with syntax highlighting, now we will explore the minted package. Minted is a very powerful source code formatting package. It contains multiple built-in styles and color themes and supports over 150 programming and markup languages.

But as always, everything comes at a price, which is here the prerequisites needed for this package to work. Essentially the minted package utilizes and requires a Python library called pigments. So first of all, if you don't have Python, go to this link, python.org slash downloads, or simply type download Python in your search engine and hit the first link. Then choose the file compatible with your operating system and download it.

Now installing Python is a very straightforward process. Just run the executable file that you just downloaded and proceed further. After that, check the version of Python to ensure that everything is working properly. For that, you would need to open the command prompt as an administrator, and then type this command, python hyphen hyphen version. And you should get the latest version you just installed.

and after that for the pigments library just type pip install pigments and hit enter I have the pigments library installed already so I won't proceed

So that was it for the external requirements. Additionally, Minted requires a bunch of LaTeX packages to be installed. You'll find them in the third slide in the presentation attached to this video. Make sure you install them all through Miketek console and of course add the Minted package itself. If you found a package of them not to be existing mic tech, just download it from c10 and install it manually.

Ok, one last thing to do. Open the options tab in the navigation bar above and click on configure tech maker.

here in the second box for PDF latex, you won't find this shell escape flag. So just add it. It's hyphen hyphen shell hyphen escape.

And what this flag is doing is basically allowing LaTeX to use the pigments library. When we start working with the package now, you'll appreciate this small effort for the requirements, as this package offers a higher level of customization with minimum set of commands for any kind of tokens or identifiers a programming language embrace. Unlike the listings package, when we had to emphasize the name of the function to give it a color. Okay, so now let's load the package and make some examples.

So now we will insert the invented environment with one mandator argument which is the name of the programming language.

And just like see it.

If you have faced any problems running the package, just make sure that you have followed the instructions of installing Python and Pigments properly and you've added the shell escape flag in the right location as represented and finally check for all the required packages again. So now the package formats the code with color for different sections and a title comment style similar to that one exists in the Jupyter Notebooks. And that is done only by giving the environment the name of the desired programming language. As I said earlier, minted runs pigments, which include multiple styling schemes. So to change that, we'll use the use minted style command in the preamble.

So when the optional argument here goes the name of the programming language, and in the metadata run goes the name of the style.

So let's see it.

And now we have red comments and green strings. To get the full list of the style names, go to this link, pigments.org slash demo. Here we get to try the styles offered by the library as it is shown in this figure. You can select the scheme from the drop down list at the bottom and then put it in the mandatory argument of the use mended style command.

If you dropped the optional argument here, the chosen style will be applied for all programming languages you have over the entire document. Minted indeed offers an input command to print code from a source file with a range functionality as listings. And this is done using input minted command. The optional argument takes the first line and the last line. The first mandatory argument takes the name of the language.

And the second one takes the path to the source code file. But I'll leave that for you to try out. However, there are nice new features offered by the package to insert one line of code and inline code. So for one line of code, we will use the mint command as show.

So let's see it. Okay, and here we've got the import library line. And for inline code, we use the command mint inline as follows.

So let's see it. And here we got this print hello world in the middle of a text boxed by the command div box. And of course, the maintain line command takes two arguments. The first one is the name of the programming language. And the second one here is the code itself.

Let's actually add a syntax in this line. And now comes the time of the package options. To add options for a specific minted environment, group them in brackets before the argument of the language name.

We'll begin by enabling line numbering through the option line numbers. So let's see it.

And next is a nice option that allows inserting math mode, which is called math escape.

And let's add an equation in the first line.

And let's see it. Okay, and it actually works. We have this equation here. And let's increase the space between the lines. This is done through the option baseline stretch.

Make it one and a half. I see it. Okay. And now let's add the background color.

Let's see it. Okay, now we have to break long lines. And we'll do that through the option break lines. Okay, and actually wrote the lines at the same location of the input file. Besides adding a right arrows to indicate that this line is a successor for the above one.

So the minted package defines a massive amount of breaking options and this is a simple one of them. If you have a specific thing in mind that you want to achieve, explore the package documentation and you will definitely find what you're looking for. And now let's allow for related command usage inside the environment.

This is done through the option escape inside. This will force the package to ignore what is inside those delimiters, meaning not to type them as code, but LaTeX will interpret those if they are commands. So let's put the word array in the first line inside the green box to check that. So we put the delimiters and then the color box.

green, and then the word array. I see it. Okay. And now onto framing options.

This option will print top and bottom lines only, then the rules and the frames up.

So let's see it now. OK, fair enough. But actually, minted is not the best when it comes to framing content. And it's of limited features in this area. So instead, we can use the MDFramed or T color box packages for that matter.

So for example, you can use the command surround with MDFramed in a preamble and put the mandator argument, the environment minted. And that will allow for MDFramed functionality to be applied to all minted environments. And for the T color box, you can add the command T color box use library in a primble and then use the T color box listing environment. And now going back to the Mint package, it has a handy option to highlight a line or a group of lines by their number. Let's see it.

So we use the option highlight lines with the lines inside a pair of curly brackets, and then the highlight color. So let's see it.

So now we have the seven and eight lines highlighted here, the default tab size is eight. So let's actually downsize it using the tab size option and make it four.

Let's see.

Okay, and now the code is much more closer to the left end of the box. Now when we used earlier the escape inside option to allow for related commands inside the environment, it will actually work for comments. So let's try to underline this question.

and it won't simply work. So to activate that for comments, you need to insert the option tech CL and set it to true.

So let's try this now.

And now we have the question underlined.

Okay, that's perfect. But those options are added directly to a specific environment and won't apply elsewhere. So instead, if you wish to stylize a language or even the entire document with certain scheme, we may want to use the set minted command once in a preamble. So let's migrate all of those options there.

The first argument is, of course, optional, and it is the name of the programming language.

And then that argument holds all of the styles.

Now let's see. Okay, and again, everything is working properly. Of course, again, you can just drop this optional argument if you want those options to be applied to all programming languages supported by the minted package. And actually, if you look close in the third page, you will find that the one line code inserted using the mint command has been affected by those options also. And this is due to the hierarchy of influence of the styling commands.

So that was it for today's video. I hope you found this beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will look at type setting algorithms in LaTeX.

And for that we will discuss two packages. The first one as always is the simplest and the limited at the same time, which is the algorithmic package. Let's load the package.

Before using the package, you should know that it's a part of the algorithms bundle. So if you're trying to search for it on my tech console to install it by the algorithmic work, you won't find it. Rather, type algorithms in the search and install it.

We'll begin by typesetting the building blocks of any algorithms, which are the conditional statements like if else and the looping like for and while loops. And for that, we'll use the only environment that we have here, which is the algorithmic environment with one optional argument.

The optional one number here means put a number for each line. So for example, if you change it to two, the package will print a number for every two lines. So beginning by if statement, all the commands that produce the words in this package are capitalized. And inside the braces, we put the condition.

The body of the algorithm here is generated by the state command.

And let's add another condition in an else F statement.

Note that there is no E letter here for the else word, just E L S F and then it's body.

And lastly, the else

And then we need to end this if statement by the nf command.

Now let's see.

So the package produces a classic looking Soto code with numbers on the left, followed by a colon as a delimiter, and adds the word then to the lines that contain conditions. And of course, keywords are in boldface. And note that the indentation here has a default value that we're going to change later. So the one that I've inserted in the input file is just for readability. Now let's make a for and while loops.

And then the while loop.

And the same now. Okay. And here the package adds the word do to the loops. And of course the end statement. Let's open another environment to explore more components of the package.

We will add now what are called the pre and post conditions.

This one is called require and that's the one that must be met in order for the algorithm to work correctly.

And then we put the post condition and that's the one that must be met after the algorithm has executed correctly.

Let's see. OK. And of course, all of those commands accept mathematical input. OK. And those two lines are not counted as normal lines of the algorithm, so they don't get numbers.

And now onto the logical operators, AND, OR, EXOR, AND, NOT.

Let's return true and end the F statement. Okay, and let's see it.

Okay, everything is working just fine. This package doesn't offer that much of a customization options, but still we can change some things. Starting with the indentation, we will use the command allocsetup in the preamble with the option indent. The indentation of this package defaults to 1em, which is approximately 4.2 millimeters.

Let's see. Okay, and the Soto code looks more refined now. And let's change the font size and the delimiter.

The default font size here was footnote size. So we'll make it large. And of course, the delimiter here is colons for the numbers. So we'll make it dots. And let's see.

OK. And the line numbers has grown. And here we've got the dot. And lastly about this package is the ability to change the style of the commands that produce the keywords in the algorithm. And this is done through the renew command.

Let's for example change the color of the pre and post conditions in the second environment here.

The command algorithmic require and algorithmic ensure are provided by the package and you will find the rest of the commands that relate to the keywords in the PDF file called algorithms at the resources section of this video in page 30. And of course, we altered the color through the color command. We want to make the precondition require colon in a bold face and the red color and the same thing for the post condition ensure. And before running, we should insert the package X color. So let's see them now.

And now we've got the precondition called require in a boldface font and red color and blue color for the post condition. We can use the package section style to color the title of the sections to easily differentiate between portions of the document.

And we'll make the section font blue.

So let's see. Okay. And now we've got the section in blue.

Okay. Now we'll move on to the second package we have today, which is the algorithm 2e. This is one of the most widely used packages for typesetting, pseudocoding, LaTeX. Let's load the package with one of its most critical options.

The algo2e option converts the basic environment of this package from algorithm to algorithm2e as to avoid any conflict with other used packages that may define an environment called algorithm. So now the pseudocode produced by this package has generally three shapes. The first one, which is the default, prints a vertical line between the beginning of a conditional or a loop and the end of it. The second one is the plane with no lines and can be produced through the package option, no line. And the last one, as is shown, it eliminates the end word, replacing it with short horizontal line.

And this can be produced by the package option V lined. And we will continue with this format.

This form of a pseudo code can be very useful, especially when writing research papers, to save some spaces, as the number of available pages is often limited by the journal. Now let's open an environment to explore some of the commands that generate the building blocks of the algorithm.

To create an if statement, simply use the if command as follows.

The commands of this package have the first letter only capitalized. And as presented, the f command accepts two mandatory arguments, the first input, the condition, and the second for the body of the statement without the need for an end statement here. So let's see it.

This form of the f command creates only one statement and forces the end of the statement after the process argument, which is of course this horizontal line here. Let's add an elsef to see what will happen.

Let's see it. And here the package considered the else F statement as an independent block. And to fix this, we will use another form of the commands preceded by the letter U. So let's increase a U here and here. And let's see.

Okay. And the algorithm goes without stopping. Now let's attach an else statement.

The indentation here is of course just for readability. Let's see it. And here comes the else statement to end the structure. Okay, there is also a nice one shot if else command that takes three arguments.

The first argument takes the condition of the if statement and the second one takes the body of the if statement and the last one takes the body of the else statement.

So let's see it. K, F, condition, process, and then the else process. And of course, the else is auto-generated. This environment is for illustration, so I will delete those statements to proceed, and we'll make another complex example in just a bit.

Of course, you're welcome to leave it as it is and create another algorithm to the environment and proceed. Okay now let's make a switch case statement.

The switch command takes two arguments. The first one being the value of the statement and the second one holds all the cases generated by the case command. So let's see that.

Here also the case command has a eufor and the lastly added other command produces the sentence otherwise do followed by the body.

So let's see that. Okay. Switch. Here goes the value, which is the first argument. And then in the second argument, we put all of those cases.

Okay. Now moving on to looping.

And of course, all of those commands are cursor clear. So let's see them. OK. And this repeat command auto generates the word until. OK, now let's work out the algorithm in the figure.

And then we will look at some of the package options. First of all, we need two more package options for the frame and the line numbering, which are the lines numbered and rolled.

The algorithm2e environment here is defined as a float environment and takes optional arguments for placement. We will use the capital H option to keep it in place and we will learn more about floats in the next section of the course.

By the way, this is actually a documentation example and here the first two lines are produced by the keyword commands.

And let's see those. OK. OK. And the caption is inserted at the end of the environment. So I will exclude it for now.

And then the first two lines of the algorithm body are just a normal math mode content.

And let's see it.

Okay, we have the two lines printed in one line, because we've inserted them in an inline math mode in the input file. Besides that, the package requires a separation between the lines, even if it ends with a normal text. And that's to account for numbering. And we will see that in just a moment. So we should insert a double backslashes here and here.

And let's see it.

And now we have line 1 and 2. And the package offers a second method to separate lines, but that will be only useful if you would like for your lines to end with a semicolon. So let's remove this backslash here with a semicolon. Let's see it. Okay, so it works.

But you can observe that semicolon appears here. And if you don't want this semicolon to appear, you can use the command do not print semicolon. Let's see it.

Okay, and of course, also you can insert this command in the preamble if you want to apply it to all algorithm 2E environments in your document. Okay, now as for separation for the end of the algorithm, I will stick to the double backslash. Okay, and now let's add the first for loop.

And the body also of this for loop will be math mode.

Okay, and let's see him.

And you will find the algorithm type set in the tech file at the resources section of this video. If you want to copy and paste some function names. And note that you don't have to end the last line of the for loop or any other command. So now moving on to the second for loop.

Here the body of this for loop will contain an F statement.

Okay, this of course is the head of the F statement or the condition. And then comes the body of the F statement itself. So let's see this structure now. Okay. And here in the second for loop, we have this F statement.

So now let's begin the second portion containing two while loops and two for loops nested inside each other. Let's ensure the caption now before moving on.

So let's see it. Okay. And now let's construct the while section, of course, before the caption.

This block consists mainly of three parts. The first one is the string line beginning with the remove X and then the nested while loop. And after that comes the remove from min at the end.

And after this first line comes the nested for loop.

Okay, before assigning the body of this nested for loop, let's actually fix the indentation here so the document can appear more readable. So this curly bracket that begins the entire body of the nested while loop. Let's get it back to the first line. Okay. And now let's unindent this parent four block.

Okay. Then we can have this four head in one line now.

Okay.

And I think now we're good. And now let's fill in the body of this nested for loop.

So that was the first line.

And this was the second line.

And that was the third line.

And finally, that was the last line. So let's see this construction now. Okay. Again, this is the big while loop here, the parent one inside it. Again, we have three portions.

The first one, this line, the second one is this entire while loop that contains two nested for loops. Now look at the line number 17 here in the output file and observe what will happen to this number when we remove the separation from the line above it.

this is the line number 17 so now we remove the double back slashes so let's see it latex has emitted this line from numbering considering it as a supplement to the first line and even gave it a tiny amount of indentation here so always make sure that you add the line breaking appropriately undo and run here we're back again And let's quickly add the last four lines of the present for loop. And those of course belong to the body of the outer or the parent for loop.

And finally comes the last line of the algorithm, which is the third part of this outer wire loop. That was the first part. And this big wire loop was the second part. So after it, we insert this line. And now let's see the final algorithm.

OK, so far so good. Here the indentation in the input file helps you to easily track different portions of such a complex structure. And if it gets fuzzy and narrow for deep nested structures, comments will then provide an additional help. So you can quickly catch any part you want to edit. And that's why I've inserted a couple of comments here.

This first stands for nested for loop. I do encourage you to build this algorithm step by step, even if you don't want to type every single character yourself. But just construct the building blocks, the if statements, while loops and for loops and fill what is inside them by pasting the content from the source file.

Before going to the options, I should mention that the commands of this package accepts comments as an optional arguments that produce a C or C++ style comments in the output file. And those are inserted in a pair of parentheses before the mandatory arguments of the command. Let's try this in the second for loop.

The command TCP produces a C++ comment which begins by a double forward slash. So let's see it.

Okay, here it is just after the loop declaration. Okay. And in this basic form of the command, it ensures an undesired blank line right beneath it, this line number eight. So if we want to get rid of this, we will use a start version of the command with optional positioning character.

the H character left justifies the comment without endline. So let's see. Okay, and it's gone. And optionally, if you want the comment to be right justified, we replace the H with F. And let's see it.

Okay, and here we have the comment on the right. And the same thing goes for the C style comments, but with the command TCC.

Okay, here is the C style, say forward slash and an asterisk, asterisk and a forward slash. You don't have to remember all of those options. You will find the used ones in the presentation attached with this video and the rest exists in section 10.3 in the package documentation. That's actually a C-style comment.

OK, just to be accurate. Now, typesetting such a quite complex structures from scratch helps you to easily navigate through large documents and to efficiently debug your input file to detect any syntax or semantic errors, besides making you comfortable seeing fuzzy input files, which can be helpful when browsing others' projects that you may obtain from the web, from GitHub, for example. Okay, coming to the options. The package supports so many languages. So if you're typesetting your document in a language other than English, you have, for example, French, Spanish, Italian, German, and more.

And that's for typesetting keywords and changing the title of the algorithm that is in the caption. You can look at those in the package documentation to learn more. And apart from that, there are some options for the framing of the environment. we've seen the rule option, and we can add the word box to it to surround the entire algorithm. So let's see that.

So here enrolled, just add the word box. See

Okay, and the next option we have here regards the numbering of the algorithms that exist in the caption. This can be said to be within a chapter using the algo chapter option or within a section as follows.

So here we put the algo section option. And this will tie the algorithm number to the section number. So let's see it.

Okay, and now we have algorithm two, one. There is that one important package option regarding comments, which is no fill comment. Let's see its use case first.

Here in this comment in the second for loop, let's leave justify. So using the letter H,

Now we have this end mark of the comment which is the asterisk and the backslash printed at the right far end of the line. And of course we don't want that. So adding the option no fill comment when loading the package will bring this end mark of the comment just right after the end of the comment statement itself.

Let's see it.

OK, we've seen the lines numbered option that activates the numbering of the algorithm's lines. Besides that, the package has some additional options regarding counts. The first one we have here is the comments numbered. This option allows for comments numbering if you have multiple lines of comments because they are dropped out by default. Also, the input output lines, like the first two lines we have here, the data and result, those can be taken into account by inserting the in out numbered option.

And the last one is the positioning of the column of the numbers. This can be altered through the option write nl. And if you inserted this option here,

It will bring this column to the right and you can explore the rest of the options. And we will end today's video by looking at some of the customization options offered by the package. And those enable us to adjust or redefine some of the algorithm parts. We will begin by setting our input output keywords. Perhaps you don't like this data result combo and you would like, for example, to have required and expected.

So to do that, we will utilize the set keyword input command in the preamble. So let's see it.

The first argument here holds the name of the command to be used in the input file. And of course, the second one takes the word to be printed, delimited by a column by default. So let's define a new command called keyword required.

And of course, the chosen names for the commands are just a naming convention following that of the package itself. And let's see him.

And now let's see him. Okay, and here we have the acquired and expected just as the data and result input lines. It's quite important to have your local functions in the algorithm printed in different typography. And you can make or define your own functions by using the set keyword function command.

I prefer to set those commands in the document before the algorithm itself, but they can be inserted in the frame pool also, if you want that. And this command works just like the previous one.

And let's use it in the algorithm body.

You can put here whatever you want.

Okay. Okay.

And you can further customize the look of this word here in the set keyword function. So let's make it blue.

You'll see that

And you can convert the functions existing in the algorithm to be of the same form instead of inserting them in a math mode. That will reduce of course the amount of characters we have here in the input file as the commands that will produce the name of the functions will be a shortcut of the name of the function itself. Okay, next we can change the appearance of the numbering here by using the command set nl style in a preamble.

The first argument takes the font family. Let's make it typewriter.

The second and the third arguments take the delimiters preceding and following the numbers.

So here in the second argument, we have the left bracket and then goes the number and then the right bracket with the colon after the number. Let's see that.

Okay. Let's pull back the style to ruled.

There are some commands defined by the package to alter the default style. We will look at one of them related to the function's names.

We will use the command set function style.

To make the keyword functions printed by this command, like interval rest here, be of a boldface font. Let's see that.

Okay, that's boiled down. You can find the rest of the styling commands in the documentation of the package in page 25 in section number 9.5.1. And remember to put the word set before any of those commands to make them work.

So this way of splitting the styling between the set function style and the set keyword function commands may be useful if you want to apply a global or general style to all the functions exist in the algorithm and that to be put in the set function style command and then customize it further if desired in the declaration of the keyword itself using the second command. So for example, let's make a test function.

And let's make this function emphasized.

Let's use it.

So let's see what will happen. Here we have the test function emphasized locally by the styling we put in the set keyword function command. And it got the bold face from the set function style command. So the styling here applies for all of the functions we define. Okay, staying with styles, you can change the font of the caption using two commands.

the set algorithm caption style and set algorithm caption name style commands. The first one adjusts the first portion of the caption, which is the word algorithm and the number of the algorithm plus the delimiter. And the second one acts on the body typeset by the caption command, the title itself, which is here the word and traverse fraction. So let's make the first one italic and the second typewriter.

same okay italic and typewriter and to change the font size we use the font form of those commands the same now okay a lot bigger and now let's add some commands to change spaces in the algorithm

The left margin of the algorithm 2e environment defaults to the sum of two values, the left skip and the part and then dimensions. And to increase that, we can use increase margin command.

Look at the number and column and let's run.

Now we have this column inside the rules, and you can actually decrease it if you want by giving negative values in the increase margin command, or just by using the decrease margin command. This fixes the issue that we had when we use the box ruled.

So let's make this box ruled again. Okay.

And next is the space between the rules and the lines of the algorithm here. This is so tight and we can increase it using the command set algo inside skip.

Now let's make it mid skip as the default value was a small skip and you have also the big skip. I see it.

Okay, and has increased. Okay, also, and the dimension that needs to be increased is the interspace between the title and the rules here. And this value is stored in a command that can be set by set length command.

The command is called enter space, title world.

So let's make it four points and that will double the default value. Okay. And finally the line interspacing in the body of the algorithm. Unfortunately, the package does not provide a direct command to set this value, but of course we can still define it. And to do so we'll use the set stretch command from the set space package.

Let's load the package and use the command in the preamble.

Okay and let's see the spaces between the lines now.

Okay, and they have increased and the algorithm now is more readable. And eventually defining our own comment style. As presented earlier, predefined comments take the form of C or C++. And if your algorithm is meant to be applied in another language, it's better to type set its own style of comments. We can do so by using the set keyword comment command.

The first argument takes the name of the command that will produce the comment.

We will make a MATLAB style comment. And then the other two arguments take the beginning and the end marks of the comment. A MATLAB comment starts with a percent sign and ends with nothing. And as a matter of fact, he can have both of them empty. And of course, recall that this percent sign is a special character to latex, so you have to insert this backslash.

And now let's use it.

Let's see. Okay, can actually increase the space between the percent sign and the body of the comment. So let's insert a space here. Okay. And just like normal comments, it has a star version to make a side comment with aligning options.

Let's see. Okay. And here I've just removed the double backslash from the test function, added the edge to make it a left justified site comment, and of course broke the lie. And that concludes our discussion about the algorithm2e package and the video. So I hope you found this beneficial.

As always, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. In this section of the course, we will learn about figures and tables. But before exploring those topics, I would like to introduce to you LaTeX floating objects. This discussion of today's video will enhance your understanding of LaTeX document components and will give you a glimpse about the nature of how LaTeX defines figures and tables so you can work with them freely and with confidence in the future. We'll discuss four points about floats, beginning by explaining what precisely are floats, to learning about how lathe behaves toward floats, and also why to learn floats, and eventually looking at the float placement or positioning parameters.

So I think the best way to describe floats is that they are standalone objects in the page that have positions of their own and that's aside from the stream of text of course and those can be at the top, middle or bottom of the page or even left or right as we will see later. Of course you can imagine those squares to be figures or tables. And additionally, floats can be viewed as containers for objects that cannot be broken over a page. So we have to be able to control their position precisely to locate them where we want. And they've got properties like having captions to describe them and they are numbered for cross-referencing and of course to generate lists of them at the beginning of the document like lists of feathers and tables.

So now let's look at an example to know how LaTeX defines floats by default and why to learn about flow controlling. But before doing so, please note that this video is just a quick and brief introduction to floats and is only for illustration. So you don't have to worry about any new commands or packages because we will discuss those in detail in upcoming videos. So just focus only on the output file and the changes that will happen there. Okay, we have here an article and the GraphicX package for figures and the Lipsum package.

Now add only two lines of code. The first one is for the Lipsum paragraphs and here the second one is for a figure.

And of course this scale only is to downsize the image. So let's run to see how Lithic will arrange this content. Okay, here at the first page we have the paragraphs and a little bit of space at the end. And here at the beginning of the second page we have some words from the last paragraph alongside with the image. So here's how LaTeX defines floats automatically.

It serves for a space for that object in the current page, which is the first one here, that will fit the container. And if it didn't find sufficient space, like our case here, it moves the container to the top of the next page. And indeed, we can change this behavior by altering the automatic floating options. That's why we have to deal with floats. Because as you can see, we've inserted the image in the input file after the paragraphs.

And still we kind of have it in line or side by side with the last paragraph. And of course, that's not what we're expecting. And to change that, we will wrap the image command in a figure environment that accepts a float placing option.

and for this option to work we have to use the float package

And let's run. Okay, now we have the image on its own. And that's due to the capital H option of the figure environment that tells Latex to position the figure at the exact location that is inserted in the code of the input file, which is here again after the ellipsum paragraphs directly. And actually, if we reduce the number of paragraphs to two,

we'll still have the figure just right after the text. So this is how we alter or redefine the default settings of how Latex position the floating objects. And finally, here are some flow placement specifiers. Those are single characters, as we saw, that defines the position of a float environment. And of course, they are given as optional arguments.

We've seen the capital H already. And additionally, we have small h for approximate here positioning.

Let's see it. Okay, it gives the same result as the capital H in this case. But of course, the letter can be more precise in other situations. Let's downsize the image further to see the effect of the others.

The next one is T for top.

Okay, now we have the image at the top of the page and B for bottom.

Okay, fair enough. There are other specifiers but those will come into play in the future. So that was it for today's quick video. I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we will learn how to insert external pictures into our related document in various forms. But before beginning, I should mention that this video is for picture image insertion. That's of course a different matter regarding figure drawing that we will discuss in a separate section coming after this one. So, inserting a picture is very simple.

First, we need to load the graphicx package.

This package provides a powerful and simple to use command to print figures in the output file, which is the include graphics command.

The mandator argument takes the name of the file, which is the image. And that's with any extension. And this is a powerful property of this command. And of course, if the image is in the same directory with the input tech file, you will only need to type the file name and the extension. And if the image is in another directory, just give it the path to that file.

So let's try both. This is the main directory of the input file, which is here. And this I image is in the same level. While, for example, in this new directory, we have this door image. So we'll need to type this path, of course, up until the input file.

So let's return to the input file. So here is the I image.

And for the door image, we will just enter the new directory, then a slash, and the image. Okay, now the optional argument here accepts different key value pairs that adjust the size and the orientation of the pictures. The very first and simple one is the scale as we saw previously.

This scale takes a fractional number to decrease or increase the width and height of the image proportionally. So let's say for the first image, we want 10% of the actual size and 20% for the second.

And let's see him now. Okay, here we have the two pictures side by side, nearly at the top left end of the page. And indeed we can increase the size by putting a number greater than one. So let's increase the size of the second picture by 50% and run.

Okay and it's really getting better. So that's the easy way to control the size, both the width and height of the image, which is to use the scale value. Let's comment out the second picture to work only with the first one.

Okay now, if you want to adjust only one dimension of the image, you can do so by utilizing the width and height options of the command, both at once or individually. So let's make the height of this image 3 centimeters. So we'll remove the scale and replace it with the height option.

And run, okay. And let's try the width.

Ok nice, so far so good and of course we can combine both of them.

So let's see. Okay. Do you see what happened? Now the image losses proportion. That's because we specified both the width and height, which means that as we saw previously, when we adjusted only one dimension of them, the other one is scaled to match the changed one by the user.

So be careful when setting both the width and height. So we'll remove the width.

So here the package automatically sets the width to match the specified height by the user. And lastly, we can try the angle option here after the height.

Of course, this value is in degrees. So let's see. Now the image rotates counterclockwise. So this parameter is there if you need it. You just remove it.

By the way, if you have such an image with white background where borders are not that so clear, you can simply surround it by the fbox command. So let's wrap this entire include graphics inside the fbox.

Indeed, we can increase the rule width and the separation value by the setLength command.

Here is the size of the rule. Let's make it five points.

And then the separation value, which is the fbox sep parameter.

We'll make it 10 points and run. Okay, now we have thick borders and the separation value between the image and the border has increased. Okay, now the key value pairs that go inside the optional argument of the include graphics command are managed by a package called keyval and it's a part of the graphics bundle maintained by the later project team. This package provides a command called setKeys. And this command pre-defines the default values of the keys that determine the image size.

So let's insert one in a primble.

The Gn in the first argument is a shortcut for graphics inclusion and that refers to the set of keys inside the image insertion scheme. So in the second argument we can put the width and height.

And this command exhibits a global effect that applies for all the include graphics command in the document. So all the image inserted by the include graphics command now will have those exact dimensions by default. So we can now erase this optional argument here and run. Okay. And let's add another instance.

and run. As you can see now we have a consistent values for the width and height that are set up by the set keys command. Let's erase the second one.

If you don't like setting hard values for the dimensions, you can make them a percent of the text width, which is the available space for the text in the page and of course after the margins. So let's make the width only to be 30% and the height will be adjusted accordingly. So let's remove the height and the width will be 0.3 of the text width.

So let's see. OK. Note that you can override the default values typeset by the set case command by defining the values again explicitly and locally for each image. So let's bring back the optional argument here and set the width to be 6 centimeters.

The package will choose this value, which will override this one here. So I see it. Okay, and it's now billar by the effect of this value. There is a great functionality offered by the package for image file paths. Imagine that you're working on a large project in which you have multiple folders that hold different photos within them.

When you insert photos in the input file, of course you'll need to typeset the path before the file name. And you will do that again and again. And that could be exhausting and frustrating when you try to search for a photo in the input file. Because of course, it'll be more convenient to see the file name or the image name in the include graphics command only without the path that lead to it. This can be done using the graphics path command in a preamble.

Let's see how it works.

The one-man-data argument of this command holds a list of paths that the include-graphics command should search in to find the target image file. And every path should be inserted inside a pair of killer brackets even if there is only one path. But for general case, we'll insert two paths. And the list of paths here are separated by nothing. So inside those killer brackets, we'll put two folders.

Let's see them. The first one is the new directory with the image door. And the second one is the new directory tool with the door run image. And those lie at one step away from the tech file. So here the new directory folder name of course must be followed by a slash to enter that folder.

And then the second folder

And now let's insert the images exist in those files.

So now those images are in different folders. And now we don't have to insert the path again because we've inserted them in the graphics path command. So let's see those pictures. Okay, they appear with no problem. That really can be helpful.

And speaking of the file names, the include graphics command is smart. That is, if you emit the image file extension, it will assign an appropriate one and still typeset the image in the output file with no errors. Let's remove this PNG extension and you'll still be fine.

And since we mentioned the extensions, there is a command called declare graphics extensions that accepts a list of possible extensions that the images of your document may hold. So that limits the number of extensions if you need to do so. So let's try in a preamble setting the png and jpeg extensions only.

and you will get red flags, because if you inserted the declare graphics extensions, you can't omit them from the image names. So let's pull them back.

Optionally, the command works also for the upper case of the extension without listing So let's see him. Okay, everything is fine. But don't forget that the images in your document could be only of PNG and JPEG extensions only. Okay, now let's jump to the figure environment. The include graphics command does insert a picture in the document, but it doesn't make it float.

And here comes the rule of the figure environment. This environment has multiple use cases other than embracing an external picture, like defining graphs and diagrams, and we will see it quite frequently in the future. So let's wrap the last image inside the figure and let's bring it down the page and also adding a caption.

Note that the caption command should be inserted lastly in the figure environment. So let's see the figure now. Okay. And looks like we need the centering command. We'll insert it just after the declaration.

It'll fix that. Okay. And we can add a label command to mark this figure for referencing.

And here the label command must be defined after the caption because as we know labels need numbers for marked objects to be able to refer to them. And creating certain numbers in figure environments is the job of the caption command. So make sure to insert the label command after the caption one. And before running, let's add some space between the images and refer to the last one using the clvrf package.

Let's load the clever package. Let's run this another time for the reference. Okay. Now it says look at figure one for better understanding. So this is now a floating environment.

Okay, let's reduce the size of the first photo and change the position of the last one to move on to the next concept. We'll make the width of this eye image only two. And let's replace this B token with the H for here. And run. Okay.

The next concept that we're about to discuss is how to combine photos, or in other words, printing multiple photos in one row. This task can be done in various ways, and we're going to see three of them. So the first and the most straightforward one is to simply insert multiple include graphics commands inside one figure environment. So let's start a section.

And also let's remove this last figure. We don't need it anymore. So to try this out, we'll bring this include graphics command inside this figure environment.

So let's run. Okay. Now obviously we're stuck now with one caption only for the two images. And that's actually a drawback of this method. We can actually alter the caption to point at this issue.

So now, of course, those two include graphics are counted as one, so they will get only one label.

Also, let's adjust this one here. Just doors. Let's see. Okay, another one.

There are also other things to keep in mind when working this way. One of them is that there must not be a line break between the include commands because of course that will result in printing the photos in different rows. So if you put double backslashes after the first include one, you will have the two images aligned vertically.

So that's the first one. And besides that, you must be careful with the figure sizes as indeed they cannot exceed the text width value. So make sure to define their width to be a fraction of this value as we did earlier. So by now you can see that this method is kind of limited, but still it's the simplest and can be useful if you have multiple images that are related to each other and can be captioned and referenced as one figure. And that actually brings us to the second and slightly better method of combining photos, which is to use the mini page environment.

We've mentioned the mini page before, if you recall, and that was in the third text formatting video. And in this method, the main structure holds again, which is a one figure environment that contains multiple mini pages. Each one inserts a centered picture. So let's make a figure environment.

And inside that, we start the mini page.

without the optional argument.

Let's bring the photo. Okay, now the line width value is used to be the horizontal distance of the mini page. If you're confused about line and text width, take a look at this picture from the page layout video.

So let's see this picture. Okay. And it needs to be centered and given a caption besides the label.

So now the centering command will be inside the mini page and then a caption.

And lastly, the label.

see. Okay. Okay. And another instance of the mini page for the second photo.

This is called door one. This is of course, second door picture. Let's alter the label also and run. Okay, they appear to be in an undesired orientation. That's simply because we define every mini page environment to have the entire line width as a horizontal distance.

So reducing this value will resolve this issue. Let's make everyone to be half of the line width. So let's run.

Okay, and now the two images are in one row, but the sizes of the four images appear to be inaccurate. So you can eliminate confusion by just counting out the set keys command, which puts a default value. So we'll leave the size matter for each environment or picture separately. Then let's run. Okay.

And you can add some edge space between those images.

Okay, perfect. So for this combo, if you're thinking about a caption for the figure environment itself, you can certainly insert one here.

a little work. Okay. So as you can see, we have counted three new figures in this structure, two, three, and four. And that makes sense because those are three different captions for three different environments. What really doesn't make sense is putting this caption in the input file for the figure environment.

So we can remove it.

Okay, those two methods are fine and could be useful in some situations, but they're not the best when it comes to grouping pictures, at least in my point of view. So that makes us arrive at the last method. And this one is based on using sub figures in one figure environment. The sub figures are sub numbered items in one captioned figure environment. and they come in two different flavors.

They can be inserted either as a command or as an environment. Let's break this page first.

So divide this section into two subsections. The first one will be for the subfigure command, which is the first form of the subfigures.

This also will be inserted in a figure environment.

The subfigure command relates to a package called subfigure. So let's insert it first.

Okay, the command has two arguments. The optional one takes the subcaption of the image that is inserted in the second argument with the include graphics command. So put here the caption.

Inside the mandator argument, we insert the include graphics command.

And of course, the subfigure can be marked for referencing. So let's add a label.

And let's see it now. The subcaption says A door number one. And let's add the second photo.

So just alter the caption, the name of the image and the label and run.

The second figure it says B door number two. And if we want to insert an image in a new row, simply add a line break after the last subfigure command in the control. So here after this subfigure command double backslashes and then another subfigure command.

And let's see it.

Okay, fair enough, C, horse eye. Now the optional argument is responsible for sub-numbering. So if we emit one of them, let's say the first one.

Let's see what will happen.

Now the caption disappeared, but it's counted because the second figure got the B and the third C. And to ensure that, let's refer to those sub-figures

see this range reference, it says figures for a, which is this one to four C. So the caption disappeared if we emit the optional argument of the software command, but it still counts this image. So let's bring it back.

And lastly come the caption and the label of the figure environment itself.

And let's add this label to this reference.

So let's see the structure now.

So here we got the caption for the environment, figure number four for this whole structure, and we got the label here also. Okay, the second form of the subfigures is the subfigure environment. And to work with this environment, we need to use the subcaption package. And unfortunately, this one cannot work in conjunction with the subfigure package. So I've separated the environment method in another input file.

So let's open it.

Okay, here we have again, one figure environment. And inside that we have the subfigure environment, two instances. And as shown the subfigure environment works nearly as the parent figure one, besides taking a mandatory argument for the size. Here specified in the two images or the environments to be half of the text width. The environment holds within its body a centered include graphics command besides a captioned command for sub-numbering and a label.

Just the usual stuff.

And to print them in the output file in one row, we must insert the hfill command between the two sub-figures environments in the input file with no blank lines here. So that's a must. So we're done with this part.

And when we arrive at the caption of the figure environment, we'll notice that it holds two texts, one in an optional argument and the normal mandator one. And the reason for using this version of the caption command is that in some cases you may want to type a long text that describes your figure or group of figures and don't want this long explanation to appear in the list of figures at the beginning of the document. So you can put the referencing text inside the optional argument, which is here inside the brackets, which is also called list of tables, caption, and inside them. And that argument is the caption that are up here in the output file and the label. So let's run this file now.

Okay. Now let's add the list of figures to see this small caption.

Actually I have to run again.

Okay. Now we've got this grouping using the sub-figure environment text that is inserted in the optional argument of the caption command. And as for any numbered object, we can change the default alphabetical scheme through the renew command.

to adjust the value stored in the subfigure command to make it of Arbic format, for example. So using the Arbic command and inside the argument, we put subfigure, which is the parameter to be altered.

Let's see. Okay, so now for those sub figures, now we have one and two instead of A and B, you can also make this Roman.

Okay, and you have I and double I. Okay, and the last concept that we'll look at today is text wrapping around figures. This is a relatively important content aligning scheme that appears frequently when there are an important concept in the context that needs visualization on the fly. And for that, we use the WrapFigure environment from the WrapFig2 package. Originally, this environment goes back to the old wrapfig package, but I chose to use the new extended version that works with the Latex 3 modern language.

So let's load the package.

The environment takes two mandatory arguments.

The first one is the placement of the wrapped figure. And this is different than the placement of floats because the defined environments by this package are not normal floats. But still the placement here is simple. You have R for right and L for left and two other positions that relate to two cited documents. You can look at those in Backages documentation and try them on your own.

For example, here we make the image appear on the right. And the second argument takes the horizontal width of the environment, which of course can be an explicit value or a percent of the text width.

And just like other figure environments, the body takes the same stuff.

And for the text that will wrap around this figure, this time we'll use a new dummy text package called CantLipsum that produces a better looking long paragraphs. So let's load it.

And it works like the Lipsum one. So let's put one paragraph after the wrapped figure environment.

So just type Kent and one or arrange inside those brackets and let's see him. Okay, so now we have this wrapped figure on the right due to this command with a total width for the environment, third of the text width, and then the content. and this paragraph. So if we look close at this caption, we'll see that it fills the entire width of the environment. And that's why I've used the scale in the include command to make this clear.

So to align the figure and the caption properly, we can either reduce the width of the environment or increase that's of the image. And we'll do that by replacing the scale with the width parameter. So let's make the width equal to that's of the environment itself.

Okay.

So we have here the image takes the full width of the environment. They have both the same value. You can also replace this value by the line width and run.

Okay, nothing changed. That means that the include graphics command will span the entire width of the environment that is wrapped in. So the figure with this line width will take this value here of the environment. Now this caption has unnecessary extra spaces that make it looks awful. So we can fix it by using the caption package that is specialized for styling and customizing captions of float environments.

And yes, I've said earlier that this isn't a regular float environment, but still the functionality of the caption package applies for this wrapped figure. So let's load the package with the justification option.

Okay, and look at this caption now. Here we are. It's centered by this justification option. And also you've got ragged right for left aligning.

Let's see.

Okay, and there is rugged left also for rot aligning if you need it. Now the spaces between the wrapped figure and the text are stored in two commands and those can be altered through the set length command. So let's do that in a primble.

The horizontal value between the image and the text is stored in a parameter called column sep. And this one defaults to 10 points.

So let's double its value. Make it 20. And look at this gap now. And run.

That is increased. Now we have more space to the left of the image. And for the vertical one, this vertical space is stored in a command called in-text-sep.

This one defaults to 12 points. So let's decrease it to 10.

So watch this now.

decreased so this down part of the paragraph gets closer to the caption. And speaking of the paragraph, the raffigo environment takes an optional argument just after the environment's name. And that one controls the number of lines that are cutted before the space taken for the image, which are those short lines here, this one to this one. If you count those, you'll find them exactly 12 lines. And actually this is an automatic decision that is made by the package corresponding to the size of the image and the caption.

So we can increase it by this option here. Let's make them 15.

And run. OK. And if you count them now from this unit line to the idle first one, you'll find them exactly 15. And there is another optional argument to this environment called overhang. It takes a distance value that pulls the figure to the area of the marginal nodes.

It defaults to 0, and it's inserted between the mandatory arguments of the environment.

This is a large value to see the effect clearly.

Now the figure is close to the far right edge of the document and it's printed side by side with the text. So now the image is in the outer edge away from the text space in the page. There are some limitations, advices and best practices of how to wrap figures properly that you can read about in the Wrap Fig Package documentation of Donald Arsenal. And you can also walk through the documentation of the extended version, the one that we used here, the WrapFig2, to learn more about this functionality. And that was it for today's video.

I hope you found it beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Today we're going to start learning about making tables in LaTeX using various environments and we'll focus on the basic table construction in this first video. So working with tables in LaTeX may seem overwhelming at the beginning but you will start to appreciate how LaTeX constructs table as you proceed to further complicated ones in the future.

Meaning you'll see how powerful is this scheme. Now to simplify the matter we should answer the following question in detail. What is a table? Well simply a table is a bunch of horizontal and vertical lines embracing some data. So from now on you must always see tables this way to avoid confusion because as you know every single detail must be specified in LaTeX.

Now there are multiple environments and packages to make tables but we'll begin with the most basic one which is the tabular environment. Look at this table in the figure as we'll use it to represent how tables are defined in LaTeX. Okay now this tabular environment splits its work between the mandatory argument and its body. as the argument takes the number of vertical lines that separate the columns and the alignment parameters of the columns, while the body of the environment takes the horizontal lines and the data.

So this table in the figure has four vertical lines to form the boundaries and the others separate the columns. To create vertical lines, we use this bar operator. And for the aligning of the columns content, we use L, R, and C letters, which of course stands for left, right, and center. And they are all in lowercase only. And this alignment here is horizontal wise.

So to input this information in the argument of the environment, follow the order of those components in the table from left to right. The hitch line command is used to create horizontal lines. And as usual, the amber sands and the double backslashes are used to end columns or separate the data and terminate the rows respectively. And again, following the order of the components, we can insert the input of the body this way. And of course, here from top to bottom.

So let's try it in action. So here now, by looking at the figure of the table, from left, there is a vertical line followed by a left-aligned column. So bar and small l. And coming after that is another vertical line and now a centered column. So the bar and small C and another one of this combo, which is a vertical line C. And then lastly comes the right boundary, a vertical line.

And for the body, we have from the very top, the upper boundary, which is a horizontal line. And then the first row.

And then another horizontal line followed by the second row.

And then the same thing for the last row.

And then comes the bottom boundary, which is the last H line. Note that every single row has to be ended by the slashes here, even the last one. So now let's see this table.

Okay, and of course the created vertical and horizontal lines span the entire height and width of the table. Now the tabular environment creates a table that is a part of the running stream of text. So it's kind of not treated as an abandoned object. Let's insert a paragraph before the table to see clearly. Okay, and let's run.

So the table is typed tightly to the paragraph. And we don't want that. Rather, we hope to move it around, give it a caption and the label also. And to achieve that, we should wrap the tabular environment inside the floating environment called table. So let's take this whole environment.

Cut. Begin table. Paste.

Okay, I decided to put it at the bottom. So let's bring it here. So we'll add a placement option to the floater environment. Okay. And now let's pull it to the center and give it a caption.

So after the declaration of the float, we insert the command centering and then a caption.

And let's run. Okay. And then a referencing we'll do using the clever if package.

Then comes the label.

And now let's run see this reference. Okay, and run again. Now it says session table one. Okay, so this is kind of the same concept that we did with the include graphics command of the picture and the figure environment. And a quick note here about the construction of the table in the tabular environment.

If you try to remove a horizontal line, you won't get an error. So let's remove this last one and run.

Okay, rather the line will simply disappear and the same thing goes for the vertical lines. So let's remove this right boundary and run.

And it's gone too. And even if you removed an item from a row, let's say this one.

you will get a blank cell. And the concept even extends to the placeholders. So if we try to remove the amber sand of the removed item and run,

nothing happened. But of course be aware that removing amber sands or placeholders sometimes will result in a semantic error. So let's say you want this one to disappear. If you remove the data itself with the placeholder and run, you will get this 5.2 in the second column.

as this is its default location now in the input file. So to keep this in the third cell, we'll have to keep the amber sand.

Okay. Now let's bring back all of those removed items.

Okay, here we are again. Okay, now let's move on to the second concept that relates to the basic construction of tables, which is merging rows and columns.

And as entitled for this job, we'll use the multirow package. So let's load it.

OK, this package defines two commands for merging rows and columns of a table, and they are called multi-row and multi-column. Each one of them takes three mandatory arguments. We're going to learn about them while constructing the table in the figure. Here in this table we have in the first column on the left a merged cell from the first two rows. This one contains the text item name and that is followed by another one with a price per quantity entry that resulted from the merging of four rows.

And then another one on the right for merging rows three and four. And the last one at the bottom made by measuring columns two and three. Okay, so let's initialize the tabular environment.

First of all, how many columns do we have in this table? Well, five. When counting columns of a table, do not look at the cells merged from multiple columns. Rather, go to the row that contains the full set of columns and take them into account. So from left, we have a line, a left aligned column, and another line.

So bar. L and bar. The rest of the configuration here are four centered columns and four vertical lines. In other words, four instances of the combination C and bar operator. So instead of explicitly repeating this information in the argument, the environment provides another short method to embed the same structure to the table definition.

And that's done by inserting the asterisk and the double group curly brackets. And by this method, we can tell Leitech that we want four instances.

So insert four in the first argument of the combo in the second group, which is again, four center columns and four vertical lines. So this thing here is exactly equal to this one.

So it's kind of a shortcut for this entire combination. This method can be extremely helpful, especially when building a large table to simplify the look of the environment. Now we'll begin with the environment's body. At the top, of course, goes horizontal line.

And then comes the first row. Before making it, how many rows do we have in this table? The answer indeed is four. By the same technique, we counted the columns ignoring the merged cells. So the first row here contains two columns only.

Both are merged cells. The one with the item name and the other with the price per quantity. The first one is made by merging rows. And for that, we'll use the multi-row command.

The first argument takes the number of rows to be merged to create this cell. And here they are too.

The second argument takes the width of the merged cell. And this can be typeset as an explicit hard value in any unit. But our best practice is to leave it for latex to compute. And it will do that automatically according to the content. And to activate this scheme, we'll only put an asterisk in this second argument.

And the last one takes the content or the entry that will be printed in the cell in the output file. So here it's the text item name.

Okay, now, and the second column in this row is made by merging multiple columns. So we'll use the multiple column command. So we'll end this first column, then the second.

The first argument inputs the number of columns to be merged, and here four.

And then in the second argument, we put the alignment operator of the measured cell. And the first one is centered. So small c. And the last one holds the entry.

And that's it for the first row. And the usual thing that we do after terminating a row is to define a horizontal line. But the problem here is that the second row contains in its first column the same entry of the merged cell, which is the text item name. And the horizontal line exists in this portion of the table. It's separating the price merged cell, which is the above, from the rest of the entries of the second row, one, two, three, and four.

And this line doesn't interfere with the first column. So we can put an H line here, because I've said earlier that the H line spans the entire width of the table. So instead of that, there is another horizontal line creating command that solves this problem. And it's called C line.

This command creates a limited horizontal line that begins and ends at the range given to its argument. That's regarding the columns to span. So here we want a horizontal line from cell or column number two to five only, which is the last column of the table. So put two and five. Let's complete the second row.

Here in the first entry, we have nothing. So we'll leave a placeholder. Of course, that placeholder is to extend this multi row command. And that's of course, because we have already typeset the content of this column in the first row using the multi row command. And that's actually how merging rows using this command works.

That is, you put the multi row command in the first row to be merged. So you have this multi recommend operating in the first row and in the second one, and it must be put in the first one and leave the other entries of that column in the following rows empty. So let's fill in this row terminated and create a horizontal line.

So I think now we should run to see how this part of the table looks.

Okay, now everything is typed as expected except for this missing part of the vertical line of the first row. Supposedly, we have defined all the necessary vertical lines in the declaration of the environment and still a small chunk of it is missing. This is actually due to the nature of the multi column command. Whenever you have one of them in your table, you have to be careful and accurate with the input of the second argument that corresponds to the aligning. And the thing to care about is the vertical lines of the merged cell.

Here we're missing the right edge of that cell. So inserting a bar after the letter C in the second argument of the multi row command will fix this issue. So here, bar and run. And it's now closed. So regardless of the present lines in the argument of the tabular environment, you should watch for those of the column-wise measured cell.

And the next row contains normal entries.

And here the last column begins a two row measured cell. So again, for that, we'll use the multi row command.

We have two rows and the width again will be determined automatically by latex through this asterisk and then the entry and terminating this row. The following horizontal line shouldn't reach the last cell. So again, we'll use the C line from column number one to four. So let's see how this table looks now. Okay, let's fill in the next row.

And here in the last row, we have the second and third column merged.

We have two columns, center aligning with a vertical line. and the entry then the last column of this row 25 a placeholder for the 27 and terminating and the last H line and that completes the table And that's it. So we'll leave this very last entry empty. And that will extend this multi row command here. If you feel confused about certain concept or part of what presented today, you're welcome to rewatch that part or the entire video again.

And that's totally fine, especially when working with tables for the first time. Or we can just walk slowly through the implementation, changing and playing around with the code. And that's to gain better intuition about what is happening. So we'll stop for now and continue on from the next video with a tabular material. So that was it for today's video.

I hope you found it beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. We'll continue working with tables and in this video we will discuss how to control the column width of tables, rotating the tables and we'll end with wrapping tables by text. So we'll begin by the column with issue and we'll try to resolve this problem by two ways.

The first one being the tabular X package.

Before start working with the package, let's know first how the width of tables columns is determined. Well, by default, LaTeX assigns a width for a column sufficient enough to accommodate for the largest entry in that column. So it's tied to the largest content exists in that column. I'm sure you've noticed this already from the previous video. Okay, but is this really a problem to worry about?

Well, let's jump to the tech file of the previous video to find out. Here I've just adjusted the last entry of the first row in the first table to type a quite long text. So let's see how this table will look like.

Okay and obviously the table extended to the right far end of the document and has been cut there as there is not enough width for it to take in the page. But shouldn't it break the line when the line width ends and complete down below? Well that's not the case when building a table in this basic form. So that's why we're going to tackle this problem. So let's return to our running tech file.

Ok the tabularx package defines an environment that carries the same name. And just like the tabular it should be inserted inside the table 1 in order to define a floating environment. So let's load the package.

The TabularX environment takes two mandatory arguments, and its job is to limit the entire table in a specific predefined value that goes in its first argument. So this method is quite an indirect way to control the column width, because we don't get to specify a hard value of width for each column. Rather, if it's chosen, the columns can be automatically sized to fit the whole width of the entire table. So let's set the table to be half of the line width. So ensure that in the first argument.

This argument, of course, accepts hard values in any unit. But a best practice, of course, is always to define such spaces in a dynamic rubber way. And that's of course, because of the margins of the document, if they are changed later or any other content, you'll find this component is responsibly accommodating with that change without any kind of distortion. So now the second argument here takes the definition of the columns. And this environment works the same as the tabular one regarding the vertical lines and the alignment parameters.

Plus, of course, the core functionality of the package represented in the option capital X. So that's a new token to define the columns. Take a look at this table in the figure. The first and third column appear to have extra width than needed for the entries. And that's because they are defined with the new x option.

So from left, we have a vertical line and x defined column and another line.

So bar, capital X, and another bar. And following them is a normal centered column and the last x column.

And let's fill in the content quickly on run.

Okay, nice. But what exactly did happen here? First of all, any column defined with the R, L, or C letters has a fixed width, which is again corresponds to the largest entry. So here the word price in this column. And what regards the tabular x is that we gave the table a certain width in the first argument of the environment.

And through the parameter x, we tell LaTeX to automatically calculate the width of this flexible column. Now all the x columns get the exact width so they are all equal in value. That is determined by a formula that you can look at the package documentation. Ok now, this new x token controls the width of a column. So what's about the alignment?

Well, by default all the x columns are fully justified. But the package provides a way to align columns while being defined. And to do so, we have to insert either of the ragged commands or centering. That's in the braces preceded by a greater than sign just before the x token.

So if we want to change the alignment of this third column, should insert greater than and then curly brackets. This is actually the syntax of the array package. Let's say we want to write align this last column. So we'll put the command ragged left.

And for package related issues, we have to insert also this command, the array backslash.

If you didn't ensure that for the ragged commands, you won't get an effect. As this command guarantees that the line breaking through the double backslashes will work without problems when adjusting the alignment this way. And of course, we're talking about those line breaking inside the table. So now let's see it. Okay, and now it's right aligned.

And I know that placing such combo in this location just to align a column does absolutely make no sense, especially when having several columns that will be aligned separately. So that's why we have the new column type command.

This command is used to define a custom token to be used when defining columns in the tabular X environment or actually in any other tabular environment. So let's say we'll call this new token capital C because we want to use this new token to create a centered X column. And this second argument takes the definition of the column. So first of all, we want an x column. As we did before, we insert the greater than.

And then we put the centering and array backslashes here.

Note that the token can only be one letter capitalized as a best practice. So now let's use it. We'll delete this X token for the first column and replace it with a new capital C token. So this first column now will be an X column centered by the effect of this combo here. So let's see it.

Now we have this item column centered. And this array syntax accepts also font adjusting commands if you want to add any. So let's enlarge the font of this token.

Okay, and now we have this entire column in the bugger font. And speaking of the array package, do you see the tightness happen to the rows after changing this font? There is actually a parameter that can be set through the setLength command defined in the array package that increases the row height. And it's called extraRowHeight. So let's load the array package and increase this value.

We'll hit this now.

OK, and now small refined. You can play around with the content in this table by entering long data in some cells. And you will find that the automatic width mechanism offered by the tabular X package can sometimes be disturbing. And that's because of the equality of the X columns, as you may get columns of short entries having excess width, while other columns of larger data lack area that can fit them. So if you found yourself trapped in this case, you may want to consider the second method of controlling the column width.

And this time we'll use the previously mentioned array package.

The array package provides three parameters that can be used to specify a fixed width for each column. So this time we'll get to space each column in a separate different value. Those parameters, of course, are inserted in the argument of the tabular environment, alongside with the vertical lines. And they are B for bottom aligning, P for top aligning, and M for middle aligning. And of course, we're talking about vertical adjustment because we've looked at the horizontal case earlier.

So let's create a simple three column, one row table in which all columns are vertically top aligned.

And inside the braces goes the value of the width.

And indeed it can be a fraction of the line width or the column width parameter if you're on a multi-column document.

So let's see this table. Okay. And you can see the aligning query in the second column. So put an eye on this entry and let's write the middle. So change this P to M in the three columns.

with the same width. Okay, it's kind of narrow brought to the center and bottom.

Now it's close to the final edge line. If you try to mix those parameters to have different vertical alignment, what do you think will happen? Well, let's try and figure out. We'll make the first one top aligned, leave the second middle and then bottom and run. As you can see, you will get an unexpected reversed alignment.

And the reason for that is the underlying mechanism for vertical adjustment here ties the state of one column to the alignment of the previous one. So it really can get frustrating when mixing those parameters. So reversing the order in the input file should give us what we want. So let's make this top and this first one bottom and run. K, top, middle, and bottom.

Now, I don't recommend that you do so because it could really turn into a complete mess. So keep the parameters the same. And for most of the cases, we insert cells in the middle or the center state. And apart from that, what really practically matters is the horizontal alignment. And you've got a good grasp about its handling, so don't bother yourself with the vertical matter.

Just as a reminder, you can define the columns here in the short form using the asterisk method, noting that of course, they are all of the same width. So let's leave only this left vertical line. And then we want three instances of middle,

1.5 centimeters. Let's run. Okay, and we forgot the vertical lines. So put it after this M here and run.

Okay. And indeed, the column type creation works here also. So let's create a new token using the new column type command.

We call it M for metal.

And when using this, we'll remove all this by the capital M and run. Okay, you still get the same result. And additionally, in the declaration of the new column token M, we can add customization through the greater than braces syntax. Say to change the font family of the entire column. so let's make it typewriter so greater than braces and then tt family Let's see what will happen.

Now they've got the typewriter font. Okay, note that tables can hold any kind of content, whether it's a text, figure, or even entire nested tables, as we will see later. Indeed, they also can embrace math equations. And an extremely useful case for using the new column type command is to create a new column in math mode. And that will be achieved through the array package syntax.

Now the greater than sign with the braces tell LaTeX to apply the declaration and the braces before the entries of the column. And correspondingly, there is a less than version. And that's of course applies what is inside the braces after the entries. So we'll try to make a capital A new type column that is specialized for math mode. And here's how we do it.

greater than and then less than. And inside let's make it normal centered one. So the idea is to trap this centered column with the dollar signs that initiate the math mode. So in the braces of the first one goes the first dollar sign and then the second one. So now this entire column can type set math mode in the body of the table without needing to insert those explicitly anymore.

So to use it, let's reduce this to two. And after that, make a and a bar instead of this third item will insert a simple formula.

And because of this third A column that is initiated in a math mode in a preamble, don't need yet to put this in a math mode here. Let's run. OK. This can be extremely helpful to reduce the complexity of the table's code. And before moving on to the second section, the array rule with parameter controls the thickness of the vertical and horizontal lines of the table.

So let's adjust this value through the setLength command.

Okay, now we've got more thick rules. Over this extra tip at the right edge of the table, we can fix this increased tip here at the right edge of the document by controlling or adjusting the top call sub parameter. So again, use the set length command.

And run. Okay. It's now aligned perfectly. Okay. And now let's move on to the sideways content in tables.

Rotating the cells content is a useful trick to save you some space like that one in the figure. For that, we'll use the sideways environment from the rotating package.

This is a part of the later graphics, so we use it right away. And let's initiate an instance.

And simply to rotate an entry, we put it inside the sideways environment body. So let's begin with the first line.

For this long entry, we begin the sideways.

And that concludes the first row.

So let's see this now. Okay, it appears that I forgot the ampersand here.

Now we're all good. The same environment can be used to rotate an entire table. So let's see

And to do that, we'll wrap the tabular or tabular X inside the sideways environment. And both of them will be wrapped inside the table floating environment. So let's bring the first tabular X, the table float first, and then the sideways environment.

And inside this one comes the tabular. So let's see. Okay, the centering.

And as you can see, the entire table is now rotated. And additionally, you can even rotate an item here or an entry inside this rotated table. And that's again is done by using the sideways environment.

and put the item here.

I see it. OK. Now rotating entire tables that way could be useful for small ones. But if you have a large table that's desired to be rotated, there is an environment called sideways table in the rotating package that prints the table in a dedicated landscape mode. So let's try it.

And this environment accepts the centering and caption commands.

And let's paste the content. And let's see it.

And this environment prevents any other text from appearing in the new page. So that's why we have this subsection head separated here. Even if we inserted a page break here,

Just the subsection head moved to a new page, empty. And after that comes the table in an entire page. Okay, let's remove this.

And the final concept that we have today is to wrap text around the table. Just as we did with figures, the WrapFig2 package defines an environment called WrapTable that does the job.

And we have to break the page after the rotated table.

Then we'll initialize the wrap table environment.

The first argument is for the alignment of the table. We'll make it right. And the second one, of course, is for the width. We'll make it a fraction of the line width.

Now centering and captioning and then the content of the table. And here it is, of course, inserted in a tabular and the text to rub around.

So let's see it.

And of course, we can fix this caption issue by the justification of the caption package.

So look at this now.

Can increase the size of the table to accommodate for the caption.

Here we are.

So that brings us to the end of the video and I hope you found it beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I'll see you on the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. We'll continue working with tables and this video is dedicated for coloring and we'll discuss two packages for that matter. The first one and the most popular for table coloring is the color table package.

This package defines three commands for column, row, and cell coloring. They all take one mandatory argument, which is indeed the color to be used.

We'll work with this table. This is a normal tabular with four columns. They're all centered on some data. But before beginning, we will set the extra row height to three points.

Okay, let's see it. Okay, the first command is the column color. And this one is inserted in the declaration of columns just right before the token of each column. To keep things simple, I'll create a new token for green columns. Let's call it capital G. Of course, coloring is applied on the column, so use the greater than syntax.

And then comes the command inside this declaration.

And to use it in the table we'll separate the first column and give it the new token. And let's run. Okay, and now we have this entire first column in green. And the second command is the row color. This one is used before the first entry of the row to be colored inside the tabular.

So let's say we want to make the second row red. So before the first entry of the second row,

and run. Okay, here we are. Obviously, you can see that the second cell of the first column also turned red. And that's because the row color command overrides the column color one. And the third one is the cell color command.

This one is inserted just right before the target cell entry. Let's change the color of the last cell of the second row. This one. So just right before it, insert the cell color command.

then run. Here it is. And again, the cell color overrides the row color, and indeed also the column color command. So if we try to give this last column a color, this cell will preserve this CN one. So let's separate the last column to make it also green, just like the first one.

and the cyan color persists. Now the commands accept some optional arguments too. For the column color, for example, we can use the color package syntax to create shades of gray. And we'll do that as follows. Let's create a new token, call it capital A.

Now we'll insert an optional argument that holds the color gray.

And here inside the mandatory argument of the column color command goes a fraction from zero to one. Let's make it 0.7. And this method of given the color is special for the gray only. So let's replace the token of the last column here to gave it the gray and run.

Okay, now by default the color panel created by the package spans the entire cell, horizontally speaking, but the column color command accepts two more optional arguments that can be used to tweak the extra width of this panel. and by extra I mean the overhang value and this is the distance between the longest entry of a column and the vertical rules of course from left and right and that's actually why we've got two arguments and conventionally enough the first one is for left overhang and the second is for right one Let's try them in the green token. So coming after the and that our argument of the column color and toolbar brackets, four point and one point. Same now.

Okay and please be noted that the overhang value relates to the color, not the white space. So here from left, we have four point of color after the entries and from right, which is the second argument, we have only one point of color extending after the entries. And to make sure that you firmly got the concept, I'll add two more zeros to the middle cell.

to enlarge this one and run. So now you can see clearly that the overhang value is tied to the longest entry. Again, we have four points from left, the first argument and one point from right, the second one.

And if one optional argument only is left or inserted, so let's remove this one and run.

can find that the distance or the overhang value from left and right is equal. So this one optional argument controls both of them. If you're asking why bother with such fine tuning parameters, the answer would be is that it can help us create some arrangements like those color cards in the figure. First of all, let's create a new token called capital S, say for small cards.

So this is a gray color.

The shade is 0.2. And three points for overhang from both sides.

And this is a good chance to let you know that you can actually insert more than one tabular environment inside the table one.

Each one will contain two S columns without vertical lines, of course.

And the entries will be two in one row.

And let's run.

Okay, we're kind of close. But of course, we can't see the entries as their font defaults to black. You can actually fix that by including a white color in the declaration of the S token. So come in here. Just right before the column color, we insert a normal color command with one argument, which is the white color.

This command here will change the font color of the entries. see it. Okay, they're now in white. And let's break between the tabular environments and insert some v space to bring those 103 and 104 down here. Okay, now let's see

This rimless combo with the tabular environments with the overhang could be useful as it's of course capable of holding any kind of content. So I will leave it to your imagination to see how can you make use of such construction. I hope I can inspire you with some simple creative ideas to arrange your content. Actually, there is another quite compact way to produce those four cells with one tablet environment only. And I'm sure that you've thought about it, which is to separate the columns horizontally.

And that's what we're going to do using the new command for coloring rules offered by the package. But before that, let's add subsections. For this one here, let's call it coloring commands.

and this one here and some skip.

Now let's open a tabular environment that takes two s columns inside a table and put the 101 102, etc. in the same tabular environment.

And the trick here is to give this no horizontal line, this one here some thickness, and then make it white through the array roll color command. So before the centering command.

So this command here controls the thickness of this H line, and then comes the array roll color, which will make it white.

So let's see it. Here are the exact same combo, just inserted them inside the same tabular environment with the H line controlled by this setup. Now note that the row color command is a global declaration that affects all the horizontal and vertical rows of upcoming tables, regardless of its location in the input file. So even if we have it inside an environment like this case here, it'll extend until reset. So whenever you change the overall color from black, you have actually to reset it after this location.

Now there is a couple of issues arise when you try to color a multi row cell using this package. And that's what we're going to discuss next. So let's break the page.

I'll construct a tabular environment of three center columns that include a multi row command.

Okay, should use the multi row package.

Here we are. And let's try to give this multi row cell entry a blue color. So we'll insert the blue color just right before the declaration of the cell itself.

Let's see it. Okay. Now all of a sudden, we got only half of the cell color. That's actually how the color table package works. It colors the table cell wise.

And if you tried the row color command in the first row, you will get the same effect. So logically, we should insert the cell color one more time for the placeholder, this one in the second column here. So let's do it.

So that way we tell the package to color the first cell and the placeholder also, which is that one.

Now we have the color but half of the text that belonged to the second cell disappears. And to solve this problem, we have to place the multi row command in the second row instead of the first one. So let's take this multi row from here and place it here.

So reverse the order of the multi-row command. Now the placeholder is in the first row and the column color is in the second one. And lastly, the number of the rows must be negative. So add a minus here. Let's rearrange this.

OK. And let's run. now we have it in the right order. And again, to see the cell word, let's make a boldface and give it a white color. So in the last argument of the multirow command, we'll type the color white of the VF cell.

Okay, here we are. So let's document this behavior in a list so you can remember easily.

So the first thing we did is placing the column command in all of the rows of the multi row command.

And the second thing is for the multi recommend itself, which is unlike the normal case, it must be inserted in the last row of the merged cell, plus making the number of rows negative. So let's add that also.

So now we have the instructions, not to forget them. So that actually concludes our discussion for the color table package. And we'll move on to the second one we have, which is the X color package. Okay. The X color package when loaded with the option table activates also the color table package in the background, which means that with X color, you can perform all the actions discussed earlier.

Let's try to remove the color table and replace it with the X color.

and run. As you can see, everything is operating just fine. Besides that, and as you know, the X color comes with a big set of ready to use colors. So that's a much more benefit over the color table one. Besides providing a nice functionality to apply different colors for even an odd rows in an alternate fashion.

So let's start a new section.

Let's bring the skeleton of the first table without the colors.

So we'll just remove this row color command, the cell color, and that's we redefine the columns given them white color for entries.

So for instances,

of this C bar and a color white applied.

So let's see it. Apparently the entries disappear. And we'll give the first row a black color with a normal row color command. So here after the first H line, black.

Now the entries of the first row appear. It defines a new command called row colors.

The command takes three mandator arguments and it must be inserted before the table to be colored. The first argument takes the number of the row at which the command will start acting. And since the first one is occupied with black, we'll start from the second row. So 2. And the second and third argument stay colors of course.

And the thing is that the first color acts on odd rows while the second color acts on even ones. So let's say green for odd rows. So green here and blue for even.

So let's see. Hey. So third and fifth in green, second and fourth in blue. Of course, it looks ugly, but I'll leave it that way to differentiate easily between the arguments effects. But I think a better scheme with blackhead would be shades of gray.

Say 50% on 90%, for example.

Moreover, the package provides a parameters that could end or hide the coloring seam exhibited by the row colors command. Let's add two more rows.

The first parameter is called hide row colors.

This command here will stop the blue-green scheme at this location. So let's see it. Okay, and we've got only the row colors command acting till this level. Okay, actually this command can be useful if you have a long table in which the scheme is desired to some limit. Then we can add different colors using the color table row color command.

So for this row,

and for this one.

Here we are. Fairly enough you've got this counterpart the show row colors command. So let's add two more rows.

So let's see its effect. And again, after the 1009 row, she's got the same color here. The blue green scheme is repeated again for those two rows. So the show row colors command reactivates the scheme exhibited by the row colors command. And before ending the video, let's flatten those colors a bit.

That's more refined. This actually brings us to the end of the video. So I hope you found it beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video.

We'll continue on building tables and in this video we'll look at some important concepts in tables construction including nesting and combining tables and how to make multi-page tables that are split on multiple pages among some other issues. So let's start by nesting tables. I have here the multi-row and the array packages preloaded. So let's create a section.

And from here, we'll work on the table from the last video, which is this one. OK, now nesting tables means simply that a cell entry in some table will be a table itself, meaning a tabular environment of any type in the input file. So let's increase two more numbers after seven by turning this cell into a table through the tabular X environment. So we'll cut this seven and begin a tabular X and let's load the tabular X package.

Okay, let's run. Okay. And it's working. Now this last cell here in the last row contains one column tabular X table 789. And indeed you can insert a tabular environment in the multi row command.

This one here. So let's replace this cell by a tabular environment.

So look at this little entry now.

And it got also one column tabular here. And pay attention to the number of rows you have in this nested table inside the merged cell. As a force, it must equal the number of rows given to the multi-row command. So if there is another excess row, let's insert cell three and run.

As you can see, this increased cell or row will be inserted down below, won't be included in this because of course we have only two rows here in the multi work command. So be careful about it.

And surely those nested tables can have rules of their own. So let's increase one here.

Okay. This line spans only the width of the inner table, of course. And you can also add V rules. So some bars here and run. You got it.

And you can really go crazy with nesting and create some strange looking structures. Let's try to limit the second hitch line in the parent table. choose this one here. This is the first H line, C line and this is the second H line. Let's make it a C line to span the first two columns only.

So it's that one there.

So now we omitted this part of the second H line from the third column. And let's put a top H line for the tabular X environment.

here before this first row or cell. Let's see it. That short one there above the seven and some V-rolls for the tabular X itself. Okay, I think we should unindend this. Okay, so now if we insert the two V-rolls,

Here we have them, this one and this one. And you can use this nesting scheme to arrange your data and your table as you like. Okay now and the second concept of today's session is how to combine or print multiple tables in one row.

And we'll do it in two ways. The first one you already saw in the last video, which is to insert multiple tabulars inside one table environment. So let's add a subsection.

Let's try with the same skeleton we used earlier with some horizontal spaces between the instances. So here is the first construction as before, one table environment. And let's take this tabular copy and the edge space first.

And after that, while we're still inside the table environment, another tabular environment. So let's see how this looks. Okay. And you can consider the table environment as a big container for tabulars. So indeed we can break the line.

So double backslash here and put some V space for the next row.

And again, copy and paste the same tabular.

And let's see it. And here we have it. This is the half centimeter vertical space between the first row and the second row. So it's kind of we have in the first row two tabulars, a break. And then in the second row, we have only one tabular.

And since you have the table environment itself centered, this second one is brought to the center by default. And if you inserted another one without breaking the line, it will be printed in this line, of course.

So here another tabular. Okay. We didn't insert that H space as we did before here within the first two. So we can do it again here after the third one.

And here you have four tables inside or four tabulars inside one table environment. And you can insert as much as you wish. So this symbol approach can be powerful in situations like having related data. for say cases about some topic that can be described with one caption because well we have only one table float here so let's insert a caption but before let's limit this environment to two tabulars only don't really have to put this much of tables here okay only two tabulars that's nice and let's add a caption and a little bit of vertex space down the caption

And here we have it. And hence, of course, they are all assigned one number for referencing. So that's called table one. So if separate captions and reference numbers are desired, we can use the many page for that. So let's add another subsection.

So in this method, one more layer is added to the code in the info file, which is the mini page that will hold inside its body the tabular environment and both are inserted in the floating table environment. So let's separate the second row of the previous combo and put them inside two consecutive mini pages.

Let's put some h space here for copying this environment. Okay, and the second mini page. Here we have a table, a mini page. And then inside the body of the mini page goes the tabular environment.

So let's see him. here back again the two tables but this time we'll have two captions so after the mini page is that of course is tied to the mini page we have the caption of the first table and one for the second mini page that's right before the tabular so see it Okay, and here have it table two and table three separate captions. And we can insert some clearance below the captions with V space. So just add one millimeter of V space.

And here after the second caption. Okay, here have it. Okay, by the way, the width of many pages here in this case is just a trial and error to quite align the tables under the above ones here.

Also be noted that you can break the many pages in the input file, even with a blank line. So let's try to insert a blank line in the input file after the termination of the first many page.

you will get the two tables or the too many pages printed in a column fashion and of course you don't want that so keep it in mind okay so let's now move on to another important shape of tables which is the long tables sometimes it happens that we have so many data to put in a table until it can fit in one page So we use special environments that can split tables on multiple pages when the number of rows exceeds the page height, like this one in the figure. Here this left portion is the first part of the table in the first page that is the table typeset in the input file. So here at this row, the page height ends, so the table continues in the next page and ends there. So, in order to typeset a table that can split on multiple pages, we'll use the LongTable package. This package introduces an environment called LongTable that acts like the tabular run in defining tables but has some add-ons to its structure that we're going to see next.

So, the general structure of the LongTable is as follows. We have two headers and two folders. And by headers I mean the caption and the first row of that part of the table.

the first head is for the first page only or in other words the first portion of the entire table before the first break and this one in the code is composed of the caption command following it are the entries of the first row and it's ended by the end first head command and that's a must of course this combo type sets the figure on the right which appears at the very top of the entire table. So the second head is for the rest of the pages till the table ends. And because we can insert more than one caption command, we'll use the multi column to create a caption here for the rest of the pages. And then we repeat the first counter data row again, which is the first row. And this portion is ended with the end head command.

This code type sets the figure on the right for every single page or portion of the table that comes after the first break. So moving on to the footers. The first one is for all the pages except the last one and is generated by the multi-column command and ended with end foot. It's usually used to tell the reorder that the table continues in the upcoming page. And lastly is the footer of the last page.

And this is printed below the very last portion of the table when the entire table terminates. Note that the presented structure is what the long table environment must be typeset in the input file with the same order. So let's do it. Let's load the package with the cantlepsin.

And let's break the page and create two paragraphs. Okay.

And let's start the section for the multi-page tables.

So let's initiate the long table environment.

By default, this environment is centered. But I'll leave this optional argument for you to remember. And that's, of course, if you desire other alignment. And the column's declaration is the same as before. So here, C. And we have five instances.

of the C and the bar. So the first thing that goes inside the body of the long table environment is the table heading, the main one. So putting the caption command and then an H line followed by the first row and then the end first head command preceded by another H line.

And that's it. In this environment, besides the rows, the caption and the multi-column commands must be terminated by the slashes. This one here. So now what comes next is the heading for the rest of the pages. Again, this starts by another caption.

And as stated, this one will be made by the multi-column command.

And don't forget to put the backslashes here. This multi-column command will be centered and spans the five columns we have in the table. So five and C. Now to generate the same caption as the caption command, we'll need to insert two commands before the text of the caption.

the table name command will print the word table and the table command is for the reference number. And after that comes the text. Okay. And the rest of this header is again, the counter data first row. So let's copy it from here after the multi column and then the H line and the end head command.

So continuing to the photos will begin by the foot that appears for all the pages except the last one. Again, an edge line and the photo also will be made by the multi column command. This is the same for the previous caption, but I'll make it right aligned. So five, and small r, and then the text of the foot. And again, don't forget to end the line after the multi column command.

And that's actually for this table foot. So end it.

And finally, the photo of the last page.

And the final H line and end last foot command.

And then comes the content or the data of the table itself. So let's add some rows.

And let's see it.

Okay. Textual runs. Okay. And actually this environment responds efficiently to the page breaks. So let's insert one here.

Observe what will happen to the first portion. It got smaller because we broke the page at this location. This actually can be handy as it allows you to control how to present your data. So you're not tied with the automatic break, which is when the page height ends, as we said earlier. To further see the behavior of the environment, I'll increase one more count paragraph and add some more rows.

So let's increase one here.

And let's copy some more rows. Okay, such a big table. So I see it.

So run again.

Can remove this page break.

So now it behaves properly. So I have here a first portion, the second portion, and the last portion. So here the first page is the same as before, we have the main caption, this one, followed by the first row, this one here. And this head is ended. And this footer is the first one here, which is tables continued in the next page.

And this footer actually is for all the pages except the last one as stated. So at the end of the second page, we have also the same text. So in the second page here, we have the second head can put a column here. Okay, that'll be fine. And the multi column command for the caption, the first row again, and the end of this head.

And this combo persists for the rest of the pages. So we have here the same text caption for the remaining pages. And the last foot, this is the footer of the last page only, appears at the very end of the table. So that's how the long table environment is constructed. Note that the excess headers and all of the footers are optional, so you can remove them, but you will have to keep the end commands for the environment to behave correctly.

And speaking of the package's behavior, the long table environment sometimes needs multiple runs to calculate the appropriate table width. so you may come across some deficiencies in the output file when you first typeset a long table. That's actually an integral feature of the package due to how it's implemented in the background. So another alternative for typesetting multi-page tables that doesn't exhibit the same behavior is the super tabular package. Let's load this one.

And the way that this package works is that it uses multiple tabular environments in the background for each portion of the table in each page. And every time the package detects a double backslash for breaking, it evaluates the remaining space in the page. As if the table reaches the text height value, the package insert an end tabular tail to terminate the running environment for that part of the table. And then it restarts a new page with a new tabular environment with the optional header to complete the listing of the remaining rows. So the structure of the table building with this package is quite compact comparing to that of the long table and it's quite different too.

Let's initiate the environment.

Here the body of the environment contains only the rows, while the heads, tails, and caption are three typeset using package-related commands before the declaration of the environment. Here. So let's fill in those first. The columns are defined as usual.

And let's paste some rows. Okay now for the caption I'll use the packages table caption command. So table caption.

This command by default prints the caption above the table. But if other positions are desired, it can use the command bottom caption. Ok and for the first row, which is the head of each page, there is the table head command.

This command prints the row in its argument at the beginning of each page. But if a distinctive head is wanted for the first page only, you can add the table first hit command to this setup. But I'll unify the head of all of the parts of the table. And here is the counter data row in boldface font with a H line.

Okay, two H lines and data. And of course you will have to terminate this row by backslashes. And after that comes the table tail.

Of course, this is the opponent of votes in the long table. And the argument of this command is printed at the end of each page. And again, it's done by a multi-column command.

And also don't forget to terminate this row here. And optionally also the last tail through the command table last tail.

And this comes, of course, at the end of the whole table, and it'll just be a horizontal line.

So let's see this table now. Okay, here we have the first portion. And the last one, we can simply fix the alignment of the table by wrapping the super tabular environment inside the center environment.

So let's cut this.

begin, center, paste, and run. Okay, that's now fixed. So here we have the table caption, the table head, which is the first row here, and here, and the table tail, just for all of the pages except the last one. So we only have one here. And the last tail is just this H line here.

The reason why we break after commands in table preamble here and in the long table is actually that we can insert more than one row in those commands. So for example here, let's add another table tail after this first one. Also using the multi column command. I see it. and here we got it, this second line here.

So if you faced any errors while typesetting a multi-page table, look at your caption commands and multi-table commands and make sure that you've ended all the rows. There is an important concept to shed the light on regarding super tabulars. We said that every page is created using a separate tabular environment. This means that every portion of the table in each page actually has its own independent width. To see this clearly, let's alter some entry in the second page and make it large.

Maybe this one here.

And run. Okay, as you can see the part in the second page got stretched horizontally, while the first portion is a cell of the same old width. Because again, this is a tabular environment. And this is another tabular environment. If you tried this with the long table.

So let's stretch this last cell here.

That's what I was talking about. Another run. Okay, now the entire long table is of the same width. So that's a core difference between the environments I thought that you should know about. But now if you want to use the super tabular and you don't like its behavior, we can simply tweak it by making the last column in our case here of a specific width by defining a new column type.

So we will define the last column with a new token to unify its width. So let's insert the new column type command.

Let's call it ill. And for centering,

Don't forget to use the array backslash. So let's separate the last column from the definition here. So only four and then L and the right border. So look at the length of the entire table and run. Now the entire super tabular now is unified in width.

OK, one last note about the multi-page tables. They tend to be vulnerable when there is a float defined in the same page with a multi-table declaration in the input file. So in some cases, both the long table and the super tabular will behave oddly, resulting in strange looking structures. So be aware of that and try your best to avoid this situation while arranging your content. And I will stop for now and we'll continue with tables in the next and final one in the essential series about tabular material.

So I hope you found it beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. We'll conclude our discussion about tabulars today by presenting two topics, the footnotes in tabular environments and the multi-column documents tables. Before beginning, let's do an extra spacing for rows globally through the array package.

Okay, we'll start by the footnotes inside the tabular environment.

There are three different cases in which this environment embraces a footnote. The first one is that if you have the tabular environment inserted solely on its own and initializing a center tabular environment,

So in this case of the environment standing alone, meaning not inserted in a mini page or table float, we can't use the regular footnote command. Instead, we'll use another scheme. And that's split into two commands. The first one is called footnote mark. And that's to be inserted after the entry to be marked.

So let's say we want to raise a footnote after the B here. So insert footnote mark. And the text is to be put in the second command after the tabular environment. Here. Inside the footnude text command.

Now, the drawback of this case is that you can't have more than one footnude per table. So, let's see. Okay, and here we have b raised to 1. and the footnote text inserted in the footnote text command appears in the usual location of footnotes. Note that the text command here can be inserted after the center environment and it'll work just fine, but I prefer to keep it inside for connectivity.

So let's skip.

Now the limitations of the first case can be removed by putting the tabular environment inside the mini page.

In this case, we can use the footnote command directly and as much as we desire. So let's try with the same previous table in a mini page giving the entire line width.

And let's insert a note for the first entry using the regular footnote command.

So let's run to see it.

Okay, here we have this second case. This is the mini page. And obviously in this case, the note is presented just right after the end of the mini page here. And you can see that the table is quite centered due to this edge space, but of course the mini page is given the entire line width. So that's why we have this rule here and the inside footnote is starting from the left.

And here we got by default the alphabetical scheme for numbering or marking. Let's try another footnote after the D here.

and run, k got b and it stacks down here. By the way, you can wrap the tabular environment here inside the center environment like the first example, but of course I substituted for that for simplicity by this h's base value as stated. The presented two methods are latex standard scheme for adding footnotes in tablars. So you can choose between using the footnote mark and text commands or wrapping the tabular environment inside a mini page and use the footnote command as usual. But of course in this case you'll have them tied to the mini page itself.

And there is still the final case for tabular environment which is to be wrapped in a float. So let's see how we can handle this case.

Here an interesting situation arises when trying to use a footnote command. So let's insert a test one here.

And let's run to see what will happen.

Ok here in the A entry we've got the mark 2 but when we look down to the area of the footnotes we don't find the text which is the word test here. So due to the table float the command kind of inhibited here. So instead we must use the mark text combo.

And let's mark the D also.

ok so before running there are 3 things to note here first of all you can mark multiple entries unlike the standalone tabular which is the first case here so that's why I put 2 footnote mark commands here and second the footnote text command must be inserted after the table environment so if you put this footnote text after the tabular inside the float the text won't appear And lastly, litig will assign every text for the corresponding mark in the order inserted in the info file. So this first mark for the B will have this first text and the second will get this. So let's see him. Okay, so it appears that we have miss functioning here of the footnote mark and text commands. The three is repeated for the second and the third footnote.

And maybe this is because of the float. So we can use hardmarking, give this two and three and assign the according numbers here.

this should fix the small ish okay two and three okay i will break this page to proceed to the next section of the tabular x environment and this time we will use the new page command instead of page break and to see why let's put the page break command and run

Okay, now look at this location for the footnotes. Let's run.

the footnotes got departed from their normal location at the end of the page to be inserted just right after the last piece of content we have in the page and this is actually because the page break ends the running one and insert a new page in a document without putting a space from the last thing inserted in the current page to the end of the page so to resolve this issue use the new page command instead

So the difference here is that the new page inserts this blank space here to preserve the normal location of the footnotes. And let's move on to the tabular x footnotes.

And the first case.

In this case use the footnote command directly and here's an example.

This is a tabular X environment with three X columns given half of the line width. And this is just a normal content. So here we have this footnote for this for entry. And let's see it. Okay.

Don't forget to use the tabular X package and run.

So here in the second page, we have the mark two and the text. Okay. And the second case is for the tabular X to be inside a table float.

And just like the tabular same case, you'll have to use the mark text commands in the same way as we did before. And here's an example. so again a table centered and the same tabular and this time with footnote and again the footnote text is inserted outside the float so we can find the text down here not just a mark

Ok, here we have 3 and the text. For continuing if you look at the first mark for a note in this page you will find that it adds up. So account of that the counter of the footnotes just keeps going and most probably we don't want that. So there is a simple package called per page that we can use to reset this counter at the beginning of each page. So instead of 2 and 3 here, by inserting this package we'll find it 1 and 2.

So let's use it.

This package is actually a part of the Bigfoot bundle so look for that in the MicTech console and install it. So for the footnote counter we'll use a primable declaration called makePerPage.

And we tell it that we want to reset the footnote for each page. And run.

It may take two runs to work.

Okay and now we have them one, two, the marks and then the text one and two. So make sure that you use this declaration of the pair page usually to get this behavior. So the next concept isn't a new case for tabulars but instead it's a new package for footnotes that is made originally for paragraphs and it's called parnotes. Let's use it first.

You can consider this package to be a new way to insert footnotes in tables instead of using just the footnote mark and text or the usual footnote command. And it works perfectly for this job. We'll work on the same tabular X inside the table. So the same normal table environment with the tabular x3 column. And this package is simple to use and offers a flexible functionality for placing the footnote text.

The main command here is the parnote. The x like the normal footnote one. So just insert the parnote command after the entry and put the text inside the brace.

Let's actually unindent this content to keep it in one line. OK, and another one.

And to activate the text printing, we need to insert the par notes declaration. And the good news here is that we can put it inside the table environment after the tabular X. So in order for those par note commands to work, put par notes. And that's it. And you can, of course, put it as stated inside the table environment.

So let's see it. Here you have one and two. And here they come just down the table, which is the location of the power nodes inside the input file. And that's besides, of course, that they are printed side by side. You can freely place them anywhere else.

Let's say after a paragraph. So let's use the lepsin package.

Let's comment this one and let's insert one list in paragraph after this table and activate the par notes after this paragraph.

Let's see. Okay. And now we have those notes here after the paragraph we've inserted. Let's uncomment this first declaration and run. So if you by mistake placed two bar notes declarations, the second one is deactivated.

So here back again we have the notes after the table which is the location of the first bar notes and the second one produces nothing. So let's actually delete those. Okay, now let's talk about the counter. As you can see the Paranotes have their own counter using Arabic numbers 1 and 2 by default Although we have already 1 and 2 from this footnote command and footnote mark and text in the second example So we can control this in different ways. First, if you want to continue and merge with the counter of the latex assigned to the page, you can simply type set mark number manually as we did before.

And that will be for each part note by adding the optional argument to the command. So here we can make it three and four. Let's bring him in a new line.

So now we have three and four to continue after this one and two. Okay. But what I would personally prefer is that to distinguish the par notes from the footnotes, meaning to change the type of the counter of the par notes here to make it Roman or alphabetic, for example. So let's undo this.

And then insert the alph package option to the par notes here.

And run. As you can see now we have A and B just like the mini page case. And you can make it Roman also.

Okay. And if you don't like the default side-by-side printing of the par notes, you can add the break within package option to break the line after every par note. So let's try it.

Break within and run.

So now you have them line by line. So that was it for the footnotes for single page tables. And the next is the footnotes for long and super tabulars. So again, new page to leave this space empty. Okay.

We'll begin by the long table.

The long table environment accepts the footnote command directly and to try it we'll go to the tech file of the previous video. And let's go to the long table section, this one here. And I've actually inserted one footnote command to try it after the first entry of the first row. So let's see it. Here we got it.

Forward is raised to 1. You can increase the row height. And the footnote is actually at the end of the page in its normal location. And you can insert as many as you want of this footnote command. So let's document this in our attack file.

Okay. And lastly about footnotes is for supertabulars. Now to allow for footnotes, the supertabular package provides another environment called mp supertabular. And the extra mp stands for mini page, as this new environment wraps every portion of the supertabular inside a mini page. And that of course enable us to use the footnote command directly.

So whenever you're planning to place footnotes in your super tabular, use this environment instead of the regular one. So let's make a subsection.

We'll use the same table from the last video in a short form with this new environment. So let's copy the head. So actually I meant the setup for the environment. Here is the caption, the table head and the table tail in a compact form. And then the centered MP super tabular environment.

So begin center.

begin MP super tabular.

So okay, and some rows. So let's insert a footnote, say here.

Let's make it a new line. And you can also use the part note, say here.

Of course, don't forget to put the power notes declaration.

Okay, and let's see. Okay, the package actually forgot to use it again.

Sorry about that and run. Now we have a because again, this is a mini page. This portion is wrapped now in the background and a mini page. So we got a and here's the text and then the part note and the declaration of the part notes is actually after the termination of the entire table. So we'll find the note here.

So one last note, if you don't like this numbering or the counter of the par notes, you can actually use the package option reset. And that will reset the counter each time you insert a par notes declaration. So here we have two of them, the first one. And when we place this second one with the reset, we'll have only i in this super table. Okay now we'll start working with tables in multi-column documents.

As a reminder we can make a multi-column document either by passing the two-column option to the document class definition or by using the multi-column package. We will start by the second method as the first one has its own defects in which we are going to see in just a bit. So let's open a new file. Here we have a symbol article with the package multi-col preloaded. Let's begin.

So arranging the content here, specifically speaking, the float placement is pretty easy, as this is a normal article document. So let's load the Cantlipsum package.

And let's insert five paragraphs in two columns using the multi calls environment.

Let's see. Okay, one, two, three. four, and five. Okay, those are two columns, of course, but the document doesn't look like a real multi column one. That's of course due to the large margins we have from left and right.

So we can easily tweak this by adjusting some margins and increase the text with space. We'll adjust the outside margin by decreasing it to zero to pull the text to the left and increase the text width area a little more. So in the preamble set length outside margin zero and

So look at the document now. Okay. It's kind of convenient. Looks like the documents when we insert the two column option here. Okay.

And additionally, the column separation value here defaults to 10 points, which is also the same case for the two column option. And you can change it by the column step command.

look at the small gap now as we're on. Okay, and increases. Let's try to insert a white tabular inside a table. Okay, let's put it after those five paragraphs. This is just a normal hair table centered with eight columns tabular environment.

And let's insert another two paragraphs in two columns. So let's copy this setup and change five to two. So let's run. Okay, and actually this placement of the table float in the middle of a page is the reason why you should consider constructing your multi-column article using this method. Because as far as I know and by the time of making this video in March 2022, this action is nearly impossible to achieve if your document is made using the two-column option for the document class.

As we'll see in just a bit, the possible placement in that case is either at the top of the page with some hard work arrangement for the content in the inbox file or at the bottom, using a specialized package. So, returning to the multicall package, what if you want to insert a table or a figure inside a multicalls environment? Here, well indeed you can, but you will only be able to do it through the tabular environments and include graphics commands without defining a float. Neither the table environment nor the figure one. So let's try to insert a short centered version of the running table, this one here, in between four can paragraphs and some vspace for separation.

And here's the example. We have the environment multi-colors, two of them of course, two cantaloupes and paragraphs, some vspace, a center environment embracing a tabular of five columns, and then another vspace and the other two paragraphs. So let's see it. Okay. And the table is lying there without any problems.

Okay. And apparently we can't insert a caption command here because we have no float, but still we can add one and we'll manage to do that when we come to discuss the caption package in an upcoming video. Okay. Now we're done with this method and let's open a new tech file for the second one. Okay.

In this method, first we'll insert the two column option here. Let's ensure the catalypse him.

And here, of course, we list our content directly and the output will be arranged in a two column by default. So let's first insert a small in column table float trapped between some paragraphs.

So three paragraphs and then the normal here table with three columns and a caption and then other five paragraphs and run. It works with no problems. Here we have the table and the caption inside one call. The disturbance in action in this case comes when a long full-width table or image generally afloat is to be typeset. and as stated earlier we can do that in the middle of the page.

So let's then try at the top and this alignment can be achieved through the placement letter T of course as we know but here given to this third version of the table floating environment. So begin table star

This version of the environment is specialized for our case here, meaning for multi column documents. And here we insert the same white table we used earlier.

So this eight column tabular environment and a caption. So let's see

OK, and here it comes at the top of the second page. But don't you see that the location of this starred table environment is kind of odd in the input file? Meaning it comes right after the first small table here without any pieces of content between them. While the 5-cam paragraph segment that comes after the starred table in the input file here still starts before in the output one. To see clearly count the paragraphs we have before the first table.

The small one here, you'll find that there are exactly three. One, look at the indentation, zoom in.

one, two, and three. And here is the end of the third one. And after that comes the first table. So three paragraphs and then the first small table. And after this small table here, it starts the first paragraph of the five rest of those.

And this first paragraph here from the five ends just right after the top table here with this word. Well, that's the trick here for top placement. By default, the start table puts the tabular in a separate page after the one that is inserted in in the code. So for the T parameter to bring your table to the top, you should try your best moving your environment earlier in the input file before some sufficient amount of content. Of course, this process is tuned by a trial and error mode.

And if you do so, it really matters to add a comment that states this arrangement to avoid confusion that could happen to anyone that will work on your document later.

Okay, to see this concept clearly, let's place this start table after the count paragraphs here. You would think that the position wouldn't change. Let's see.

note the first page the second page full of paragraphs and here our top supposedly placed table comes in a separate page so again to have the desired top placement try to move your target top table to an earlier location in the input file

Okay, and let's increase one more paragraph. Let's make those six and repeating the same white table, but change the positioning this time to bottom and run.

and we don't see in the first three pages, and it comes on a separate page. So that's what I was talking about, the default behavior of LaTeX. So to fix this and to bring this table down below here, we'll use a package called stfloats.

And that's it. You can run now.

And now the bottom table is inserted at the bottom of the third page after the last sixth paragraph. And unfortunately, here also for bottom placement, you'll spend some time arranging your content to get it right. Because if we increased one more paragraph, let's make it seven and run.

you will end up by the table in a separate page again. So it's kind of this text doesn't bypass the down table in this form. So try to bring the paragraphs down the table.

And here the table comes at the end of the second page. And finally, if you have a table that is so small and it's to be wrapped, the wrap table environment works also in multi-column mode.

So let's load the graphic too.

And here's an example with one can paragraph following it. So the wrap table left and its width and a tabular and a paragraph.

Here we have it. And here we stop with the essential series about building tables. Okay and I hope you found this beneficial as always. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next one when we get to discuss more things about floats. Hello and welcome you guys to this video.

We've introduced floats shortly in the first video of this section, and I deliberately deseparate the few concepts discussed there from today's session, and that's to ease the process of understanding floats and also to keep figures and tables videos tied to the respective concepts, away from float placement and control. So in this video, we're going to learn about how LaTeX defines and controls floating objects by default and how we can take over this controls key. Okay, so first of all, let's begin by the float controlling parameters. Those are counters and spacing commands that control the number of floats in a page and the space they are allowed to take in different situations. So to avoid disturbance, each parameter is explained in a separate tech file.

The first one is the top number. This is a counter that tells LaTeX how many floats are allowed to be typeset at the top of the page, meaning the floating objects to have a T placement option. It defaults to 2 and can be altered through the set counter command. And by the way, the description here and the following ones are obtained from the companion book. So let's see it in action.

Here we have in the body of the document a title followed by a v space and a camp paragraph at the end. And in between are three small top aligned tables.

So let's run to see the output.

Okay, and as stated we have got only two tables at the top of the first page by default, even if there is a space to account for more. And as usual, the third one is being placed automatically by LaTeX in the middle of the second page. So to bring it up, let's uncomment the counter primable declaration, that one here. So to set this counter to inhabit three at the top of the page, let's run.

And here it moves to join the others. Okay, and the second parameter here is the bottom number counter. And this one is for the maximum number of floats to be inserted at the bottom of the page. This one defaults to one only and also can be altered through the set counter command. So let's see it in action.

Here we have a new tech file which contains the title followed directly by one can paragraph and two bottom placed tables. So let's run.

And here as stated we have by default only one table is allowed to be at the bottom of the page. So let's increase this counter by one to inhabit another bottom paragraph. And run. And here we have the second one also.

And the next one is total number. And that determines the maximum number of floats in one page, regardless of their placement. And by default, you're only allowed to type a total of three floats per page. So let's open its file. So we have here the total number count tech file.

Here we have two top placed tables and two here placed tables. So let's run.

And by default, we've got only three tables. And the fourth is in the second page, of course. So modifying this counter to account for one more float will bring the fourth one. So now we have two tables before the title and two after. So those were the counters that you could tweak according to your needs to regulate the number of floats in the page.

So what's coming next is the spacing commands. The first one is the top fraction command. This command sets the maximum amount of area that floats can take as a fraction of the page. And this construction is what you get by default. which means that you can only fill a maximum of 70% of the pages area by default with top aligned floating objects and the rest 30% is left for textual content.

So let's look at an example. Here I have in this top fraction command tech file a one top placed big table

of four columns. And I've built this up with enough number of rows that can fit within the 70% allowed space. So let's make sure of that.

And here we have it. So what do you think that will happen if we increased the height of this table? Let's see it. Let's uncomment this last row and run. Okay.

So by doing so, we've crossed the barrier of the allowed area. And hence LaTeX had no choice but to place it in the next page as usual. So to account for this increased height, we can alter the top fraction command in a primble to be of 80%. So let's run.

and here we have it. This top align table is allowed to inhabit now 80% of the pages area to account for increased data. So a quick side note here because I keep saying the title, actually this head here is a normal formatted text, not an article documents title because if you did it with the title preamble command and the make title body command, your float won't ever be placed at the first title page at the top. That's the default settings for articles and you can try it on your own by making dedicated title page for this article. Okay so the next command is the bottom fraction.

And the same concept goes here as the previous one but from bottom. And this one defaults to maximum of 30% of the pages area. And the renew command also is used to change its value. So let's open its file and again here we have only one bottom table with enough number of rows at the beginning to fit within the default 30% area of the page So let's make sure of this Okay, here we have it. Here's the title head So let's increase its height

Again it crosses the allow 30% area of the page so it types it in the second page and by increasing the bottom fraction to be 40% we provided with more height to account for the increased row.

So the next command isn't actually about floats explicitly rather it's about text which is the text fraction command. This one defines the minimum amount of the page that must be taken by a textual content, and it defaults to 20% of the page. Changing this value implicitly affects the float's area. To see it clearly, let's look at an example. So let's open this text fraction command tech file.

And here we have a H placed float, quite big table, followed by one line of text. So let's see. Okay. And now try to increase the table's height.

We have it in the second page. And that's actually because of the excess useless area occupied by text. So let's decrease it to 10% only by adjusting the text fraction command. And let's see what will happen. Okay, here we're back again by this excess row.

And now this one line of text is occupying only 10% of the page. So we can insert both of the table and the text in the same page. Actually, decreasing this fraction is useful because you might find yourself in such a situation as this example. And just as a reminder, those settings work in the document body as they preamble if some behavior is desired to be altered at certain locations. So for example, we can increase this value in the current page.

So let's copy this Renault command and make it 30%. So now this one line of text will inhabit 30% of the area of the page.

And of course, this declaration overrides the preamble one. Here back again, the long table can fit, so you can work either way. Let's erase this and run. OK. So this method is kind of considered as an alternative way to allow for more space for flows to span in an indirect fashion.

And since we've mentioned the implicit effects, I should state that you must pay attention and be aware about the interdependence that these counters and commands embrace. Meaning that you better think about the rest of the parameters when changing one of them. And that's to get the desired flow setup. Because the default values of those parameters affect each other if not changed properly. So for example, let's go back to the top number counter file.

Okay, and here we are. Let's increase one more table before the paragraph. Okay, and let's account for it, the top number. Let's make it four and run. So what do we have here?

Only three tables, even if we accounted for fourth one with the top number. And in the first glance, you would think that you've done something wrong or the parameter isn't well functioning. But the actual reason is that the total number of floats allowed is only 3 by default. You remember the total number command? So to allow for more floats, you must additionally reset the total number counter.

So by set counter, here we type total number and 4. and this will allow for the fourth table to appear in the first page. So you really have to focus when setting those parameters to get the best outcome. Okay, the next stack file will conclude those parameters before we head to placement specifiers. But let's see the description of the rest parameters first.

The first one we have here is the float sep. And this command determines the vertical space between floats placed at the top or the bottom of the page. And the next one is the Text Float tab. And this one controls the vertical space between floats placed at the top or bottom and their neighboring text. And the last one is the In Text tab.

And this command is for the vertical space above and below a H placed float and the text that is inserted within. So here we have a text and a text and a float within them. The int text sub is this amount of space above and below this float. The float sub is between two floats at the top or the bottom and the text float sub from its name separates a float from a neighboring text. So those are just normal spacing commands.

So let's see them in an example. Here we've opened the separation commands file. Let's run to see this content. Okay, here we have two top placed commands, of course above this head, a vertical space, can't paragraph, hplaced table, and another can't paragraph at the end. And let's begin by the float step.

Let's uncomment this second one. This one defaults to 12 points for 10 and 11 point documents. So observe this gap between the top tables here as it stretches when we run.

Ok and next one is the Text Float Sep. This one. Let's increase it. This one defaults to 20 points. So look at the space between the second top table and the title.

This one and the neighboring text. Look at this gap. And run. It also increases. Okay.

So far so good. And the last one is the in text sub value, the intertext sub, which means a float in between a text. Look at the above and below space of this sandwich float and run. And it also increases. Okay a quick note about those lengths is that they are what is called rubber lengths.

Length tech lengths are either a fixed or rigid length which is what you read as 10 points for example only or a rubber length which is called a skip or glue in plane tech. And this one is composed of three values, the natural length plus some value minus another value. An example is the default value for float sep here. It's 12 plus 2 minus 2, all in points. The plus and minus points are stretch or shrink values that give kind of an elastic nature for that command that tech may use to optimize content placement.

It's really nothing to worry about because what matters is the big value which is the first natural one. Just wanted to state this to give you an intuition about them if you are up to read the commands description in the companion. Okay and also to cover this if you are in a two column document you've got some adjacent parameters preceded by DBL, a shortcut for double. added to their names like dbl top number dbl top fraction and so on okay now if by any means you feel that this amount of details and information is required to be well studied just to make some tables and play some figures while in other word processors such tasks are quite easier to do or faster to achieve Well, the reason why is that the case here is what mentioned in the Latex companion, which states that Latex was developed in a time that people hasn't got that much of graphics in their documents, so the system wasn't built in the first place to ease this task, as it wasn't urgent back then. So, Float's worth spending some time on.

Especially most often when you create a document, say a book or a thesis, it's almost impossible that this document will go without lots of adjustments and refinements done to it. And of course, you will have multiple figures and tables. So it's quite necessary to be able to handle Floats to rearrange your content as desired when it moves due to changes of adding and removing stuff. So I really encourage you to pause this video at this location and create a test tech file with some arbitrary content to play around with those parameters to gain more practical intuition about float control. Okay now let's move on to float placement topic.

In the first video for floats, we've learned about some specifiers to place floats. But what we're going to do next is to look at two more new specifiers and present a general realization about the placement underlying algorithm. And that's to gain more understanding about latex floats. Ok, first of all, you should know that you can insert more than one specifier in the optional argument of the floating environment. For example, ht.

And this means that we're telling LaTeX that the allowed placements for this float is either at the top or it is inserted in the input file. Now there is a common misconception about using combo specifiers, which is that LaTeX tries to place the float in the order that you give it from left to right. And that's not true. There is a default sequence that LaTeX follows when placing floats that we're going to discuss later. So here ht is the same as th, meaning that the given order by the user won't change the algorithm's behavior.

So combo specifiers are just the allowed placements given to LaTeX by the user. And now let's have a look at the specifiers. The first one is the exclamation mark and this character is to be inserted before a letter specifier like T or B to make LaTeX ignore most of the restrictions made by the discussed parameters, if that's needed of course. So, for example, if you specify this !nt for top, the float can be typeset at the top of the page even if it exceeds the maximum area defined by the top fraction command.

So use it if you need it. And then of course you've got here top and bottom. And the last one which is the second no one here is the P letter. If this is inserted it tells Leitech that this float is allowed to be typeset in a float page. Now a float page is a page full of floats only where other textual material are inhibited.

So a page of figures only or tables or both. Ok, so now let's look at how LaTeX places floats by default. If you didn't specify a placement option, then the default specifier is this for most cases – TBP. Apart from that, LaTeX follows a general scheme in the following certain order for placement. First of all, it always looks for the exclamation mark to determine whether to obey the restrictions made by the parameters for this float or not.

And by common sense this is convenient to be the first step. So it always looks for this exclamation. And the second step is to look for the age specifier. If inserted by the user, the algorithm tries its best to place the float approximately enough to its location in the input file. And this of course is based on the enough left space of the text height in the current page.

So what happens if you didn't put h? Well, then it'll look for the t specifier as the third step and tries to place the float in the top area following the parameters setup if the exclamation mark isn't specified. and then if t doesn't exist it moves to the last possibility which is the b and also tries to place it at the bottom following the parameters if there is no exclamation mark specified again. Okay so now what about the underlying algorithm? Actually the explained sequence of those four steps is the first step in the general algorithm and here how it goes.

Ok, first of all, the algorithm runs through the previous order of specifiers trying to place the float. And if it worked for one specifier and the float has been placed, the process ends and the algorithm terminates for that float. As simple as that. But if for any reason that process doesn't succeed and the float isn't placed, then Lithic joins that float to the so-called holding queue. This is basically a stack of unprocessed floats that Lithic will try to consider placing it when a new page is started.

So that means LaTeX will continue on the current page detecting other flows trying to place them. Of course that's following the same procedure and if it failed again it adds up to the holding queue. And once the current page is finished LaTeX starts to empty the holding queue. And this tab of the algorithm is a separate process itself that worth pointing some of the actions performed within. At first, Latex scans the queue's floats, searching for the IP specifiers, if it's inserted for a float by the user or not.

That's actually the true last possibility of the specifier order explained in the previous slide, but I prefer to mention it here because it's not considered while processing the float in the current page that is inserted in. And that scanning is to produce a float pages by marking the floats that contain p specifiers only. As this token is the gateway for float to be typeset in a flow page. And if it's dismissed by the user, then that flow cannot go on a flow page. And an additional consequence, it'll prevent other floats from the same kind, say tables, from being placed on a flow page.

Of course, we're talking about those floats in the holding queue. And finally, the process of creating flow pages proceeds till end of the on-hold floats. If for any reason flow pages are failed to be formed, the unprocessed floats are considered to be typeset at the top or bottom area of the upcoming page, alongside with other textual materials. And in this case, the floats are placed from the holding queue in the order of them there and are not coming from the input file. And eventually, for the algorithm as whole, if Latex reaches the end of the document and still some floats are waiting in the hold on queue, it restores a new page given a relay for the rest of the floats to be placed.

And this, of course, will result in a float page or pages, disregarding any restrictions of the float setup. Okay one last word about the algorithm. It actually took me some time when I first learned about it. Now honestly I don't expect from you to firmly get it from the first shot. So if you feel lost you can repeat this part again or preferably you can go and read about it from the article that this presentation is obtained from.

You can find it in the resources section of this video and it's called tugboat flow placement. The tugboat is the journal of tech users group maintained by the later project team. This article is actually a 10 years old text change question that got so popular. You'll find a lot of information in that article that I prefer to dismiss here to reduce the headache. The reason why I chose to talk about this algorithm is that it's crucial for my opinion to have an intuition about what drives the arrangement of your figures and tables.

That's to avoid being frightened when an odd behavior from your point of view happens. and be able to handle the situation. Okay, now we'll wrap this video by covering the float package. This one is considered as an extension to Latex basic flow functionality. It provides a scheme to create new floating objects other than figures and tables.

And that's with a predefined styles plus altering some of the default settings of Latex floats. So let's open a new file to work with it. Okay, first of all, let's load the package.

Okay, this package provides the command new float that takes three mandatory arguments and one optional argument.

Through this command, you can make a new floating environment that acts like normal floats. The name of the environment goes in the first argument. Let's call it box image.

And the second argument takes the default placement of this new float. Let's make it HTPB. You can divide it as you want or maybe the capital H introduced by this package alone. And the third argument takes a file extension. And that's for an auxiliary file that will be created by the package to collect the captions of all instances made by this new float type.

I will make it an Excel.csv file and we will look at it after running this example. The optional argument here takes the sectional level at which the new float will be numbered. By default if this argument is dismissed from an article it will be numbered fairly. So I will tie this up to a section.

You can have a subsection if you want or maybe a chapter if you are in a book class. Before moving on we can define or select a style for this new type. Now by default you would get the content frameless as normal floats and more importantly The caption will be displayed below the object, regardless of its location in the input file. This is called plain style. But there are other three styles we can choose from.

I will go with boxed. And that will be inserted in the argument of the float style command. The style of course has to be defined before the new float itself. So float style.

boxed. If you didn't insert the float style command before the new float, you'll get the plain style. So it's kind of an ongoing setup until you change it with other style by a new float style command. Okay, so let's make an example.

And run.

Okay, we have the image on the left in a box. And you can actually center this image by the centering command. Those environments, of course, accept. And let's give it also a caption.

Okay, let's add some V space above and below the image.

So look at this gap here and here. Okay, now we have some space. So now if you look at the caption, it takes by default the environment's name as its title box image. And that's actually not pleasant. So we can use the command float name to change that.

Let's put it in the preamble after the declaration of the environment.

Float name. We put the float type or the name of the floating environment in the first argument. So box image and the title name in the second one, which is the name that will appear in the output file and run.

OK, now we have boxed image. OK, what about the other two styles? The second one is the plain top, like this one in the figure. It just puts the caption at the top above the object. And the third one is ruled, like this one in the figure, which is like the algorithm style.

Okay, now to generate the auxiliary CSV file of this new floating environment, we have to generate the list of objects for that new float first. And this one is like the list of tables and figures. And that's done through the command list off. Let's put it in the body after the make title.

Again, the type of the new float first.

And then the title head of the list. Let's call it list of boxed images. Okay, let's run. One more time.

Here it is. It captured the caption of the first instance of this environment. So now let's look at the generated CSV file in the folder containing this stack file. Okay, here we can find it flow package dot CSV.

Here we have only one line as we typed one instance, I can see that the first argument of this contents line command contains the float type or name. This one here. And after that comes the numbering and the caption after that.

And lastly, at the end, number one, indicating the number of the section. Okay, so let's go back to the tech file. Just a quick note here, don't forget to change the float style if you desire, of course, when creating a new floating environment. So let's make a new float for equations.

Let's call it floatEQN.

And now the instance. Okay, let's see. Okay, it appears that we have a small error here. Latex says I can't write on the flow package CSV file. And that's of course, because we're opening this file.

So let's close it. Okay, same, doesn't matter. Okay, and run. Okay, everything's done fine. And because he didn't change the style, this new object took the last defined style, which is boxed.

So we can change it to rolled.

And let's of course give it a name.

and additionally a list of contents.

And run. Okay, here we have Ok now if you look close, it appears that we have a problem here. Now usually I don't make a new floating objects, but when I was preparing for this video, I encountered this odd behavior of the package with the second list of command. I tried a couple of changes to the code but none of them worked. Till I posted this as a question on a text change and luckily David Carlyle was active and responded to the question stating that the problem is with the repeated file types for the list of contents.

The Auxiliary files here. The CSV. So to fix this, we shall use different extensions. So for the second new float, the equation, I'll make it a normal text file, txt. So let's run one more time.

And here we are, list of floating equations. And of course, that generated this file here containing the same entry as with the CSV file.

Okay, the last thing to talk about in the flow package, it provides you with a command called restyle float that can give a style for latex table or figure environments. So let's try in the preamble.

That's restyle latex base table environment. This command applies the last previously defined style to the environment of its argument, which is the rolled style here for the float equation environment. And of course, if other styles are to be used, just use the float style command one more time before inserting this restyle float command. And here is the table to test it.

and run. Okay, it's kind of we have this table in an algorithm like style. Okay, and let's end this video by final concept. And that's about the capital H specifier introduced by the float package. For that, we'll open a dedicated tech file called hspec.

Here we have two can paragraphs, the beginning, a big table as usual to fit the page and other three paragraphs. Let's run to see this file.

Ok everything behaves as expected. And now let's uncomment this last line.

And run. Ok. Now as usual the space in the first page can't embrace the table. So it moves automatically to the second page. And since there is a content after it, it goes to the top area.

And the thing here is some of the paragraphs after the table starts in the first page.

Here. Because there is a free space left by the table after its move. And that's due to the H specifier for the float. But what do you think that will happen if we used the capital H instead? So let's find out.

Look at those paragraphs here. That follows the table.

Now they come after the table. And that white free space is left blank.

And the table moves to the top of the next page. And that's of course for the capital H by default, even if the float is on its own without a following content. So that way we force the three paragraphs following the table in the input file to appear in the same order following the table in the output file.

So be careful about that when using this specifier and choose an appropriate place for it in the code to avoid this case. Of course, you can move the two ellipse and paragraphs to close this gap.

And run. And here we are. So I think the few concepts discussed today will help you control the arrangement of your content in a better way. So keep practicing. And as usual, I hope you found this beneficial, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

Okay, so hello and welcome you guys to this video. So starting by today's discussion, we will begin our coverage of Latex graphics. So drawing figures is a gigantic topic in Latex with a potential of constructing almost any 2D or 3D shape you can imagine. So first of all, let's have a look at the graphics capabilities in Latex. From the very bottom, you can start with basic shapes like straight lines, arrows, curvatures, besides fundamental engineering shapes like circles, rectangles, triangles and so on.

And with the aid of those core building blocks, you can go all the way up to creating complex compounds. Take, for example, trees like this one, which are structures of connected parents and child nodes that represent an idea or certain sequence of actions. An example of that are the so-called decision trees in computer science. And you can also build flow charts that illustrate an algorithm or a life cycle of certain product or some process built in a logical manner. And moreover, there exists the commutative diagrams that we saw before.

So that's if you're into a category theory. There are also the control systems diagrams and the support for visualizing neural networks if you work with deep learning. For basic sciences, you can draw free body diagrams of various mechanical systems, electrical circuits with their fancy decorations, and last but not least, chemical structures. And apart from that, this is quite traditional builds. You can form creative graphs like mind maps, like this one.

So generally, you name it. It's like having the ability to arrange tons of colored pixels the way you want. Okay that was for the 2D aspect and indeed you've got the function of drawing 3D structures like those for example and much more. So LaTeX drawings are generated as vector graphics and those are images of outstanding quality and high resolution that don't get disrupted by scaling and they preserve their quality no matter what happens to the document. So it really makes sense to generate your graphs within LaTeX when developing your document, as this will guarantee the consistency of typesetting among other elements of the document and you won't worry about integrating them from an external source.

There are several packages and utilities that let you draw figures and make plots in LaTeX, and that including the base LaTeX functionality. The one that we'll make use of is a gigantic package called tigs. This one is the most widely used utility in LaTeX for graphics. Now TIGS is way powerful and versatile and more flexible than any other utility in terms of specifying and using coordinates plus the amount of predefined shapes, paths, and styles alongside various libraries ready to use for specific types of diagrams. And TIGS also embraces so many functions and features of low-level control that can be used for advanced complex diagrams.

That being said, I should clarify two facts. First, I advise you to think only of using tigs if you want to draw using latex. And specifically, I discourage trying to use base latex functions like the picture environment for this matter, because it's cumbersome and difficult to use and it's not well built for the job. Kind of it's old or outdated. And that actually makes sense, as stated in the companion book, because back in the days when latex started, people actually didn't need or pay attention to graphics in their books and articles.

And this is quite obvious from reading old textbooks or so. Okay, so always tixit, if you will. And the second thing is that TIGS is insanely huge and covering it in a section inside a course is kind of a joke. It needs an entire treatment on its own, which is coming in the future. So check back the library here if you're interested.

So what we're going to do is to address the basic concepts that enable you to build some basic diagrams for simple use. And that will help you, of course, for further studies if you decide to draw with tigs. So let's begin the real work. Here we have the tigs package loaded in this article document. This is things.

Okay. So now graphics can be either within the running stream of text, i.e. inline, or they can appear standing alone in a document like kind of a floating picture. So let's start with the first one.

So we put inline graphics using the base command of tigs, which is the tigs command.

put a draw we insert the draw command after the tigs. So for example, if we want to draw a rectangle, we need to lay down three things, the origin at which the shape will start, which is kind of an XY point that will be the lower left corner of the rectangle. So in a pair of parentheses, zero comma, and zero. We typically start at zero x and zero y, of course, which simply lies here at the baseline of the text, as you will see in just a minute. And the second thing to put is the word rectangle.

So this tells ticks that we want to start a rectangle from zero and zero. And the third thing to specify is the endpoint, like where this rectangle will stretch to. So to again, in a pair of parentheses, we put an XY coordinates.

let's say 0.25. So this point is the upper right corner of the rectangle. Now that takes uses centimeters for measuring. So typing one, for example, is equivalent to one centimeter.

So what we have here is a rectangle that was taught at the origin, the lower left corner, it will stretch to a quarter of a centimeter in x and y.

So basically mark the starting point, the type of the shape that we want, and we'll identify more shapes later, and then the end point.

So let's see it.

Okay, we've got a red message that says do you forgot a semicolon? Yes, we did. So whenever we use the tags command, as opposed to the environment that we'll see later, you need actually to end this line. So this semi colon ends this path, as we'll know. So don't forget that.

Okay, so here it is. So we've got this quite small rectangle in line with the text before it using the tags and the draw combination. Okay, so drawing the line is fairly simple.

this is a small and then again we use the tigs draw

And then we mark the starting point of the line, let's say again, zero and zero to start at the baseline of the text. And for the end point, we want to stretch this line on the horizontal x axis by half a centimeter. So for the end point, we want 0.5 in x and zero in y.

And in between that, which lies the second component, which is the shape of the drawing element that we want a straight line in latex is represented by double dashes or hyphens. So simple as that, you specify the sort of point the end of point and the identifier of the shape a straight line in takes again is double hyphens. And again, end this line, and put the word line to complete this sentence. And let's run. Okay, here it is, this is a small line that is stretching from the origin zero and zero, again, only horizontally.

So in the x axis for have a centimeter, Okay and flipping the state of the endpoint will make the line of course vertical. So if we again want tags, draw, we want also to start from zero and zero. And then we want a straight line. But this time, we don't want to move along the x axis, we put zero. And this one, we want to increase it vertically.

So 0.5, opposed to the first case, and a semicolon. So let's run. Okay, so that gives us kind of a stretch pipe operator. It starts at zero and zero here, a line, that doesn't move along the x axis horizontally, but moves this time on the y axis.

And of course, we have the freedom for those vertices. So we can, for example, tilt it a little bit by providing a horizontal value for the endpoint. So if we said, we also want to move along the x axis, so it will start and zero and zero, move half a centimeter on the x axis and half a centimeter on the y axis. So it will be a diagonal line. Here it is.

So zero and zero, 0.5, 0.5, endpoint. Okay, so let's end this line. Now so far, we've only used one draw command under the tigs one.

So we also add this tigs and then draw and we end this So it's also possible to combine a group of several draw commands to draw multiple elements under the same TIG space.

So it's kind of that we make a group of draw commands. So this time we insert a curly brackets after the tags command. And inside that, we insert the first shape that we want, let's say it's this more rectangle here. Okay, and in this line,

Okay, so we're here. Nice. And let's say after that, we want to insert another instance of this rectangle.

So where do you think that we should mark the bounding points for this one? Now, if you say we'll simply put the same values, it won't be quite correct as for what we want to do. And let's try to see why.

Remember, we want to insert another instance of this rectangle after the first one. So the same coordinates. look close at this and kind of the square gets bold so it's now thick because actually those are overlapping you see all the drawings inside the group under one tigs command they all share the same origin or the starting point So this zero and zero is the same point here. So it's unlike this individual case, when we have, for example, this horizontal line has its own zero and zero here, And this one because it has another takes command, that zero and zero is there. So it's kind of different paths.

But we're here under the same group or takes command. So this is your answer is the same as this one. So to see that clearly, we can enlarge one of the squares.

And here it is. So this is the first one, the quarter of a centimeter. And this is the second one, they all start from this same point. That means if we wish to draw a separate consecutive shapes, we must shift the starting point in the x direction. So let's do that in another draw command.

So here a zero on the x axis. Now the x value here, of course, must be greater than that of the previous one, which was zero and zero.

So the x value here that we should put to shift the starting point of this new drawing element should be greater than the last point, which is of course, half a centimeter here. So we should start after that. Since the origin is the same for all of those. So let's say that we want to start at 0.7.

And again, we want to make a rectangle. And now for the end location. Remember, that's the upper right point. And we wish to like, draw a similar small rectangle to this. So we're now at 0.7 on the x axis.

So the increase quarter of a centimeter, it becomes 0.95 on the x axis.

And for the y value simply it's still 0.25 because it's start here was at zero. So

0.5. Last round, see it clearly.

So now here, this last small triangle, it starts at 0.7 on the x axis. So this is the the shared origin of the entire tigs drawings zero and zero. So this starting point of the last square starts at 0.7 on the x axis and zero on the y axis.

So we're still at the baseline of the text. we walk on the x axis by a quarter of a centimeter increased on top of the 0.7. So they become 0.95 here.

And then we go up to 0.25 on the y axis. So this is the starting point 0.7 and zero

And this is the endpoint 0.95 and 0.25. All those are calculated from the shared origin zero and zero of the entire tigs group.

Okay, so now it's obvious that the bottom line of the inline objects lies at the baseline of the text. That is, of course, only gets crossed by letters like G, Y, or J here and here. So there is an option to the tigs command called baseline. This one controls the positioning of the object's bottom line relative to the baseline of the surrounding text. And that control, of course, is a in vertical fashion.

So that will be more obvious for circles. So let's try that. Insert some V space and some textual content. And again, the tigs with a group, the draw command ending this line and now. want to start at zero and zero again.

So zero and zero. And this time we want the shape to be a circle. So just type circle, this is an available shape in tigs. And the third component here, which was previously the end line of the rectangle or the straight line, here it will be the radius of the circle. So let's say that we want a radius of five points.

and other textural content to make it in line and ending the line. So see this now. Okay, right away. So this is some textual content and other textual content and in between those lies a circle. Of course, note that the starting point for this draw element here for a circle is of course the center point.

So zero and zero here is the center of the circle with a radius of five points. So makes this small circle. To make this visually appealing, we can mark this center point by a small dot or a solid, tiny circle. So we can insert a small tiny circle that will look like a dot filled, of course, so it's a solid. So we can see where is the center of this shape.

So under the same tags command, let's make this lining properly. Okay. And now instead of draw, there is another drawing command in tigs, like to fill in a shape with some color called fill. So we want to fill a small circle at zero and zero, which is again the same origin of this shape. It will be a circle, of course, but now the radius is half a point.

So it's really small. And let's run. Okay, let's actually remove this blank line. okay so here is the outer circle and using the same margin we filled a really small circle just like to mark the center okay going back to the baseline one of its uses for inline circles is actually centering an inline circle with the running text. So if you read this, it's kind of the bottom line of this circle lies at the baseline of the text.

So we can make use of the baseline option to bring this circle down to kind of center it vertically with the surrounding text. So no indent,

So again, let's use the tigs command.

And this time there is an option, of course, for this new inline small circle called base line. Okay, and inside the group, there is a draw with a zero zero starting point for the circle, and the circle itself, the radius, five points again, and do not forget to end this.

After that, let's put another text to center this new circle with the surrounding text, we need to pass half of the circles radius in negative value. So we have the radius of the circle, five points. So we want to downshift this by half of the radius negative, of course. So let's see this. So now you can see it as opposed to the first plane example here without the baseline, this is kind of shifted above.

Now then, when we used the baseline option on this new circle here, by half of the radius value, negative, of course, to pull it down, it's kind of centered around the baseline of the text. You can play around with positive and negative values of this option, of course, for different shapes to achieve the desired vertical orientation.

Okay, so now for most of the simple or small graphs using the tigs command will do just fine. But for more complex ones, the package provides the tigs picture environment in which you put your drawing commands for the objects inside its body. So let's use it to draw an envelope.

The body will be a four centimeter on the x axis and two centimeters on the y axis. So we start by drawing a rectangle that starts at the origin. Rectangle. that will end at four and two and end for this one. So we have here two lines, each one starts from a corner and reaches the middle point of the rectangle, which is halfway on the x axis, two centimeters, and halfway on the y axis, one centimeter.

So two on one half of this will be the center point of this rectangle. So actually doesn't really matter where to mark the start and end points of a straight line. So the first one draw, we start at the middle point. And then we stretch a straight line to reach the upper right corner, which is the end. And then the second draw command also stretches a straight line, this time to reach zero and two, which is the upper left corner.

And so, so let's see this.

sorry about that rectangle so typo This is the text and here is the rectangle, which is this draw command starts at zero and zero and ends at four and two. And those are the lines. The first one starts at the middle point, stretches to the upper right corner at four and two. The second one also starts from two and one, two on the X axis, one on the Y axis, so the middle point. the second line or the left line goes back.

So it was or starts at two on the x axis. So we go back to zero on the x axis, and two on the y axis, which is the upper left corner here. So again, doesn't really matter if you put this end line here and this start line there, it will also stretch the lines in the same orientation here. So now the Tick system provides yet another environment called Scope. As the name suggests, this environment holds some objects, i.e.

drawing commands, that they all share common settings, such as certain transformations and styles. This particular environment is used only inside the takes picture environment. And this is just a kind of semantically structure the code of the graph. This makes the greater like takes picture environment more logical and manageable also. So let's start a subsection.

Let's start a takes picture. So begin.

Okay so for the first scope of TIGS commands let's say that we want to give it a blue color with thick lines. So begin scope and end scope. and now the options. So we pass the styling options to the scope environment options. So it's kind of a general settings for all of the draw commands that will go inside this scope environment.

So we said that we want to make them all blue and thick. So now all the draw commands will have this kind of general settings. So again, let's draw a rectangle that stretches to two and two. So now we have a big things picture and then a scope. So let's just see this first and we'll expand it.

Okay, so

So this now this draw command got the blue and thick options applied to the scope in which is inserted in so. So now, of course, if we draw or fill any element inside the scope, it will apply the same settings or the style. So let's fill a circle. So fill

at centered at 0 and 0, a circle that has a radius of 10 points and end.

Okay, remember that the lower left corner of the rectangle was a zero and zero. And of course, this is the center point. So here it is. And it got the blue, of course, the thick doesn't mean anything here because the circle is filled. So we can see that.

But we can make a hollow circle. at a another location using this time the draw command. Let's make the center point at one on one. So it's kind of will be halfway here, the center of this new circle. So circle and same radius 10 points.

So this is a hollow circle by a normal one. Look at this now. And voila, we have a circle that got the blue and the thick style of the entire scope.

align also, of course, we'll have the same style. So let's try that. Draw a line that starts from zero and two.

and ends at two and zero. Let's see it.

k zero on the x axis two on the y axis starting point. And it crosses the square to end at two on the x axis from the origin zero on the y axis here. So so they all share the same settings. So inside this digs picture, let's add another scope. Let's make it this time quite reddish, 50% red and end the scope.

Now, since we're in the same text picture, then all scope environments operate in the same coordinate system. And hence they share the same origin. Let's fill a five point circle at the origin to make it lie within the blue one here. fill at zero and zero circle with a radius of five points kind of small.

And that I see it.

So now again, although this new reddish circle is in another scope, but we are still in the same ticks picture environment. So kind of like the group of the ticks command as we saw before, they all share the same origin. So this zero and zero here is the same one here and here.

So let's fill another one on the middle point at one and one circle.

gain five points and see it will appear here. So they all navigate in the same space. So one on one, one from the x axis, one from the y axis, the center of this last circle here is the same for all drawings inside the text picture. And now one fact about text pictures, The result of type setting a takes picture in the input file is a flexible window on the output file that spans or covers the entire drawing commands that go within it. So to understand this, first of all, it's invisible, of course, and to view it, we can simply wrap the entire takes picture environment simply inside the frame.

So frame,

and copy. So if we run this, that what I was talking about, this is the window that spans the entire elements of the tig's picture. This is the tig's picture what you see here. And this box or window is flexible as stated, we can for example, stretch the first scope, fill a circle. This time we will make the center point of the circle, this upper right corner here, so that you will see that this gray like window will stretch with the new circle will like replicate this combo here.

So at two and two, we will have a circle filled with the bigger radius 10 points.

look at this gray now. So now since we've added another element to the entire digs picture. So this is the span or the area of the page if you will that is occupied by the drawing elements or commands that go inside this digs picture. So we can fill another one in the second scope. Fill, of course, at again two and two, this time with the small five points radius.

So just like this one. So yeah, same thing. So it's a dynamic window, if you will. And now the reason for this area is actually to protect the graph by isolating it from the surrounding content like text. And that's of course to prevent overlapping or interfere.

So it's kind of latex preserves as space for the text picture to span the entire elements that goes inside it. So it's kind of giving it a private space for the graph elements. So let's put some textual content without a break in line.

So for that, you can see that the text started after the end of the area occupied by the tigs picture. So yeah, that's why latex assigns this invisible area for the environment. Now, if you ask, you can control actually the size of this window through a command called use as bounding box.

So let's create a new subsection. We'll try it with the tigs command this time. But of course, you can insert it in a tigs picture environment at the beginning. Of course, I'm talking about the command use as bounding box. So tigs

and a group. I will insert two objects here. Both are solid a red triangle and a blue circle at quite distant locations. So fill

And just to give a color for a draw or a fill, put an option like square brackets after that and type the option they want want red. And drawing a triangle is fairly simple. We start at a certain location. So let's say that we want to start at open five and zero. And then we extend a line to connect another point on the x axis.

Let's walk for the base for a one centimeter. So a line walking to the right, increasing a centimeter after this half centimeter. And only we're just walking on the x axis. And now then another line is inserted to connect this point to the tip of the triangle, which we choose to be at one centimeter on both the x and y axis. So a line that will extend from this gentle kind of point, sorry about that.

So to one and one. And the last line connects the tip of the starting point, which serves also as an ending point. So the last line goes to 0.5 and zero. And this, just that, okay.

run. Okay, so again, this is the starting point open five and zero, we walk on the x axis to this to reach one and a half. And then from that we stretch another line to one and one, which is the tip here. And from the tip at one on one, we go back again to the starting point, which was open five and zero. So it's kind of points and connected straight lines.

That's it. And of course, filled with red color. And now let's insert some text after the graph plus some text. Okay.

And run.

Okay, so let's move further a little bit. So yeah, you can see that the invisible kind of window for this tigs is also this concept applies for the tigs, of course, as the tigs picture. We have this like red triangle here. So the text does not interfere with the preserved area in the page for this graph.

Let's add a blue circle.

Okay, so as you can see, we're still in the same takes window now. So it stretched like kind of operate on that now blue circle. So the surrounding or the the neighboring text kind of stretches or walks doesn't interfere with this. okay so now the time for the use as bounding box command that will be used as a controller for this window now so use as bounding box hopefully it's right and It's a drone command. So this window is a rectangle.

So we want the bounding box of our tigs command or environment. You can insert this at the beginning of an environment, of course. We want it a rectangle that starts at zero and zero. So rectangle.

And we want only to have this preserved area to stretch from 0 and 0 to 2 and 2 centimeters on both of the axes. Now this normal rectangle will serve as the prohibited space to be invaded by the text.

So let's see it. So yeah, now we have a specific preserved area that is made by this rectangle under the use as bounding box. This defines the area that is allowed for the tigs command or picture to like take as a private space. So now this blue area lies, of course, outside the space of this rectangle. So the text can overlap this circle there.

Like kind of to see this, we can put it again in a frame.

See that?

Okay, this is the new frame. And if you don't like the frame, it's alright, we can just insert a draw command actually with the same coordinates and specifications as this one.

So

Yeah, the same effect. So now this use as bounding box defines again, the private area to take for a text command or a text picture. So this command does not draw anything. We inserted again, the same specification under a draw command just to see it. And now again, the blue circle lies outside this area.

So the text can overlap it. Okay, so we'll conclude this introduction video by placing grids for takes drawing. So section.

So a grid is drawn like other objects in the same way. So to place a grid into your graph, you use the draw command. a specification for the starting point. Sorry about that. On the grid, which is kind of a rectangle or a square.

And then the shape is a grid. Sorry about that grid. So and we want the grid to reach two and two.

Here we can pass a step option that specifies the distance between the lines of the grid on both axes. So for this grid, which is now a square, we want a step of 0.5. If not inserted, the lines are one centimeter away from each other. So of course, this is half of a centimeter.

Let's just see it.

Okay, so now this takes command only features a grid with this starting and ending points here. And the step is specified to be half of a centimeter on both the x and y axis. So each of those lines of the grid, the distance here is half a centimeter. So zero, 0.51, 1.52.

And the same thing for the y axis. So yeah, you can control that by this option. Again, if you kind of drop that, you only have crossing lines one centimeter apart.

So grids are useful. They can serve as a guide when developing a graph and can be easily removed afterwards. So just like to know the space that you're traversing. So let's say that we want to fill, fill in blueish kind, 70%. A circle that has a center at one on one, a radius of three points and end.

So. So yeah, the center point is so kind of grids gives you an idea of this space that you're drawn in. And optionally inside a takes picture environment, we can insert a grid, of course, with an option called help lines for the draw command. So let's just try placing a grid inside the takes picture.

So another option, of course, is to place a grid through the draw command with the option help lines. The name of the option is quite intuitive. We want to draw those helping lines as a grid that has this starting and ending point. So again, we specify a grid with with some vertices inside a draw command with helplines option. So let's see that.

Okay, so zero and zero to three and two. So we can, of course, change the color of this grid and the options of the draw command. Let's say green.

Okay. Yeah.

Okay, and eventually, the last feature that we will see today is the cycle keyword. We'll use this feature to draw the cone line shape in the picture. I will start at the left point or angle at one on one and go up to the tip continuing in clockwise direction. So here draw

Of course, red thick and a couple of points and straight lines. You can review the vertices, make sure of that.

So now you expect that we mark the end point by the same vertex of the starting one, which was like one on one here. So stretch a line and type one on one. But a best practice that gives high accuracy is to close the cycle or the shape with the word cycle. So instead of point, so instead of placing and explicit ending point we put the word cycle force and this method is actually more precise in closing shapes as the figure up top explains

The triangle on the right is closed with the word cycle, which gives more sharp edge unlike the left one. And this is actually could be useful to prevent this pitfall for developing large size graphs. So let's see this now. Okay, here we are. So I will stop here for now and we'll continue on the next video.

So see you there.

OK so we're still in the same tech file where we stopped and for this video we're going to work with paths. So a new section. So before beginning, I will use helplines a lot from now on. So let's give it a style, mainly a thickness and a color to make them distinguishable visually from the drawing objects. I will achieve that through a global influence command called tech set.

This command is useful for giving scopes, paths and nodes some styling. So the way to use it is we type the name of the thing to give a style to. So we want to style the help lines.

And then followed by a forward slash and a dot. So forward slash dot. And then we enter the style field. So style equals and then a bear brackets. We want the helplines to be thin and to take the color green.

So this is a setting command for tags, the thing to style, and then the style keyword preceded by a forward backslash and a dot equal and then a group of the general options for helplines. So yeah. So now for the topic of this video. Now, any tags picture is a path. that is a sequence or series of connected objects through some points.

So every takes picture is drawn by starting a path and extending that path. So a subsection like to define what paths are a triangle is a path of three connected lines. rectangle is a path of four connected lines, and so on. So anything you put inside a Tiggs command or a Tiggs picture is called a path. Circle is a path, some lines and points are paths, rectangle is a path, and so on.

And we're going to explore the path operations in just a minute. So there is a command called path that kind of reserves an initial space for the picture using some objects. And it's an invisible. So let's frame a digs picture to see that frame

And in between that, we put the path. So path, let's make this invisible path a straight line from zero and zero to three and zero. So a horizontal line of three centimeters. Let's look at this invisible guy.

Okay, sorry about this kind of dummy mistake.

yeah I'm sorry about that guys I said it a lot like forward slash I put a backslash so I'm sorry about that the style keyword applied on the helplines uses a forward slash this right tilted pipe operator kind yeah so now returning back to the paths we created here a frame around some line created under this new path command. So zooming in.

Now what you're seeing here is actually the frame created here, not the path. This guy is invisible. Originally in tigs, the draw command that we were using is an alias or shortcut for path draw. So if we kind of like, like, let's use, let's use the path command again, but this time with the draw option. So it's kind of we want tigs to draw this operation or path.

And let's give it a red color and make it ultra thick.

Move one H. And then this drawn path is a line that starts at one and zero, stretches to

two and zero so yeah let's see this red guy now so here it is this red starts at one zero and ends at two and zero So now here we have a preserved space through this path command that is a just a line or a space from zero and zero to three and zero. And then we use the draw command that we were using earlier here with its basic form, which is path draw. So let's put a comment here. So draw is equal to path draw. So the path command with the draw option.

Originally, or basically in tigs, everything is created by this path. So this is the basis for the entire drawing commands in tigs. And draw is an alias of the option draw given to the path command.

So now we can extend this path that we created here by the draw command. So again, we can make another line this time with draw, which is equal to path draw and blue, ultra thick.

this one starts at a later stage on the x-axis

ends at four and zero much further. So this originally we have the window that takes picture ended at three, but we extend this path that we created by a new line that ends beyond the pre specified space. So yeah, it's kind of that we're stretching the basic space preserved for the takes picture by this new line. So everything in takes is a path. And the draw command is an alias of the path draw combination.

And what you're doing in takes is creating a path and extending that path. So really to better understand the concept of the path, let's create this arbitrary shape in the figure. So let's create a new subsection.

Let's start with placing a grid with helplines by size four by four. So draw helplines zero and zero.

grid four by four.

We'll walk from bottom to top, beginning by the black part, which is the two small circles and the rectangle with lines connecting them. They all will fall under the same one draw command. So draw the first circle is centered at one and zero with a radius of three points. So yeah, one and zero circle, three points. So let's see that this stage

Okay, we're here in this subsection. So first element here. And from this extend a line to the origin. So let's see this.

So now what we did here, Now previously at the first stage, we had this circle only it appeared here after the first run. And then we extended this path. You remember this draw is an alias for path draw. So it's a series of connected drawings. And the now we have a one circle and a line, they all fall under the same draw command.

So this is a path that started as a circle. And then this path is extended with a horizontal line or still a straight line that is sorted from one and zero, the center point of the circle, which is that like that last vertex and ended at zero and zero. again from now, let's extend this further from the origin, we want to extend this path to the point one and one using a straight line. So let's run

So a path or a draw command is a continuous operation. We stopped at this zero and zero in the last run. And then we extended this path by a straight line again to reach one on one, all under one draw command or path, there is no need for multiple ones. So it's kind of each point serves as a directional element, if you will. So this served as a starting point for this line, okay, that ended at the origin, the origin served as a starting point for this line.

And now the last vertex or point we're at that the path ended was at one on one. Okay, and this one on one point will serve as the start point for the rectangle that reaches point three and three. So just right after this before the end of the semicolon, this semicolon represents the end of this path. So we want this one on one to draw a rectangle that ends here at three and three. So one on one, two and two, three and three.

So just draw after that rectangle. And the endpoint of the rectangle will be three and three. Okay, and just in one shot, we created this rectangle that started at this point and ended at this point again under the same path. So under one draw command or one path as a concept, we started with a circle here. And then we extended that path with a straight line from the center of the circle to the origin.

we put a another line from the origin to one on one. And just right from that, this one on one served as the lower left corner for a rectangle that reach the

three and three point. So now this is the last point of this path now. And the semicolon ends that. And here is the rest of this shape. It's a diagonal line to the end of the grid followed by a horizontal line to the center of the last circle.

So yeah, again, here after this three and three, a line to four and four, another line to the center of the circle, three and four. And just right after that, we put the circle, the radius now of the circle. So yeah, I see that. Okay, just so from this three and three here. we put a straight line to reach four and four, the end of the entire grid.

And from four and four, we put another straight line to three and four, we go back by one unit. And at this three and four, we insert a circle with a radius of three points. So this is extremely flexible. And this is like the magical feature of tigs, if you will. So under one draw or path, we kept adding on and on a lot of different operations and shapes.

They are all connected. Every point serves as a starting point or an end point of some object of this one path. So this is what a path actually looks like or represents intakes.

And the red part of this example is also a path of just like straight lines. so we can like return to this path draw for example instead of draw and uh red sorry comma okay and the first point a straight line the second point it's a diagonal line so last point three and three and that's it so yeah let's see that Okay, so this is the diagonal line. And at this two and two, we can actually increase a circle. So yeah, circle that has, let's say the same five points.

Okay, so yeah, two and two served as the central point for this circle thing on the path. So from one on one, put a line to two and two. And when you're at two and two, place a circle of this radius. Okay, we've done that. And then add a line.

So this line will start at two and two and end at three and three here. Now, paths are as stated flexible. So if you don't like the center point of this circle, and you want to move around, you can actually do that. So freely, let's adjust this.

Okay, so now,

So yeah, what do we do if we want to change the center point of this new circle, then in the normal case, we will simply put a vertex before let's say that we want to center this at one and three. So what do we do with the third line, if we left it like that, it will take the starting point of this line, this one and three but originally this is a diagonal line so we want the last segment to start from two and two to reach three and three so we retype this explicitly so let's see it So yeah, voila, we interrupted this diagonal line with a circle. So now this is one path, it starts at one and one with a line to reach two and two. Okay, and without any separators, no semi colons or, of course, that are in the path. So here, we put one and three, we interrupt this kind of workflow to insert a circle at decent location.

And now so if you take it step by step in your head in the background is kind of that latex draws this segment, and reasons that there is a different operation here, which is inserting a circle, so it jumps to this new center point draws this line and then completes the workflow to reach that there is a line segment that starts from two and two to reach three and three. So it's kind of flexible, you can have different operations, rest freely inside this path. And at the end, you put the semicolon to end that. So this is extremely powerful, you can add another kind of circle. Inside that, let's say, even after this third line segment, so a circle that is centered at let's say 123, the opposite three on one.

Okay, and this is a circle of five points. So this will draw a circle here.

So yeah, if again, this is the last operation that lighting did draw a line from two and two to three and three. And there is it didn't reach the end of the path. So yeah, again, it has a new operation to do, which is a circle inserted at this center point with this radius. So again, it's blazingly flexible to work with paths. Okay, so moving on.

One of the most cool things that TIGs offer is giving you the ability to name or label vertices. Let's start a new subsection for this concept. So now this means that you get to give some coordinate points a specific name like origin for zero and zero, and that to be able to use it later. Let's see that in a simple rectangle with diagonal lines. So let's make a digs picture.

The way we give a label for some point is to put the word coordinate after placing the point with the name inside the parentheses. So let's say we started drawing at zero and zero, okay, for some operation, which will be a rectangle. And then we want to name this zero and zero in order to refer to it later. So we put the word coordinate and a pair of parentheses, maybe separated. Let's call it lower left.

This will be a rectangle operation. So zero and zero serves as the lower left corner. So lower left.

And then we place the right diagonal line that extend to the upper right corner. So a line and then six and four. Again, we want to give a name for this point. So we place the word coordinate and choose a name. Let's use it.

Let's make it upper right.

upper right, okay. And, and so it's like a basic line operation, starting point and an ending point and the shape that we want, which is a line. But the new thing here is after the point that we want to give a name to, we put the word coordinate, the name that we desire inside a parentheses and the same thing for the second point. So yeah, that's what we did. Here we defined the coordinate labels.

And now let's draw a rectangle using the names of the start and end corners. So this is the stage of using the labels.

So we put the raw command, usually we will put a an explicit point. But this time, we will use the name of the starting point of the rectangle, and then the word rectangle. And then again, instead of an explicit value for the endpoint,

we put a label for that point that we specified earlier. Okay, of course, those names are case sensitive. So make sure that you copy and paste the exact same names that you defined earlier to get the right coordinates. So let's see this.

Okay, so now what we did again, we placed a line with a draw command, that line had a starting point zero and zero, an ending point of six and four. And while we were placing this line, we gave those specific points in the text picture a name through the coordinate and the parentheses. And then we used those labels, letter R, to draw a rectangle. So this is a really powerful feature. And then place the other diagonal line.

So a line starting in a reverse direction. Okay. So this feature of coordinates and labels for some points is quite useful and powerful in some situations. It kind of gives your drawing elements some intuition, let's say. So instead of placing an explicit points, we put some names.

And you can imagine other like cluttered or complex situations in which this behavior will be quite useful. So yeah, we'll spend the rest of this video looking at the operations that can be performed on paths. This is the so called path extension operation.

Let's put some vspace here.

Can actually break this page.

Okay, so path operations are certain processes that apply some changes to the structure of a tig's picture. Those operations makes it easy to draw and place objects inside the environment. So take for example, this shape in the figure. This graph is a two by two grid with two black separated lines. By using what we've learned so far to draw this, you would simply say typeset to draw commands with the lines.

And that's correct, of course, but there is another way to do it under the same draw command, applying the so-called move to operation. So this is the first one. So this is a sub subsection, the move to operation.

Here is the down line. So draw.

This one is thick.

So let's see this. Yeah, we have a simple two by two grid and a simple line from the origin to a horizontal shifted place. So after that, for the upper line, simply insert it without any special symbols or connecting characters. So just under this first draw command, we put

second line, just like that. It's kind of that we jumping from this last point to draw a new line to two and two. So we'll start from here to there. So what we've done here is a move to operation. So it's kind of later when executing this code, it starts from zero and zero to one and zero.

And then it moves to a jumps to directly from this location to apply this new line segment up top. So two separated operations, line segments inserted under the same draw or path. And this jump is called a move to operation. We've done that before, of course, here in this path with those lines and circles. So we're jumping from certain locations to another ones.

So yeah, This is so powerful, and it allows you to flexibly traverse your picture to place objects where we want. So we can easily add a small circle in the middle of the grid. So just as we did before, without any connections, we jump or move to one and one to place a circle with three points.

So yeah, this appears here in the middle. So now the second operation is called the line two, which is simply as the name applies connects two objects by a straight line. So in another sub subsection, the line two operation.

This is an example. So we have this draw. Unlike the first example, when we inserted this segment separated from this segment without anything connecting them, this time we put a line. So this is simply some connected lines. But we perceive this as a line segment at the bottom.

and another line segment up top. And what is connecting them is the line to operation. So yeah, it connects this point to this point to complete this path.

So the next operation is the curve to operation.

This is your gateway to draw curvatures and splines. This particular operation adds what is called a Bezier curves. This is one common way to draw curves that is frequent in computer graphics, the method, the Bezier curves. And this adds a curved line between two points using a control point. So this is the underlying idea.

We'll build this draw in the figure except for the annotations, which is some letters for the points, at least for now. And we'll return to it later when we talk about nodes. So this grid, as you can see, has its origin in the middle, which means that we will start the helplines from negative locations. So yeah, it takes picture.

And this time we start from negative location for the grid.

And of course, this is available for you to do. And let's mark the origin and give it a name, the small letter O. So we'll do that while filling a blue circle. So fill blue. zero and zero and give this a name through the coordinate.

This is the small letter O and then we're creating a circle with radius of 0.1 centimeter. So let's see this. Okay. Yeah, here we are.

So now to create the axes.

There are two lines splitting the grid in half in the two directions with arrow heads on both sides.

To place the arrowheads, we put a hyphen surrounded by greater and less than symbols as an option to the draw commands here.

hyphen and surround this hyphen by greater and less than operators. This is the arrowhead at the start of this straight line here represented by this single hyphen. And this is the arrowhead at the end of this straight line. So yeah, let's see them. okay so stretched much further yeah so we saw previously how to name certain points and it becomes kind of essential in such graphs let's invisibly label four vertices I say invisibly because we were going to use the path command.

As we saw before the path command does not draw anything. So when you type backslash path, this is an invisible operation. So just as we did before, we were marking the labels for the coordinates under the draw command. So this time we draw this line from here to there. But what if we need to give some names, just give some names without any drawings that appear and the output, this is kind of a presetting to use it later.

So the way to go is this trick. You use the coordinate command on some points under the path command. So that does not draw anything in the output. You just give some names for some points. So yeah, we have minus five and zero.

So this is the first point, we give it a name, point start PST, and then the first and the second control points for the Bezier curve.

This is called C1. And then 1 and minus 4 for the second control point is called C2. And then the end point at 5 and 0.

Let's call it pn for end. And that concludes this invisible path. So here we made use of the coordinate keyword to give some names for some points invisibly without printing anything in the output. So this is kind of a setting to use it later. And now let's fill the points with a small circles using their names.

And voila, here we have the one fill path or fill operation. We place some circles

with unified radius for the starting point for the first control point, the second control point and the endpoint. So we fill all of those circles with this radius at those different locations. And we have specified those locations before. So let's see this now. Okay, here we are.

This is the piece heart, the C1, the C2, and the P end. Okay. Now we come to the curve itself. Now to place a curve under the draw command, we mark the points that will be connected by the curve. Here A and B in the figure or the P start and the P end.

So again, the Bezier curve is a curve that connects two points. So here we'll connect A by B and what defines the shape of this curve, our control points here, c one and c two. So so draw, we use PST, the name of the starting point, and then the name of the end point. And in between, as always, we put the operation or the shape that we want. So the configuration of the curve here is done by two dots.

And then you type the word controls.

This is just to mark the control points that will compute the curve itself. And then we place the points themselves. Of course, we don't use explicit points anymore. We use names.

So yeah, see one and see two. And then after the control points, we put another two double dots. So let's break this line.

end this path. Let's see it. Okay, and all of a sudden, we have connected those two points A and B or P start and P end with a curve that is computed by two control points. So we created this Bezier curve under a normal draw command, we connect two lines P start and P end, And to define a busier curve, we use this special syntax, two dots, or four dots, they surround a controls keyword, the first control point, the word and and the second control point. So those are the controls that compute the curve that connects those two points.

And of course, if we change the location of the control points, so let's bring this to the left minus three and four. And now three and minus four for this, pushing it to the right. This of course will change this shape of the curve. Okay, because now we have different location for the control points. So, yeah, that's how you create a visitor curve inside tigs.

And lastly, for this example, the dashed lines connecting the four points.

So here we connect the four points, which are the start point, the end point and the controls with simple straight forward line segments with the dashed option given to the draw path. So yeah, just like a simple line based operation. Okay, so now moving on to the next operation, which is the cycle one. So another sub subsection. We've seen this before, which is using the word cycle to close a shape, say like a triangle, for example, like this one.

Let's see it.

Okay, so for the last point, instead of inserting zero and zero or the starting point, we use the cycle. And we saw the effect of using that in the previous video. And the cycle keyword is generally used to perfectly close any extended path like this one in the figure. So this is a sequence attached to a triangle that starts far from the first shape. So we're still under this same things picture.

So draw, we start far away.

six and zero close let's see it okay so this first line segment here and then we send the shared base to 10 and zero okay lift it up again so to

we only move from this location at 10, 2 centimeters up.

Okay, here we are. And then we go back with a line at this location. So we're still in the same vertical location, but we go back by two units.

Okay. And now down to close the square. So a line

to eight and zero, this horizontal one here. And now we finally connect this point to the starting point of this triangle plus square path using the cycle keyword after the line segment.

So remove one C and

Okay, so yeah, it's for any general path. And now we move to another operation known as the double line operations kind of couple of operations. So sub subsection, the double line two operations. So from now on, I'll use floats. So let's load their package and increase the total number of floats per page to four.

So if you remember, use package.

float and to increase the total number of floats to four we need to set the total number counter so set counter total number

Okay, and let's go back to the double line operations. The double line two operation is basically connecting two specific points by two straight lines. So this is done in two flavors, either horizontal followed by vertical or vice versa. So let's put the two cases in a tabular with increased row height. So first of all, set length.

Yeah, extra row height.

Just to compare the two operations. So we begin a tabular

This will be a two column table.

So this is the headline. And I will start to take these pictures.

So we have here in the first row, some sentence in one cell and another one, we break with a H line. And then for the first cell in the second row, we will have a TIGS picture. And then for the second cell of the second row, we'll have another TIGS picture entry. We need to break this row after this one to insert another H line.

OK, so in the first picture environment, let's place a window through the path command to draw within. So we need a preserved window. We do that through the invisible path operation.

So we put a hidden rectangle of this size.

This space prevents the upper litter circles from like sticking to the second H line. So for visibility and as you saw in the pictures, the points will be marked by black small circles.

So let's fill that.

And then 6 and 4, we have another circle with the same radius.

And same for the second environment.

So fill some circles. Okay, and to connect those dots by two lines in a single command. So let's say that we use the draw command to connect zero and zero with six and four.

what do we put inside. So if horizontal followed by a vertical operation is preferred, then in between the points, we put a dash followed by the pipe operator. So dash and pipe. So this is intuitive syntax. This operation is a double line to this inputs two lines, hence the name double line from this point to this point.

So here we have a horizontal line followed by a vertical line. and close this. And if a vertical come first, then we reverse this order. So let's put in the second things picture here, the same draw command, but this time we want to connect those two points by an operation that starts with a vertical line. So pipe operator, then it follows by a horizontal line.

So let's actually see that. Okay. So yeah, of course, I undefined control sequence for the extra row height. Sorry about that. I forgot to tell you to load the array package responsible for that macro.

And let's see this table now. Okay. in the fourth page. So we have this table, the first cell, the second, the world, the second row, we have a path, okay, that this, this reserves a space with this dimensions. and then we filled the points here and here and then we connected this first point by this second point with a double line toe operation it took a horizontal line first this represented by this dash here and then completed by a pipe operator that represents a vertical line vice versa for the second one connects this point by this point first by a vertical line but represented by the operator and then by a horizontal line so this is quite handy shortcut so the next operation is cool I'm talking about the rectangle operation so some subsection

This one allows you to draw a consecutive rectangles that depend on each other. So let's open a TIGs picture to see an example. So as we know, a rectangle is just a path. So let's fill one that starts from the origin that reaches three and one.

See this. Okay, that consistent typo of rectangle. Sorry about that. So yeah, he will have this field rectangle. And then so why not add another one?

Like, essentially, that means extending the current path. So here this fail path ended at three on one. So we can freely use this as the starting point, which is the lower left corner of a new rectangle that is extending this fail path. So just

another rectangle entry. And we want that to end at six and four. So let's see it now. So yeah, it kind of like this new big rectangle used the upper right end corner of the first one as its starting point. So now what do we do if we want to insert another one at the bottom level?

Let's actually first make this one smaller. So if we want to insert another one here, we simply skip this path and add another one. And that's it.

So yeah, this, those two rectangles are inserted as one path. And when we needed to shift that, we simply created another one. And we can actually take this path and inserted, we insert that here. kind of flies and inside this path so it's kind of a jump here so this one is exactly like this one but we changed the starting point we didn't depend on the last or the endpoint of the previous one to serve as the starting point rather that we specified this explicitly. So yeah, this is how we can create this ladder.

So the last thing to cover are two operations. namely the arc and ellipse. So let's make another sub subsection. So arc and ellipse operations. Let's begin a tig's picture and let's put some helplines.

Let's see the base now.

Okay. Let's go to slides for a minute. First of all, arcs are determined by circles. So whenever you want to place an arc, I advise you to lay down the circle that your arc will be part from, just at least in dashed lines, as we will do. And then you can easily remove it.

So first of all, place the underlying circle of the arc. So now in tigs, the picture on the left shows the configuration of an arc. First, you have a base circle for the arc with radius r. This is the circle. And to draw an arc, the command on the right marked in blue can be used.

So this special configuration of the draw command, just as we did with the busier curves, and they are just inserted on the draw commands. So we have this arc operation here under this path draw. You start by choosing the vertex P. which is this one here, the start of the arc, which is just a normal point on the underlying circle of your arc. And then the word arc is inserted.

So draw starting point, explicitly or defined by label, whatever inside those parentheses. And then we lay down the word arc that defines that this is an arc operation. And then we have this pair of parentheses holding three values. the first one is alpha, which is the angle of the start point, this one here. So we have this starting point on the circle.

This one, if we extend a dash line to the center of the circle, then we make a angle, we make an angle with the positive x axis. So it's this alpha here, the first one in this guru parentheses after the arc operation keyword. And then we put colons followed by another angle called beta, which is as shown here the angle of the end point E. So we start at P with alpha angle, we end at E some point also on the base circle, this end point when connected by like a hypothetical line with the center makes an angle just called beta with a positive x axis. So this is the second entry here in this combo.

And the last one is r, which is simply the radius of the circle that holds the arc. There's any radius here. If you're interested, those equations determine the center of the circle and the location of the endpoint, which you don't get input explicitly. So this is just how tigs computes all of those parameters, you just need to pick a starting point for the arc, the angle for the starting point, the angle for the end point, you don't choose the end point explicitly, you choose only the angle of it, or the angle that it's line makes with the positive x axis or whatever, and then the radius of the circle that you want to place your arc at. So four parameters, starting point, two angles, and the radius for the circle.

This is just the governing equations for the center point and the end point how it's computed. So let's go back to the tech file. So now we are creating the arcs.

let's set up for the two arcs that we're going to draw first. So make some settings. To make things clear, let's place a dashed circle that will hold them. Just as stated earlier, it's almost useful to put the underlying circle of the arcs. So this is a dashed draw command

of a circle at four and two with radius two. Okay, let's see that. So just a normal circle here. And let's fill three little dots. The first one is at four and two.

millimeters. Yeah. So this is for the center of the dashed circle. And then two other labeled circles on the same y-axis orientation to represent the starting and the ending points of the arcs. we put the starting point at four and four up top the circle.

So let's name it coordinate P one circle

So this is the starting point of the first arc and then another one at the bottom. So at four and zero, we pick that to be the starting point of the second arc with the same radius. So let's see that. Okay, immediately three points here, here and here. And we will type, say two arcs, one from here and one from here.

So the first arc will start from the top P1 here. Let's zoom a little bit. Okay, so start from here. And this will cover the second quarter of the circle. So after this fill path, we draw this is an arrow thick one.

So this is from P one, and that's an arc.

You know what, let's comment this out and place the X axis of this circle to ease the visualization of the angles. So yeah, let's put some comment here.

And then let's make another draw a dash and the greater and less than symbols. And then we stretch a simple line from minus one and two to nine and two. This is just an aid. Okay, so here it is. So let's go back to this uncommon that the P one upper point is at 90 degrees.

So if you recall, we have to input the angle of the starting point. So starting point P one up top makes 90 degrees with the positive x axis. So we type 90 here. before the first colon, and after the first colon and before the second colon, we input the angle of the endpoint, I want this arc to start from here and reach all the way up to the horizontal x axis. So if this is the end point, then how many degrees it makes with the horizontal x axis.

So you start from here, and all the way up this is 180 degrees. So to end here, we specify 180 degrees in the second input after this arc. So let's see this arc now. Okay, here it is. So this is a normal draw command, I specified an arrowhead at the end, which is a thick one, it starts at p one, which is an arc.

So we specify the start of the the angle of the start point with the positive x axis. So this is 90 degrees. And then the angle of the end point also measured from the positive x axis. So 180 degrees to end here. And then the radius of the underlying circle of the arc, which is simply the radius of this dashed circle here.

So two centimeters, and this is how we made this up. So the second arc will start from here and end there. So Yeah, let's make it. We have another draw command, which is thick also. So this one, it starts at P2.

It's an ARC operation.

and then we also have two centimeters the last input the radius now this starting point if we measure its angle from the positive x-axis so all the way out this is 270 degrees which is equivalent to minus 90 degrees you'll recall from child math, this is 270 degrees, which is equal to minus 90 degrees minus is just because if measured clockwise from the positive x axis, you should have stated that before we measure if the

value for the degrees are in positive, that means we're measuring from the positive x axis counterclockwise. So if we want to measure in a reverse direction, i.e. clockwise, so from the positive x axis clockwise by 90 degrees, clockwise means negative, we reach this point here. So the end point we wanted to be here, which is simply zero.

This is just zero.

Okay, so a quick note here, the ending point at zero here is not the same as ending at 360. The latter one will span the entire circle. Okay, so zero is in 360. Let's actually move this x-axis line after the red line. So it doesn't interfere with this.

So let's draw thick red at five and one circle that is form.

So this red dot here, starting from this point, if you would draw an arc that ends at 360 degrees. So under the same draw path from five and one, if we insert an arc operation, starts from zero, ends at 360.

And let's pick the radius to be one centimeter. I see that this spanned the entire one centimeter circle, the zero here refers to that. This is the angle of the starting point, the starting point, which is this red circle here actually lies on the positive x axis. So if we want to start an arc from that, this is zero. And to end at 360 means to span the entire circle that has this radius.

Of course, if you thought about it, unifying the start and end actually draws nothing. Yeah.

so be careful about angles and now eventually for the ellipse you give a center point for the ellipse so under draw we give it a center point of four and two and then you type the word ellipse which is an operation And then in this third component of this ellipse operation, we input half of the desired width on the x axis. So four centimeters and half of the height on the y axis two centimeters. Let's see that. So yeah, this is the specification of the ellipse, you input a center point, which is this four and two here of the grid. And then you input half of the width on the x axis.

So the entire width of the grid was eight here, if you recall. So we input half of the width of the ellipse on the x axis, which is four, this half here. And then of course, another the second input after the end is half of the height on the y axis, the entire height was four, so half of it is two here. So we specify this portion, and this portion, and the center before that, and ellipse is drawn using those specifications. And what do you think will happen if the width and height of an ellipse were the same thing?

So this is an example, an ellipse with the width and height being the same thing centered at the same center point. This is simply a circle. Okay, so lastly, since we can place an arc on a circle, then we can do it on the more general case, which is the ellipse. And this operation is called an elliptical arc. So

Let's place an arc on our big ellipse that will start from the top P1. So I will place an arc here that will start from P1 and follows the contour of this big ellipse. And it will end here. So under the draw, we state P1. And then we use the keyword arc.

This is an arc after O. This is again starting at 90 degrees here, this P1. And the end is also at 180 degrees.

And after that, instead of a radius, so if this is an arc for a circle or follows a circle, the third input here is basically the radius for that circle. But this time, we're placing an arc on an ellipse. So we give the specification of the ellipse. This is half, again, the width and the height. So instead of one value for the radius of the circle, we're now creating an arc that follows an ellipse.

So the third input after the two angles is the specification for the width and height of the ellipse. So here it is, this thick elliptical arc. So I'll stop here for now and continue working on paths in the next video. So thanks for watching and see you there. Okay, so we're still in the topic of paths and today we'll look at applying some styles.

So let's break this page.

We saw how to fill a path before. This is straightforward. So I'm back to the tigs command. We have fill. Let's say blue.

a circle as one centimeter as a radius. So let's see it.

Okay, here it is pretty straightforward. And additionally, we can draw borders around filled paths. So yeah, we can kind of add a black border around this circle. So let's put a H space and then another tigs command. And this time we will use the fill draw.

So to draw a border around a filled path, we use the fill draw command here. So we fill and we draw a surrounding contour. So here we give a thick width for the border that we're going to draw. And then we specify the fill color and the draw color of the contour. So let's say black.

And this time, we will fill a rectangle. So 0 and 0, and then up to 2 and 2. So this, let's see. Let's actually see it. so can zoom in see it.

This is a normal rectangle is made by the fill draw command. It has thick we can actually make this ultra thick so you can see the border more clearly. So yeah, this is the fill gray. So the fill draw, we can specify a fill color, which is the color of the area of the rectangle and then a draw color for the surrounding contour. Okay.

One cool thing here is that we can play with colors. So for example, we can make shades for paths. So let's do that. This is done through the shade command. And that must be inserted in a text picture.

So we cannot use it in a text command.

So yeah, shading must be inserted inside the text picture environment. So let's actually initiate one. And then the command shade with options,

break after this. Okay, so you insert a left color and a right color. And those will meet and mix to create the shade. And this will be done, of course, as the two colors from the left and right propagate to the center. So let's actually make an example.

So here for the shade command, we have a specification called left color. Let's make it CN. And then we have a right color. Let's make it green. And then again, we make a rectangle.

And this time,

make it quite wide. So six on the x axis. So let's see how this looks. So yeah, this is a shaded path. So here the shade command is used to create this rectangle, we have specified two types of colors, a left color that starts from the left boundary, and then it degrades as it goes towards the center.

And then we have a right color. that starts from the area border and of course the grades. So they meet kind of in the center making this shaded preview. And of course you can mix the colors with white. So let's actually make another shade here.

so shade the left color let's say red 70 percent and then our right color let's say blue this time 80 percent and this is for a circle

that starts far away and takes a radius again of one centimeter so it's the same concept but we've degraded the colors so here it is so now we have this shaded circle with the left color kind of reddish it starts from the left and the right color kind of bluish so let's insert a v space to continue And as for normal filled paths, you can also draw a contour around the shape. So we can actually fill draw a shade. So let's initiate the takes picture. So let's give it generally the ultra thick. And the command that allows you to make a contour around the shaded path is not the field row, it's the shade draw.

So shade, and then draw. This is our guy here. And of course, it takes a left color, blue and right color, of course, Let's make a violet. Sorry about that. And then since this is a, it has a draw around this shade.

So we put a draw color after that. So again, let's say the contour of this shaded rectangle will be black. So again, the same size of rectangle here. And let's see it. So yeah, here we are.

This is our guy here. It has been done through the shade, which makes this mix of colors, and then draw, which is this draw black. So yeah, this is another command that can make you a different style of paths. So now generally for colors, they can be inserted as an option to the takes picture or the draw command. So generally for any kind of drawing elements you have.

So let's make a subsection. Let's start a takes picture. And then we have a general color. Let's make it teal.

So of course, coloring is a global option that can be inserted as an option for a takes picture. Let's also make this ultra thick. Now any path drawn in this environment will take, of course, this teal color. So yeah, that makes sense. That's how LaTeX works.

And for convenience, you can remove this color keyword and the equal sign. So yeah, you can just insert, of course, the name of the color. So let's make some path.

this is just some lines so this will be the cycle to close this so of course this is a triangle Okay, so instead of giving the draw command for the path a color, we can insert it as a global option to all the drawing elements or paths inside the text picture. So of course, this persists, we can increase a circle on the run.

So this is a hollow circle here.

And of course, as for any general option for an environment analytic, you can, of course, overwrite it. So we can give another color for a certain path that we want. So this is a rectangle that ends at 10 and 3.

So we didn't give any color specification for the first two paths. So they took the general option here, the teal color. But for this rectangle, we overrided the default color. OK, so far we've been using encapsulated values for the thickness of paths. Of course, speaking of the lines, like thick and ultra-thick.

But of course, you can set it with explicit value through the line width option. So let's see that. So the default for any path is thin, which is 0.4 points. So let's document this.

So let's try this option on a bow tie path. So a tigs picture. So here for this path, there is a line with option that can be used to set some explicit value instead of thin, which is the default thick or ultra thick that we've been using so far. So feel free to stop and check the coordinates of this path.

here it is. Okay. Let's see it first. So yeah, this is kind of a bow tie. So generally for the path we set, we can set a line width.

This is one of the styling options that can any takes paths can take. And I think this is a good chance for you to see the effect of the cycle operation. So here for it will be obvious if we removed this cycle with an explicit value of zero and two, which is the starting point, of course. So you can look at this, I think. Yeah, here it is.

So you can see the difference now. So the cycle operation or keyword actually has its influence on closing paths, especially if you have thick lines like what we have here. So it's a good practice to leave the cycle operation.

And again, so yeah, now, okay. So the next concept that we'll look at is how to make arrows in some detail. But first, let's take a stop at some styling options for lines. Specifically, we'll look at what is called a line cap and a line join. So let's make a sectional unit for that.

Line caps define the shape of the start and the end of a line, and the joints determine how, in terms of shape, two lines might be joined. For caps, and as shown in the figure, you have round edges as well as rectangular and butt. And we will see the differences. And so for the joins, as in the picture from left, you've got round bevel and miter. So I will typeset those cases in a tabular form.

It will be a table of two columns and three rows. So let's make that.

So this is just the head row. So let's break a page here. And let's see this initial setup. Okay. So yeah, here we are.

And then let's put the second row to list the cases that you saw. So here we'll have for the line caps, a round and rectangular butt as stated. So just to complete the information. And here in this location, we'll insert the tig's picture. So let's give it a line width.

so you can see the differences clearly. And this is the environment for the cat the line caps, the first cell, and then the ampersand. And the another instance of this, this picture, this is for the joins. Okay. So let's break this line and put an H line at the end.

We can run with those tigs pictures being empty. Okay, so first of all, to give some margin above the shapes, I will insert an invisible line with the path command that will have an effect on the entire row. So mainly the two tigs environments. So in the first one, we'll just put a path. that is just a an invisible line.

And this will give some space. So to shape the edges, we use the option line cap to the draw command when setting the line. So here, we can use the draw command and in the options, we specify the line cap that we prefer.

So this is just a line to see the effect. So let's begin by round and run see it. Okay, here we are. This is a normal thick line by the effect of the option line within the environment. This is a normal line.

But now we have the line cab around so the ends or the edges of the line are now rounded. And then we have the rectangular case.

So those are just computed locations. And now the line cap is rectangular for this second line. Okay, here it is. This is the second shape and the third shape is called the bot.

Here it is. It's a normal line. Let's see it.

okay so now it's clear that there is a difference in size between the last style and the previous ones and that's actually because round and rectangle increases the size of the cap so we can see that the distance that we walk in the x-axis is exactly one unit for the three lines But here we have this difference in the starting and the ending locations of the three lines. So again, the round and the rectangle increases some spaces on the edges from here and here. To make this more obvious, let's draw a thin white lines between the same points of the cab lines. So now I'll insert lines here at those same locations.

here is a new draw path with the line. And then we override the greater or the big line width by default. So we want a thin white line. This will extend on the same locations. So let's actually see it.

And here it is. So this is the white line that you see here without any line cab specification. This is the exact same size. So the round and the rectangle here and here increases some amount around the actual size or the default size of the line. And the bots with which is the last one doesn't increase anything.

So it takes the actual space occupied by the line itself. And the bot is actually the default line cap. And I think this makes sense. So if we remove that,

So yeah, it still has the same effect. So the bot line cap to form the edges of a line is the default one. Okay, so as you know, by now, I'm a little bit control freak. So make sure of the sizes of the lines, we can mark the start and the end by vertical blue lines. So it might not actually might be visually tricky to believe that those three lines are the same, because they extension that is made by the rectangle and the round here gives kind of a false visual appearance, but they are the same.

To make sure we will insert another path here, which is a blue thin line again. Let's see where those two lines lie. So if we zoom a little bit, doesn't go further. So yeah, this vertical line ensures that those three lines are the same. And it views how much of increased edges those line caps increase on top of the default size of the line.

So yeah, And now for the joins, we draw two lines and assign certain style to the line join option to form the connection between the two lines. So let's see that.

The option here is line join.

So now we start at zero and zero.

This is the first line and then this is where the second line ends. So let's start again with the round line join. And let's see it. Okay, here we are. So we have those two lines.

The join here is rounded. And the second one is called bevel. Here is an example. So we have the line join for this example to be bevel. I see it.

Here it is. So it's kind of cut it at this edge. And the third one is called miter. So this is another shape. And here is its path.

So this is the third one.

Okay, so it's kind of the very sharp edge of the three. And again, this third one is of course, as you may have guessed, the default line join.

So yeah, this is the miter is the default.

So those are three ways to make line caps to form how the line ends and then to control how two lines meet each other. Okay, Okay so now let's go to the arrows in some detail.

Let's make the line width to be two points.

Let's put a line in here and let's put another two examples of that.

Okay, so to attach an arrowhead to a line as we saw before, we put the desired orientation as an option to the draw command. So if we have a draw command like that, that draws a line.

that ends at five and zero. Again, to represent a line in the options of a drawing path, we put the hyphen and then the arrowhead on either edges of the line. So let's start with right as we saw before. So yeah, this is the first shape. Okay.

And now in the second environment, reverse that. So we point the arrowhead to the left.

And then we can make it bi-directional by inserting both of the greater than and the less than around the dash. So in this third one, we have the arrows on the two edges of the line. You can control the shape of the arrowhead. So let's give some V space to look at that. And this is done by choosing a style before inserting the arrow.

You do so by inserting the combo greater than an equal sign followed by one of three predefined styles. So if you wish to change the shape of the arrowhead, we use this combo. So for the draw command, we define the style or the shape that we want, and we will look at that, and then a comma, and then we put the specification for the orientation of the arrow itself. So let's actually make an example. To illustrate that, again, I will make a tabular environment.

And this is the head row. So look at the style and the arrow shapes. The first arrow shape is called stealth. And here we put actually a Tiggs picture. So here we insert a draw command.

The initial setup for the line that will take the arrowhead.

do not forget to end this line. So yeah, and now to control the shape again, we put the greater than the equal sign. And then we put the word stealth, or generally the name that we want. And after that, so this is the definition or the choice.

The greater than and equal sign with the style name. And then to complete the option, we put the specification of the arrowhead. So let's make it to point on the right. I see that

Okay, so here we are. The first shape is called stealth. So it's quite sharp, unlike kind of rounded arrowhead that is exhibited by default.

So let's put an H line. And you can have the head reversed by just adding the word reversed. So this head now is by default, of course, the tip of the arrowhead is pointing outside, we can flip that. So we can have this tip pointing inside to the line itself. So let's actually see an example of that.

So here is an example of the reversed. We have the stealth and then we add the word reversed after the shape name. And this is what we get. So yeah, as stated, we now have the tip of the arrow pointing to the inside of the line just by adding the first word to the stealth or the name of the shape. So the default style is called two.

And that's what we've been using before. So let's put an example.

So we increase the two, which is the default, again, a takes picture, the greater than and the equal sign, the two shape, and then a line pointing to the right, this row is ended. And then we have the reversed version of the two. So after the word two, we increase the reversed and then the specification of the arrow height. So let's see it. Okay, so we zoom a little bit.

So this is kind of their their rounded, quite rounded arrowhead. That is this one.

So it's called two. Okay, so let's actually remove this edge line between the stealth and it's reversed version, this one here.

Okay, and the third shape is called latech.

And here we are. So there is a arrow shape called latech. So this is the default version of that shape and reversed again. Let's see it. Okay, so it's kind of this straight triangular solid shape.

This one here and it's reversed version. So we have the stealth, the two, it's kind of rounded, which is the default, and then the latex shape. So yeah, those are the basic shapes that tigs offer. But there are more than that. And we're going to quickly walk through some other options for the shapes of the arrows to the end of this video.

So for that, we're going to use a tigs utility called arrows. So let's give some V space here.

Okay, so now tigs has many packages of its own for drawing various kinds of specific shapes, like arrowheads here. So those are to be loaded using a command called use tigs library. And this using command is to be inserted normally in a preamble after the loaded packages. So go into their preamble. And of course, make sure if you use any kind of TIGS library to load it, of course, after loading the whole package of TIGS.

So there is a use TIGS library.

And we'll use arrows.

So arrows is a small package of tigs. Okay, your utility as they are called tigs libraries, you can find a lot of them at the end of the gigantic documentation. So this arrows one, give some variations for the arrowheads, like those one in the figure, we will type set those four tabulars now. So you have open and solid triangles with different angles, then the style angle like in the middle box and lastly diamond square and circular shapes.

Note that the describing words in those tables are the actual style names to be used in the draw command, of course. So let's initiate a table float. And here is the first tabular.

So as before, we set the shape for each one. So open triangle 90, this is the name of the shape offered by the arrow sticks library. So we're then an equal the name of the shape. So this is an open triangle with 90 degrees pointing to the right for this line. And then the two instances for the other two angles, the 60 degrees and the 45.

So let's see those. Okay. So this is kind of a hollow kind of stealth shape, but with different angles. And now there is actually a shortcut for this setting, which is to type the name of the style around the dash only, like without a greater than or equal sign. So we'll do that in the second table.

And here it is.

So of course, I put this comment here so you can notice the shortcut. So before, we have been defining the style and then using that style, all put as an options for the draw command of the line. Now the shortcut is just to use the name of the style as if it's the greater than sign for the specification of the line. So now this is the dash, and then we have this triangle 90. So this will point to the right.

because we put the name of the style around the dash here is on the right first and the last one is in life. So let's see it. Okay, so we have this dash only, and then the name of the style, you can put it on the right to make the arrowhead point to the right, then the 60 degrees on the right. And then for the 45, we put the name of the style on the left of the dash. So we got the arrowhead pointing to the left.

Okay, so following the same convention here, there are three different angles for the tool style. So let's put some V space here, and we'll center the following table.

So just remember that those are tabular environments inside the table float. So this third table has an angle 90. Again, so let's see it. It will be here.

So there is a V space and it is centered. So this is the whole one. So now we have another three different angular shapes. So the angle 90, again, we use the shortcut and we have the angle 60 to the right and the angle 40. So those are kind of open.

And eventually the fourth table. and paste. So let's make this indented. So this is quite big actually. Let's see it and then we'll explain that.

So we have here this kind of wide table has three areas. We have an extra shape called open diamond here in this first one. And then we have just diamond, this second one, which is filled. And then there is the circle, which is just the O letter here.

And then for the second row, we have the open square, the hollow one, and kind of a solid square, but we just call it square.

This one here. And then we have the asterisk, which is a filled circle. So we just put the dash to represent the line. And we can actually make this to point on the left.

whatever you want. So that was pretty big table environment. So yeah, this is all about arrows. Those are the default. This is how we can change the stealth or latex as you want from the two different And this all of those shapes are defined in the arrow tics library that we loaded at the top.

So just remember that you can use this specification and then using or just make this shortcut and sort the name of the style of the arrowhead that you want on the direction that you want it to point at. So yeah, that's it. So I'll stop here for now and we'll continue on the next video. So see you there. OK, we're still playing around with figures.

And so far, we've been dealing with shapes that are drawn from objects without any text or math incorporated. So if you look at any one of the shapes or paths that we've been drawing so far, they're just like solid or hollow shapes.

That's actually not what you'd expect normally from a graph. So the way that we can enhance our drawings with text, math or other content is by using nodes.

Okay, the node is a path operation. And that means its syntax may be placed within a path like other objects. So the full syntax of a node is this.

So again, as for any takes object, we have a path, everything can be broken down into a path. And we have the word node, what follows the node is a label given inside a pair of parentheses. And then of course, we can have some options inside brackets. And lastly, inside curly brackets, we have the content. So this path can be kind of a circle, and the content is a word, a textual content inside or kind of anywhere around that circle.

And then we have the semicolon to end that path. And here indeed the path will be replaced by the draw command. So this is just the original or the basis of the entire syntax of a node. I just want to point out that the label here for a node is optional. And of course, the options part is, again, optional.

So you have two mandatory components to make a node, the word node, and the content of that node. And the label and the options are two optional component of building a node. So a tigs node can be as basic as a plain text. So let's try that with the tigs command. Then we give it the draw command.

And then we type the keyword node, and then the content of the node, which is of course mandatory. So let's call this space node. So let's now see how this works. Okay, so this is just the text here. And the base node here is actually a tigs component.

So tigs draw, and then this is a node and this is the content of the node. So a plain text. Of course, it can also contain math mode from simple exponents to entire matrices. So let's attach some text or math mode content. Sorry.

So run. Okay, we were x not raised three. So a text a math mode. And it can even fit a table within the content here inside the brackets. So we can attach a tabular environment here.

So begin tabular, and then we've got the end of that tabular.

So now this is the contents section. We must end that. And here

we'll have two rows or two columns. I'm sorry. And then there is an H line.

So let's see that.

Okay. So about that.

So yeah, now this entire thing is a node. here in the content. So we have a text, a math mode, and even an entire table that is given to the contents of this node. So this is a graphical element, if you believe it.

Let's break a line. So now, since nodes are placed within paths, so we can add a vertex to act as a current coordinate of the path. So let's make another tigs command.

So here, let's insert a draw command.

And after this point, we place the node and then again, the content of the node, which is just a text.

So let's see what this looks like.

Okay, so previously we inserted the node keyword directly after the draw command, but of course we can attach a coordinate point. And the very first option to think of for a node is the draw. So here we'll begin playing with the options of a node. So let's see what happens if we attach this draw option. And voila, this is the reason why I named this box node, because the draw command or the draw option here frames the node.

And this is by default, a rectangle. Now unlike normal drawn rectangles, the current coordinate of the path, which is zero and zero, which we increased here, doesn't lie at the lower left corner. So actually it's in the middle of the nodes area here. Let's first change this point to incorporate normal object with a node under the same path. So we're still in this tigs.

Let's place a circle at two and zero. 15 points radius.

So now the current coordinate of the path is two and zero. And inside this circle, let's type the word circle with a node. So here under this path, Let's attach the node path operation. Again, the node is a path operation. So you can attach the node anywhere.

It's like the lines, the rectangles, whatever, it's a it's an essential element of tags that you can place under any path anywhere. So now let's type the word circle. And let's see what will happen. Okay, so the content of the node appears in the middle of the path, which is just a circle. And now the vertex at which a node is drawn inside a path lies at the center of the node shape.

So to see that, let's fill a small red circle at four and zero.

to point radius. Okay. And then after this new red small circle, insert a node to type small circle. So now again, we're extending this path, if you recall, by a node operation. So give it the draw to see it.

And then black. And after that, the content, which is a small circle.

I see that. And here it is. And as you can see the vertex of four and zero here, which is this small red circle, when we attached a node to this path, which has the four and zero as its current coordinate, that node is drawn around this area or around this point. Note that the black color is given as an option to the node to protect it from the red color of the path. So, you know, if we omit this black, we'll have the entire node in red because this is the default color of the entire path in which the node lies within.

So undo. So if you place a node operation under a path and you give it the draw to frame this rectangle by default around the content of the node, the current coordinate lies directly inside or inside at the center of the drawing node. know that this is the case when the node operation isn't given a different vertex to be at. So since this is a node operation, or since the node is a path operation, if you didn't specify a specific point or coordinate, so you can consider this just a line. will happen if you placed a line here, it will take the last previous coordinate point as its starting point, and then you would place an ending point.

So the node is just like a line, it's an operation to extend the path. So now we insert this node without a preceding special coordinate for it. So it took this four and zero as a coordinate point to lie around. So we can easily change the current point in the path to locate a node.

So let's do that here. Here we have this hollow circle at two and zero. Okay, and we attach the node circle this word here.

So we can specify a point before the node operation. Let's say two and minus 25.

You see, this is a part of the path and this is the second part of the path. So previously the node took this two and zero, but now it takes this new location. So look at this circle word now. Okay. And it's shifted down.

So previously we were at two and zero here. we fixed the x location, but give it a negative value for the y location of this node circle. So again, this is a normal extending operation for the path. So we can insert it to rely on the last previous coordinate point or specify a dedicated location to place a node.

Okay, so now let's learn more features about nodes. We'll construct this shape in the figure to examine new concepts. We'll do that in one tig's picture centered by a figure float. So let's construct those shapes. Here we have begin figure.

Let's place it here and then centering. and the tig's picture let's start from the center by the rectangle node so draw at zero and zero a node that takes the label direct this label is actually like the previous label that we gave to the normal coordinate points or vertices. So we can point to this specific node later and use it. And we want of course to draw this node. And then this is kind of a sparse word node here.

And you will see why. So this node is given a label as stated is called direct, and we'll use it later. This is the increase here. So let's see it. Okay, here we have this like normal node that is drawn as this content, the node is placed at zero and zero.

Okay, so the node with the word north is given by this path.

It's placed at 0 on 1.

It has a label called node north and then we have north.

Unlike other operations or objects, a node's content appears in the output under the path command without draw option.

So the path here for a node is not hidden or invisible, it appears actually. So sticking to the path command, let's create the right circular east node.

So we'll learn how to connect those nodes in just a minute. And this is placed at two and zero, a node operation that has a node East label. And it has as its content, the word East. Okay, it will appear on the right. So just remember that we're still in the same takes pictures.

So all of those share the same coordinate system. So we're traversing this area. Okay, and to place a circle around this node, there is no need to draw a circle centered under this path here. because a handy option to nodes called shape can do the job. So here after the node label, we give some options, we want to draw this node, and then the shape will be circle this time.

So by default, as we know, if we draw a node, we've got a rectangle to change that the shape option can be given to the node, of course, after the draw option.

And this will frame the content of the node with the specified shape. Okay. So of course, as stated, you can just attach a circle operation to this path. But since we have the draw and the specific shape for the node, this is quite compact. With this same setting, the elliptical west node on the left can be typeset as follows, we have the path command,

the ellipse is on the left so negative x value it has node West and then we have options draw and then shape equals ellipse and the content is just the West word

So let's see. Okay, so we must have done this before running, which is to load the tigs library shapes. So we have this package error here unknown shape ellipse. So by default in tigs, we only have the rectangle shape for the node and the circle. So the ellipse is far beyond that.

So let's go up

and use tigs library, just as we did with the arrows in the last video. So this one is called shapes. If we run that, and here we are, this is the West node here. And the last node in this figure is the lower splitted circle, which uses the shape circle split. So let's make this draw.

We have zero and negative y value this time. The node is called split.

It has some options.

we have draw and circle split. And again, you can omit the shape keyword and the equal sign as for any options. So you can just after inserting the draw, put the name of the shape directly. So this is a possibility, of course. And then the content.

text down. So let's see that. Okay.

And actually, that's not quite correct, because this shape divides the circle into two zones here. And by default, the content comes in the upper part. So this entire content is laid in the upper part. So to fix that, we must add the command node part. We put the node part

that takes the lower value before the piece of the content appear down. So by default, as we saw, the content appears on the upper part. So to split, we use the node part and then we specify lower so that now down

will occupy the down part or the lower part.

Okay, note that the word lower is a fixed input with lower case l, so be careful about it because it's defined by the library. So make sure to type it like this. And it's obvious that it indicates that, again, whatever comes after this node part will be in the lower part. So what will happen if we took this splitting action and put it at the beginning of the content, so whatever comes after this lower node part will appear down. So this is kind of reversing the default behavior.

So this is how we can manage this specific shape. Now let's draw the connecting arrows. So inside this takes picture. So this is the stage at which we will use the labels or the names of the nodes. We'll start by the blue dot that represents the center of the rectangular node.

So let's fill this with blue. just leave it for now and circle and then 1.5 points so if we will place a circle we would like to give a specific or explicit value or as before as we used the coordinate if you remember the coordinate keyword that use the label to give names to normal vertex or coordinate points. Instead of putting an explicit value for the center point of the circle, we can actually use a node label. So we want this to be at the center of the direct node.

So we use the label of the direct node, which will be zero and zero, actually, because this node is placed at this coordinate point. So here we are. Yeah. So every labeled node has five locations that can be accessed. Center and the four normal directions, north, south, east, and west.

We access that spot of the node by typing its name attached by a dot to the node's label. So if we didn't specify anything, we get this blue dot in the middle point of the node, which is the current coordinate of the path in which the node is inserted. But we can change that. So center node dot center, is the default, nothing will change. Okay, so this is how you can access certain locations in a node.

So this is actually defining the center point of the circle. So we do that by accessing a node. So we can by default access the center point, or we can change that. So let's say that we want east, for example,

Let's see what will happen.

The blue circle appeared at the east direction of the node direction here. So it's at east. So we can try west, node.west. That means that when this circle, blue small circle, they appear at the west of the direct node.

so it'll appear at the left and you can play around this is north that appear up top here it is and south

So this is how we can manipulate the using stage of the label of some node. You put a dot and then you put center if you want that or south east west north to place this path operation at this specific location of that node. So now coming to the lines connecting those nodes, we'll start with the upper one that extends from direct north. So let's draw. It's an arrow, of course.

So this one starts from direct dot north. So the line to go from here to there, it's a normal line that starts at this is the starting point. So again, instead of giving this line, a number as a starting point, we give it the label of some node, which is the label of the rectangular center node here. And we access a specific location of this node. So we want the line to start from here, which is the direct dot north.

And then the endpoint will be at node north. which is this north node here.

So I see it. Okay, there is no need to type north dot south, it reaches the south by default. So you can see that this is a new way of placing lines in terms of nodes. So this is a normal line draw that starts at some node at north to reach some other node. And then you've got the right line that connects the central node to the east circular node.

So draw, and then it's an arrow, of course, again, it goes from east of direct. So the starting point is direct dot east. So to start the line from here, and then this line will reach node East, again, there is no need to type kind of node dot node East dot West, it's just will reach there. Okay, here it is. Okay, cool.

And the next arrow will be the left one. So this is a line that serves a direct dot west from here to reach node west, this one. See it.

Okay, and the last one is actually a double arrowhead. So draw

You do that by putting simply two greater than arrows. So instead of one arrow, we have two arrows. This one first starts from the center. So this is direct dot center. This will reach split node here.

And that, and let's see it. okay here we are let's put this blue circle in the center so remove this south okay

So through the use of labels nodes and their direction, this actually uses the process of placing and playing around with nodes and other objects in the tig's picture. And it actually adds a meaning to the graph that we're trying to build. So like imagine if this is stated by like explicit numbers, it will be cumbersome. So yeah, using labels and directions adds some intuition.

So now a new figure to learn a few more concepts about nodes. So let's place another float here. Centering again.

And the takes picture. There is a useful option a node can take to control the size of its shape. So let's initiate a node first at zero and zero. We'll call it N, capital N. We would like to draw it.

And the content is a BF. Let's see it. Okay, here it is. The option that we're going to use to control the size of the shape of the node is called inner sip, which is the inner separation between the content and the shape. So after the draw here, we put inner step 10 points.

So look at this node now. Sorry about that. Separation equals.

Okay. So now it's kind of that we added an inner padding or separation between the text and the frame of the node.

So this is done through the inner separation here. And again, it's another option and nodes shape can take which is the double action. This one as the name suggests, draw two lines or frames around a node taking any shape. Let's try it with a new shape called ellipse split. It's like the circle split here, but in more general case.

So draw

Let's shift it down this node, which we'll call L for ellipsoid. We want to draw it, of course. The shape is ellipse, split, and then the content.

Again, we use the node part, just like the circle split, lower.

and L. Let's see that. Okay, here it is. So if we add the double option, let's bring this to the second line. So in the options for the node, we just put the double word.

And this will make two instances of the frame drawn by the draw option of the node.

Okay, so there is actually another alternative way to draw nodes in tags and this is widely used and it's through the node command. So the node command takes this syntax. we have backslash node, and then options as for any later command that we saw, then comes the label and the word at to specify the coordinate point at which we want to place our node and then comes the content. So this is a bit of a modified arrangement. Again, the node and the options, the label, the word add, and then the point, and then the content.

Let's bring this back. Let's use this convention to draw a circular node at 4 and 0. So this time, backslash node, we want to draw this node as before. The shape is a circle. Then comes the label for the node.

After the label comes the word at, and then we want to place this at four and zero. And then lastly comes the content. So I like to use this node convention a lot because it makes sense. So place this node with those options that has this name optional at this location with this content. So let's see it.

Okay, here we are. The node is placed far away at four and zero. Now, of course, the coordinate at which to draw a node can be a location direction of another node. So this this specification here, this part after the ad, of course, we can make it a label for another node or a label with a direction for another node. So let's try placing a small rounded rectangle at the north of the first node set.

This one.

So with this new node convention, we want to draw a white, but fill it with black, rounded corner. So make it quite compact. and then add. Here we put the label dot north. So the first node step called capital N, so capital N dot north, just as before.

So placing a node in terms of a location and direction of another node. And then this is called N as the content N. Let's see that. So it's kind of this small N here. So this is the N, we have it drawn.

The white is of course for the text, which is the content of the node. And then we fill the node with black in the background and we give it rounded corners. And then we place it at the north of the node set. And of course it comes centered at this north location. Okay, and now connecting nodes is fairly simple.

Let's extend a line. This line will be drawn from the end East this time.

to reach the circular right node, which is called node at, and then from there to the ellipsis east. So another line. So this is L dot east and done. So look at this now. This is a normal path, line segment based path that has the corner points just like nodes, labels and directions of nodes.

So let's see it. So yeah, we start from the end dot East here to reach node add by default, this reaches the West. And from that, we go to ellipse dot East. And now actually takes kind of chooses where to start the second line segment. So this one here, because we didn't specify this second line from here to there, there is no specification actually for a specific location or certain location on this node.

So takes chooses this area on the circular node. So, until now, we've been accessing nodes through their labels, the four directions, of course, plus the center. But this isn't the only way. In fact, TIGS is much more flexible regarding this matter, and it gives us the ability to use angles. So we can override this or change this default choice by tags.

If we want to attach this line or this tip to this tip, we can use angles. So first, let's try this new concept on a new path. So fill with blue, and then we have a starting point of the node at dot center.

This will serve as the center point of a circle that has two points as a radius.

So this is the center point of this node at we'll just mark that. And then let's draw a line to cross this center point. So draw, and then

node at dot. Now we extend it from the first quarter of the circle at 45 degrees.

course, as usual, measured counterclockwise from the positive x axis. So instead of using implicit locations, predefined the east, north, south, west, and so on, the general case is actually using an angle. So from the node at dot 45 degrees,

we extend a line to reach the surface of the circle in the third quarter at 225 you will see what this looks like now this line will cross this circle

So yeah, first of all, this is a line, the starting point of the line is the node that has a label node at here dot 45 degrees measured from the x axis counterclockwise. So this is the starting point. And where this ends actually inside this node at 225 degrees measured

all the way up from the positive x axis. So this is the endpoint. So this is how we can use the more general case of accessing a certain location on the surface of a drone node by using angles. So now for this line operation that connected those three paths, you could have specified the segment to start from. So at this node at let's say that we want to start at 180 degrees.

So again, to unify this tip and this tip, we want this one to start at 180 degrees here.

And this is, of course, the east of this node. Oh, sorry, the west. Sorry about that.

Yes, this is the west. OK, and of course, this degree notation works between any nodes regarding their shapes. So we can add another path.

We can start at the ellipse 180 degrees to connect a line to the end at this degree. I see it. Okay, here we are. This starts at the west of this ellipse to reach this 203. I actually got this by trying there because this is a rectangular shape.

So you can play around with this angle to reach any surface or any location on the surface of this node.

And indeed degrees can be used to place nodes also. So you can use this to do that. We want to draw a node as white for the text, the fill as black. it is a circular shape double circle actually okay a lot of options here um act here we will use an angle we want to place this node at n okay so n is um the first node here this uh node set So want to place this new node at n dot 270 degrees. This will only hold the capital letter C. So let's see.

So we have it, a lot of options like the first one. The point here is that we placed a node at a specific location in which we used a label for another node and accessed a specific angle for that. And if you look close around this node, because we've inserted the double option, the outer contour of this node is separated now. So this gap here is equal kind of this small gap here. So the filled with black is the inner portion of this double circle.

If you won't see it, we can change this to green, for example. Yes, here it is. This is the entire contour. It took the C letter with it, so we can change that to text color white for the C. Okay, so yeah, be careful about that.

Okay, we've seen before how to use the coordinate method of marking some points by labels.

Let's start this by a grid. So help lines, if you recall, at zero and zero, a grid to end at two and one. So instead of using coordinate under a draw command or path, there is also the coordinate command itself.

So those are two instances. So for normal coordinate points, instead of placing the coordinates and then the label under a draw command, as we did before, there is the coordinate command, of course, and then the label at, so you put this coordinate label at this specific point. So this coordinate method will be actually useful if you're laying down a setup without drawing the paths. So it's kind of a free setup for a big graph. So you mark some nodes to make your code more intuitive.

so if you thought about it you can actually place an empty node and this is done using the node at syntax so we can mark a point with a label like the coordinate method so we can use the node command by this syntax

So as before node label at some point and then we leave out the content. So this is an empty node.

Okay, so here in this things picture, we only got the helplines. So this is how you can give a name for a normal coordinate point using the coordinate. And this is how you can give a name or actually place an empty node at some location and give it a label, of course. So those are two methods in which you can use them for initial setup for some graphs. So you give some points node and you give some points labels and you give some nodes labels also without having to print anything in the output.

However, this isn't a good approach for this job. And here is why. So let's draw a line from A to B and then C. Let's see this. look at this.

Okay, so supposedly, we started at a zero and zero, and then we managed to reach B at one on one. And then we for from there, we extend a line to the hidden node, or the empty node at two and zero. So you expect that this line segment will reach this lower left corner, but that didn't happen. And this is because creating an empty node requires some space by default. So yeah, you can place empty nodes.

But if you want to give some points, some labels, you can stick to the coordinate method.

So the next concept is fundamental and extremely useful when working with nodes, which is the anchor option. Let's first set up an environment to illustrate this concept.

I'll use a small filled circle named A. So let's fill blue as zero and zero coordinate A circle that is three point

in radius. And there is a node or there will be a node drawn at A.

So let's see those.

Sorry about this typo.

okay so we have here a circle and a node draw at the coordinate of that circle So by default, and as we know so far, the node is drawn around the point, or in other words, the point A appears in the center of the node. So the anchor option for a node is used to position the node relative to a given point. That point, of course, is what used to draw the node at. So in other words, anchor is controlling the relative orientation of the node and the point. You see, if you imagine a ship and its anchor, they are actually in opposite directions in the sense that if you say the ship is up, then the anchor is down to hold it.

This is exactly how this option is working. the anchor defaults to center. So here after draw, this is anchor is an option that defaults to center. Again, the thing that we're trying to do is to look at the orientation or the configuration of a node drawn at some point. So how we can place a node relative to some point, we use the anchor.

So by default, again, this drawn node with the anchoring content is placed around this point A, which is zero and zero. So the anchor option, since its default is center, so it accepts the cardinal directions. So let's try north.

Now let's see what will happen. Now the anchor, which is the circle at point A is to the north of the node here. So we tell it that the anchor of the node is to the north of this point. So this is the anchor and this is the ship. the node here is the ship.

And we tell Leighton that the anchor which is the point A will be at the north. So actually, this anchor option does not relate to the node. Rather indirectly, it's for the point at which the node is drawn. You see, so anchor north means put the point at which we're placing the node on the north or at the north of the drone node. And again, the anchor is the point A at which we're drawing the node.

so we can try south so now this a will be here this blue circle will be at the south and the node is to the north of that south anchor And also you do have intermediate directions like south east and west and the same for north. So we've said that this the general case is actually a degree. So we have some freedom. So let's try south east the anchor which is the point a again will be at the south east here of the drone node.

Okay, here it is. So anchor is the point at which the node is drawn. You specify the location of that anchor using the anchor option given to the options collection of the node. Before leaving this shape, I think I would like to leave it

at north so placing this point A here at the north So as you can see, by default, the anchor point shape, which is this blue circle, is kind of centered vertically around the border in which it's placed. Just like previously, we saw it with the N and the C. So you say north, and you imagine like the baseline of this circle will lie at the tip or the upper boundary of this draw node. But no, it's by default centered vertically around this border or location. So What if we want to move it a little bit then of course we can do that.

This is done through adjusting the outer separation command option to the node. So we looked at inner separation previously here which added this kind of inner padding or space between the text and the boundaries of the node and the outer separation. So let's try it. Outer sep equals, let's say, five points. Let's see what it does.

Look at this orientation now. And it's lifted up a little bit. So this option essentially controls the amount of space added around a node. So unlike intercept, which separates the content of the node from the boundaries of the drawn node, the outer separation is for the outer space added around that node. So this option defaults to zero points, of course.

And when altered, it affects the relative position between a node and its anchor. So yeah, this is how we can in different ways control a node, its orientation and the distance between it and its anchor. So the extra space added by this option goes beyond the default one required by the node that we saw in the previous figure. So to clarify that and to see the effect of this option more clearly, let's go back to the previous things picture. So this one, let's fill the empty node by a letter C. This one here, so capital C.

Okay, so we have still have this little space around the node. So here what I want you to understand is we don't have an outer separation option to this node. Okay. And still we've got this prohibited area around this node. So this is the default space required by the node.

So the outer separation is another thing. So we can actually make sure of that by adding an outer separation here. So let's say some, let's first let's make it zero, which is the default. So nothing will change. Look at that.

Okay, still at the same orientation. And then let's insert a kind of a huge outer separation. Now look at this line, it will shrink a whole lot of amount, look at it. And here it is. So around I know there is kind of a default, if you didn't draw the default, skip our area that it occupies, and then the outer separation adds beyond that amount.

So to see the size of this node, this is the required space by the node if you would like to draw it. So again, you have two spaces, a required space by the node to be placed. If it's drawn or not, it doesn't matter. It will take this space. And then this is the 10 points outer separation.

It starts from here to there. So now just to keep everything obvious, using the label of the node is different than explicitly using its coordinates to draw some objects. Let's look at this path. Here we have a red path that has two line segments. The first one starts at the node C and at this location and the second line segment is like any other one.

So let's see this. So actually, this path shows an interesting result. Here we have two line segments. The first one starts at node C. So by default, it starts from the center of node C. So this is exactly the center of node C is two and zero.

so here this node at two and zero so this is the center so this line starts from here and reaches some location but if you tried to replace this c by two and zero explicitly then this method takes into account the two spaces or distances required by the node, the one for the frame, and the second is the outer separation. So be aware of that. If you wish, like in this bizarre hypothetical situation, if you want to start at two and zero, you'd like to choose the center of node C. So this is the right axis. So this area can be accessed by the label of the node.

But explicit numerical values, you cannot do that. You will start beyond the outer separation and the space of the frame of the node.

Okay, so now that we've learned a whole lot about nodes, do you remember when we draw the base zero curves? This example here, let's zoom out a little bit.

So yeah, this one here, the curve to operation, I said that when we learn about nodes, we will be able to label the vertices and the control points. So yeah, previously, as stated in at the beginning of this video, we were just placing some

abstract shapes without text or math mode, but now we know that we can insert any type, actually any kind of little content by using a node. So let's go back to this section. Yes, the Curve To operation will place some nodes here, some annotations for those points.

So before the beginning of the end of this environment, to revise, we have a starting point labeled P start, this one here. Okay, we have an endpoint P end, we have the C one, the first control point and the second control point used to draw this nice curve here. So let's start by drawing some node for the starting point. So PST, the label of that point will place a node that has an anchor and if you recall we would like to name this point a the start of the curve and this point b and this will be c1 and c2 so this is a in math mode and end that so the anchor This is the left point again here on the x-axis. Now I want to place the letter A to the northwest outside this grid.

So here I would like to place an A here at this location. So what anchor should I put? In other words, to think about it clearly, we want to place the A here. So what will be the location of the point relative to this node? So the node A and the point.

So a node and a point. What is the anchor? So simply Southeast, if we want the A to appear here, then the point at which this node will be placed will be at the Southeast.

So Southeast, let's see it.

Okay, again, the anchor is for the point at which the node is placed. So this point is this little small black circle. It lies at the southeast of this node. So the upper control point, this one, C1, like feel free to play around with those anchors. This is just the location I prefer.

So let's actually not close this path until we're done.

So C1, we would like to place a node that has an anchor. Let's say this time simply south. So the node will appear at the north of this point, C1. So let's call it C1. Let's see it.

Let's close for now and see it. Okay, here it is. And what about C2? Which is this one, the second control point. If we want the C2 to appear here, the node to appear here, then the anchor, which is the point, will be at the north.

So node north.

or the point will be at the north. The node content will be at the south. So it takes some practice to get used to the anchors and the orientation of the nodes. Okay. And just like for the starting point, we placed the label for it outside the grid, we'd like to place the B for the V and P en the node will have an anchor of what if the B will be here, then the point will be to the southwest.

So southwest, and then we'll call it B.

Let's see it. Okay. So yeah, that's it for this using of no. So under under one path, we specified some nodes that is just like letters for the points and the anchor controls the relative position between the node and the point.

So let's go back. Okay. So let's add one more figure for a couple of useful options.

So let's mark the point one and zero to use it later. So we can make that using the path or actually we can use the coordinate.

The point will be called as edge at one and zero. So yeah, it's a surfer is for shifting. And let's also fill red a

Coordinate point a that will be the center point for a circle That has five points. This is gigantic Save some space. Okay, see this Again my smart typos, sorry for that. I

Okay, so we have this grid here. We specified some point and then we filled some circle at some location. If we want to draw a node below this circle, red A, we would make it an anchor north, of course. So the anchor for a node that is below this will be north. But TIGS provides an alias for that, which is useful and eliminates confusion if you are kind of confused about this anchor stuff.

So, let's actually put this type A node. We want to draw this node. The anchor, let's start with the anchor north to see what I'm talking about. Add this A. We'll call it node below for the content.

Okay. I see it. So yeah, we have this box node at the south. So in other words, the anchor which is point A is on the north. So in other words, if you want to place a node below some point, you just type the word below and remove the entire anchor.

and you're all good. So you're drawing a node below some point. This is quite intuitive and you can have below left

now if you are focusing this is referring to the location of the node now relative of course to the point so this is below left of that point and below right

So it will shift to the right. So now this node is below right of that point A. Of course, the same thing applies for above word. So you have above. So the node now appears above the point, of course, centered by default.

You have above right and left.

Yeah, and so on. So let's restore the below.

Okay, the shift option is a good way to move your object around, of course, relative to the current coordinates of the path. And when applied on a node using a marked point like this one, so below, let's add a shift.

and then we use the label for the sh this point one and zero here so what do you think that will happen if we run now by default or at this stage we have this node below this point and by default the center of this point is what is lying just like directly under this point. So when we shift this node by the shift option, the shift option is given a value which is a point one and zero. When we run, you will see that the center point of this node will now shift to this one and zero. Look at that. And here it is.

What's moving is the center kind of axis of the node. see what I'm talking about clearly let's mark this point we can actually make it here yeah this is a good location after the initial setting so this is a blue circle that is tied to the node here so coordinate SH. We're using this one and zero just to place a note. So this is what I'm talking about with the center axis of the note is shifted here by this shift command. So changing the coordinates of this blue point will move the tied node below with it.

So I'm talking about this SH, of course, because we can give an explicit numerical value for this shift. But since we use the label for a predefined or placed point, so of course, if we change that, The shift will change first for the new. So we have this now shifted to zero on the x-axis, two on the y-axis. So this was one way to shift objects in a text picture, i.e.

by using a specified point to go to. But actually, the shift option accepts two position values in length units for x and y. And that's, of course, to shift the target object to. So let's see that by filling a circle as zero and two.

to a point. Let's actually bring this to one and zero.

Okay, so we have this new black dot here up top. Let's use this one to shift the circle out of the grid. So for the fill command, which is kind of a path, we want to shift this path, which is just a circle, by this amount.

so to use the shift command or option with length units we put them in a pair of curly brackets and then this is a pair of parentheses that hold those values So previously, this black dot was here. So we shift it by one centimeter negative and the x axis for this is zero and zero, if you recall, this is the origin of this thing's picture. So the black dot was here, it's shifted on the x axis by one unit and shifted on the y axis by one unit, which is minus one and minus one here. and they are kept inside a pair of outer curly brackets and inner parentheses. So this is the second way to use the shift option.

and just like anchor north is below anchor south is replaced with above so we've talked about that but i would like to leave it here for you so this is node we're drawing some node above right to the above right of some point again it's a And this is our rotated actually, because we will rotate this. Let's see it first. Okay, so there is the useful rotate option. So we can rotate this by 30 degrees, it will tilt like that. So again, this is measured from the positive x axis counterclockwise.

So this is how you can rotate some object inside a path. And the last two options for this environment here, the pose and sloped. Let's begin by the pose option. Those will be illustrated by adding this path in the figure in the upper right cell of the grid. So let's begin by the thick line.

So draw

line width of 2 points. The line starts at 2 and 1 to reach 3 and 2.

see it. So here it is this tilted line. So now each one of the three t letters in the figure is actually a node under this path, this draw line path here. So the three ones that you see are nodes. Each one of these nodes is either below or above this line.

And it takes a rotation option to align the letter with the diagonal line. And finally, they take a position option. So we have a letter at the beginning, a letter in the middle, and a second one at the end. So this is when the pose for position option comes into play.

and this position option determines where to place the letter node along the line. So from down the first letter is below the line so under this path we extend this path by the node below and it's rotated by this this is a diagonal line. It's made by those vertices. So it's tilted by 45 degrees. So rotate equals 45 for this letter.

And let's put the pose

So now for the value of the pose option, this one takes a number that ranges from zero to one, zero puts the node at the beginning of the path, which is a line here. 0.5 puts the node in the middle of the path one puts the node at the end of the path which is again this line here so this first below node capital letter t is at the beginning so position zero here it is and the second one so before ending this path node it's above it's also rotated

And instead of position equals, so let's begin by that. Let's put position equals 0.5. So to represent the midway of the path. So here it is at 0.5 half way of the path can actually remove this by keyword called midway.

So yeah, it's the same thing. So the last one is again a node below. And for orientation this time, we replace rotate 45 by the sloped option. This is extremely powerful and the position is at the end one. The content is again capital letter T. Let's see this.

Okay, here it is. So what is this slope? Now, the slope option is a better alternative for the rotate with explicit angle. If the job is to align a node with a path line, just like our case here, because this ties the node this one here to the angle of the path, unlike explicitly defining an angle for the node. To see the difference, let's change the end point of the path to alter the slope of this one.

So this one is kind of dynamic. So you late latex align the sloped node to the orientation of the path. So if we change, like the endpoint of this to 1.5, then the slope, the orientation of this line will change a look what will happen. as you can see, if we like zoom a little bit, we have the first two letters, which have explicit fixed rotation on an inside this path, they are fixed at being rotated at four to five degrees.

But for the third one, which is a dynamic option of tying a node to a path, we have this in the correct orientation, which is like parallel to the slope of the path. So this is a good option. The slope is a good option if you want to align a node inside a path and tying them dynamically without typing a explicit angles for the rotation option. And by the way, before leaving that, the pose option accepts negative values and those greater than one, of course, also. And both, if you would like to try, pull the node away from the path.

So if you provide a pose like minus one, this will come here. If this pose 1.5, it will be pushed away from the path. So just for you to know.

Okay so to wrap this video let's quickly walk through the basics of building trees.

Trees like this one in a picture are hierarchical structures that represent a set of interconnected nodes. They are commonly used in mathematics and computer science to model relations, organize related information and solve computational problems and so on. So TIGS provides a range of commands and options to structure such compounds and to style them and to lay out the trees, but such detailed coverage goes of course beyond the scope of this section. So I will just provide two basic examples to give you an intuition about the process of making TIGS-based trees. So let's initialize again, a figure float.

Let's begin by this symbol tree in the picture. This is only a root node A that has two trials, B and C. So a tree is composed using the node command. So to start, we have node and then it's called A. This is fed with the content of the tree nodes.

So what comes first after the base node command is considered as a root node, the grandparent of the whole tree. So we're talking about this node a here. Under that, we pass the child's using the child operation. So just directly, this is, of course, again, a path. So we type child and then we open a couple of braces.

And what's a child? Well, again, it's a node. So A has a child node called B.

which is again, a node operation on that path. So we start by placing the node command and then the parent node, the child operation inside this, it has, it holds another node, which is the first child. So after that, the same thing for the second child in the same level, which is the node C. So a has another child called C. And after that, we end this path.

So let's see it. Okay, so this is the very basic structure of a tree in LaTeX. It's generated by the node operation. Again, we have the A, the grandparent of the node, the start. And then to add child, we use the child operation.

It has a body that is a node. And then we add another one if we want, and then we close this path here. So let's try building that one you saw first. So again, let's replicate this setup. But of course, we will remove this specification.

Again, we start to practice by the node A directly with the content. And after that, since we're still in this path, A has child. Now this child is holding the node B. And then again, there is another child under A, which has the node C. So this is the base structure, and then we end the entire path.

For the circular shape, we can style every node in the options of the tigs picture. So we can, for this tigs picture, give some options. For every node, we use the style key. that we saw before. And we say that we want to draw all of those nodes with a circular shape.

So this is how you can style the nodes of a tree. You say for every node, I want to apply this style, which is to draw like the normal, the normal draw effect and the shape is a circle. So let's see it. Okay, just like the first one, but with some styling and we'll extend that. Now for grandchildren, after the child node B, we insert two more child nodes with the same syntax.

So here we go one level deeper and B now, which is a child has its own child. Okay, so the first one is node

B one.

And the same thing for the second child and under B, it's called B two. So see those. So now we extend this B to B one and B two. So just under this without any separation, we go deeper one level by putting to another child. And the same thing goes for C. So we'll go one deeper level and insert two trials.

Each one has a node with this content. So let's see this. Okay, it seems that they appear to be in a confined space, kind of overlapping. So we can fix that by styling the level of the children B and C. And that's to increase the horizontal distance.

So there is another scope of styling. So after this every node entry, comma, and then we say level, and then we use this tile key again. And this time we say sibling distance.

we put that 25 millimeters for the first level. So the sibling distance applied on the first level here, this is the sibling distance applied on the first level, this is the first level. denoted by this hashtag one. This is referred to the children B and C. So the distance between this first level will have this sibling distance 25 millimeters.

So this distance here horizontal one will be bigger now. So this will affect the grandchildren. and here we are this first level has this distance per the first level so this is b and c they are increased so we fixed this problem And you can also control the vertical distance between each two levels globally by the level distance option. So here for this level, we're still under this level scope, put a comma and then say level distance equals 20 millimeters.

Look at this now. And you've got kind of vertical stretch. So yeah, help to the documentation to learn more about trees. So that is for today. And this is our conclusion for the discussion about nodes.

I'll stop here for now. And in the next video, we'll talk about coordinate systems. So yeah, see you there.

Okay, welcome back, you guys. This video will be dedicated to coordinate systems. So I broke the page and then a section. So understanding coordinate systems. You can think of coordinate systems as ways of how you can represent position you choose to mark specific point.

So for example, we've been using the Cartesian coordinate system to locate points in a graph. And that was by using two values, the x and y, And this is done by traversing a 2D plane that is formed from two perpendicular axes. They intersect at the origin 0 and 0, of course. And every vertex is chosen relative to that origin in four quarters, as we've seen that. This describes the canvas or Cartesian coordinate system, which is the most widely used one for TIGS pictures.

And this scheme is the same for other systems, but with other metrics for traversing the plane. So I mean by that, a different kind of specification for the inputs or the coordinate points. So instead of like length units in centimeter, whatever you chose, we will be using angles and other metrics for that. So as an example, we have the polar coordinate system. this uses an angle and a distance, mainly a radius from the origin to locate a specific point on the grid.

So instead of the Cartesian coordinate system based XY unit lengths in the polar coordinate system, we locate a point relative to the origin using an angle and a distance which is a radius as we'll see. Despite the fact that the Cartesian coordinate system is the one to go most of the time, exploring other systems will help you by providing flexibility and diversity that can actually ease the drawing process in some cases. So by knowing how to make use of different representations and mix them, this can help us achieve some complex topics for specific types of graphs. And who knows, you might come across code online or in some books or tutorials where people use different coordinate systems. So learning about them will help you identify the nature of those figures.

So first of all, a quick note about the syntax of defining coordinate systems. There are actually two ways to mark a point using a specific system. So you have either implicit or explicit notation. So what that means? The one that we've been using so far is actually the implicit shape, which is simply to pass the coordinates inside parentheses.

So if we're traversing using the Cartesian coordinate system, we managed to put x and y values just in a pair of parentheses. So this is implicit, meaning that there is no visual typeset specification for the system that is being used. And of course, LaTeX identifies the system by the values. So the second one is the explicit notation, and it has this syntax. So explicit,

It also raises the parentheses, but we have the system and then CS and then the coordinates, the points. So you type the name of the system here, followed by those two letters CS for coordinate systems, a colon or coordinate system one actually. And after the colon, we have the coordinate point. So for example, if we're talking about how we can type set, for example, three and four, speaking of canvas system, so the syntax will be as follows. So three and four is equal to, you type canvas, which is the name of the system, and then cs colon, and then x equals three and y equals four.

So you can use this convention if you'd like to do so. And this can help you identify the types of systems being used, especially if you're going to make systems or use more than one in inside one takes picture. So this is a different configuration than this compact implicit one. So this concept applies for all coordinate systems. This is just two ways of syntax.

So let's begin by the XYZ system as a new one. So initiate a TIGS picture. We'll put a specification for the arrow. So angle 60, if you recall from the last video, and thick, and then blue.

so this is simply the canvas system but has an increased third dimension so instead of x and y now we will have x y and z kind of our isometric shapes and 3d work let's place a helplines So the Z dimension, the third one is drawn out of the page. So like towards you if you imagine. So let's draw a three axis shape like ones you find in a 3D drawings. Those are just like normal lines and that's why I've specified an angle 60 arrow shape. So draw and

We're sought by the x positive axis.

We extend an arrow to a point that has one in x. So this is just where this x axis will end. Now we're using three dimension kind of. So we have zero in both y and z.

So you'll see how this looks now. So let's actually close this path and run. Okay, so we have this one unit here. We started at zero and zero. Remember that the grid is extended from minus one on minus one.

So this lower left corner isn't the origin zero and zero. So this is one unit in X only, and we do nothing in X and Y. So we can actually put a node here with the letter x in math mode. So kind of to identify that this is the x axis. So increase a node, the anchor, which is the point is north.

So the node will appear to the south here. And then the content of the node is a math mode for the letter X. So let's see it. Okay, here it is. It appears at the bottom.

So now coming to the Y axis. So again, a draw, an arrow pointing to the end. we will start from here zero and zero to reach one in y so we'll see how this works so zero and zero and then a line that extends to so if if you think we will only stretch in the y direction so we don't actually traverse in x we only have one in y and then we don't use the z-axis until now. So this is pretty equivalent to 0 and 1 only. And now let's draw the z-axis.

It has an arrow. Again, we start from 0 and 0. Oh, we can comment this out, add a node here. Sorry about that. So yeah, to identify the y also, the anchor this time will be east.

So the y will appear here on the west. again, as the x, we have the letter y in math mode. So let's see it. Okay, here it is, it appears on the left. So uncommon this.

So that was for the z axis. So we start at zero and zero again. And now we don't to walk in x, neither in y, but one in z. so let's see how will this look like okay so a third line appears here tilted if we're speaking in a 2d plane those are quite four to five degrees and this is actually a simplification because this is a 2d screen but if you imagine it this if we will like to drop this it will be a point So this arrow, in fact, is pointing towards you. So this is just simplification.

And if you project it, you will get a point. So this three-dimensional system is powerful and extremely useful in a lot of cases, like asymmetric shapes. And in just a couple of minutes, we will use it to draw a parallelepiped after exploring two more systems. So, yeah, this is how the XYZ works. You just have a third dimension added.

We can increase a node here also. The anchor, let's say, will be southeast, this point here, so southeast, and then we have the Z axis.

So the z will appear here. Okay. So now let's jump to the polar coordinate system. We're still in this takes picture to see like the basic of this system.

So we have a draw and then it's a stealth instead of the angle 60 for the environment and dashed.

we start a line from zero and zero okay the polar system takes two values to mark a point on the plane so an angle measured as usual from the positive x-axis counterclockwise followed by a length unit and both of those are separated by a colon and the angle and this radius or length unit as you will see they are computed relative to the origin of the graph so let's say that we want to extend this arrow to a point that has a 45 degree with the positive x-axis and is at one centimeter away from the origin So this time, the end point will be computed first by four to five degrees and then by one centimeter measured from the from the origin this time. So this is an angle computed from the relative x axis, and this is one centimeter. So it will appear in this direction. So let's close and see it.

Okay, so centimeter is default. Of course, you can freely drop it. So now to make this clear, the one centimeter in the point declaration here is actually the radius for a circle that is centered at the origin. So let's draw it to make sure that so you can see it. So let's draw.

Let's make it gray.

It's a circle that is centered at zero and zero with one centimeter. So this will draw a circle that passes around this arrow. So let's see it.

okay so that's why this one centimeter didn't reach the end of the grid so it's actually a radius as this is a can be considered to be a radius and this one centimeter in the y direction can be considered as a radius this is a radius so that's how the polar coordinate systems work in the most basic form, you specify a point by a degree. So measured from the relative x axis here, four to five, and where it will be, then this is the radius of a circle. Okay, so, and just to make this clear, this one centimeter and this are computed from the origin of the graph. not from the previous point, we will clarify that later. So this, in this example, we used the pull according system in one point.

But of course, we can actually use it. This is a mix of two systems. But of course, we can mark the start and the end point of a specific path using this system. So let's say that we want to draw, again, a stealth for the arrow just to make them different from other arrows in the area. So dashed again.

So this is the style kind of the polar coordinate system here. So let's say that we want to start at 90 degrees. So this time we'll start at 90 degrees and two centimeters above the origin. so this 90 degrees will lie here so it's it's 90 degrees you have the entire space or the entire line of a vertical axis so this is a horizontal axis you measure 90 degrees you end up in a vertical orientation so i have kind of a line so where to stop this is where the radius of the circle comes into play so we are at a vertical orientation, I want to stop two centimeters above so positive y value. Again, do not forget that this is the origin.

So this is the positive area. This is the negative area.

And this is the starting point. So these lines will end at four to five degrees and one centimeter again.

Let's see how this looks. Okay, so what do we have here? Again, the starting point is identified by 90 degrees. So we're speaking of the y axis, all of it. And then the second specification is two centimeters above the origin.

So a positive value. So this is the starting point, 90 degrees and two centimeters. And the endpoint is actually this same one, because all of the polar coordinate points are computed from the origin. So again, four to five degrees and one centimeters end up here. So a line is a stretch from 90 degrees, two centimeters above the x axis, and then we end up at the same point.

So as you can see, again, all of the polar points that you put inside the takes picture by default, they are all computed from one and only location, which is which is the origin zero zero. Later on, we will learn how to change this behavior and make the polar points tied to another kind of vertex.

So the next system is quite interesting, which is the perpendicular coordinate system. So let's create a new certain edge space. So the idea behind this system is as follows. You pick two positions and through the notation of this system, a point is marked at the intersection of those two lines. So let's insert another grid here.

So, okay, give some space. So this is the new taste picture. So to see this, let's first place small circles at one and one and two and two through empty nodes. So quickly pasting the nodes, we have a fill blue shape of circle with some inner separation. and we name it a at one on one and it's empty and the same thing goes for the second node at two and two.

So let's see those. Okay, here we are. Let's focus on this now. So this is the blue at one on one and this is the red at one two. So let's say that we want to surround the blue dot by a circle using the perpendicular system.

so we want to draw and where is the starting location we'll see this is a four point of radius circle so we specify the location of the center point of this circle using the perpendicular coordinate system and making use of the label of this blue circle here so we do it like that We type the label dash attached with a pipe operator and then another entry of the label of the node. So what is this? This essentially tells Leitech that the center point of our circle based path here will be at the intersection of the horizontal line.

passing through a, and the vertical line passing through a. This is the idea behind this syntax of the perpendicular coordinate system. So you specify two locations, the locations here are making use of the label of the node. So the location here is a point actually, it's one and one. So we're telling Leitek that the horizontal line, so this is first the dash represents the horizontal line passing through this node and the vertical infinite line passing also through this specific location one on one or the blue node at the intersection of those two lines lies the circle, the center of the circle of this path.

So let's see it to make sure that this is working. And yes, it's actually working. We've got this four point a hollow circle around this point. We can actually

We can actually add a path so the horizontal and vertical lines. So let's draw a line that starts at zero and one. So zero and one. So just for you to can see it and it'll extend to two and one.

two and one and then we've got another line that starts at one and zero one and zero and then it goes to let's say one and two so let's see this

oh sorry about that it's actually zero and one sorry about this mistake so yeah this is the idea we have a horizontal line passing through some location which is the node a and then a vertical line passing through another location, we choose here the same point. So the intersection of those two points is the location of this coordinate point, which we used to be the center of this circle. So this is a simple visualization for the scheme of this coordinate system. So again, here, we essentially mark a point by two positions. This those positions can be actually labels of nodes as we did here with a or they can actually a Cartesian x y values, and then we'll see that or other.

So we can actually use here any kind of specification. So it's it's a location for this horizontal line. So we used here a label for a node, but we can replace this actually with an XY value. And in between those, again, we use a dash and a hyphen and a pipe operator, similar to those of the double line path operation, if you recall, And according to the order of the symbols, a point is marked using the intersection of two infinite lines passing through the points or positions around those symbols. So a horizontal line around A and a vertical line around A again.

So I hope this is clear by now. So know that the concept behind this system is flexible, of course. So for example, the infinite horizontal line that passes through the node A also goes through two and one, which is the point to the right of the node. So what do I mean by that? The location, this label refers to a specific point, which is one and one.

But we are talking about infinite line. at some orientation. So this horizontal line is an infinite, again, line at a vertical orientation. So we can actually remove this a, which defines this horizontal line here, and put, for example, two and one, which is this point here. this is 2 on 1, so again a horizontal line passing through this 2 on 1 will intersect with a vertical line passing through A here So the intersection of those two lines, nothing will change.

They are exactly the same. So either this horizontal line passes through the node here or this point or this point or this point. It doesn't matter. It's an infinite line. And node that for this syntax inside the outer pair of parentheses here.

We actually inserted the x and y values for the point that this horizontal line will pass through without a dedicated parentheses for them. So this is a Cartesian point x and y values inserted directly. And of course, this same concept applies for this vertical line. So we told Leitech that we want this infinite line that passes through this. But at the same time, this vertical line at this horizontal orientation or distance also passes through this point and this point and this point so we can replace this a by one and two for example one on the x-axis and to this point nothing will change again So yeah, this system is quite flexible.

So a pop-up quiz, how can we draw a six point dashed circle at the location one, two using perpendicular system? So at one on the X, two and the Y, we want to draw a circle here using the perpendicular system. So how can we do it? So here is the path. So it's a dashed circle with six points, we have a vertical line.

So the orientation or the order of the horizontal on the vertical line This is flexible, you can put the horizontal line first, the dash, and then the pipe operator or vice versa as we did here. So to draw a circle here, we specify a vertical infinite line that passes through node A. So again, this infinite vertical line here, and then the intersection is a horizontal line passing through the node B, the red node. So this horizontal line intersecting with this horizontal line will lie at a point here we'll use to be the center of the circle. Okay.

And of course, you can use the perpendicular coordinate system to place a node. So there is an example we can do. So node, let's draw the node at, and then the place for the node is A, horizontal, then vertical, and B. So an empty node.

This will be of course a small rectangle. So this is the rectangle that I'm talking about. It's a node, a small one that uses a horizontal infinite line through the node A. So it's this one and then a vertical line passing through B. so this is the intersection and around this point we draw an empty node so yeah this is a possibility so and indeed we can use it to draw lines so yeah this is pretty straightforward so at zero and zero there will be a horizontal line and a vertical line also at zero and zero this will be extended to the location of a which is this one here this line here let's make it kind of i don't know let's say blue to distinguish that Okay, so it's this one here, it starts at an intersection of a horizontal line passing through the origin, this one, and a vertical line also passing through the origin, this one, this marks the starting point, and then we end at the center by default of the node that has the label Okay, perfect.

And just a quick side note here before moving on, using the label of a node in a path is actually considered a coordinate system of itself. And it is called the node coordinate system. So the action of you inserting a label of a node to mark some point. This is considered as a standalone coordinate system that has the name node coordinate system. And of course, we've been using that for a couple of videos now.

So yeah, that's the formal definition of this system. Now let's hop to the parallelepiped example. This will be done through the XYZ system as mentioned, which of course facilitates the creation of isometric shapes. So we'll be constructing this cube in the figure. There are multiple ways of how we can perform this task.

But as you can see here, I sectioned the shape into three zones, red on the right, blue on the left and black in between at the top on the bottom connecting those two sections, the red and the blue sections. So after that, let's insert a V space. and begin a new text picture. Let's give this picture a scale.

Let's enlarge it by 50% and also give it a line width of 1.5. Okay.

Each part of those sections of the parallel puppet will be made under one path. So one path for red portion, one path for the blue portion, and the two kind of planes of the black will be also under one path. So let's start by the grid. And at the same time, let's put a black circle at the origin. So let's draw a helpline.

so starting from a negative location to reach two and two and then we will fill Now the origin is zero, zero and zero, accounting for the z axis or dimension. It'll be a small radius circle. So let's see that zoom out. Okay, here we are. This is the origin.

So we can have an intuition about this plane. And now let's begin by the left blue path. Let's draw blue. So this is simply a rectangle that is one face of the cube. So to draw it, we will need to lay down four points and a cycle operation at the end.

Again, recall that the Z dimension, which is drawn tilted, is actually towards you out of the page. So our blue path here is actually at zero for X for all of its points. So let's start by the first point. Three zeros, we'll start from the origin to reach

This is one step in z. So let's see this. Okay, so this is the first portion. So we'll complete this cycle here. So we'll start at zero, zero and zero.

And we can actually remove this for convenience. Like nothing will change. It'll stay the same, but I will leave it. for consistency okay so here we jumped one unit and the z axis so

from that, we want to go up top. So this means that we add zero for x. So the entire blue plane, like kind of imagine that in your mind, this entire blue section, if we project project that it will be this line. So this entire portion is out of the page, meaning that we don't traverse the plane in the x axis. So all of the X values again for this little portion will be zero so we want to go up top so we're still at zero at X and then one in Y so kind of draw this to the top and one in Z so we're still at this tilted location so let's see that I'm sorry about this.

I forgot the double dashes here. Okay, so from zero and zero and one, which is this point here, we're at zero x again, to go up, we plug in one in y, and to end at this orientation, and z from here, like if you imagine that, of course you want one in z. So if we remove this, let's see how this will look. So yeah, it'll be here. So this one in z brings this tilted line to be vertical.

So undo. So, this is 1 in Z. Okay. And again, from here, let's put a line. We're still at 0 in X.

We want to stretch, of course, this line to this point. So, this in Y is 1 and 0 in Z. So, we return to this two-dimensional plane. So yeah, this point here is zero in x, one in y from the origin, and zero in z. And eventually, to close this portion, we'll use the cycle keyword.

Okay, done. If you feel that you're lost, feel free to pause the video and revise those corner points and draw the red path after that on the right using the same technique. So give it a shot, knowing that you will be at a horizontal location of one for all the x positions for that path. So as you imagine, this is all at zero in x, the red portion here, the entire points will have one in x. Okay, so hopefully you did that.

Here is the red path.

So this is just a comment. So here is the red path and let's see it.

So again feel free to pause the video and work on this. It has the same concept. So what remains here are the four black lines. So two here to connect those and two here and two up top to connect that. I will draw them from left to right and from down to top.

all under one path of course so the down part starts at the origin and ends at one in the x zero and zero and y so it's this line here so we can see it okay so and directly under this path

we have the second line the starting point of it at zero in x and y and only one in z so it's this point we'll stretch it to this point so what is this ending point it's one in x zero in y and one in z so see it okay here it is and going to the top portion

Let's create this one. So this line here, this is actually at zero in x, one in y, and zero in z. That stretches to all the way out to here. So this is one in x, one in y, so up top, but zero in z. So see this.

So it's this line here. Okay, great. And the last line.

it starts at zero and x again, one in y and one in z stretches to actually one in the three dimensions. So we walked one in x, we walked one y and y, and one in z. So it's this point. So one, one, and one.

and we're done okay so yeah so thinking in a third dimension can be tedious and tricky at the beginning but you will get the grasp of it with practicing so try to imitate this one or any other isometric shape so maybe you would want to type set the classical shape of a chair so lay down that on a paper and compute your coordinates and connect your lines. You have the freedom. There is another possibility for this. You can practice that. You can, for example, draw this face here under one path and this face here under one path, and this will be for connecting lines.

So try to do that to gain some practice. Okay, so now the next concept is kind of extremely important. So, so far from the beginning of our TIGS talk, we've been defining vertices using what is called absolute coordinates. So this simply is defining each point with a location on its own that is independent and not paired with other points. So here each point is independent in any one of the previously used coordinate point specification.

Each one of those is computed from the origin on its own. So absolute means that each point is independently tied to the origin. So take, for example, the parallel pipette that we just finished. All of the points that build this shape have their own specific independent XYZ location. And that means, for example, if we would like to shift or move the shape, this will require adjusting all of the points separately.

So for example, if we want to move the entire shape from this location, So we started at the origin. So here this is the first one. So the first path started at the origin. So if we want to move this entire shape to this cell right here, you can imagine that we will go through all of those points adjusting them because each one is independent and it's only tied to the origin of the graph. And this is the main drawback of using absolute coordinates.

But luckily, TIGS provides two different ways other than that, which can be used to draw interconnected shapes. Those are the so-called relative and incremental coordinates. So now we will learn how can we move this entire big shape in one shot. So we will build another shapes incrementally. All of the points will depend on each other.

So changing one point will shift the entire shape with it. So yeah, let's create a subsection. So let's initiate the takes picture.

And let's insert a grid for this shape. Start at 0 and 0. And the end is at 3 and 3.

Let's start by the method of relative coordinates.

So the idea is simple. You put a plus sign before the vertex to tilt X to compute this location from the preceding point, which is of course the current coordinate. So here let's say that we want to extend this line by one unit on the X axis only. So typically you would type one and zero. and this one and zero is tied to the origin again but now instead of that instead of this absolute specification we're going to use a relative mechanism so

make a coordinate point relative you put one plus sign in front of the parentheses and instead of typing the explicit x y location of this point we pass an offset from the previous one so here we pass the offset that we want from this point which will then add this offset here to this point to serve as an ending point to this line so So to walk one centimeter in x or one unit in x from zero and zero, we only want to move one in x and zero in y. So let's see it. Okay, sorry about that.

okay so here in this topic and here we have a line from zero and zero with a one offset so this second is actually the same it's typically for the second point of a path in this kind of example, you will find that this offset is actually the same x y coordinate, but you read it as follows, we have a starting point, which is zero and zero, it so happens that this is the origin here, we extend a line by one unit in x and zero units in y. So from here, we offset one unit in x, which is this one here, and we don't put a thing in y. So this is the relative point. So to see clearly that this point is an offset, we can actually change this starting point. So let's say that this was one and one.

So the starting point is here. What do you think that will happen? So, let's see, the entire line is shifted, because this is not an absolute explicit x, y value, this is an offset from this point. So now this starting point is at one and one, so we extend this line by an offset of one in x, so one in x and nothing in y. So now this point or this number By the plus sign which makes it relative ties this to the previous Point it makes it actually a an offset from the previous point So typically if we removed this the end will be here.

So it will be vertical Yeah, so the plus sign Makes this an offset not an XY value

So now let's increase this second path on the grid. This is simply two lines between three points, starting at one and one. So let's restore this to zero and zero. Okay, and then here under this path,

we put 1 and 1 and the diagonal part is at a location 2 and 2 meaning an increase of 1 in x and 1 in y from the starting point 1 and 1 so we extend the line to or by an offset of 1 and 1 let's see this So this second line segment here has an absolute starting point one on one, we want it to end at the upper tip of this upper right corner of this cell. So what do we do? What is the offset that we need to input from this location to go to this location, we actually walk one in x and one in y. And that's what we did. okay so and the second horizontal line ends at absolute value of 3 and 2 which is this point here so we want to extend a line from this location to absolute value of 3 and 2

So what offset value in x and y should be put to go there from the previous 1 and 1 offset? So what do we have to increase over this 1 and 1 to go to an absolute x, y of 3 and 2?

So we'll simply add 2 in X on the existing one. So to reach, let's say we want to reach 3 and 2.

we want to reach 3 and 2 from this offset so we need to add 2 in x, 2 plus 1 to reach 3 and add 1 in y to reach 2 so let's remove this we extend a line directly so here we don't have like the starting point is using the previous point here so the line is extended to an offset of 2 and 1

let's close run and then we'll verify that okay and here we are so the last line segment here is made by an offset from the previous offset so this is two and one added on top of one and one at that you will get three and two which is this point here okay so i know by sure that this process could be annoying at the beginning again but bear with me and you will get the grasp of it as i will keep explaining that so the relative method lets you define a new coordinate by setting an offset to increase over the previous coordinate and note that this process of inserting relative coordinates does not change the current coordinate now as we know every path has a point called current coordinate from which an action or operation is performed this point can be changed as we proceed with the path So in this blue path here, we started with origin zero and zero. So we started by zero and zero. So that was the first current coordinate. So and then this changed for the second part to one and one. this one here because we've added an offset.

This offset here is not considered as a current coordinate. Okay, so zero and zero is changed to one and one, the current coordinate, and both are absolute. And from now on, every single relative coordinate, which is a plus sign, okay, is computed from this last coordinate. so this is kind of that you have one stationary vertex that is every relative offset is computed from so let's say that we want to extend this path further by a line to reach the end point of the grid at 3 and 3 what x y offset should we insert So we'll simply ask yourself to know the offset. What values you need to increase or decrease to go from the current coordinate, which is one and one, to reach three and three, which is your goal point.

So you'd like simply to add two and two. So over one and one to reach three and three, you need to add two and two.

So yeah, we extended this. This actually will become more obvious when comparing it to the incremental coordinates. But for now, again, let's say additionally that we want to walk the path from this location to the point two and two on the grid, this point. So we want to extend a line from here to there. So I'm sure about that two and two is actually this one.

So we kind of want to close this triangle. So we want to extend the line from this point to this point. So again, to ask yourself first, what is this point on the grid? It's two and two. And what is our last coordinate?

In other words, what is the last absolute XY value? Again, the relative action here does not change the current coordinate. So it was zero and zero, which is the first absolute. And then the first absolute after that was one and one. And then we put some offsets.

so all of those offsets this one and this one and this one are computed from one-on-one which is the last absolute coordinate so again our goal is to reach from the very tip here to two and two so the question to ask what is the offset value to go to an absolute value of two and two on the grid from one-on-one will simply increase 1 and 1, so 1 and 1 over 1 and 1 will reach 2 and 2.

and we closed that so keep your eye on the last point on the path that has not a plus sign in front of it so if you look at this this has a plus sign this has a plus sign and this has a plus sign this has a plus sign again so all of those are not absolute this is the absolute one So every single offset is computed from the last absolute coordinate, which acts as the current coordinate of the path. So up until we insert another absolute value, this point will serve as the location at which we compute those offsets. So let's recall what we've done for this part. We started at one on one and wanted to reach two and two. So we increase one on one.

So from that, we wanted to reach three and two. so you ask yourself how to reach 3 and 2 from 1 and 1 well you increase 2 over 1 to get 3 and then you increase 1 over 2 to get 1 over 1 to get 2 so that's how we get there and to go up top So what is up top, it's three and three. So you ask yourself how to reach three and three from one and one. So you insert two and two from that location. Again, we want to reach two and two.

So how to reach two and two from one and one, you increase an offset of one in the X and one in the Y. So a stationary fixed point, the current coordinate, or the last absolute coordinate is the source for all those offsets. So you traverse the grid or the graph using offsets from one point. So now if we change this point, let's say to zero and two, this point here, okay? How, for example, can we reach, let's say, this point?

This is one, two, three, and zero. So this is the absolute location that we want to go to, three and zero. That's our goal. So how to go there by an offset. So you ask yourself how to go to three and zero from this time, zero and two.

So now by inserting another absolute coordinate, we changed the current coordinate of the path. So now every single offset that comes after this until we change it by inserting another absolute coordinate is computed or are computed from this one. So how to reach three and zero our absolute goal from the last previous absolute zero and two. So it's obvious that we need to increase three in the X. by comparing the absolute values and then we actually have two but we want to reach zero so plugin minus two so you decrease two and voila this is the line so we go from here to here so this action changed the current coordinate and every single offset that comes after it is computed from this one until we change it so as an example we wanted to reach starting from this the absolute goal of three and zero so we ask ourselves how to go from three and zero from the last absolute one zero and two we compute the differences so here we had 0 and our goal was 3 so we increase positive 3 and for the y value we were at 2 and want to reach 0 so logically we subtract 2.

Okay, so I hope this is obvious just as a concept by now. So you have what is called a an absolute coordinate, this absolute coordinate serves as a source location for all of the offsets that comes that comes after until you change it. Okay. Now let's go to the case of incremental coordinates, which is quite opposite. So we will do that in a separate environment.

So let's add a small H space and then let's begin. It takes picture. Again, the same grid.

Let's initiate our path. This time it will be red. So we start at the origin to extend a line. So the incremental coordinates are like the relative ones in terms of providing an offset to compute for the upcoming location. But the difference is that incremental scheme does change the current coordinate.

So let's extend this line by one unit in x. For incremental coordinates, we put double plus signs in front of the offset. Let's make an offset of one and zero.

this same portion here but in a new red location so let's focus on that we have here this red so started at zero and zero and increased one unit only on the x-axis just like before But now unlike the relative scheme, which would preserve the zero and zero as the current coordinate. So we saw that a lot. So every single absolute coordinate in the relative is the current coordinate. So here we have only three current coordinates, or actually two times that we changed the at a current coordinate in other words. But now an incremental offset adds the value of the offset to the previous point in order to set the new current coordinate.

So now what is the current coordinate here? So it's actually one and zero.

So the incremental coordinate here, the incremental offset adds this value to the previous absolute one to compute the new value of the current coordinate. So now the current coordinate is one and zero, so to speak. Let's mark that y

current is one and zero. Okay, continuing with repeating the previous grid. So let's say that we want to extend a line from one and one, this time by incremental, adding one and one. Let's close to see that. Okay, that made the diagonal line and in this center cell.

And now for this path, what is the current coordinate? So we can say that we've added an offset of one and one on top of one and one. So the current coordinate is two and two. So now the next operation of drawing the horizontal portion to reach 3 and 2, this one here, will be different regarding the offset value from the previous kind of example here. So up until now, zero and zero and offset one and zero, the same operation.

And then one and one to reach, by offset one and one to reach this two and two, this same thing. But again, we keep track of the current coordinate. So we did that. So now to reach three and two from this location, we'll insert a different kind of offset. So What is the current coordinate now?

It's actually the same methodology between the relative and incremental coordinates. The only difference is that the relative coordinate does not change the current coordinate. But the incremental coordinates with plus, double plus signs change the current coordinate. any offset, any kind of offset relative or incremental is computed from the current coordinate. The difference is that if this offset is relative, so it's computed from the last absolute coordinate, which is indeed the current coordinate of the path.

But since the operations here of the incremental coordinate changes the current coordinate, so we keep track of that. to traverse the graph. So to reach three and two from two and two, which is the current coordinate of the path, we simply need to add one to make this three and zero, like to keep this as is. So let's actually see it. We'll need to make an incremental coordinate of one and zero.

Close the path and I see it.

I didn't put the hyphens for the line, sorry about that. So yeah, here it is. So for any kind of a plus or double plus again, we make an offset. This offset is computed from the current coordinate. If this offset is a relative, then the current coordinate is the last absolute coordinate.

If this offset is incremental, then you keep track of the current coordinate and added this incremental offset to the current coordinate. which has changed by the effect of the previous offset. So if you keep track one on one, we add one on one, then the current coordinate is two and two. So to reach three and two from two and two, we only walk one unit on the x axis. So from here have to go up to three and three.

So you just add one in y.

Let's see it. And here it is. So yeah.

And note that you don't actually need to keep track by commenting the current coordinate as you proceed with the graph. Normally you would just, for the incremental coordinate scheme, you look at the graph in the grid and see what offset you need to input to the path to move you from the location that you're in to another one. So with incremental method, you walk step by step, literally, you don't need to think of computing the concurrent yourself. So setting the offset by an incremental through double signs lets you walk step by step. So let's actually make sure that maybe you would say so I want to go from this location whatever is this location now doesn't matter this is the last point of the path I want to go to this location so by looking at this graph what you would do to go from here to there so in x you walk to the back by 2 so minus 2 you subtract 2 and then in y you go down by 1 so minus 1

Again, I forgot to put the line specification. Yeah, a lot of hyphens and plus signs. So yeah, from here to there, you only need to subtract two. go back by two in the x-axis and go back by or go down by one in the y-axis so you can keep going so for example from this location this is the last point of this path you would like to go here you would like to extend a line from here to there so what kind of offset do you need so you walk two in x and you go down two in y so two and minus two will end up here so this is quite beneficial. So you walk literally in the path step by step.

So again, like ask yourself, I want to go there from this last point. So what incremental offset do I need?

just graphically visually looking at the grid. So we want to subtract three, go back three in x, and go up in y actually y one unit. So hero. So this is how you can blindly traverse a graph. You just look at the location you're at on the grid, compute your offset and walk along.

But just for you to know what is going on in the background, as we saw the relative coordinate, the relative offset does not change the current coordinate. So in this path, again, we add this and this and this as current coordinates. But here, as you traverse, the current coordinate actually changes. So this lets you play around and increase or extend your path step by step. Before moving forward let's go back to the first tig's picture to illustrate some concept.

So this one. Now as pointed out at the beginning, polar coordinates are always tied to the origin. And I said that we're going to change that. And the way to do so is by using either the relative or the incremental coordinates. To test that out, let's place a small node circle called arc.

So before this, let's say changing for the polar. So we put a node. I want to fill that. This is a circle shape. The inner separation is one and a half point.

then we call this arc and we place it at 210. So let's see.

Yeah, hi, actually, this is an error and node must have a possibly empty text or content. So I forgot to put the empty parentheses. So yeah, this is it. So again, drawing a line that starts from this node and ends at a point defined by the polar coordinates.

is done like that so draw let's make this red we start by using the node coordinate system if you recall and then we extend a line to four to five degrees and one centimeter so let's see it oops i forgot the semicolon

yeah it's this same point so again any polar coordinate is tied to the origin so this point is 45 degrees and plus one as a radius from the origin of the graph which is zero and zero so what we're going to do is make this point is the source of computing the angle and the radius for this red line here so to achieve that you simply make this a relative or an incremental coordinate in other words you tie this point to this point or you make this an offset from this look at this line now as it's getting here this is it so this is one beneficial use case of the relative and incremental coordinates so yeah again if if we would like to pass a line to end let's say at

this angle and this radius let's see what will happen again this point is computed from the origin we can make it relative this time to tie it to the last previous absolute one and here it is it goes back in this direction we can change this a little bit like 90 degrees Okay, so yeah, this is the end goal. So one and a half at 90 degrees.

If you're confused about this last point, recall that the previous action was an incremental offset. So that changed the current coordinate. So it's actually now this is the current coordinate. So, this is added to this, which ended here, this is an offset added to this location ended up here, it's an incremental action. So it changed the current coordinates.

So now this point is the current coordinate okay so when we inserted this plus relative coordinate it's actually computed from this point not from the arc so if we say like zero this line will be horizontal here okay you can say 45 to extend this further in this same angle and so on.

I meant 125. Yeah.

OK. So this is an incremental action. So it changed the current coordinates. So we're computing this offset from this point now, not from the node. If you want to increase this offset from the node, you just add the arc again.

so now this 125 degrees this line will be computed now from this arc of course inserting an absolute value in a path changes the current coordinate of that path to this value so when running this line will start from here see it it will go down So instead of being computed from here, from this point, we have changed the current coordinate of the path. So this relative offset now is computed from the last current coordinate, which is the arc again. So we have it right here. Okay, so going down again, and then put some V space. Let's insert a taste picture here.

We'll leave the helplines can actually make him relative. See that. Okay. Three by three grid. Okay.

Now the big benefit of the actual reason to draw with computed coordinates, namely the relative and the incremental is that having your graph being a kind of one tied entity as it should be and that allows you to move it easily without having to change multiple individual points and the computer coordinates will make the workflow flexible and also reduces the cost of maintenance to the graph. maintenance is when you make some changes so how many thing you need to tweak to apply some change in mind like shifting the entire graph traversing the plane so since using computed coordinates ties the entire thing so you can go here which is if we change this to two and two

the entire thing is shifted to another place this will be more obvious with this example that we will do here okay so to see this we will work on a grid of three squares like this one in the figure so let's first mark the three lower left corners

here they are this is actually 3 and 2 I forgot to change that so okay here it is and the black square will represent the absolute coordinate method so let's say the absolute coordinates see it

this is intentional i draw this square without the rectangle operation so you can see the benefit of the computer coordinates so this is a normal shape of some points and lines and then the next square is the blue one that represents the relative coordinates so

So walking in X by an offset of one, so one and zero. So now we're extending this line to the upper right corner. Since we work with relative offsets, So they are computed from the first absolute point one and one here. The offsets for a relative are computed from the last absolute coordinate, which is the current coordinate. So one and one.

Let's see that. Okay, it's this portion here. And then after that, we go back from this location horizontally by one unit. And this will end up at the location that is one unit before the current starting point at one and one. So we want to reach this location from the current coordinate, which is one and one.

So we only need to increase one in y so zero and one it's this one here and lastly the cycle to close this shape so the red rectangle will represent the incremental method

So walk here we walk step by step again. So we need to walk one in x only. So start by this horizontal portion. And from this, we walk another step to go up. So, we increase only one in Y here, and again one step from here to go there is interpreted as a minus one in X only and zero in Y.

Okay, and then the cycle.

So, the computed squares have the advantage of being displaced easily by changing one vertex so for the relative we can do this instead of one and one we can make it two and one So watch this blue rectangle or square as it moves from one on one to two on one in one shot. So this blue square will be here. immediately and the same thing is for the red so let's say that we start at 1 in x and 0 in y so we retract this red square from this cell to this cell and you can keep playing around with this you can change it to like maybe 0 and 1

so it's this location here so it it'll shift to this cell yeah and so on so changing one vertex drives the changing the first vertex actually drives the entire shape with it and this is of course unlike the black absolute coordinate method if you would like to move this black square by one cell you would go and change all of those four points So this is the main advantage of using the computed coordinates both the relative and the incremental. They make your graph a one entity that you can move all along as you want. And of course, you can use the computer coordinates to draw predefined shapes. So here is an example. This is a shortcut to the path of a small circle with a square.

So this is an example. This path is made by a rectangle operation, which has an incremental offset of one and one from zero and one. So let's see this. Okay, so we actually need move the red one. So let's make it here again at two and zero.

So we can see this new shape. Okay, so this is the CN shape that we did. this is a normal circle here. And then we make a rectangle. Of course, this rectangle takes its starting point to be zero on one, and an offset is made from zero on one, which is this location here to one on one, an offset in one, both in the x and the y axis.

So so previously that that point was separated actually so here we can make it one on one to put this cn here in this second cell and yeah and and the circle moved with it because this is the same path so yeah Lastly for this quite long video, as an exercise to check your understanding, try to draw the grid in the figure. This one. This is a 4x3 grid that has three shapes, a normal absolute square in black, an arrow head like shape for relative and a red triangle for incremental method. So inspect the location and try it out and pause the video now and come back when you finish it. Okay, hopefully you did so.

Let's add a V space and here is the solution.

Let's run to see it. OK, here it is. You can draw the computed shapes, of course, with different offsets for other routes. And so play around with this starting point and move them around, changing the first coordinate. So yeah that was actually it for today's video.

I hope you learned useful concepts and in the next video might be quite long as well some more concepts and features of tigs and we'll conclude this crash course of figure drawing also. So thanks for watching and see you there.

Okay folks, our small exploration journey with TIGs is about to end actually. So today we'll look at some practically useful concepts and features that you can use while utilizing TIGs. And those will make your life much more easier and your code a bit cleaner and has a concise look to it. So we'll begin by defining and using customized styles. So let's make a new section.

And we're looking at defining styles. So throughout this section, we'll explore methods of defining some styles that hold shape and color customization options that can be applied to TIG's paths. And the benefit is actually that we'll use those user defined styles frequently without having to repeat the options again and again. So you can define styles to apply on text paths in two major ways. The first one being throughout the text set command.

So let's make a subsection for that. So the first method will use the text set command. We actually saw this one before. So let's run to see this new page. Okay.

The text set is a specialized command for defining styles. It uses within its body what are called keys. So those keys are some words preceded by a forward slash and a dot. And we saw that before actually. So each key with a pair of curly braces inputs some commands and options to customize the look of a graph.

So let's actually see how this works. So tigs set.

The key that we're going to use to define styles is called style. So to use a key you put a forward slash and a dot and then the name of the key. So now the name we choose for this new customized style comes before the key itself. So we put the name that we desire for this set of options before the forward slash.

This is a shortcut for red dashed triangle, so RDT. And you can name styles the way you want, of course. But choose distinctive and descriptive names to make your life easier. And of course, comment that out so you don't forget.

So now the body of this style, we put an equal sign and then a couple of braces and in here we put the options, the set of options and their values that will form this new style. So let's begin by fill red.

actually 50%. And also let's apply thick dashed borders. So thick and then dashed. So that was the style definition stage. So inside this big ticks set command, we actually can insert more than one, as you will see, more than one style.

Each style is defined by the style keyword accessed by a first slash and a dot and before that the name that we desire and inside its body goes the options and the values. So now let's use this style on some path in a takes picture. So let's initialize a takes picture. We pass the name of the style as an option to the target path. So if we initialize a path using the draw command, in order to apply certain style, we only need to pass its name as an option for the path.

And here is the definition of the triangle itself. So let's now see it. Okay, so here we have this triangular path here. It has this style which fills with kind of reddish and with thick borders for the line and dashed. So we separated the stage of the options and their values from the creation of the graph itself and of course we can use this new style again and again so this actually makes this stage much more easier and compact so if you noticed I put the word globally in the title of this subsection and actually it points at the fact that Mostly, you would like to insert the ticset command for defining multiple styles in a preamble.

So as we do usually with similar commands like for any type of style settings that we did before. So what I mean by that is this style is not of course cannot be accessed before defining it. So if you want to make this global of course put it in the primble and that is of course advised. So of course additionally for the scope of this style, if we actually define it inside a TIGS picture, it's only accessible and limited to that environment only. So now one of the most useful situations of defining styles is to do that for nodes.

So yeah, we can use this same concept for nodes. So H space. Let's insert another tigs set command.

And here we are defining a node style. So this is basically the same previous process, but customed with options for nodes. And the style name will be used when drawing nodes, of course. So let's call this one rbn for round black nodes. So let's actually move this comment to the outside so we can declare that this rbn is for round this time round black nodes.

so the name rbn and then the forward slash and the style keyword and then the body so we'll use it to draw the connected nodes in this figure

So what we have here is a rectangle node with rounded corners filled with black, and the text is white. So for a node, of course, the first option is the draw, actually, to frame that node. And then we come to the coloring option. So the white insert it solely it points out to the text color and then we say fill black and then we have the rounded corners we saw that before for rectangular nodes and we add this time a new option called minimum height and we set it to 0.7 centimeters So what we have first is are actually two nodes displaced in X having the RBN style applied to them.

So let's initiate a take this picture to create the nodes. So here

we define the nodes. Those will take labels of left and right respectively. So we use the node command this time and apply the style again, we pass the name of the style as an option for the path or the node. this first one will take the left label and it is placed at the origin 0 and 0 and it has the content node 1 and here is the second right node placed at 2 and 0 so let's see them

So we have them here. Again, the same concept styles applied directly. So what is coming next is the connecting arcs. The lower arc starts at south of the left node. So a path with a stealth.

arrow shape and thick so the lower one starts from left dot south and then it's ending at the location which is south of the right node and this will be determined within the definition of the arc So, we put the arc word with its specification. So, the arc starts at 180 degrees, barely the south of the left node. So, inside the arc here, we put 180 and then

it ends at 360 degrees also barely at the center of the right node here so we have 360 and then we input the radii in x and y directions so we have one and

0.5. So it's an elliptical arc. Sorry about this, this isn't a comma, this is actually a colon. So let's see this arc now.

So it's this line here. So we start at we start this path at left dot south here. And then we define the arc again, we start at 180 degrees from the south of the left node and end at 360, which is barely the south of the right node. So that was the lower arc. And then

This is the second one. It's a path that is placed at the north of the right node here. And this is an arc that starts at 0 degrees and ends at 180 degrees.

with the same size 1 and 0.5 so yeah that was kind of a quick example and revised for the arc but the main thing here is using the style to define some nodes or to customize the shape and look of some nodes So I should point out that this is an ideal case for connecting nodes with arcs and slopes. So generally, this process is quite complicated and it requires using a TIGS library called intersections. So this connecting action here is pretty straightforward. It's done with accessing some location and some nodes and straightforward definition of an arc.

But yeah, as stated this generically, this is a complicated process. And we use a Tiggs library called intersections. And this one helps with computing the intersection points between different paths or shapes. So this process is beyond the scope of this course, unfortunately, and honestly, I don't quite recommend that you use takes for such a task. I mean, if you have a slightly complicated structure and you don't have much more time, so you can use Inkscape, for example, to do it.

So that was for styling with a dedicated command. There is another direct way to use the style key, which is to define the style itself as an option to the tig's picture environment. So instead of inputting this definition of the style inside the tig set, we can actually pass this definition of the style to the options of the tigs picture environment and use it directly. So let's make a new subsection. So we initialize a tigs picture, we open a brackets for the style, it will be quite big.

So Here in the practice of this environment, we define the style itself, especially for this takes picture, of course, so do not forget the scope rows. So we do the same thing. Actually, we type the name of the style and then the style keyword, the equal sign with the body of the style and the options.

And as you may have guessed, this GDT is green dashed thick. Or the T is for triangle. It doesn't actually matter. So after the options in the body of the environment, we can initiate a path and use this style. And then some inputs.

Then we close, of course, with the cycle keyword. So let's see this now.

So yeah, this is another configuration for defining styles. Either you have them grouped or inserted in a tigs set command. And this, I advise you to put this in a preamble, or you can directly input the style declaration as an option for the environment. But of course, outside this, it won't be accessible. and to make sure that for example the RDT that we defined earlier in a dedicated tick set is accessible here inside this environment so we can insert a path which is a triangle and we use the red dashed triangle so we will make another instance of this here okay so this RDT is accessible from now on unlike this gdt so if we kind of example try to transform this node to this green dashed of course we will get an error so i do not know the key takes gdt so yeah undo that so keep the scope of your elements in mind Okay, so now it could happen that you want to add some features to an existing style.

So of course, Luckily Text provides a functionality to do that. So now we're going to see how to append to a style, to an already existing style. So appending to an existing style. We can append or increase more options to a previously defined style through the key called append style. So let's see that in the tags set.

So we have this key now, it is called append style. So yeah, so this works similarly as the style, but of course, the name of the style here refers to an already existing one. So let's say the RDT, what we want to increase here. So let's say that we want to add a line width of two points. So now let's use this updated version of this RDT.

Okay, so I have the comment here. It works as an option too. Of course, you can define the append style so you can increase the features of an existing style as an option here. So all of this declaration can pass as an option as defining a whole new style. So let's see that.

Okay, so here under this new subsection here, we have a triangle that is exactly like the same previous one. So red fill dashed, and then previously it had the thick line width, but now we increase this line width option. So of course we have here the same previously defined RDT, those three, but added this option to them. So the append style is actually extremely important. You could have in some cases defined the style and you want to increase some features to that style.

later on at some stage. So instead of defining a whole new style again, and repeating the previously inputted options, you can actually use the append style and pass the new styles that you want. And of course, you can override some options. So we can actually here in this append, say, we want the fill to be CN. So let's see this.

So it overrides the previously defined red one. So you can add new style, new options, and new values, or you can change or update some already existing options. So it's quite flexible. So now, before leaving the space of styles, I would like to introduce a quite useful and different workflow for defining and using styles.

And adding an edge space. So let's initialize a TIG set.

So now so far, styles have been defined with fixed values for colors, lengths and so on. So whenever you want to alter or customize the appearance of a style, you would go to the definition and change some options. So this isn't actually the only way to work with text styles. a more versatile and customizable method can be done using the so-called arguments. So what I mean by that, so essentially this is a way to separate the options that take a key value pair from each other.

So mainly you put the key of some option like say color in the definition of this tile and instead of inputting a hard value say red after the equal sign we put an argument which is basically a placeholder for that value. So here for example let's say if we want to define this tile to be kind of dynamic this tile there when we use it it forces the green value for the fill command okay and I'm talking about the key value pairs so what if we want kind of to define this tile as a template So a set of options that we get to input different values at different stages. So what we're going to do next is we want to put a hard value for a key. Instead, we will put a placeholder So when we use this style for say some environment we want green, for another environment we'll use the same style but input red, cyan and so on. So now, so let's say that we want to create a style to fill a rectangle of rounded corners with some color.

So let's call this C rect. So colored rectangle. So C rect. And then it is a style

so we want some fill color option and we say rounded corners so this is a fixed or stationary kind of traditional style we put a an explicit fixed value for the color here the fill color so but this time we will put an argument the placeholder of the value of the color for this fill option. So this is the argument is just a hashtag and the number one. So what defines an argument is this hashtag and this one, because this is the first argument. This is the first time in this style that we use an argument. So if we have another key value pair, And we want to pass it as an argument, say like the line width, if we want to put a line width here.

So let's say line width, and we will pass placeholder. So hashtag two. We'll actually learn more about using arguments later in the last advanced section of the course so don't worry much more about them at this stage. So before using this style I would like to introduce a handy key that can be used to put a default value for the style argument. So again, this fill option now, it doesn't have a value.

This is a placeholder. And later on, when we use this tile, we will give the desired fill color. So yeah, again, this is kind of a template, a set of options that has no explicit values. The chose for the values is done at the stage of using the style itself. But there is the default key that you can use.

So C erect, which is our style here. We have the default key.

So what this does is we input a default value for the arguments here. So directly let's say that if we didn't at the stage of using the style, if we didn't pass a value for this argument, let's say that it will be teal. So let's for now remove this second argument. So let's only give it the fill and the rounded corners so they are quite compact. And now let's use this argument based style, the C rect.

So let's initialize a tigs picture. Let's draw a rectangle with this style. So starting at zero and zero, here is a rectangle that ends at two and two.

So let's close and see how this looks.

So we have it here. So what we've done again, we defined this style using the arguments. The arguments is just a placeholder for some option. So a key value pair, this is the key for the option and this is the value. The value is not an explicit specification.

It's a placeholder. So Again, we can have default values for that if you prefer this action. So let's see what will happen if we remove that. So it got the default fill color defined by tigs, which is of course black because we have here, we have specified here for this style a fill option. And when running TIGs did not find a default value for this option and it didn't find even a explicit specification for this option at the stage of using its style.

So it took the default black fill color. So let's undo that.

Okay. Now the main point of using arguments to define styles is the ability to insert values. So this is the main framework of this method. After the name of the style in the options of the path, you type equal sign and then directly let's see that we want a sign.

50% and let's actually make a new style for that so you can see that let's run this again okay so we restored the tail default one. So let's draw. And then at this second path, we put another value for the fill command here. So this is when running tigs or latex will take this value here and put it here. So this is a dynamic framework.

Okay, so let's start this second rectangle at a distant location. Okay, so rectangle, And then we ended.

at four point two and two okay so let's see this now so you have it this time we changed the value of the argument for the fill command so in the first time we only used the style and since we have a default value for this argument it got this tail default value and we saw that we when we didn't it took black And in the second path, we made use of the benefit of the argument, which is to choose a different specific value for this path. So this is quite dynamic. So previously, if we had this kind of a green color, so whenever or whatever we insert this style, it will have the green color. But this is dynamic. Now, this is a placeholder that you get to specify some values.

So it gives you flexibility in using your style. So, again, we separated the state or the stage of defining the style as whole and using the style with different options at different stages. So I see that this is quite powerful concept. So keep it in mind. So you can see that as a statement, the arguments, the benefit of using them is that it makes the stage of defining the styles more flexible.

And the stage of using a style is more versatile. So we'd have like, different variations for that style. And you can consider a style defined by an arguments as a template that you get to customize differently at different stages. So I hope this clip right now. Again here is another use case of the rectangle in which this time we want to make the value of this argument green so it will create a quite green rectangle this time.

Okay, so now you may be wondering how to insert more than one argument. Previously, I put the line width here and then types a hashtag too, but that's not quite correct because we need a different style key, which is called the style two arms. So let's actually see that. Let's put a comment there.

This is the name of the key that we will be using.

can use this key to define a new style that can has two of its options given in the form of arguments. So we can have this fill and maybe the line width. So through this new key, you will have the potential of having two options having their values are as arguments. So let's say that we will define a new style code called Cirque. And we use style to args.

Again, this is the name of the key. equal sign and the body. So again, let's have a fill option. So that will be the first argument. And then, yeah, we can have the line width again as the second argument.

So this is kind of a new template or style that you can use at different stages with different colors and different line widths as we did here. And again, we can provide if we'd like to do so as a default key for this style.

So for default values, each one is actually inserted in a dedicated braces. So we have two arguments. So we wish to put two default values for them. So if the user used the style and didn't specify the values for the arguments, it will take this by default. So let's say that we want the default color to be brown.

And then we'd like to have a one point line width. And of course, after that comes the stage of using the style. So let's draw a path with the circ style. So this will act as the default stage. This is a circle of one centimeter as a value.

So let's see it. So here we have it. By default, this style has the default values here for the arguments that it holds. So we have a fill brown and one point of line width for the contour. So now we can change that.

so yeah we can actually insert another one so let's draw using the circle let's say that this is at two and two it's a circle that has also one so here to specify the new values for the arguments instead of the default ones you type for SQL sign and then double braces as the aesthetics of the default here. So in the first one, let's say that we want the filter to be red. And then the second argument, which is the line width, let's make it much more thicker by two points. So let's

See this instance now? Yeah, sorry about that. It's actually at two and one in the y. Sorry about this. And we also may have to shift it a little bit.

So let's say three. Sorry about that. But the idea is clear. Three and a half.

Okay so now this instance we used this tile with specific values other than the default ones for the first case and we set it like that and each value for each argument in a separated braces. So now you have up to nine arguments only, if you would ask. So this is style two arguments. The default of LaTeX is nine arguments. And for that, you can use the generic form of the multi-argument style definition, which is the style in arguments.

So you have a maximum of nine options that can be defined or set as an argument. But to increase this number, you use kind of the most generic form of the style args, which is the style in args key. So let's comment that you have a maximum. number of args equals nine. So let's make a new take set.

Let's make a new big style for nodes. So let's say GBNode and this is style n args equals and the body. So now n is actually, the n here is a placeholder for a choice that you will make, which is how many arguments do you want to have in your style definition, and you pass the desired number in a double braces before the body of the argument itself. So you'd have here style in args equal the first couple of braces hold the number of arguments that you want. So let's say nine.

So this body now can hold nine options defined as arguments. and save some time here are the arguments so a draw field intercept text and so on

and then they stay diffusing that. So let's actually save some time again. This is a an instance, we have here a white grid. So help lines and then white. So that's to serve as the space to allow for placing the nodes displaced from the left, we'll see that.

So now this is one path, which is a node that is placed at this location with this content and of course the name of the style. So I'm sorry about that. It's JB.

JB node. So the name of this title is given as an option to the node path equal sign. And each one of the nine arguments has its values. So each one has its value in a separated or dedicated braces, and then I increased a rounded corners. So this is like a normal option.

So after all, we're still in the options of the node command. So I increased this rounded corners after the values for the nine arguments here. So let's see how this looks. Zoom out a little bit. Okay, here it is.

So you can inspect those options. So actually, what we have here is first a white grid. Again, this serves as a space. So this white, again, this white node here gave us some space so that we can place this node at this distant location, like in this if we commented this grid out then we won't yeah we won't be able to place this node centered and in the page so yeah this is a

hidden window that we can traverse. So whenever we want to insert some path as a distant location, consider making a window for it, a hidden one like a white grid. And now for this tile in arguments, if you try to insert one more argument to the style definition, the 10th one, you will get an error that says expected less than or equal to nine arguments got 10. So this is the error message. So keep that in mind.

Okay, enough for that on styles. And let's head for the next concept, which is scopes. We've seen the scope environment before, but I would like to introduce some more features for it here. So we'll begin by nesting scopes. So of course you can easily nest multiple scope environments.

So let's make a TIGS picture. Recall that the scope environment is actionable only inside the TIGS picture. So let's make a scope here that defines some styles.

let's say that this will fill with a red color and let's give a scale for the environment so now we begin by a big scope so let's try that so let's try this triangle here we can actually retract this on indent so okay so at the same level we have the text picture and the big scope environment this is Now you feel a rounded corner rectangle. So it'll have this fill color, of course. So that's, yeah, that's the big scope. Zoom in. Okay.

After that, let's put a child scope environment, if you will, with a different fill color. So here inside the big scope, we will insert another scope environment. I say that for this child scope environment we want a kind of a bluish color and for this scope let's insert this rectangle path. this will now have a bluish kind of color. So we have a big scope but then we nested another scope and changed the main feature of the parent scope which is the fill color.

Okay so now generally the nested scopes inherit the options applied on the top level environment that is inserted in. So for example let's put one more scope at this level so under this scope environment inside the big one let's insert another scope environment And then let's put a different kind of option now which is a line width, so two points.

So as an example, I will put a fill draw circle. So what will happen here when we run, we have this scope that has a line, sorry about that, a line width of two points for this draw part here. And this scope environment is inserted in a big scope environment and that big or parent scope environment has a reddish fill color. So this path now will combine those two options. It will inherit the fill color from the parent scope and it will apply the line width to the draw portion from its own environment.

So let's see that. Okay, so this is a circle now that is fill and draw. The fill is inherited from the parent scope and the draw has got it from its own environment. Okay, so and of course still placing some path inside the big scope. So let's say this rectangle here and this starting location will preserve the original look.

So yeah, it's this same style here. So actually playing around with Scopes is really fun and powerful and allows you kind of to create different zones, if you will, with different looks all inside one big takes picture environment. So there is actually a shorthand to create a scope inside takes pictures. which is by using the curly braces and square brackets without begin or end declarations. So let's see an example of that.

Let's insert a V space. So first of all, we must load the TIGS library called scopes. So this shortcut or shorthand syntax for creating a scope requires the TIGS library called scopes. So we can add this takes library here. So scopes and back again.

So let's first create a takes picture and give it a green color.

And let's fill a circle at the origin.

Okay, so here we are. And now if I ask you what is a scope environment represents? So a simple expected answer that you will say, well, a LaTeX group. So we kind of, the scope is actually a group, semantically. We apply some options and styling.

on a group of paths. So of course, a scope is a group. So the shortcut syntax treat scope environments the same way as groups. So you just put a pair of curly braces that represent a group. So here, inside the tigs picture to create a scope without the traditional form of begin and end, for an environment we initiate a group.

So the second component for this short syntax of a group is a pair of square brackets inserted just right after the opening brace. So we put a square brackets here at the head. and of course this is the option space for this environment scope so let's say that we will we want to fill with again a reddish color and this is the body so inserting a path let's close and see it Okay, it worked. So we have this holding TIG's picture. It has the green.

And this is an example of the green fill color. And now we made this scope. This is a scope. So actually, the group braces represent the idea of the scope. And then just right after the opening brace, we put the option space.

So this is the syntax of the shorthand scope that is provided by the TIGS library scopes. So actually, the general style of course, for this takes picture applies. So outside that, if we say,

So this will go back to the green general theme of the environment itself. So this is a closed scope on itself that has this option applied to this example here. So this is actually can help you if you look at this previous tigs picture, it's kind of cluttered because of the multiple scopes and nested scopes environments inside it. So actually using this shorthand syntax of just double braces and square brackets and put your path of this specific scope. This actually makes the code a lot easier to understand.

And of course, scopes in this special syntax can be nested. So inside this first scope here, we can actually add another scope. So braces for the group and then the options. So let's say line width for this scope will be two points. And then inside the body of the scope, We have a fill draw circle.

So recall that this scope will inherit the fill color and it'll add this line width. So draw has line width here and fill comes from the parent scope. So I see it. Okay, so it's this small little circle here. So yeah, you can nest scopes in this And of course, it's quite compact.

And lastly, for scopes, indeed, you can create a desired style and pass its name in the brackets of the scope to apply its options. So let's try instead of cluttering the declaration or the definition of the scope with some explicit options, we can define styles, of course, and use it. So let's add a vspace. So here is the definition of a new style called scope style. The style key has some options of its own.

Okay. And let's use this with the same procedure as before. So a tigs picture, the general theme is a red color. And now let's put the first and last filled circles. So fill at the origin is circle with one.

and the last one will be at quite a distant location at nine and in between those we will insert a scope that applies this scope style here so you can actually place the options of the scope at a dedicated line so

This is the style for our scope and this is its body. Here we have a fill draw of a circle and a rectangle two elements under one path. So see that. Okay, so we have this last row here. Again, we defined a style as usual by the style key.

And then we created a text picture, the first fill circle, the last fill circle. here. And then we inserted a scope scope this time applies a predefined style. And then we have some elements for that scope. So yeah, that was it for scopes.

So the last concept to cover and takes world, which is have to repeat or reuse your graphs.

So let's make a new section here.

So look at those circles in the figure. In normal situation to draw this by the tools we've learned so far, you would simply say that we can initiate one draw path providing an origin and so it will kind of act as a shared center for all of the three circles and then repeat the circle operation for different radii. But actually there is a more clever and convenient way to do that. And this will be through the forEach command. So the first method uses the forEach command.

This is a looping function provided by tigs. It is held in an automatically loaded package called pgf4. So this for loop works exactly like any iterating commands found in any programming language. If you don't know programming, the idea is pretty simple. Let's first initialize a tigs picture and let's make it small.

by this scale and then end it.

Take for example our three circles here. So let's draw a path

What we want to achieve is to type the path like this one, only one time and get the desired output. So to do that, and whatever is that you want to repeat, you must think of your path or group of paths as being classified as either fixed components or variable components. So what do I mean by that? Now, here we chose the center to be shared among the circles. So if we did it the old way, the center zero and zero won't change for the three paths.

and the things that change are called variables. So here mainly the radius of each circle. So we have one unified center for all the three circles and the radius is what changes. So this is a fixed component and this is a changing or variable component. So yeah, the old way will be draw zero and zero and then circle with small and then we repeat the circle operation with the middle radii and then another circle operation with the last big radii.

So what we want actually is to automate or give a formula to apply the three radii at this step in one operation instead of repeating this circle extending operation. So now the syntax of the for each statement is as follows. First, let's indent the path further to be within the for each space. So actually, the entire path now will be under the for each state. So let's type the command for each.

After that comes the definition of the variable. is again a placeholder for the changing values of the path. So we put a backslash and then any name that we desire for that variable. Again, what changes in this path is only the radius of each circle. So this is the variable.

This is the component that is changing. And the center for all of them will be one, which is the origin. So since we want to change the radius, so we define a variable called r. So after the name of the command for each, we'll put a backslash and then the name of our variable, which is r stands for radius. After that comes the core part of the loop, which is gathering the values of the changing element in the path.

So here the radius of course, we gather those in a comma separated list with this syntax. So we type in and then we open a braces and then type one, two and three. So And this is actually what we want. We want three different variables for this variable here, three different values for this variable here. So what this is going to make, it will repeat this path here and in the first time so what is left actually is to insert a variable so the name of the variable goes here so in the first loop r will be replaced by one so a path is drawn at zero and zero with a circle of radius one and then takes repeats that again the second iteration the r will take two and it will typeset this path with r equals to two.

And the third one, the r will take the value of three, plug it here, and the third circle is inserted centered at the origin with a radius of three centimeters. So let's actually say that. Okay, so here kind of in one shot, we created those nested circles without having to repeat the circle operation. So again, we have a path. This path has a fixed component.

So in our case here, it's the shared center. And then it has a variable component, which is the radius. So each circle, of course, has its own radius. So the way that we combine all of those variables together is through a for each command. So what is changing in our path every time we place the circle is the radius.

So after the name, we put a name of the path, and then we gather the values that we desire for this variable in a comma separated list. And this makes a loop. The first loop takes typeset this path with r equals one, and then the second loop, it takes r equals two, and type sets this middle circle. And in the third iteration, r is three and type sets this outer three centimeter radius.

So there is a fact about the for each command, you can actually encapsulate the paths or the things that you want to repeat using this for each statement had inside a group. So you can consider this as an argument for the for each command. So you can put another draw command here to perform. So let's say that this location we want again to make those circles.

using the variable that has those values and let's see it okay so we have this instance actually again so previously when we had only one path for each repeats until it finds a semicolon So let's actually delete that and return to our previous state. So now here we have the for each statement head and then only one path. So the for each statement acts until it finds a semicolon. So to make sure of that, we can actually attach this circle operation here. So this is an extension for the path.

So circle and then backslash r. So for each, we'll repeat this entire path until it reaches a semicolon. So, okay, the same output. So note that you can utilize the variable value list in the for loop head, this variable value here, to actually draw different operations. So they are kind of absolute values and the name r for radius is just for convenience here.

So this is a normal variable. Those are generic variables, one, two, three. If you insert those in a circle, then it'll act as a radius. You can use those here in the commands actually. So for example, let's say that we want to extend the horizontal lines between the top end of each circles to take that shape in the figure.

So we can actually extend this path here. So to connect lines.

Okay. And again, think of fixed versus changing values. So each time you'd use a for each statement, you would look at your path that you're trying to repeat and look what is changing to use a variable for it. And what's not changing, you would actually put a fixed absolute value for it. So, in our case here, from left and through the start point of each line, mainly the x value, it does not change.

It's zero for all of the three circles. So, if we were talking about starting a line from here to there, so the starting point for that line, for this line segment, and for this line segment, and for this line segment, the all at zero in x. So this is a stationary or a fixed variable. But the elevation changes. So we have three lines here.

So the x is fixed at zero for each line, but the y, the vertical orientation changes. So for that, we're going to use the variable. So each time tigs will repeat this path, when it comes here, it will typeset a line that has a starting point in the first iteration. It has a starting point of zero and R of one. so zero in x and one in y so it's this line here in the second iteration it will take two and so on the same concept applies for the ending point so we end at a specific x location again which is the center this six and a half centimeters And again, the elevation of the y changes.

So for that, we'll use the variable r. So let's actually see it. So yeah, what we've done again is this is an iteration operation.

This is known for us now. And since this doesn't have braces to hold, so it'll act until it finds a semicolon. So extended that path with this line operation. So in the first iteration, it starts a line at zero and one, which is here, extended 6.5 and one, which is here.

In the second iteration, it takes zero and two for the R, which is here, and ends at 6.5 and two here. And again, the third operation or the third iteration, it starts this line at zero and R of three and ends at 6.5 and three, which is here. And let's actually break this.

path combo here so we can have everything typeset correctly so you can actually flip this this line loop here to draw the bottom portion by making this let's run see what is happening So remember that this is the zero. So again, those bottom three lines from here to here, and this one and this one, they are actually used a negative form of the variable list. So for one iteration, there is a line that starts at zero and minus one, which is this one here, this is the zero. So this is minus one, the radius, and then it ends at 6.5 and minus one for the first iteration and so on.

R here is two and R here in the third loop is three. So yeah, you just put negate those variable entries. So perfect. Now, what if you wish to build your graph by several different paths, then easily as stated, you may want to group them. So instead of being tied to only one path.

So kind of if you put this for each statement head without a group and put multiple paths here. So let's actually try that. that's actually kind of try a fill. Let's say that at 0 and 0, we want to fill a circle, anything that has R. So the main point here is that I'm trying to use to insert another path.

So I'm thinking that it belongs to this for each statement. But look what will happen if we try to run this. We'll get an error simply because this for each statement is inserted without a grouping. So it repeats until it finds a semicolon. and terminates.

And here we inserted this fill path, we used the R which belongs to this for each statement that terminated here, so we get an error. So if we prefer or need to use the for each statement with different kind of paths, then we'd like to group those. So let's insert just an H space. Let's begin a TIGS picture. So again, here we put a white grid to reserve a space for our picture.

And by the way, before moving on, the TIG, the for each command can be inserted after the TIGS command. Like we use a lot the TIGS command. So it's not just for TIGS picture environments. You can also use it for after the TIGS command. So here in this environment, we will draw eight circles that are shown in this figure.

Four at the top under a fill path and the lower ones under a draw path. So let's put the frame for each. Then we have a variable called p in a value list that has one, two, three, and four. And then here we use different paths, so that's why we will group those paths. We create a specific body for the for each statement.

So the list of values for the p variable are four elements. Because for each path, we will be drawing four circles in X direction. So let's see this. We fill till 80%.

Leave this empty for now. We have a circle.

that is 10.10 radius so this time the fixed value is the radius and the changing value lies in the center of that radius so again you lay down your graph by a pen and paper and look what is fixed and put that as an explicit value and what is changing and define a variable and a list of values for that variable under A for each. So unlike actually the previous picture, here the changing values again are the x coordinate part of the center point of this circle. So what changes is the x location of the center, and we are at a fixed vertical orientation of two centimeters. So let's see this.

Okay, so in one shot, we draw those four circles Again, when we thought about it, we have four circle paths. All of them have a fixed ten point, but they change their center point. And they change that center point in the x-axis. So what is the variable? Well, it's the x value of the center point.

And they are all at one level, vertically speaking. So we defined a variable called p and a list for it under a for each command. Okay so the same thing goes for the draw path so actually we wanted to group multiple paths as stated so we can do so since we have here a defined body for the foreach so this one will actually be lowered at the vertical elevation so yeah it's this one here. Okay, let's move on and insert some V space.

So one of the most cool use cases for each is repeating small pictures around some perimeter. So take, for example, this shape in the figure. This shape consists of three parts. The first one is a contour circle. The second is some little filled circles and finally a straight lines connecting them to the center point.

So let's first draw a circle path.

Okay, so this is the first component, the contour circle. So the little dots and the connecting lines appear to be repeated elements. And that's quite obvious. We have some circles here and then we have connecting lines. So those are repeating.

So for that, we'll use a for each statement. So let's initiate a body for it. So here, since we're dealing with a circle and elements changing on the surface or the contour of a circle, we'll be using the polar coordinates. And we'll use the polar coordinates to mark the center point of the filled dots on the big circle here. So those little dots will be defined, of course, by an angle.

and then a radius. Of course, you'd expect that what is the changing part in this polar specification? Well, it's the angle. The angle only for the center point of those little dots is what change. And of course, the center, the radius, I'm sorry, the length unit, which is the radius is fixed, which is one.

So let's make the base path that that we will repeat for those little circles. So we will have a polar specification and then a circle and a unified small kind of small radius for them. And now Again, we have an angle and a radius, the radius for the center point for the small circles is fixed, which is one, the radius of the contour circle. And here we will put our angle variable. so the angle variable will create it to be a for angle so after the for each we define a in a list of values here is the list okay so 0 60 and so on up to 300 So, yeah, we have one filled path of circles of unified radius for the small circles.

And then when we specify the center point, which is the thing that changes, we have a fixed radius for each of all of them. And then the angle part of the center point specification for the little dots is what is changing. So this is a variable. So we made this a for angle, and we put it this, we put this list here. So yeah, let's actually see it.

Okay, perfect. So again, only in the first iteration, so you can see it, we fill a circle with this radius at an angle of zero. This is the first iteration, which is this one here. This is the angle zero with radius of one. and so on the angle changes to form those six circles so now then what's coming next is the line so we have a line that connects those to the center so we put a draw path This line always starts from the center.

So this is a fixed specification, and then the double dashes. And the end point of each line is actually again specified by a polar coordinate system. Again, it's the same for the center points. So it's the same point each time we extend a line from the origin to this polar point.

Okay, perfect.

So additionally, repeating things on a straight path is also a possibility. So look at this axis of dots in the figure that acts as a tick marks. So again, let's put some V space and let's initiate a text picture. And let's put a specification for triangle 16 for the arrow and end. So the axis is a thick horizontal line with arrow heads on both sides.

So it's this normal draw path here.

here it is. And the number of dots here is seven. So a handy shortcut to initialize the list of values instead of explicitly like typing all of the values in the list. from one to seven in our case here, we can actually put three dots in between the range of values. So let's initiate the for each statement for each.

And then for each C, the name of the variable in this list, C is for center. So our list here will be one, two, and then after two, we put dot two, three, and then a comma up to seven. So this acts as a range. Of course, you can remove this tool from here and you will still get the same because the same effect or the same values for the list because this actually defines the step. So if we remove that, it will still one, two, three up to seven.

But let's say you want a list that has only the odd numbers. So one, three, five, and seven. If you omit this two, you will by default get a step of one. So actually, you insert in this in this range form, you insert two values at the beginning to define the step of your range. So if you want, again, one, three, five, and seven, you type here three, and so on.

So here can make a body for this for statement. And we fill a circle with small radius. And then again, what is changing is the X specification of the center. And we operate at the zero y elevation. So let's see it.

So, yeah, each time for each loop, this C value changes by the values in this list to specify a new center point for each circle. So again, for the step here, we can remove this

two you'll still get the same thing as I said but if you wish to have three so one three five and seven you will obtain four circles using this specification okay so one three five and seven So you put two numbers at the beginning of the range to specify the step and the default step as one. So let's undo that.

OK. So a handy use case for the shorthand list creation here through this three dots range is the creation of the dense version of the circle of dots shown in this figure. This time we have many circles, so it doesn't make sense to typeset the value of the angles explicitly. So now it's your turn. Try to work this out.

It's actually quite easy. And come back when you finish it, see the code.

And here it is. So this is the range that I chose. It's a step of 30 degrees. So from zero to 30, this is what defines the step with an end value of 330. So let's run, see it.

Okay. Perfect. So far up until now, we only have been dealing with only one variable. So I'm speaking about this for each statement here. So for all of those examples, we only had one element that is changing either the radius of a circle or one value for a polar or a Cartesian point specification.

for general case of course and in some complex situations you might find yourself having to deal with multiple variables so this time we'll have both the x and y values for example of a point we'll be changing each iteration so this game is translated in a nested four loops So the idea for nested loops is that you have, as said, multiple variables, which means that there are different lists of values for each variable. So if we have kind of an x variable here for an x part of a Cartesian coordinate point specification and y variable, so we will have two types of lists, different lists. What we want is to loop over some paths. So that's what we do inside for each statement. And simultaneously, we change more than one variable.

So we change the x and y of a point to achieve some goal. So let's say an example. Say that our target is to create a quad camera-like shape that is shown in the figure. Each one of these is made by two paths, a draw and a fill with circle operations, of course. And this time we're building in x and y directions at the same time.

So it's not just x that is changing and y as is fixed or vice versa. No, we're changing both the values of x and y each statement. So we have two variables here. So that means the X and Y values for the center point of every circle as I filled or drawn will be different each iteration. So to achieve that, let's initiate a take-spectre environment.

So we can insert two for each statement, one for the X values and the other for the Y values. So there is a parent each for each statement. the x in this list so it's only 0 and 1 and inside the body of this first for each statement we put the second one so for each y in

again 0 and 1 you will see this and this has its own body of course so both for loops will share the same group as the body for commands to repeat so the drawn path so I meant that those two operations will be repeating the paths in this body here so we have a draw path so the x and y are changing for the circles this is the hollow circle and then we have a fill

with again the X and Y specification for the center point of the circles changing each iteration. And this is quite smaller, the filled ones. So let's see and inspect what is happening. Okay, so Okay, so now let's see what is going on here. So

So here we have a double for loops. So the way this works is that for each iteration, we fix the variable value of the outer loop. So this comment actually shows the point specification of each loop. So in the first iteration, so again, we have two variables here and here. So we'll have two iterations.

So in the first iteration, we take zero for x alongside with zero and y. So this is the first combo here. And then we take zero for x with one in y. So this is the second one here. So the loop is actually you stop at each value in the outer loop and loop fixing that all over the values of the inner loop.

So the first iteration produces those two point specification. You have zero and zero, this one here, and then you have zero and one. So when Tiggs tries to draw these paths here and repeat it, so we have zero and zero for the hollow circle, this one here. and then we have 0 and 0 for the filled circle, this one here And then the second part of the first iteration, which is we're again, we're fixing the zero and then taken one in Y. So a hollow circle is placed at zero and one, which is this one here.

So zero X and one in Y. So this hollow circle here and then zero and Y for the filled circle, which is this one here. and the second iteration so in the second iteration we fix the one in x and take that one with zero in y and one in y which gives those two point specifications so we fix one for the first iteration and we loop over all the values in the inner loop. So 1 in x with 0 gives this point, 1 in x with 1 on y gives this point here. So this for each statement does that.

types, it's a hollow circle at zero at one and zero. So one in X and zero in Y, it's this one here. And then a filled circle at one on zero, it's this one here. And then the last one is the value combo of one in X and one in Y. So one and one, this one here.

and one and one this last one here. So since we have two variables in the outer loop and two variables in the inner loop, we end up with four different specifications. So you can actually remove the fill if you kind of lost and then walk only with one path. So yeah, check that out and try to play around with nested for loops in other examples and try to see what is happening. So again, the way that double or nested for loops work in any programming language is you loop over all the values of the outer statement.

And for each value of those, you loop over all the values of the nested loop. So that's why we have four here. The first iteration, we add the first value of x, And then inside this first iteration, we'll loop over zero and one for y. And the second iteration, we're at one in x, and we loop over all the values in y and so on. So there is actually a more compact form to loop with two variables that combine them and their values in one for each statement.

So let's see this form now.

So we have a white grid here. So this time we will be repeating nodes to create this shape. So let's lay out the code first. We have a for each statement in some list. And then we have a body for that.

And then we have a node drawn with a circle shape at some location with some content. So first question, by observing this shape, what are the variables we have? well for the circles or the location at which nodes are drawn seems to be on the same elevation in y but walks in x so this is the first variable we have here in the first variable and x and then the nodes are placed at x which is changing and one in y the same elevation So, we can put the values of x. So one, two, three, and four. So this is the first variable that we have.

And then it seems that the content of the node is actually changing. So obviously the text of each node also changes each time from a to d. So we have the second variable backslash c for content of the node and this time to put the declaration or the definition of the variable instead of creating a separate for each command tigs allows to combine the variable names and the values in the in one head and those are separated by a forward slash So we have here the name of the first variable after the for each, we put a forward slash, and then we put the name of the second one. So backslash, this is the separator a forward slash, and then the name of the second variable. And so how we can put the values for the C, which are four letters, then we use the same concept.

So we separated the names by a forward

So we also in one list separate the values of those two variables at each entry by a forward slash. So after one we have A, after two forward slash we have B, after three again we have C, and then we have D. So this is a quite compact form for the for each statement head for two variables here. We separate the names of the variables by a forward slash and then in the input of the list put respectively the values of each of the variables separated at each entry by a forward slash. So let's see this now.

Okay, perfect. Again, looking at this one node specification, it seems like we have been traversing in X direction. So the X specification for this Cartesian point at which each node is placed is changing, but we are at the same elevation. So one, that was the first variable. And the second variable is actually the content for each node.

then we used this compact form for the nested for each statement. Okay to be precise actually this kind of concatenation here in this for each statement head is not considered as a nested structure because each element of the first variable does not loop over all the elements of the second variable as we did before. It seems that for each iteration, we take the first value of x and the first value of C and plug it in this node operation to create the first one. So for the first operation, we have x equals to one. So this first node in the first iteration is placed at one and one, which is this one here with the first value of C, which is a.

So it created this node here, and so on. So to lay down this correctly, this compact form allows you to work with two variables, but they are not nested as this one. So each one of those concepts has its own use case. So here we needed to traverse the x and y in the 2D plane simultaneously, but here we took only one value at a time from the two variables. So we can call this actually, this one here, a multivariable for each loop.

Okay and eventually another method of repeating or reusing pictures that will be with the pick command. So let's create a subsection for that.

So the process of using this command is split between creating an object, mainly a path shape with a specific name initialized in the TextSet command and using that object with the Pick command inside a text picture. So as before we have a creation stage and a using stage. So let's say that we want to have an object or entity that draws a filled rectangle that takes a specific name. And that object can be referred to by using that name later to instantiate some variations of it, like without having to typeset the code of the path repeatedly. So let's actually see an example.

This kind of object is created inside the ticset command. To create that object we use a special key called pick that works the same as the style. So let's say that we want an object that is called SBR for small blue rectangles and then we have the forward slash and the dot and the pick key. So this is small blue rectangle. So inside the body of this key, we type the code of the desired path.

So let's say that we want this picture object here to draw every time when we call it a filled blue rectangle with this dimension specification. So this is actually extremely useful. So this picture key allows us to create an object. This object is actually a template for a draw. or an element of a graph and we can call this as we'll see with the pick command and it will immediately draw this path every time so it's actually we are encapsulating some path inside some name through this key And as usual, after that comes the stage of using this picture object.

So let's create a text picture for that. So the pick command works like the node one. So we place a pick at some location, let's say the origin of this, and then we have a content for that.

Inside this argument or content space, if you will, you put the name of the object or the picture that you wish to place at this location. So we have only the SVR, the small blue rectangle. I see it. Okay, so here it is. So this is another form of repeating pictures or reusing pictures.

So you define an object once using the picture key, and then you put the path specification or multiple paths if you want. And then you can use them or place them inside a text picture environment using the pick at some location and inside those phrases you put the name of the object that holds one path or multiple paths that you want to repeat. And also, there is another way of creating this picture object. So if you don't like creating this with or inside a tigs sit command, you can pass the definition of the pic object shape as an option to the tigs picture, just like the style. And of course, again, in this form, this object will not be accessible outside the tigs picture that is inserted in.

So let's say for this specific text picture, we can add

another object let's call it SRR for small red rectangle it's a picture object that holds only one fill path let's fix that okay so inside the options of this takes picture here we have at first this rounded rectangle. And then we separate by a comma and then add this object specification. So let's try to use this in the body directly using the pick command at

Let's say this time two and zero. And the name is SRR. This is, so let's see it. Okay. And here it is.

Here it's working. So you can, as the style, you can have the pick key inserted in a TIGS set or as an option inside a specific TIGS picture environment. So now this pick command actually draws a tigs path after all, so you can give it some style. So we can have, for example, an opacity for some red object here. This is passed as an option to the pick command.

So yeah, this works. So you can style this as you want. It accepts the normal options. And as stated, this pick object can embrace multi-path shape. So let's go to the take set, set the definition of a picture that draws the shape showing in this figure.

So here inside this, we increase another specification. Let's call this wheel and then the pick.

So this shape takes a window of 1 cm in X and Y and has a filled circle in the middle. So let's fill at 0.5 a circle.

that has this radius and the board is just a thick line with round cap if you recall so a normal draw path now we have a thick line width at the beginning of 8 points and then we have a line cap

around. This line spans the whole window diagonal wise. So it starts at the origin, stretches to one on one.

So now inside this takes picture, let's use this new wheel picture. So backslash pick at

let's say six and zero a distant location and then just type the wheel name that's it let's see it So yeah this time we had two paths a fill path and a draw path so the pick can hold any kind of path specifications and then you can use them later and we're done. So that was actually it for what I have to offer in later graphics. Tiggs is really huge and there are tons of features left as time of course does not help with exploring them and it really needs an entire treatment as stated which may come in the near future. So until then, walk through the official documentation of TIGs if you're interested or search online for packages that are built with TIGs that specializes in some drawing fields. If you have an application and You've got to go foundation by now to understand any kind of documentation or a text based package that you may find online and yeah and deal and work with it.

So thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video. Okay welcome back you guys and in this video we'll begin a new coverage in the space of creating graphics which is data plotting.

Most often when you're working with numerical or statistical data, you'd like to visualize them in a graph kind of to obtain some information and get an intuition about some trends and correlations between your data sets. So LaTeX has many utilities for plotting data with various features. So in this topic, we will work with the most widely used utility for plots in LaTeX, which is PGF plots. So this is again, like tigs is a quite large package with a lot of features and functions, and you can find them in the official documentation. So in this basic treatment, we'll look at some preliminary stuff of common shapes that can represent a dataset.

So we'll start by simple line and curve functions and plot them using the environment axes. and then we will see multiple ways to create bar graphs also we'll see an example of histograms and then we'll end by making some scatter plots and an instance or an example of the 3d plots okay so let's begin our work So here I have this article document. So first of all, let's load both of tigs because we will need it and pgfplots, our main package. So use package tigs and then

And for aesthetic purposes, I will set the odd side margin to zero of the entire document. So if we recall, we would do that by set length of the odd side margin. to zero points. So this will increase the width that will be occupied by the plots on the page, of course. So I'm kind of giving some spaces for the environments.

And additionally, to use the process of inserting vertical spaces after each text environment, like instead of typesetting multiple vspaces command again and again, we can use the after and environment hook. So here, let's say after and so this again is called an environment hook that is defined within a package called a toolbox. So let's actually load this package.

So essentially what this command is doing, it will allow you to execute some code after terminating a specific environment and hence the name after and environment. So here we want to add a one centimeter vertical space after each things picture we have in the entire document. So in the first argument, we pass the name of the environment. that we want. So takes picture and then the stuff that we want to execute after terminating the environment in the first argument.

So we want to add a V space. of one centimeter. So this automates the process of adding this vertical space after each takes picture environment. So the etolbox package is meant primarily for class and package authors and is full of useful programming facilities for the job. But of course you can make use of some of its functionalities in simple cases like adding some routines before or after an environment.

So, now let's hop to the document body and let's make a new section. So, let's introduce the Axis environment. So, the Axis environment is the main player of PJF plots. And whenever we want to insert a data plot in our document, we put the specification or the info of this data plot in the access environment. And this access environment must be initialized within a TIGS picture.

So that's why we needed to load this TIGS package. So To make a plot, let's begin a tigs picture. And inside this tigs picture, we put the axis environment. So it's kind of similar to the scope environment. If you recall, the scope is only accessible inside tigs picture.

And also, the axis environment for plots must be inserted inside a tigs picture. OK, so let's begin by a simple line plot that is simply a set of points connected by a straight line. So the main working command of access environment and the pgfplots package is called addplot.

So this is essentially the draw command of this pgfplots if you will. So after that we specify the plot coordinates in a bear of praises. So after this addplot we say coordinates. we need to insert this word and then open a phrase, close this kind of path. And then the indices of the plot are inserted in the preferred order in parentheses.

So with white spaces between them. So let's say that we want to stretch a line from zero and zero to one and one. So the first and the second two points in the plot And then let's say one and two, and the line will connect to three and zero. So let's see this. Okay, here we have it.

The points are marked with little dots, as you can see here. Those are the points that are inserted in this group. And then the add plot or the PDF plot package, connects those with a straight line by default. So this is the most basic kind of a plot you can add. We used the add plot command and then the coordinates word.

Then we opened a curly brackets and inside that we put the vertices that we want to connect by a straight line kind of inside parentheses with white spaces. And of course, those are Cartesian coordinates XY values. So now if you don't like the dot marks here, you can add the command or the option draw to the add plot command. And this option will delete the marks of the points and leaves out the plot in black. So you can fix that by saying draw equals blue.

So we don't need kind of a color or a fill here. So this draw removed the ticks or the marks of the points. and it has an equal sign so it can hold a value of a color if you want to restore the blue line that we had before. So yeah, without options you will get by default small little dots for the marks and if you don't like that you can say draw and leave it in black or you can also additionally add a color for that. So now the dimensions of the window created by the axis environment here are computed automatically to account for the size of the plot.

So it's kind of dynamic. It depends on the vertices and their locations that you input in the coordinates. And the package does the job to compute the appropriate space for this window. And indeed, you can change that to fit the plot with the size you prefer. So actually, you can do so by setting the width and height options explicitly to the axis environment.

So if you don't like this size here, you can for the axis environment We can add some options. We say width equal to 10 centimeters to stretch it horizontally. And then the height, we can make it say 6 centimeters. So we'll have different proportions then. Okay.

So the environment is quite wider right now. So those are two extremely important actually options of the axis environment. So and lastly, for this first example, an extremely important element of any plot is the legend entry, of course. So we can add a legend by the command add legend entry. So here inside the access environment, say add legend entry.

And then we put the text that we want. So let's simply say plot one legend. Sorry about that. I forgot the D for legend. Okay.

So let's zoom in. By default, you have a legend entry at the top right corner of this window. We will look at how we can control this legend position in a minute. So let's move on to explore more features. So I will place two plots in one row for the upcoming examples.

Let's say this is a group. So centering and then we begin, of course, a takes picture. The first plot that we will add is this one in the figure. So this plot is full of new features. You can see that it has a title, X and Y labels, some annotations, and the legend is on the left also, and the mark symbol of the points is different also.

So we'll do all of that. So, let's initiate an axis environment. So begin axis. So inside that, so the base of this plot is an add plot command that has three vertices. So let's add a plot and then the coordinates.

here they are. And so now for the options of the plot, we can see that the line is in blue. So again, here we enter the draw blue option to the add plot. So of course, we add that specification here instead of the environment. So we want to apply this drop blue only for this add plot entry.

So we can have different colors. But of course, you can add a general specification for all the color specification for all the plots of an axis environment. So, now the markers of the points are kind of cross-shaped. So, we set it through the mark option. So, this is pretty straightforward.

So, here after, let's actually break this line. So, here after the draw blue to the add plot, we say the mark is lowercase letter X. And then we can additionally or optionally adjust the marker size. So let's increase it for visibility. So we do that by the mark size option.

Let's say four points. And finally, to separate the color of the marker from the draw color that we've inserted here, we can use an option called Mark Options. So Mark Options, this is kind of a styling holder for the marks. So we can say thick and green. So we have the marker style, the symbol, sorry, and the mark size.

And then we have the mark options to increase their visibility and to make them kind of have a different color from the lines. So let's see this at this stage. Okay. Sorry about this. A lot of typos centering.

Okay, so let's zoom in a little bit. So here we have a plot of three points. The marker is a cross X shape with different specific size and they are made thick lines and of green. So and the draw blue is for the lines connecting them. So actually we can add a legend entry here.

Legend entry.

Say plot two.

And now to move this around, so to control the positioning of this legend entry, we can use the legend pose option. And this is set to the axis environment. So here for the options of the axis environment, we say legend pose equals north west. So we have the cardinal directions and their intermediate. Again, the D.

Sorry about that. It's legend pose and it kind of displaced to the north west of the graph itself. And now this is the term for the axis labels. So the axis labels are set in the options of the axis environment itself. So let's say X label.

This is an option. Let's say X axis. We input the label explicitly or directly after the option and then the Y label and say Y axis. Let's fix that. Okay.

Let's see it. So here we added an X. label and why label and again we add those directly after the equal sign so we don't need kind of braces for that and now let's add the upper bold title that will be inserted here so this is actually added using well conveniently enough we have the title option So this one needs, so let's make a group. So we have this large bf title that is second plot.

So let's see it. So this big title here is another option of the access environments. So by now we have the positioning of the legend, the X and Y labels, and the title itself. So we can give that title some space kind of to move it vertically by setting the Y shift value in the title style option. So if you don't like how close is the title to the box of the graph, we can use the option title style.

and say inside the races, the Y shift equals to five points. So this will lift this title up a bit. So yeah, this is an option. The title style accepts some options to style the title. So we have a group here.

One possibility is the Y shift. So you can control the vertical orientation by this value. Okay, so if you feel like the plot lines are pretty close to the axis box, so it's kind of spanning the entire graph, so we can make this more sparse. You can use the enlarge limits option to tweak that. So let's add, we'll use this option quite frequently.

So enlarge

limits by 25%. Let's say it's effect directly. Look at how close those lines. So again, this is kind of an inner padding. It controls how far is the plot from the boundary of the graph.

So yeah, this takes a percentage. So we can play around with this value. And before leaving the access options, let's tweak the width in proportion to the line width. So again, we will insert a width option here. So here after the enlarge limits, comma, and then the width, let's make this 70% of the available line width.

Okay, and let's see that. Okay, so this is kind of a tweak for the second plot that we will place here. So what's left for this plot is the point annotation. So now since the axis environment operates within the tigs picture, so that means that we can make use of tigs features to decorate our plots. And that's what we're going to do.

So actually, the line segment text on the left line and the small lines pointing at the text next to the points are simply tigs nodes. So inside this, After the legend, we can say incorporating nodes

So let's start with the top value annotation of the tip marker. So let's place a node command with some options at a specific location with some content. So the content of this annotation and its orientation are relative to the location at which the node will be placed. And those are passed to the node options. So we'll use the pin option.

So here in the options, we use the pin. Now the top value text appears on the right of the top point. So we say right and then colons and then races. So the content goes in the braces after this colon. So let's say top value.

sorry about that value. So we actually we will leave this node content place empty. This is how you insert a node in inside the access environment to use the pin option. And then you place where this node will be inserted. And then we have a colon and after the colon comes the content of that node.

So now this node will be placed at the point two and two. So we insert that here. And so actually, let's run to see this. Okay, great. So we have this here.

So this is kind of special styling of the nodes, this pin command. Adds this little dash here to point at this mark and say that this is a specific value. But wait a minute, this isn't what we were expecting. Yes, the pin does its job by adding this content to the right of this location supposedly. It will add this content.

This is actually how the pin command or option works. It adds this content at this location relative to this point. So now this down point is actually zero and zero. This is the origin, not the two and two. This top value must have appeared here.

and actually the reason for that is the fact that the axis environment has its own coordinate system so this is the one that has the ticks on the x and y axes here those values so to fix this we must tell LaTeX explicitly that we want to traverse the axis environment coordinate system So this is done by adding the word axis CS separated by a colon from the XY value of this location. So now we actually, but only by inserting the location of the node here, we're kind of using the some kind of an coordinate system of the TIGS picture itself. But again, this box of the axis environment has its own coordinate system. So before the XY specification, we say explicitly axis CS and then a colon. Let's bring this down so you can see it.

So we increase axis coordinate system and a colon. So this is actually the explicit notation if you recall. So yeah, we must. Do that. So look at that.

And now the top value is correctly placed at two and two. This two and two is relative to the axis environment coordinate system. So keep that in mind. So now we can use this same procedure. That's to add the annotation of the lower right point at four and zero.

This one here. this point so after that we can insert another node so let's say node with the pin option we want to add this to the left

So on the content is actually a braces with the value at now axis CS four and zero and the node is empty. So let's see it. It's this one here. So again, this pin option adds this content to the left of this location. Here it is.

Okay. And after that, the third node is for the zero and zero. Okay. And paste. So we say that we want to add this.

annotation at this location above it. So I see it and here it is. So and finally for this plot, we have the line segment node and this is placed as follows. So we have a node, the line is rotated by 60 degrees. So rotate 60 and then at axis CS.

This is a trial and error value. And then the content line segment. This time, we inserted the node like usually or typically as we do. So this is a rotation option. This is the location.

And what's new here is the axis CS. And the content of the note is actually placed here. So unlike the pin, the pin does the job for us by adding its content. So there is no need for this last original note content place. But this is kind of normal note.

So we have this right here. Okay. So we're done with this plot. Okay, so the next plot is the last one for today's video, actually, and will be inside the current TIGs picture. So after this axis, we will instantiate another one.

So we'll typeset the plot showing in this figure. So this is the plot of the x square function. So let's add some horizontal space here. So h space, nine centimeters. And then we add the axis environment.

So the space is quite large. This one here between those two environments. because if we omit it, the plots will be placed on top of each other overlapping. So essentially this H space is starting from the left end of the first plot. So let's zoom out here.

You can try that. We skip this H space is large because it starts from here or here. So we skip the entire width of the first plot and then add some space and That's it. So this is the entire nine centimeters that we have here. So this is not the space between the two plots.

So let's start by the width. So again, here, like the first one, we say the width is this proportion of the line width.

And you can see here for this example, we get rid of the box shape for the axis. And this is achieved by the axis lines option. So we have an option called axis lines, and we say left. it doesn't fit. So let's move it along here.

So, so we have this axis lines, and then we say lift to have only the axis at left and bottom. So now let's insert the x and y labels. So x label is this math x, and then the y label, also this math f of x.

So let's see it. This is the base structure. And here we have it. Let's zoom in. so x and y labels and only axes to the left so let's add now in the body of the axis environment and add plot entry so as mentioned the shown plot is the plot of the function f of x equals x square so We don't actually need to provide any data points.

And this is, of course, another way to add plots. So either you explicitly provide coordinates with specific data points, or you can actually use a function definition for that. So here we have our function is X squared. So you put that definition inside those braces for the add plot command. So just like our previous cases when we inserted the coordinates before those curly brackets of the add plot, here we don't need to provide any explicit coordinates.

This is a feature of the package. So it will provide the plot of this function with the ranges and the samples specified in the options. So in normal x squared, okay, so here inside those options, we specify the conditions to compute this function for the plot. So first of all, let's say we want blue. And then the main thing here is the specify the sample points.

So this is done through the option samples and equals 100. The samples actually are the number of points at which the function x squared will be evaluated. So, we want this function to be evaluated at 100 different data points for x. So, and after that, we can set the domain of the function. So, let's say we want to start at or to make it tied to this from minus 6 to 6.

and let's okay and let's see it okay and all of a sudden we have this perfect x squared plot it has a blue point it has been evaluated 100 times and for a domain starting at minus six and ends at six So actually LaTeX has evaluated the function x squares for 100 data points that are evenly distributed over the range of values from minus 6 to 6 and plotted the result. So this is the mechanism here. So if you don't like the plot reaching exactly the top limit of the y-axis here, So you can actually tweak that by an option to the axis environment and it is called ymax. to set a higher maximum level for the white ticks. So look at that.

And here we are. So we kind of stretched this axis a little bit to the above. So and eventually we have the centered legend position. So here we have add. Legend entry, it is a math mode, so x squared.

And to place this in the center, we can adjust the legend style key in the axis environment options. So here, let's say legend style.

And inside the style of this legend, we say font equals huge. So let's break this. Okay. so we're inside this legend style option of the axis environment first of all we say that we want the font to be huge and after that we specify the location at which we want to place the legend entry so We can actually inside this at key put a specification relative to the axis CS with some specific location. So let's see it.

So this is one way to specify the styling for the legend style. We have the font specification and then the add to telelactic where exactly so previously we added the position using the legend pose with above and below left and right and those cardinal locations. But here we can be more specific. So this is the ultimate control of the position of the legend. So we do that inside the legend style using the add value.

And inside that, we provide an access CS based location. So and that was it actually. So we'll stop here. So that was a basic overview of how we can create symbol plots in LaTeX. So we've done that through the pgflots package.

So we'll stop here and we'll continue on from the next video to explore more plotting modes and shapes. So yeah, see you there. Okay so we're still on the topic of data plotting and in this video we're going to see variations of bar graphs. So take for example the plot shown in this figure. So a bar graph is simply a representation of categorical variables on some axis.

Here are some items on the y-axis and a numerical values for each variable on the other axis. So here let's say the price of each item on the x-axis. So let's create a section for that. So we'll start by horizontal bar graphs. Sorry about that.

Okay. So the bars can be either horizontal or vertical. So we'll look at three different horizontal configurations. And lastly, we will build a vertical example. So let's begin by the first plot.

First of all, we instantiate a takes picture. And inside this takes picture, we put the axis environment. So most of the settings today will be defined as options to the X's environment itself instead of cluttering the body of it with a lot of options for the add plot command. So the very first thing to specify is the orientation of the bars. So that's your first option that you must specify.

Or more generally, we define that this is a bar graph. So this is done by inserting the word x bar as a first option. So here we say x bar. So this tells the package that the desired type of the plot is the bar shape and the x is for the horizontal oriented bars. So we want a horizontal bar.

So after that, we can set the width of the bars. But first, you should know that this is kind of a relative value that actually depends on the data and the axis scaling. But still, we can set it explicitly. So we have an option called bar width. Let's set it to 10 points.

And then we put the width and height of the axis environment itself. So let's make the box fill horizontally eight centimeters. And then let's actually bring that here. Okay. And we say the height is six centimeters.

And then we enlarge the limits a little bit. So enlarge limits 15%. And then we add a couple of regular stuff to describe the plot. So here we this is We have the title, so large bold font, and then we have an X label and X label style. So this is the styling space of the X label.

So we specify the Y shift by a negative value to make it kind of closer. And then we have the Y label. So after that, we will specify the axis ticks. So we have an option called X tick.

This accepts a range of values, if you will, with a step of 10, three dots, ending at 40. And then we have the corresponding Y tick with also a range of values. But the y ticks will not be numerical, they are in fact text. So we have item 1, 2 and so on. But still we should mark the numerical values for it in this method.

that's in order for the text labels to appear properly. So we will put ytick labels, but yes, still we have to specify this to have proper alignment. So let's actually put that to add a text values for the yticks. We can use the ytick label option and inside the braces we put item one up until item five okay and finally for the options of the axes environment the numbers that appear at the end of each bar Those can be inserted automatically through an option called nodes near coordinates. So comma and then going back.

So we say nodes near chords. This option here will add the numbers that appear at the end of each bar. And now this is quite huge setting for the access environment options. And then what is left is the add plot. So we have a blue lines here and we have a fill color.

that is quite shaded and yeah that's it for the options of the app plot and we say coordinates and close that okay so the draw color again is for the contour of the bars and of course the fill is for the body of those bars So now the way that you specify the vertices for the bars is as follows. For the x value, you enter the numerical value that each bar reaches. So for example, the smallest lower bar ends at 5. Or in terms of the terminology of this plot, it takes the price five. So this is the coordinate specification for the first bar, it reaches the five for the x-axis.

And then where it's located vertically on the y-axis, so it's at one, it's at position of one. and now the second without any separator the second bar takes the price of 10 and it's located at a position of two on the y-axis and so on for the rest okay so those are the five bars that we have here and let's see them six centimeters sorry about that the log message is actually quite helpful. Okay, so coming after correcting this small, bizarre looking output. So this is actually a strange behavior because I have prepared this example before recording and it was exactly like that or that the figure that you saw So, I closed the editor and then when I came back, the YTech labels worked correctly. So, we have only each item here and instead of the entire list, this is actually extremely strange.

and I found that this list of labels y-label was actually here interconnecting with those y-labels so I fixed that with simply the y-label style option I increased the y-shift so I got outside the space of those Y labels. So you may not actually run into this strange behavior because the options and the ad plot as specified without this style should actually look like that. And I have a another file actually that has the same options like this without this y-label style and it's actually like the figure so I honestly don't know what is happening so yeah I just fixed it with the y-label style so increased the y-shift a little bit so yeah a lot of options here Then those near coordinates is what creates those labels to indicate where this bar ends. And yeah, the rest of the options are clear and we have this coordinate specification. for each bar let's say for the first one we end at five and we are at one on the vertical orientation and so on for the rest of the bars so that was One way you can make such a plot and there is actually more intuitive method to build a bar graph.

We'll investigate that creating this plot in an axis environment next to the current one. so after this axis environment let's again add a quite large height space 8.5 cm and then we have an axis environment so initially we have the X bar for horizontal bars and then we have a width that is again 8 cm and a height of also six centimeters and then we enlarge the limits by actually 50 percent. So let's take this as whole. This is a comma not a dot.

This is a comma also. Okay, so let's break after this so it can be visually distinguishable that this is a bar graph. So yeah, here the Y ticks that are the letters A, B, C, D, and E. Here those are defined in an option called symbolic y coordinates. So this is the second method.

The first one we inserted numerical locations for the y ticks and then we added the y tick labels to print those. this time we will use a different method which I prefer so that uses the symbolic y coordinates and inside a list we actually put the letters So from A, B, C, D, and E. So that's an option. And then to have a proper alignment, there is the y tick option that takes the data value. So essentially, this is used to align the tick marks, just define the letters from A to E, we align those with the data points that we're going to specify in the output.

So this is quite a best practice that we lose a lot in this method. So we have those symbolic labels, we will define some coordinates in the plot. So It's essential to set this y tick equals data to have proper alignment. So as you can see, they start at one, so we put a minimum on the x-axis, xmin to one. And then we put an ending value, xmax at five.

And we also have a regular stuff.

Yeah, here we are. We have an x label and a y label, a title, and those new coordinates to print those numbers again. Okay, so let's go to the body of this environment. So let's add a plot here with draw equals red this time, and we have a shaded fill color. So and then we say coordinates.

and so this time the values for the bars will be different so in the x value we still input the numeric value that each bar takes so the first one is 4.2 so for the first bar we have x value of that but for the y value we input the symbolic coordinate specified earlier so the first bar takes a So this specification now is different. Previously, we have only solely numerical variables for the data info of the bars. But here with this method of the symbolic y coordinates with y tick data. Okay, so that's what I was talking about this y tick data is essential to properly align each symbolic label here.

with its x value or the other value of its number. So yeah, I prefer this method actually, because it's kind of intuitive, it adds a meaning and a readability for the points, especially for the bar case here. So symbolic y coordinates and y take equals data. And when we specify the data coordinates for the bars, what is numerical are the x entries, and we have symbolic y. And so we enter that and so on.

So let's copy and paste that. Okay. Okay, that's quite better. And let's see this now. it's right here.

So yeah, as you can see, this Y label actually works properly. So I don't know what was happening in the first environment, but yeah, whatever. So here we have the regular stuff. Again, we have this method of the symbolic Y coordinates as opposed to the numerical specification of the Y ticks and using the Y tick labels. So we have both methods.

So symbolic, and then while I take data, in one shot, we print those letters on the Y axis, and we align them with this new structure for the bars. So kind of again, this is more readable, mixing the numeric and the symbolic values for the bars here. And we can actually imagine the symbolic wire coordinates list to be names of countries, and the numeric values being GDB per capita, for example, and so on of similar examples. So this can be quite useful. So now let's look at other form of bar graphs, which are the paired bar graphs, like this one in the figure.

This form of plots is quite common and it's useful in representing multiple forms of datasets. So you can think of it as a record for observations in an experiment, which is the categories labeled case one, two, and three here. and in each observation we measure some physical parameters let's say so those being the numerical values for the bars so for example in the first observation or case we measured say the temperature and a pressure so we record that for each turn and so on so Each time we have a couple of bars that represent the parameters that we measure each time or each case. So as we did with the previous subsection, this plot can be made in two ways. So, the first one is through the y tick labels here and then we will have numeric inputs defining the data points in the ad plot like what we did here.

So, let's initiate a ticks picture. Let's begin by a subsection first and say paired bar graphs.

So inside this we will have two axis environments. So we'll start by some regular options. So let's break that and And then here inside this we paste the specification that this is again a horizontal bar graph with some width and height for the box. We enlarge the limits and we have an X label and after that we set explicit numeric axis takes. So again in this first method, we'll have a text on the x-axis and numerical locations for the text on the y-axis that has the entries that will appear in the plot as text added to the y-tick labels option.

So three cases, case one, two, and three added to the y-tick labels. And after that, we end with the legend settings. So we have a legend position and those near coordinates and a new option here for the legend. The area legend option is necessary here. And without it, you will find that next to param one and two text, a pair of small bars, not just one for each color as the case we desire.

So, you can see it as telling LaTeX we want a legend that represents the area or type of each ad plot command. Okay, so now coming to the body of the environment. So, since we have two areas or variables, one in olive and one in green, so we will have to insert two add plot commands. So, say one for temperature in green and one for pressure in olive. So here is the complete setup for the green one.

So add plot as before with control color and fill color. The coordinates are specified in this case of the y tick plus y tick labels. They are inserted as before for the x values and the y locations. And for that, we add a legend entry for this green plot. And the same exact structure goes for the olive second one.

So here it is the same structure with a legend entry. So let's see this. for now. Okay, so here we have this paired bar graph. So how LaTeX has done this, we didn't make anything new here.

The thing is that we added two add plot commands. So the entire specification here, we know it for one case, but here we have two add plot commands. And when we specify the coordinates for those add plots, we insert an x value. So each entry or each case has a specific x value that reaches. And the thing here that tells LaTeX that this is a paired bar graph is that we repeat the vertical orientation of each ad plot.

So here we have 10 at one, and in the second ad plot, we have 20 at one. So, that results in the output in this shape here. And the exact same thing for the second elevation, two different X values that are laid down at the same vertical orientation and the same thing goes for the third case. So, what actually makes this a paired bar graph is repeating the vertical orientation for the bars. So Leitech automatically stacks each two bars added at the same vertical location to each other like that.

So again, inside this takes picture, we can work with the second method, which is actually uses the symbolic y coordinates. So to save some time, let's inspect this code quickly. space that so we begin by edge space to separate those two environments and then it's an x bar with height limits x label and this time the difference is that we add the option symbolic y coordinates and lay down the labels on the y axis here inside this one. Again, we use the y tick equals data for proper alignment of those y coordinates with the numerical variables that we put here for the x values and then area legend now to properly print this area here, and the position and the nodes. And this time as before, when we when we specify the coordinates, we give the x axis and for the y, we input the previously specified y coordinates.

And when we run

So here it is and again what makes this a paired bar graph is that we insert multiple x values at the same y location and so on. So I would like to point out that those entry here in the symbolic y coordinates are case sensitive. So make sure that you copy and paste the exact same labels from this list of the symbol acquire coordinates and the specification of the bar points. So if you kind of, for example, made this a lower letter C, you'll end by an error that says sorry the input coordinate case one has not been defined here defined so yeah and it directs you to the symbolic y coordinates list that you made maybe it has been miss misspelled So yeah, you can thoroughly read the error messages that you have. Sorry about that.

Again, I didn't undo that. Yes, capital case. Okay, so keep that in mind. This list is case-sensitive. So, again, we have made four bars.

Each one, this is a single ad plot. This is multiple ad plots. And for each one of those, we have two methods, either to use the y tick with the y tick labels and completely numerical bar point specification, or we can use a symbol acquire coordinates with y tick equal data and specify the bar points like that. So, now coming to the last shape with us for the horizontal bar plots, which is the stacked bar graphs. This is essentially similar to the paired shape, but instead of having the bars for categorical variables side by side, we have them here stacked on top of each other.

So, if we said that we are plotting the sales of two products A and B monthly, then for January, you can see that we have one bar split into two areas, one in blue for sales of A and then the other is in red for the sales of product B. So representing data using stacked bars isn't quite recommended actually, especially if you have a large amount of data as the resulting plot won't be easily readable. So actually paired bar graphs are preferred. But yeah, we will make an example so you can see how it's performed. So before building this plot, let's go up to the preamble to add an important set of instructions.

So here we're in the preamble. We'll use a command called pgf plots set. So pgf plots set.

And you can imagine that this is a couple of settings for the PGF plots as usual. So this declaration is used to add some general settings that will apply for all access environments in the document. So the reason we're using this is to add the option compat equals 1.18.

This compatibility option ensures that this latest version of the package is used and is inserted especially for the stacked bar plots and that's to get the correct stacking order and alignment of the bars. So this is a compatibility option for the latest version of the pgf plots. and here additionally we can add some options like having all the axis ticks pointing outside of the frame if you prefer that so kind of we have inside ticks here so we can make all the ticks of the box pointing to the outside and that's through the option tick align we say outside Another useful setting like controlling the vertical orientation of all the X labels at once. So we can insert the X label style to globally adjust their Y shift by minus five points to make them kind of closer to the plot. Okay, and we're done here.

So let's go back to the document body here at the end. Okay. So let's make a new subsection and say Stacked Bar Graphs. So again, we have a text picture. And inside that, we insert the axis environment.

So for this shape of plots, we increase the word stacked after the X bar. So the very first thing is that yes, it is a horizontal bar graph, but it is stacked also. So the first option is X bar stacked. The bars are quite thick. So let's put a fixed width for them to be 20 points through the command through the option bar width that we used before this time 20 points.

And that's to give some space for the numbers that will go inside them. And after that, we have a regular stuff. So actually, let's make this separate a line. Okay. And so here it is.

Here we have a width and height and larger than limits nodes at the coordinates. And then we have nodes near coordinates style. We want the font of the nodes that have the numbers to be large, and then we have the area legend, the legend position, and the x label. So after that comes the axis tick settings. So with a comment, we use the y tick and the y tick labels, and that concludes our settings here.

So in the body with the same methodology as before, we insert the details of the bar data and paste them. So again, there is no need for repeating anything here. So we have an ad plot with a field. The coordinates are numerical since we use Hawaii Tech and Hawaii Tech labels. So the A product in the first ad plot, you have X and Y, X are sales for A in month B.

So this is actually what the bar points specify. So this is X value and Y location. And the same thing goes for the second product. So let's see it. And here it is.

Let's zoom in. Okay. So LaTeX identified that this is a stacked horizontal bar graph with this width to allow kind of some space again for this. And we used the ytec. We have this sparse location and then the ytec labels.

And after that, we have two products, two things to visualize a product A and product B in separate adplot commands. And again, we have for the first month, which is January for a product, we have 30. For February, we have 45 and 65 for March. And since we repeat again, the vertical orientation or elevation for The bars later stacks those on top of each other like horizontally. Okay, that's enough horizontal plots.

And let's move on for the last plot for this video, which is the instance of the vertical bar plot and the form of the popular plot shape, the histogram. So let's insert a subsection and creating histogram. So a histogram like this one in the figure is one way to visualize data with vertical bars. So sometimes each bar represents one category or case, and other times it could be an interval of values that they all take the same y value. So here we use nine letters on the x-axis.

Each one has its own bar. So histograms in pgf plots can be made by multiple ways, but I will represent the most basic one here. So for that, let's initiate last takes picture and then the axis environment. So the very first thing that you should specify, as always, the orientation and the type of the plot. So previously we had x bar, but this time we will have y bar, so vertically oriented bar graphs.

So after that, since we are used to seeing bar plots with spaces between bars, and for the nature of histograms where bars are kind of tied closely, we must set an explicit bar width. So to get the correct shape of histograms, we set bar width equals one. So what is this? The width value without a unit will make the area each bar takes relative to the axis units and the distance between the bar coordinates. So more specifically, the one here, this one value means that each bar will occupy the entire distance between two adjacent bar coordinates.

and that results in a consecutive bars without gaps between them. So that's the histogram aesthetics. So this is kind of automatically computed value that results in the tight format of the bars being close to each other, which is the aesthetics of the histograms again. And so that was the new options. And here are the rest of them.

So we have enlarged limits and XStick equals data for alignment and XStick labels and some nodes. And this increased bar method must be used with the XStick labels, not the symbolic XSticks. And the reason why is to obtain this histogram output here. So since we are using bar width equals one, we should use the X take labels and the X take equals data is for alignment. And in the body of the access environment, since we're using the X tech labels method, defining the coordinates will be entirely numerical.

So let's okay. So we have an ad plot here with the coordinates. All the nine bars will be numerical and this time as you can see, since this is a y bar, so we start by actually the x this time has the letters or the labels and the y has the values of the bars. So it's kind of flipped here. So yeah, here we have it.

So again, what produces this nice, consecutive bars that are close to each other, it's this bar width equals one, and then we will have specific choice of the bar width, we will have to use the X take labels and define our nodes or bars with the numerical values. So that was it actually. And as stated, this isn't the only way to make a histogram. Rather, we can read about the y-bar interval plot handler in the statistics library. And this is found in the official documentation of PGF plots.

So you have another way through what is called the plot handler, which is the y-bar interval. This is again introduced in the statistics library of the PGF plots documentation. So but using this with the nodes near coordinates to print info for bars will create an unnecessary problem that is hard to prevent. That's why I prefer to use this simple way instead here. Anyway, that brings us to the end of this video.

And the next one will finish this quick treatment of data plotting by covering some concepts. So thanks for watching and see you there. Okay, so in this third and last video about data visualization or plotting, today we're going to discuss some more features and concepts of the package PDF plots. So the first one being the scatter plots, like this one in the figure. This type of plots is quite common in visualizing two-dimensional data to discover relationships and trends among a data set.

And it's simply a space of marks for each data point. So after breaking this page, let's make a section for that. and let's create the plot in the figure so we'll instantiate a takes picture environment as usual inside that we put again the axis environment So for the access options, we can see that there is a grid and it takes a dashed style. So we can actually make a grid just by the grid option and the grid style equals dashed. So and then comes the specification of the plot itself.

So let's directly hop to the body of the axis and let's add a plot, some options. OK, so the curly brackets take the definition of the function that will be used to create the data points. and just like we did with the very first x squared function here so here also we can put the specification of the function of the scatterplot or alternatively as we'll see later a source file that contains a data set so here either an explicit definition for the function or an external file that holds the data that we want to visualize. That's an option also. So let's begin by the random function to create a set of random data points.

So we just type rand inside the acrylic braces. So this is a built-in function in the pgf plots. It'll just create cloud of data points with the chosen samples in the options. So here, actually, we can choose how many data points to generate, again, through the samples. Let's say 100.

And then we need to add an important option to obtain the shape of the scatterplot. So a scatterplot, this is what's new here. So this is a normal function, like again, the X square. But this one is a built-in. And we saw the sample before.

And this time, what makes this scatterplot instead of normal straight line one is the only marks option. So the only marks choice is what tells the packaged plot markers only for each generated coordinate. So we have here 100 points distributed randomly in the grid and the only marks tells LaTeX to only plot markers at each coordinate. So, and otherwise, a lot of lines will connect the points. So actually, we'll see that later.

But now, so yeah, let's see this at this stage. Okay, here it is. Let's zoom in a little bit. So here we have a random distributed 100 data points, and the only marks just like visualizes the data points or the coordinates as dots. So we can actually again change this fill color for the markers and let's say fill equals blue

And run. So here it is. OK. So and additionally, for the marker setup here, for this fill, we can change the mark itself. So the symbol.

And let's say square asterisk. Let's see how this looks. So the mark option will change the symbol that represents the data point. So here we have a square. So this is the basics of scatter plotting and I would like to let you know about a plot handler called scatter.

So to work with scatter we can just remove this mark and fill blue. and put the scatter. So this option is added to fit the need of some cases. So sometimes people would like to change the appearance, mainly the color of the markers, as the value of the evaluating function is changing. So let's actually see what is this.

So by default, you can see that there is a change in color in the data points from top to bottom. So we started by a red color and it degrades a little bit, some kind of orange here, and then it turns to yellow and then it transforms to blue. So this is a specific default color map. And as you can see, this is a vertical changing, so you can change the direction in which the color is changing through the option called scatter source. So after the scatter, we say scatter src.

and equal, let's make the change in the color happen in the x direction horizontally. So we just type x, sorry about that. And let's run. So now we will have this red color on the right and degrades from right to left or from left to right as you preserve it. So, other possible values actually for this function are listed in the scatterplot section of the reference part and the official documentation of the package if you're interested.

okay and instead of this random distribution we can have a more specific function like let's try this time the x cubed so and here it is so by the way you can think of the change in in color here in a practical example as if you were visualizing let's say the temperature change of a substance So you would like to have a plot that obtains kind of a meaningful visual appearance. So you can think of the blue points will represent a low temperature and the temperature in the experiment of your substance is rising until it reaches like hundreds or thousands of degrees, it doesn't matter. So this is a hot area. This, for example, is a freezing area. So yeah, using color maps and changing in colors can actually add an intuition to the plot if you need that in your case.

And so speaking of colors, if you don't like the default color map, this one here that it grades from blue to red, you can change it either by using one of the predefined, so there are a couple of predefined color maps that you can see in the documentation or you can create your own custom one so you can have as you'll see a set of colors in specific order that you can use. So let's try the later case, let's make a specific user custom color map. So we'll go to the preamble here in the PDF plot set. So let's add a setting that is called color map. Pretty intuitive.

So it will have two arguments. As usual, the desired name, this is a user defined object or element. So it will have a specific name. So let's say that goes in the first argument, of course. So let's say scatter.

map. So that's the name of the color map that we will construct now. And in the second argument, we put the order of the colors in parentheses as values for the color key. So we say color equals, and then inside of parentheses, we put the name of the first color that we want, And then just white space, no delimiter or separator. And then we say the second color is, let's say, orange.

And then it's space. The last third color is green, for example. And then let's jump to our good snippet here. So in the options of the ad plot here, To use a different color map, we just say color map name. That is the option that you pass the name of the color map to.

So scatter map. So watch out for this color combination as we run. And here we have it. Just to remind you, the first color was teal. So it's this one here.

And do not forget that the scatter source is X. So the color is changing. From left to right horizontally. So that was the first color team and then It turns to orange in the middle and then it it ends with green So yeah, this this can be pretty useful is if you have specific colors in your application So, and actually just for clarity, I should state that you can use more than three colors, of course, if you will. So we can replace those here and increase one more intermediate color.

So we have teal and then yellow and then orange and then green. So again, look at this color combination. The yellow will appear after the orange here. So we'll have four colors along the way. So here it is, teal, the first one, the second one is yellow actually, and then the orange, and then the green.

So yeah, you can have multiple colors if you will. Okay, let's go back here. So I think this is enough for this environment and let's move on to the second example in a row inside this first picture here. So after this, let's say h space, greater one, and then we will have an access environment. So this environment will be an instance of a scatter plot to visualize sine and cosine functions.

So let's begin by the grid. You can see that this time we have only horizontal dashed lines. And this tile is activated by the following options. So first of all, for the access options to make this grid, we say the option Y major grid. So measure grids along the y direction, and we say true.

And of course, vice versa, if you'd like vertical lines, replacing y by x in this case. So you'd have x measure grids. That's what I meant. And then we have the grid style again dashed. So let's copy this.

And next comes the legend. You can see that it contains math mode sine of X and cosine of X and is placed outside this time, outside the box or the grid of the plot. So for the entries here this time we will try a new mechanism of inserting the legend entries instead of placing two add legend entry commands as we've been doing for the past couple of videos. So this time here in the options of the axis. So previously, after each add plot, we would typically put an add legend entry command.

But this time here, we will use an option that is added to the axis environment itself. And this option is called will legend entries. So, this is an option that can be passed to the access environment and inside that we list our legend entries in order. So, the first function or the first add plot that we will make is sine so this is the entry of the first plot and after that comma and then comes the second add plot or function which is cosine of x okay so great And after that comes the location for the legend entries. So this is specified in the legend style using the at key.

So we have here the legend style equals and then we open races for that. And inside that inside its body, we say at and at itself has its own curly brackets and inside that we specify the location of the legend using the axis coordinate system as before with a specific one that is tailored to this example. For the body, of course, we will have two functions meaning to add plot commands. So that was it actually for the options. And here let's say plot.

So we set the domain of the function in the options of the app plot. So let's say domain from zero to two times pi. So it can actually process this. So this is, of course, the value space for the x variable for which the function will be evaluated and plotted. And we want, of course, a scatter plot.

So we say only marks. And let's say sample points are 50. And for the function definition, we will need to convert the angle like the x values from radians to degrees before computing the sine function. So this is a common action. So we say sine, but just not sine of x, sine of degree of x.

so again sine of x actually is a built-in function in the pgfplots package so it identifies that like the radian like the random sorry and then the x cubed and the x squared before that so we just this time transfer those two degrees So and then the second add plot will be the cosine function Okay, so here we have this cosine one. We have a domain from zero to two pi The same settings as before but like this time we have cosine instead of sine and and that's it Okay, let's see them. Let's zoom out It'll appear here Okay, and here it is. So it appears that we kind of need to lower this.

So yeah, just reduce the height, actually align it a little bit. Okay, so yeah, I think this is quite close. So yeah, everything is kind of working correctly except for the, of course, the style of the markers. So both of them are black and this is not easily visually distinct from each other. So actually, if you notice, I didn't add any color specification.

for the markers, the fill, the fill plot that we did here, kind of for this. And at the very beginning, I inserted a fill equal and give it a color of blue before using those color maps. But in those two plot commands, I didn't add any fill color for the markers, like specific ones, so they turned out both in black. But watch what will happen by adding just a plus sign to the name of the adplot command. So here after the name of the adplot before the options, we just increase plus sign.

And the same thing for the second adplot, just say plus sign. And let's run to see what will happen. Okay. And all of a sudden we have two distinguished our different markers. So we have here a dot and here a square.

That dot is of course for the sine function. And then the cosine function, the second add plot command, we have a square star like this. where it is. So I changed that. But the mark, we previously had the mark square star.

We applied that here. So this is the square markers for the cosine function. And that is achieved only by adding those two plus signs. So what is going on? So you see in PGF plots, you can either use the add plot command and specify the styling options to use explicitly, meaning the symbol of the mark and its color, those as the styling options for the scatter plot, or you can use this plus version of the add plot command.

and this utilizes what is called a cycle list. So the cycle list is simply an order of predefined styles that each ad plot instance takes. So it is obvious that this version of the ad plot gave the first function here a specific style, the marker and its color. And then when we added another entry, another plot, it changed that. So this is actually a built-in list.

of predefined styles that is activated by this plus sign here or this plus version of the add plot command. And the same thing happens if we add, let's say, a third tan function plot. So let's add a third add plot plus entry here. And let's paste it. So at plot, we have a different domain this time, only marks for the scatterplot, the same number of samples, and again, 10 degree of X.

And let's run. And here is this 10 function, if you know its plot. So we will fix this range now. But as you can see, this third entry of the add plot plus took another different marker so we have this cross inside a circle and it has its own like brown color so this is actually the third style that is in the default style list that is activated in the background using this plus sign here and let's just begin by adding an entry here in the legend for the tan okay so it fits and this okay so we can fix this tight look by adding here in the axis options we can set a minimum and a maximum y value just to align everything properly so we have x min equals minus two and then y minimum sorry and y maximum equals two so that those functions can operate only and in this area so we can see them in proper alignment this time so here they are so we have this the tan one and this is the sine and the red is the cosine one so yeah this is simply the style the cycle list that is activated by those plus sign so this is another kind of useful by default feature of the shelf of scatter plots in lathec So now as usual with any feature in LaTeX, if you thought about it actually, you can choose between the default settings or define yours. So we can actually create our own cycle list if you don't like this one.

So, let's go to their preamble. This is the default location. This time we'll use another command. It's not the pgfplotset. It's actually a long macro name called pgfplots create plot cycle list.

So, pgfplots create plot cycle list. I think this is the biggest macro name we've ever encountered up until now. But yeah, so pgflots, I made a typo here. So again, we put the name. Actually, this, of course, will take two arguments.

And the first one goes the name of this cycle list. So following the previous convention, this is the scatter, the scatter cycle. and inside here we insert the order of the styles that we want as follows so as you may have thought this time we we're not using only one value like the the color for the color map this time it's a complete style so it's they are two entries so each style is grouped actually using a couple of curly brackets and inside we put the color that we want for this style and then the markers. So the first one wanted to be an asterisk so mainly a dot and then the second style wanted blue and it has this square asterisk which is this rectangle here so this time we will have it in blue and the third one is a triangular mark with the black value so here, if we passed this to a plot, and then of course, we'll pass it to the access options of the plot. So the first ad plot plus will apply this style, the second ad plot plus will apply this style and so on.

So let's actually let's copy this

cycle name and here let's leave this example for now and create another one and let's open the option space so here to use the cycle list that we wanted to specify a specific cycle list for this axis environment we use the cycle list name option so just like the the color map name here we have the cycle list name equals our custom cycle list and then the rest of the options so here we have a width and a grid with the dashed style we have the legend entries just like before now we have the three functions so the first one is sine x plus cosine x this time the second function is cosine of x and then the sine of x So for this we'll quickly add three add plot plus. So this plus will activate this cyclist that we just made and they will take the styles that we defined. So scatter plots with samples and the options of the app plot for the three on and then the function definition for all of them. So see this example now zoom out. And here we are, we will just hop to the preamble so you can see that.

So here the first function is the sine plus the cosine that took the red and the dot. So the asterisk is the dot here. The second one which is the cosine take the blue color with the squared asterisk. And the third one, which is the sine took this small rectangles in black. So yeah, this is how you can create a custom list for your own and use it.

Okay, so now moving on to the next concept, which is exporting data from external files to plot it. So this time, instead of previously, we provided the coordinates with the explicit data points. And then we saw that it's possible for this curly brackets of the ad plot. to have a function definition. And now it's the time to see how we can export data from external source.

So let's make a section for that. So most often in real applications, you will be plotting data that already exists outside your input tick file. So you would want to have those data exported from an external file. rather than generating them here in the tech file. So this possibility exists of course in the pgflots package.

So let's actually try it. And here in the body of this axis, let's add a plot. So To export data from an external file, we'd use the table keyword. So before the specification of the data, whatever it is, just like as we did previously with explicit numerical coordinates, we inserted the coordinates data Here, we replace that with the table option. And indeed, inside here, we put the name of the file that we want to grab the data from.

So I have a plain text file that is here. So this is the directory of the tech input tech file PDF plots and here is in the same level of course different architecture for the folders apply as you know so here I have this data that's just a plain text file open the notepad and It just contains 1, 2, 3, and 4, four rows of two columns. Indeed, those are just Cartesian coordinate values. So we have 0 and 0, 2 and 6, and so on. So those are exactly four data points in the Cartesian coordinate.

Each one lies in a separate line on its own, and only white space separates the x and y values. So, this is the most basic simple structure of a data file that you can import into your tech document using the pgfplots package. So, going back here, so as you can see, we insert the name here directly and use the table to define that this is a file. Okay, in a new file, we have this plot here. So, we have here again this is the file, we have simple four Cartesian coordinates, the origin 2 and 6 and then 6 and 6 and then 8 and 0.

So, simply for data points that are add plot using the default is as we saw in the very first axis environment, it's blue and they are connected with straight lines. If you don't like the straight line configuration here you can indeed have them removed so you remove those by only marks which sets a scatter plot and then the lines are gone but of course we have the black color so you can add a color map or we can add a cyclist or whatever you want or we can add simply a fill color So you deal with it as you want. So this somehow actually activate the default color map. So here the default color map, of course, again, gives the first instance of the ad plot plus a blue dots. So the markers are dots and they are in blue.

So what's going next? We'll stay in this tics picture. So let's add another access environment to explore some more optional arguments that you can use with the table command here. And those will be used to format the data and the external file read by this command in a different way. So here directly we would say add plot plus this time to have some styling and we have options for the add plot itself and then the table command to read from external data source and options for the data for the table command and then the name of the file.

So in this example, we'll use a text file called triangle

this file again exists at the same level. So the name of the file, it's a plain text file again, you can have CSV, whatever you want. So let's actually open it. Okay, here it is. This is the file that we're going to plot.

So the difference in arranging the data this time is that we have column names. So the first thing that you will notice is that this time we have column names. So we have xcol and ycol. And of course, the data points also this time are separated by a comma. So there is a delimiter.

And of course, this delimiter applies for the names of the columns. So in the options for the table, this again as specified earlier, when you say table, plain without any options and then you insert the name of the data file, you'll actually have to format your data file just like we did before. So there was no any other column names or delimiters. so that was the plain points every point has its own line that was previously for the data text and the x and y values are separated by a white space so if you want to change the formatting to give some intuition about what is happening or what's all about so here we added this again column names with a delimiter so this is the difference now so in order to be able to import this data correctly for the options of the table itself we say x equals xcol so we define the name of the x column And of course, by the same thing, here in the options of the table, we say y equals y call. So that's defining or setting column to take y values from.

And then the second change that we have is the delimiter, which is the comma. So we use for that an option called call sep. So column separation, we pass the comma value. So, yeah, here in the table, again, we have this time the column names, so we specify that x equals x column and this y equals y column. Of course, x and y are properties or options of the table command itself, and you pass the value of the column names that you specify, and then you pass the delimiter that you choose to separate the columns in the call sub with the name.

So the three data points in the file will be used to plot this shape in the figure. the black lines connecting the three coordinates plus the possibility of filling the area enclosed by the points. So that's what we have. Those will be the options of the add plot. So of course those options relate to the add plot command itself.

So, we have an ordinary line width option, which is two points, and then those are general settings and fill color, which is shaded blue. So, yeah, let's gather this table command once here and let's retrieve that, of course. Okay, perfect. Okay, so here we have add plots and you can remove this plus if you want. Yeah, we'll have fill blue.

So I will actually remove this. I stated that either you have a fill or add a plus or a color map if you have a lot of points. So different style options. So the line width and the fill general options for the add plot itself. And then we have the table to export data from the external file.

This data is formatted this time differently as stated and this is alerted here and this is the name of the file so let's see it okay we have it actually here so yeah everything is working properly this fill blue and they are connected by lines through this line width and four and zero this is the first point six and three this is the second point and then we retracted two and three Okay, so now there are other options actually that you can use to prepare the file that contains your data in a way that is kind of suitable for the working methodology of the package. So we can read more about them in the documentation. and now if you're thinking about closing this line here so this isn't done by default we can actually since if you recall after all this is kind of a path inside a tig's picture so we can simply and easily flexibly again if you were at a line extension path and then we say a cycle. This is a cycle operation and this line will be filled to the starting point. and it works.

So yeah, you can play around and just don't forget that this is after all a tigs picture. So this is a possibility. So this is kind of one portion of the graphical element that you have, which is a plot, and then you extend that plot by a line, which is a tigs-paced operation. So yeah, this is a thing that you can do here. Okay the feature of reading data from external file is useful in realistic situations like storing the data of histogram like this one that has multiple entries in which inserting them in the input file will of course be overwhelming and it will clutter the code in the input file.

This is a hypothetical plot in which we have some consecutive years on the x-axis and the corresponding count of frequencies visualized by bars on the y-axis. So the data file used for this plot is called hist and it's again a plain text at the very same level that we're at. So let's close this and here is this hist value. Let's open it. Go back to the tech file.

So here we have in this one file, two columns of data points. The first one is called the year X lock and the second one is called frequency. So the first column here, the year X lock, which is this stack of values here, this is essentially the X position for each bar or kind of where you will have ticks on the x-axis. So this is the horizontal location. So year x for horizontal and location.

So this is the location of the tick marks or the location of the bars on the x-axis. So we'll have at 10 points and then 20 up to 80 points. So the second one, the frequency is, as you know, this will be the height of each bar in the histograms, which is the value that this category takes. So again, this is a location. The first time, this is a location for the ears.

The ears will be inserted here just in a minute in the x-axis so this is a location for the year and this is the value of the frequency that each year located at this position will take so yeah pretty straightforward Okay, so let's expand this to see the full values, of course. Those actually are 19 data points in which each one represents the x location in axis units and the count for each bar. Let's begin just right after this. So this time we have a dedicated text picture. This is quite a big example.

So let's begin by the simple piece of code, the ad plot. So actually, this time we'll start from the options, this time will be huge. So what is simple now is the ad plot, because again, this is an exam. This is an example of external data exporting. So ad plot plus, and then we say fill equals blue shaded, we have the draw equals black.

So this is essentially the kind of the body of the bars. And this is the contour color of the bars. And after that, of course, we use the table with some options. And when we say this is the name of the file. So the optional arguments of the table command here are the x and y column names to read according to so again so let's paste them and say x equals this guy and y equals that guy so yeah now coming to the big part as stated which are the axis options here lies everything so that was a quick specification for the data itself and here goes the silent so first of all this is a vertical oriented histogram so this is a y bar plot shape.

So that's a very first thing. And then we specify some width and height. So let's say that we want 12 centimeters. Let's actually make it here. This is quite wide.

The height also will be a lot of typos. This is nine centimeters. And to obtain proper axis dimensions we need to set the x and y limits in terms of axis coordinate system units. So here we have some limits in the x and y axis. So, those values are chosen according to the values based on the y axis.

So, look at the data. You'll find the largest frequency equal to 2000 here, the largest frequency. So, y max is 2000. and then for the maximum value of the x axis we have two units to span the entire bars with the spaces between them and the minimum in both cases is zero so this time as you can see we don't have a box so instead only two axis lines are left so this is achieved by choosing the axis line in both directions So, first of all, we say the axis x line, so axis x line equals, and this option lets you pick one of the two horizontal lines that originally exist in a box shape along the x axis. So basically you have two horizontal lines or axes, one at the top and one at the bottom for a box.

So this axis X line lets you choose either the top or the bottom. So here we have the bottom one, so we state that. And then the corresponding one for the Y axis, axis Y line, we choose the left one. Okay, so moving on. And as usual, for ease of inspection of the plots, we use the nodes near coordinates.

So yeah, this is nodes near chords. And then we have a style for that. So nodes near chords style. We open a group for that. so we have the numbers in black and they are rotated so those are the numbers that printed above the bars we have them in black and they have a rotation of 90 degrees and the anchor is also specified so We have, again, those are, if you recall, those are text nodes.

So they have an anchor, which is west, so they will appear on the east. You can actually drop this anchor after running to see the default orientation. So it's useful to state the anchor here. Now let's set the options for the x ticks. So now done with the bars and the limits and so we have the x ticks options.

So the ticks for years you see in the picture of the plot are made mainly from two portions. The first one is the xLocation vertices you saw in the text file. This is the first part. And this is what places the vertical dashes, the ticks. And the second part is here in the access options, which is the list of years as YTech labels.

So, yeah, again, as stated previously, this is just a location and I say that the list of years will be printed and of course we'll use the XTex labels. as opposed to the y tick labels that we've been using for horizontal bars. This time this is a vertical bar histogram so to state the labels for the ticks we use x tick labels and this is a list. That list takes a range from 2000 2, 2018. So those are 19 years.

For 19 labels, that is equal to the number of data points in the source file, of course. And again, if you recall for proper alignment, we have xtick equals data. And lastly, the rotation angle for the xticks. So xtick label style this time. And inside the braces, we say rotate.

So this is just an option I prefer to let you know about. So we have this XTick labels tile. So you can rotate your tick labels. And before running, let's put the axis labels and the title. So that's what is left.

Here it is. Here we have X label, Y label, title and title style. Tab it at a specific location. Okay, so I made a dummy mistake here. I've been searching for this mistake for a while now.

I just simply forgot to close this path. So after the name of the file, I forgot to close it. So yeah, and here is our Instagram. So everything is fine. I hope you noticed this stupid thing here so yeah here we have our nicely formatted histogram all the things apply actually so it's a Y bar let's revise we have specific width and height and limits for the X and Y axis to have everything like what we want and then we chose the left and bottom axis lines and the nodes you have them black those nodes they are rotated and we can actually remove this anchor west as I stated so you can see that they appear in kind of a strange location look at that and they are here so yeah that's why I said I want the anchor to be west for them to appear kind of to be shifted to the right so yeah you can play around with that

After the nodes we have the XTech labels from 2000 up until 2018, proper alignment, some rotation so they can be more readable. and then we have the labels and the title placed at this location. So yeah, pretty big option space and we'll actually increase some more options now. But yeah, this is one way you can create a nicely formatted histogram. so now what remains is a small modification for the aesthetics of the axis so if you look close at the x axis here what remains of it after the bars and the y axis they are kind of more close to the plot itself so what if we can kind of stretch this x axis y axis a little bit so ends while after the last take and of course again for the x axis we will add some line extension and make this arrowhead far more to the right so that gives some space internally for the plot itself away from the end of the axis so that's what we're going to do so basically we'll extend both the axes by the same amount so we will increase extend this axis by the same amount with this axis beyond the location of course of the last text so to do that we'll utilize the code key and we'll use this code key to add some later commands after the end of each axis what is that so here in the axis options we extend the options further so let's say fixing for the axis ends give some intuition about what is happening here so the code key is used after a forward slash of course and a dot just like the style key if you recall and we'll use that again to add some later commands after

end access. So this is basically the thing that we want to apply the code at. So after each access end. So what is that we're going to add? So here we will add text draw commands or one command to perform the extension in the form of a simple line operation.

So if you think about it simply, again, as we did before with the cycle to close this after the table, we're still in the text picture. And if you think about it simply, I want to extend this. So what thing can I do? Then I can

simply add a line, just a straight line like that, and shift a little bit the arrowhead because you will see just now. So yeah, this code key will be used to add some commands here. This time will be one draw command to apply after the end of each axis. So basically, let's say extend the x axis, and we use a draw command.

with an arrow from a starting point, a line and ending point and do not forget to close the path. So this line will start at the X maximum value which is 200 so for the X axis here we had X maximum of 200 so this is kind of here so we want to extend beyond that so the X maximum value will serve as a starting point. and we are on zero elevation and do not forget that this must be in axis units because we're in the axis environment so the starting point of the line will be here at 1200 the X of maximum and zero and then they are done with the axis units so yeah and this line will end just after 10 units from x so it will start at 200 and it will end at 210 so it's tiny line extension so so from 200 to 210 so just a small little straight line here and after that we can make another draw command or we can simply extend this path so okay so draw and let's extend this path Now for the Y extending X axis, let's say extending axes. So it's a mini confusion. And then the Y case, it will start at axis CS, of course, this time of zero in X, because we're here, we're sending a line at this vertical location.

So zero in X and then again the maximum of the y-axis as we did before so yeah 2000 and again this will be extended 0 and 2200 so we just increased

200 units using the axis coordinate system. So yeah, this is a small hack that you can do to extend those axes using the code key and apply some changes after end axis. So this is one. path here so let's run to see what will happen and all of a sudden we have some extension here on the x-axis and some extension here of course on the y-axis so let's zoom a little bit it looks like the y-axis only got the the arrow and this is that seems like logical, actually, because this is the last line operation here in this path. So let's look at the x-axis, the extension is there, the line operation, but we don't have an arrow.

So we can actually simply separate those into draw commands. So just end the path for the x extension and simply add another path to apply on the y-axis so look at this x-tip now and it got its arrow so yeah separating those in two different paths gives our arrow here and of course the y has its own arrow of course so yeah The second issue that we have here of course is this arrow tip so the original in the location of the axis still exists and of course we don't want that so we want to delete this arrow head on the y-axis and this arrow head on the x-axis and use our own and you can actually make this is kind of let's say stealth so replace that if you recall And let's see it. Okay, that's much more better and identical to the original one. So what remains is to remove this one. So that's why I added this comma here because we'll add one last option.

This option is called axis line style. We'll just pass a hyphen. so originally the axes have arrowheads so what we want is to remove the original styling of the axes so we do that by the axis line style and we say that we want the axes to end just like hyphens this will remove the arrowhead you just say it's like as if you have originally an arrow so Yeah, that's actually the default of it. So the axis line style defines what is the shape of the axis lines. So originally, you'd have an arrowhead.

Of course, this is by default stealth, but I just added this to inform you that this is the default case. And by removing any kind of arrowhead specification and pass only a hyphen or a dash, this will remove those original arrowheads. And look at them and they are gone. Here and here on the y-axis. So we used a couple of tricks here.

We used the code key to add some text codes after end of the axis, which is just a line extended from the maximum value both on the x and y-axis. And we specify, of course, a a proper head for the arrows. And then we saw that the original arrowhead is still there. So this is one feature of the axis lines inside an axis environment, which is to give some style. Again, originally this had an arrowhead specification stealth.

And when removing that or specifically, explicitly telling me that we only want a hyphen, we removed the original one and what is left is our arrowheads here. So yeah, this is our histogram example here. So a lot of options, you can revise them, you can read more about some other options if you want to adjust anything. So yeah, it's completely up to you.

So what's coming next is one last concept about exporting data files, and it's the fact that you can combine two data sets or more actually. So for all of our examples of Appleton Lab, we are exporting from only one data file, but of course you can merge multiple data sets importing from different external sources. So, let's see how we can do that. So, we make a subsection for that. So, let's begin a text picture.

I will insert three different data files in this example. So, the first one is a text file named data1. So, beginning by the body of the axis, so add plot with some options, table to grab the data one text file. And just to let you know, the style key that we used back in tags is also applicable inside the access environment. So let's create a new style for this plot to avoid clustering the appplot command with many options.

So yeah, here in the option space for the access environment, let's set some global, let's define a new style and call it data style for this specific file. And we use for that the style key. So this is special for this environment. So we'll see the marker and the three choices for the line style. so here we want a square and thick teal and dashed so yeah those are some options and as usual put the name of the style in the plot command options so to use this specific style just copy its name and here

paste its name so again this is just let you know to make it obvious you can make this simple and clean and you can of course define this anywhere you want but this this time I chose to define it inside the options of the access environment so especially for this example so yeah this is applicable also so So, this file exists, of course, in the same level. So, let's see this example at this stage. And again, I forgot to put the semicolon for the table, their plot. Hope you don't do that. Okay.

So, this is our first data. This is kind of straight canvas point. So, yeah, this is the first one. And so below this line here, we can add another data set. So simply insert one more add plot and table combination.

And here it is. So this one uses another text file, which is the last one that we have today, which is called triangle one. This is the same as the original triangle data set, but this has data points changed to fit within the current value space. greater values here. So it's the same structure.

It has an X and Y column and separator and we complete this cycle. So and then line width and fill exactly the same things, but the same structure, but some other values. So it's this little one here. So you can easily add a table after a table and you can keep going on. So lastly, we can add another entry and this time it'll be the HIST text file.

Let's put it in another Axis environment alone without htspace. so yeah to try something different so previously we have been separating between different axis environments inside one takes picture by a huge space as stated if you don't do like this one here so this will illustrate beautiful concept so let's say axis the entry of the HEST data file. So it has this X year log if you recall. It's this one here actually. So let's see it.

Look at those ticks. Okay. And yeah it looks like exactly as you may expect the two axis environments overlapped they are print on top of each other and then this is obvious from all of those different ticks that we have here So we can fix this here through a handy axis option called hide axis. So I thought that it will serve as a useful example to do this mess here and introduce the hide axis. So this option will, as the name suggests, remove the axis or the grid entirely and the ticks on the x and y axis from the drawing.

And of course, it's inserted as an option to the axis environment itself. So here we have two sets of axes for the two environments. So where do you think that we must insert this option? so well simply we must leave the box of the informant that has the largest range of x and y values on the axis of course like to see this we can comment so if to see the limits the limits of the triangle one that limit was 1500 and 150 and then when we added the hist

this one has 2000 the force as a maximum value if you recall so it does make sense to leave the one that has the greater values on both of the axes so it's the bigger it can span the younger one or the lower one beneath it so yeah after So the height axis will be inserted here after this definition of the style can make a comma and then say height axis. So this small little option here to the axis environment will remove the grid or the axis and the ticks. All of a sudden we are left with the axis of the second environment which is the greater. So, yeah, if you fall into this situation, this is a handy option or the pool of options that the access environments have and it can serve you well in such a situation. And then we come to the last thing that we'll do in this short data visualization treatment, which is a sneak peek at the 3D plotting space.

So let's make a section for that and say 3D plotting. So let's begin. He takes picture. So, plotting three-dimensional functions or datasets is quite a wide area in PGF plots and other than the one example that we'll present here, a full treatment of 3D plotting is beyond the scope of this course and this treatment, but usually the documentation is there if you're interested. So, we'll be visualizing this function in the picture.

So this will be just a small and quick example of how we can structure a 3D plot in PGF plots. So beginning by the axis options, first of all, this plot has three axis labels. Okay so that's plus an enlarged title here so yeah so we have here x label y label as before and this time we have z label so this is the new label that we have and I've inserted a title again in math mode. So after that comes an important option for the orientation of the plot, which is the view option. So this is one of the core options of 3D plotting.

So it's the view option. It takes two arguments. The way you see the plot in the figure is by rotating the environment by 60 degrees around the x-axis. So this is the entry of the first argument and rotating the environment by 30 degrees around the y-axis. So this is actually an option that controls how you view the environment here and you can play around with that changing.

this rotation around the x-axis and around the y-axis by different degrees kind of have different orientations. So the last option actually that we will insert here is the grid both.

Yeah, the both value added to the grid option is what creates a grid for the two vertical sections or planes that you'll see. So that was it for this quick option and then for the body of the environment. To insert a 3D plot, we use a special version of the add plot command called add plot three. So add plot and we attach the number three and we have options and the specification of the function. So first of all, let's put the function definition here.

So we say this, what you're seeing is the exponential function of minus x square minus y square. So this is just a normal function. So what you see here, which is the type or the shape of the plot shown, this is known as a surface plot. So the surface plot is inserted here inside the adplot3 using a plot handler called surf. So this is the first option here for the adplot3 command, which is the type or the shape, the nature of the 3D plot surface plot.

so after that comes the color combination that you see and this one is called hot and is inserted after the color map so we have color map and then actually a forward slash and then the name of the color map which is hot and there are others of course And finally, we set the domain. For this plot, we say from minus 2 to 2. So that domain, this plane domain option is for the x-axis. And to set the domain of the y-axis, you actually have to use the domain y option. Again, we want the same domain.

So from minus 2 to 2. And that's it. Let's see it and inspect. the code again. Here it is.

So here we have three axis labels again with some enlarged title here. This is the view. So this specific orientation is the view. So we can make this 60, for example. Let's see what will happen.

This is a different view now. So we played around with how this one is rotated. You can make this, let's say, 0 and this 90. So rotating the environment 90 degrees around the x-axis, no rotation around the y-axis. So yeah, you can get a 2D projection.

You can play around with those values and see what will happen. Again, this is a surface plot with a specific color map, this variation that you see here, and the domain only is the domain of the x-axis we see here from minus 2 to 2 this is the domain of the x-axis and to set the domain of the y-axis we have to use the domain y I set here the same value for the domain and the definition of the function So finally, there is a possibility of creating a standalone material to master the skill of visualizing data in the future. So stay tuned for that, because there are loads of useful features presented by the package. But until then, consult the documentation for any questions or search for help online to explore more features. So yeah, thanks for watching.

That was it for plotting, and I will see you in the next couple of videos to talk about presentations in LaTeX.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. Okay, let's finalize this section of the course by taking a look at the topic of making presentations with LaTeX. So this will be done using one of the most classic tools of LaTeX and it's called Beamer. Beamer by far is the most widely used utility in LaTeX to prepare lecture slides. And that's done mostly for academic courses.

and especially those with topics that are more related to mathematical or physical sciences. If you've ever taken some course online or on campus from a well-known institution, I bet that you saw this shape of slides shown here before, used by some instructor. As you can see, it's a normal looking LaTeX page with some content taking the aesthetics of a slide. It has a title at the top, it has here a logo, and on the sidebar on the left here, we have a minimized table of content. And within the body, we have some blocks, colored blocks that have content in text and in math mode.

So yeah, basically it's a normal looking latex structure. So this specific look here or structure, it's a theme and it's called simple dark blue. We'll get to know more about themes later but generally themes are styles that are defined at the beginning of your document and those determine the color combination, the element arrangement inside the slides and other things. So now for the sake of saving some time, the main focus of this treatment for slides will be on the structure side of business, meaning to learn more about how to build BIMR documents, identifying how frames and slides are arranged as we'll see, And we'll do that by looking at the control options of how we can position and arrange the slides in a way that best serves your semantics and goals of presenting the input material. So that's opposed to filling the slides with fancy graphics and math content with tables and all that stuff, rather than focusing on the architecture of the Beamer class.

So yeah, again, I will be focusing on the structure side of things. And after that, once you learn how Beamer is working, then you can, of course, add whatever later content you desire, But yeah, again, don't forget the best practice for making presentations, which is to reduce the amount of information per slide. So maybe some bullet points will suffice most of the time. So now I should state that these videos about preparing slides are optional. So, I don't know about you, but I'm not that so interested in Beamer personally, and most probably for the majority of you, I think that you may not find a use case for it easily.

So you can freely skip the rest of this section or stay without participating, just like don't implement anything, just watch. see the concepts discussed, and that's just to build an intuition about this topic so that if in the future you may find yourself in a situation that you need to build some presentation using LaTeX, so then you would know where and how to start. So, by the way, Beamer isn't the only tool for making slides in LaTeX. There are other alternatives like PowerDot, Prosper, which is built on top of the OG seminar class, and others. So, yeah, usually Beamer is considered as a gentle introduction to this area of type setting.

Now before digging into action, I would like to shout out the amazing website latik-beamer.com as the want to go resource. If you like Beamer and you would like to learn more features, you will find a lot of tutorials with more detail and handful of useful examples in the gallery page of the website. So yeah, check it out. And additionally, for more deep dive into the ins and outs of the Beamer document class, you will find the official documentation for the class in the resources of this video as a PDF with a title Beamer user guide.

Enough talking and let's get to work. So first of all, let's define our document class here as Beamer because again, Beamer is not a normal package. It's actually a document class. So we start by that and let's use the CantLibSim to make some content. And let's begin our document.

Now the Beamer document consists of objects called frames.

So the frame environment is the main working horse of Bimmer, and each presentation is composed of multiple frame environments. And each frame can be one slide or more. So you can see that it's kind of up to the content of the frame. If it fits inside one slide, then your frame will be only one slide, which is the slide is the page that we saw before. And if the content is large and one slide vertically does not fit, it will break and we'll see how to allow for that.

But yeah, this is the main structure of a Bimmer document class. So you have bigger things or containers called frames and each frame can be one slide or more. So, it makes sense first to add some title information to each frame. So, you do have a command called frame title. So, it takes one argument and say title of the frame and then you can also have a subtitle.

So, you have a command called frame subtitle. again, let's say subtitle for the frame. So let's see those. So this is the very basic kind of a frame or a slide and beamer. So we have this title, which is here, and then we have a subtitle.

And in the body, let's add some content. So let's say one can't paragraph. okay here it is fits nicely in one slide so what you see here this page is called slide and this slide is within this frame so let's actually see what will happen if we increased the amount of the content that this frame has so this is a small paragraph here and let's run okay this is not looking good the text filled up the rest of the slide and got cutted at the end as opposed to what is expected of expanding to another slide so yeah that's not the default behavior So this actually how Beamer works. And to fix this, we must specify that we allow for the frame to break over multiple slides. And this is done through a very useful frame environment option called allow frame breaks.

Yeah, allow frame breaks. So it's this option here, what allows to break the content of a frame over multiple slides. So again, focusing on structure, we have a frame environment, which is the main driver. If the content of the frame environment fits in only one page or slide, it'll do that. But if the content is larger than the size of one page or slide, it'll break if you allow for that.

So by default, as we saw, it will not break. So again, this is entirely a frame. This is a slide and this is a slide. So a quick thing you can do here to position the text of the slides is to add the lowercase letter T as an option for the frame environment. So let's actually separate this frame from the document.

So yeah, we added this T here. So let's run, see what will happen. And here it is. So before that, I suspect that you didn't see that. I'm sorry, I was talking about the positioning of the text in the second.

So yeah, by default, it's centered. So you can say top and you will find this piece of content starting from the beginning of the slide. So yeah, that's another option if you'd prefer. Okay so the frame environments can hold actually any valid late code to format the content of the slides, but one important exception for type of content is that you cannot directly insert a verbatim text such as a simple code snippet through a verbatim environment. So let's create a new frame, see how to deal with those.

So inside the frame here, we will instantiate a verbatim environment. And the reason for this, which is you cannot directly insert a verbatim text, the reason for that is some technicalities about how tech works with token processing in the background. And actually, there is no need to exploit this. All I need to know is in order for us to insert a verbatim content, we must insert the fragile option to the frame environment. So here, as an option, essential option for this verbatim environment to be active, you must pass the fragile option.

And let's top align it. And here to test that, let's add some Leite code. So this is a hypothetical Leite environment with percentage and some exclamation marks. So, and actually before running, there is another way to insert titles for a frame, which is to pass them as an argument to the frame environment declaration. So, instead of saying frame title command, you can hit here and add another argument and this will serve as a title for this frame environment.

So, let's say frame with veratum content. Okay. And run. Okay, here we are. I was talking about inserting a verbatim environment.

So that's the only exception of the type of content that you can pass directly. So in order for you to work with verbatim text, you need to pass the fragile option to the frame environment. This is essential. And this is another way to pass a frame title. So whenever a verb command or a verbatim environment exists in a beamer frame, again, don't forget to put the fragile option.

So actually, one last concept about processing types of content. Let's see what will happen if we're in a situation in which we need to break a frame around math mode. So this is another exception. So let's say that we have a frame and we want to break around math mode. So we say by now allow frame breaks.

And let's grab some content. So this is a pretty big online environment that has so many simple equations that are like vertically will not fit inside one slide. So what we know by now is to pass the allow frame breaks to allow for the full content of a frame to be displayed within several slides. But yeah, this is an exception. This is not sufficient.

So let's actually see what will happen. So that is not the case. So actually, where the equations break is at this one. So two times y, which is this one here. And the rest of those five equations do not exist.

And we actually on top of that have you might have noticed that this is an empty slide before that. So, yeah, there is kind of deficiency in work here. So to fix this, we can insert another breaking option called allow display breaks. So here after the allow frame breaks, which is kind of sufficient for the textual content and to allow the frame to break over several slides if it needs to do so, when processing math mode, you have to allow for display breaks. So that's another allow display breaks option.

And by running, we now have everything working correctly. This is the verbatim. What comes after it now, this was empty, but now it has the content up to this one, which breaks and exists in the second slide. And then we have this one. So yeah, this is another important concept about kind of the basics of how the frames and slides are interacting with each other.

So yeah. So we've learned some simple concepts today. We have frames with titles and then options. We allowed for breaking the frames around textual content. And we learned how to position the content vertically.

And then we have two other concepts, one essential one for the verbatim with the fragile option, and then how to break a frame into several slides if it's processing a math contents through the allow display breaks. So yeah, that actually concludes what there is to know today. So those basically are some of the core concepts of Beamer Basics. And in the next video, which will be quite long, we will look at using different types of themes, identify and use some new Beamer environments among some other structuring commands. So yeah, prepare yourself and See you there.

Okay so in today's video you will gain almost all of the concepts needed to get yourself started building presentations in Beamer. So let's define this document class as Beamer. Okay, so now usually the very first step you take is to specify the themes of your presentation. And those themes would determine how the slides will look. So there are five different types of themes in Beamer.

You can tweak each of them to control the appearance of your document or the presentation. So the first one is the general theme. and this is set through the use theme command in a preamble so here after the declaration of the class we say use theme this time and let's begin the document so the general theme is also known as the presentation theme and it's responsible for the generic style of the slides you typically see and that's specifically the colors, the shapes of the blocks environment, the shape of the title page. So in other words, it's the overall aesthetics of the presentation itself. So now there are dozens of ready-to-use themes for Beamer, some of which are made by the developers of the class and others come from the community contribution.

And we'll see an example of a community-based theme later on in the next video. So, first of all, to know kind of the standard offered themes, what are the names, and all that stuff, information about them, there is a useful webpage called BeamerThemeMetrics. And this part of a website called Heartwork, it lists all the classic Beamer themes that you can choose from with different color configurations. So you can go to heartwork.com slash Beamer dash theme dash metrics.

or just Google the word Beamer-Matrix and choose the first link and most probably it'll be the theme Heartwork Matrix. So this is a pretty huge page that combines presentation themes listed from left column starting with the default theme. And scrolling down, you can see that the rest of the themes named after cities all the way down to the last Warsaw theme. And going up, so those presentation city based names are what goes inside the use theme command in a preamble. So, but there is another component here, which is the row.

Now I'm speaking at the row at the very top. This is the color theme. So the second type of Beamer themes, actually. So first of all, we have the use theme command that lists the designer of the presentation's choice of the general style. And then we have a different color choices for each use general theme.

And as you will see, the specification of the color for each theme will be done or specified through the command use color theme. And by scrolling sideways, you can see that for every city name, there are multiple of choices for color styles that give a different look actually. for the very same theme. So for Madrid, for example, we have a lot of color themes that give different looks for the same aesthetics. if you only specify the presentation theme without a color theme you would get the default color theme that appears in the very first default column here so the color theme name as specified goes inside the use color theme command and for this video I will go with the Berkeley theme with the orchid color theme so and here it is this one here So if you hover you can see the box annotation that appears to tell you what theme combo is this So now let's go back to the tech file So here inside use theme we say Berkeley Okay, and then we use color theme and that's orchid or orchid doesn't matter so now usually we begin by making the title page like as for any typical latex article if you will so we do that by inserting the title information in the first slide and with berkeley theme this will look like this one in the figure So as you can see, it has from the left an optional logo up top.

And then you've got a sidebar that represents the table of content. And then the body holds some information about the presentation itself. So let's fill in the info for the title page. So in the preamble, we can mark that with a comment. the title page or slide as you prefer so in the blue box we have the main title so title as usual so here is this title and then we have a subtitle And here it is.

So we can track this a little bit. And then in the white region, you've got an author name. So yeah, as usual, we have an author. So yeah, you can list your name here. And then we have a dedicated command for the institution.

So this command is called Institute.

We have it. And then finally we have the date. Okay, so as normal for the title page activation, you have to insert a macro for that at the beginning of the document. So since we're in a Beamer class, so to print the title page, you need to instantiate a frame. So yeah, let's go to the document body and let's say this time the title slide or frame so we begin a frame environment and inside that you can just insert the command title page so here we have title page and that's actually it so let's run to see that Okay, let's zoom in.

So here is our title page. So this is the initial look. And as you can see, the sidebar prints making presentations with Wimmer, which is the main title. And it also lists the complete author name in the author command here. So, another important component of this initial title and actually for the rest of the slides, we have a logo.

So, that's simply an inserted external picture. So, let's try that. So, we can see also that we can insert the logo here in the preamble. So one way to bring a logo to a slide is by using the logo command. So this is the first method.

So we have a logo command and inside that goes the include graphics command. So yeah, this is again, it also can be this logo can be a tigs environment, you can draw it and we'll see that in the next video, I think. So yeah, but this is the most basic way. So you specify the logo macro and inside that you say include graphics. this will appear at the top left so an appropriate scale is chosen so let's say let's minimize it a little bit here is our hist logo okay so let's see this Okay, so again, if you recall, this is how the Berkeley theme structures everything.

So we inserted a title and we activated this title page. We have it alongside with a subtitle in this boxed frame. And then we have the rest of the information, a sidebar that will accumulate the sections and the frames that we have. And by default, this theme produces the logo and its picture in this specific area. So yeah, this is the default behavior of this theme.

And here is the color theme that of course you have the freedom to change it. So okay now by the way I created this logo using tics so this specific hist circle here is a tics environment and then I took a screenshot from the output of this code here so here is the code that produced this in another document and I just screenshot it and I saved it in this PNG file. So yeah, we have a specific color. And then there is a background, which is a rectangle that is close to the general blue theme, dark blue theme of the Berkeley here. And then we have a circle that is this one.

And then we have a node with white text that has this math font his logo. So yeah, this is the code that drives this logo. So now the Logo method forces the photo to appear in all of the slides of the document. So yeah, to make sure of that, so this logo will cause, so if we instantiate a new frame and just type thing and then let's run to see that. So here is the his logo again.

This picture is present in the second frame. So I'll actually keep that till the end. So if you don't prefer this behavior, you can use the alternative title graphic command. So the first comment at the logo is the logo, but this logo entry persists in all of the slides of the frame, the frames of the presentation. And the second method is to use the title graphic.

So actually, you can just replace this logo with the command title graphic. And let's see what will happen. So look at this second entry here. and it disappears actually and changes its location so now the logo is transferred to be the last entry of this title page by default centered of course and it doesn't exist in any other frames other than the first one where the title page lies down. So yeah, this is the difference between the logo and the title graphic.

You have the choice, the title graphic prints it only once in this location for this theme and the logo prints it in this location and persists also for this theme. So, and ironically, if you like both of the methods, you can combine them simultaneously so you can have an entry for this title graphic in this area and also at the same time you can have a logo entry that will appear here. Okay, and we've got the best of both worlds. I think in some situations you might prefer this. So yeah, this is a consistent logo and here is one that adds a meaning to this body of the title page.

Anyways, so there is a slight and important modification that the title page commands can take, which is an optional argument for each one of them. So I'm talking about the title and subtitle, and the author, institute, and the date. So each one of those can have its own optional argument besides the mandatory argument. And this optional argument will hold a short version of that entry of that command that will be appearing in the left sidebar. So if you look at, for example, this big, the first title that we have, the main one, it's listed as it is, the four words.

So you can change that so you can have a, let's say a short version, a shortcut for this title and so on for the rest. So we can say for example, talk title. So meaning that this is the title that will appear as an entry for the table of content on the left side bar here. So yeah, look at that. This is the short version of the main title.

So in the mandatory argument, you put your entire frame title that appear here in the body and save some space and the left bar or the table of content, you can insert a shortcut for that. And let's do it for the author. So we can say instead of complete author name, you can just say author name. So look at this entry, this complete will be deleted. Okay, here it is.

The Institute can have one and the date also can have one. Yeah, but they don't have an entry in the table of contents. So yeah, maybe in other themes they will. So that's a handy shortcut if you want to save some space on this left sidebar here. So to better see the effect of using short versions for the title page info, let's use another theme called Madrid.

So instead of the Berkeley here and run. Okay, so here in this theme we don't have a sidebar but instead the info are printed in this color footer as you can see. So at the end of each slide actually. So leaving the complete text of those entries for the title page. We'll clutter this space of course.

So we have here the author name. So yeah, let's zoom in a little bit. So we have here the author name, which is this short version here and the HIST in parentheses. So that's the name of the institution. So if we Let's actually see that we can remove this entry and this entry.

Let's see what will happen. Look at this left rectangle now. And yes, it turns complete disaster because the complete author name, which is the complete form of the entry of the author name and also the full name of the institution are inserted in a tiny area. So yeah, this handy shortcut can be useful in a lot of situations. And also, as I said, this short form of the date appears here.

So yeah, in different themes, this can be handy actually. So yeah, let's actually go back to the Berkeley theme. So keep this optional arguments in mind. Okay, here we are. So now a couple of modifications to expand the info in the title page before leaving it.

So it's possible. So up until now, we have kind of one author, one institution, and so on. So it's actually possible to have more than one author with different institutions and also multiple logos to refer to them. So yeah, we can have multivariable, if you will, information page. Let's try that out.

So to insert another author name, for example, you can simply pass the command and after the first author name. So here, complete author name, let's say this is the main or the first author. To insert another entry, we say backslash and, and then we simply put the name of the second author. So let's say second author name. And let's see this.

So look at this one right here. So here we have them side by side. And if it so happened that each one has a different institution, so you can mark it for each one using the inst command. So yeah, let's say that here for this first author name, it has a different institution than the other one. So to mark this, we will say this is kind of a flag.

It's magic slash inst. And then we put one. So this is the institution of the first author name. And of course, this will refer to the first entry in the institution command. And then we mark the second author names institution.

So this is int 2. And we will tie those together with the entries of the institution. So of course we can have multiple here. So to insert another institution name, we use backslash and again. And let's see, the second one is called his shortcut for that.

And now to tell LaTeX that this before the end is the institution of the first author, we give that first author a mark here. So actually to refer to it. we do that in the institution before its entry so we say inst of 1 and here before the institution the second we say inst 2 and so let's see it So here we have the complete author name it has this kind of footnote style referring to the first Institution and the second also has its own institution. So we've done that through and the author command again We have the first entry we mark this first entry by Backslash institution one and then we used the end of course to insert another name and we marked that with the second institution and to refer to that or to use it inside the institution command, we refer to that before the name of the institution, we have the end to allow for multiple entries. And before the entry of the second institution, we refer to its author so we can tie them together in this form and you can have multiple of course.

So know that you can use the and command in the short optional argument of the author command to add another abbreviated names. So try that out if you will so this and command can be used here if you want to have multiple abbreviations for each company author name and additionally for any command in the title page here to remove its entry from the sidebar table of content over there in this specific theme or from the footer in other themes actually so yes to eliminate generally their entries in the table of content or the info so you can just pass an empty optional argument for that so if you want to remove the author entry from the table of content over here because it kind of doesn't make sense for you so you can do that by removing this entry or meaning that if you didn't have any kind of short form as we saw at the beginning you will have the complete form here or down here and other themes so if you want to remove that you can pass an entry Optional space or optional argument. So look at this one now and It'll be removed. Okay, and then the same thing goes for the title for example, so yeah, we can remove the title entry from the Table of content sidebar just by passing an empty optional argument to the command itself So yeah, this is how you can get rid of those entries if you don't like them. So I will keep them so keep that in mind if for example in any other theme you would like to insert some information and that information appears in a weird places by the default behavior of the theme you can easily remove them by passing an empty optional argument.

And now comes the turn for the multiple logos. So we started this talking about having multiple authors and multiple institutions. So now we can actually have multiple logos for each of the author's institutions. So you can just add another include graphics entry freely, of course, after the first one. So actually what we'll do here is that we will pass another entry to the title graphic command.

So this one can have multiple include graphics commands. So this is another PNG that we have in the same directory. So look at this and it appears. So yeah, that's how we can do it You can freely inside the title graphic command pass multiple infographics for the different logos of the institutions So yeah, I think that's quite enough for the title page So we have the main theme here the color theme and the third type of themes goes for the fonts So and as you may expect we have use font theme

so this will alter all of the text font in the slides so look at this default one and run so now we have the serif family font and the fourth type of themes that you can tweak inside the beamer class is the inner theme

So now you may have noticed at the beginning the slight difference in shape of this box that we have now, and it's different from the PNG picture that appeared here. So that difference actually was that this box was rounded. It has in the picture shown at the beginning a rounded corner. So by default, you get a sharp boxes like this one here, but this behavior can be changed used using the so called inner theme. So here one of the values that this inner theme can have is the rounded.

So the naming convention of this theme indicates that it controls how some inner components of your frames will look like. And the word inner excludes areas like the headline, the footer and the sidebar. So this is kind of what defines the shape of the content here in the body of this each slide or any frame. So it does not control the logo or the sidebar or the footer and other themes and other general themes and so on. Yeah, and at the same time, the effect of this theme extends to various elements like the enumerate and itemize environments along with the beamer block environments that we'll see in just a minute and the theorem-like environments and so on.

So you can read more, of course, about this, and I will point to the specification in the user guide in just a bit. Now, since this title box lies in the inner portion of the title frame here, so look at this now as we run. So those corners will be chamfered kind of and they will have a rounded theme now. So yeah, here we have him. It's got a little bit bigger and it has now a rounded corners.

So, the fifth type of themes that we have is what is called the outer theme.

So this one is specifically responsible for the style of headers and footers, the sidebar and the logo plus the frame title and all that stuff that was the excluded by the inner theme. So it's kind of inner theme is responsible for this portion and the outer theme is what the inner theme excludes. So what surrounds kind of what's the contour information of each slide. So yeah, kind of you can say that it takes it takes care of the overall layout of the presentation. So let's try one of the outer themes called info lines and see what will happen.

So here in this value, we say info lines. Those are, all of those are standard values for this stack of macros. And all of this is of course listed in the Beamer User Guide. So look at the general shape of the frame. So now we have kind of an aesthetics that is close to the default behavior of the Madrid theme, if you recall.

We don't have a logo so the logo is kind of deactivated in this outer theme with the Berkeley general theme and then we've got some space actually. We have also some divisions up top and at the footer area. So those, actually those two divisions up top, they will hold the names of the current section and subsection. So as you progress and make sections and in different frames, you'll have the name of the default, the current or the running section here. And if you have a subsection, it will appear here.

So now specifying a certain outer theme for the general theme of this Berkeley one here, it kind of changed the overall look produced by the theme by default. And usually you wouldn't want to do that. And even in practice, you won't find yourself in the need of choosing specific theme barely other than the general and the color theme. Yeah, and man maybe the font theme so this kind of the most Obsolete choices for the themes are the inner theme and the outer theme So yeah, you'd have to pick of course a general theme to operate within and that general theme actually Has its own default color theme and default font theme and the font inner theme and outer themes. So what you have to use is actually only the use theme.

Those four types of themes are quite optional. So actually I will drop this outer theme by commenting because I want to restore the default look of the Berkeley. I just want you to know that there is a thing called outer themes and you can explore the documentation for more options other than the info lines. So now, and by the way, this kind of include graphics entry here, it's tied a little bit to the end of this slide. So we can give it some space and we can do that actually by reducing the scale.

So we can make this, let's say 50. So yeah, this will lift it up. Okay, so we have some space here and you can make it smaller if you want. So you'll find a whole lot of information about all those themes in great detail in the third part of the documentation or the user guide. So the documentation is split into different parts.

The third part is called changing the way things look. And in that part you will find lots of details about specific themes and their values and how they look. So now let's finalize the usual initial setup by turning the second thing frame here, this kind of this frame, Furiko. So let's actually turn this into a table of content that will appear in the second slide here. So we can simply insert the table of contents.

entry in this second frame and it will restore all of the contents. It's now kind of empty but it will of course accumulate the entries of the sectional units as we proceed building the presentation. So yeah, typically you would have title page frame and then a table of contents frame. So now let's look at the variations of sectioning schemes. So let's insert another frame.

Normal latex partitioning units work, of course, inside Beamer frames. So let's make a first section inside this frame here. So let's say we have this first section here. And let's put some content and let's see it now. Okay, so here in this third slide, we've got the content of this section or of this frame.

And actually, to have an entry here, if you recall, the table of contents needs two runs. So let's run again to have an entry here in this short form and in the second slide. and here we are so this second slide occupied by the table of contents has its entry and in the sidebar as you can see we have the name or yeah the title head of this of the running section and of course you can see that it's kind of illuminated to point out that this is the current section and let's add some vspace after that so stay in the same frame let's add a vspace and then let's add one more section here is some text and let's run so we have this second section now another run for the table of content you can see that this time the last section or the second section is counted as the current one or the running section so as you can see even if we are in the same frame but we have inserted another sectional unit so it's counted as the running one and it is the one that is highlighted instead of the first section. So for that reason it's kind of advisable to have the sectional units separated into different frames. So we can insert a third frame here and inside that we instantiate the third section.

So yeah, just like that, eliminate confusion. Here we had two, of course, sections inside the first frame and the last one is what is highlighted. So if you want to eliminate that, you can actually put one section per frame and that frame if it's splitted into multiple slides, you will have only this one section here is what is highlighted over all the slides of this frame. So yeah, you have both of the configurations and you can do what fits you needs. and let's add some content and a subsection.

So let's put some content under the section and then the subsections of course works here. So and run again. you will see the entry of this subsection appearing after this second run here in the table of content. So here it is, this tiny little one. And you can actually deep dive with that.

So you can have sub subsections. Let's say deep dive and force run twice to see its entry here.

So here it is, this is deep dive and it's the one that is highlighted again because this is the last partitioning unit in this frame. So let's actually see it in the table of content. So here we are, you have a section, a subsection and so on. So if you have a slightly long presentation and you keep accumulating sections and subsections you eventually will run out of space in this slide of course you can break the frame slide for the table of content across different slides if the table of content is huge but this left side bar here you will run out of space so if you keep accumulating this till the end so for that reason we will add an important document class option for the beamer document class here which is hide all subsections so just look at the small entries here inside bar those two ones as we run and all of a sudden they are removed. So we have only the sections, first, second, and third.

And the subsection and the sub-subsection, they are removed from here. So hide all subsections, remove all of the subsection units and what comes after it. Deeper in the levels from this sidebar so you can have some space. So this is an important BeamerDocument class option to keep in mind. So yeah, there are other useful class options also that you may consider.

So some of which are normal like setting some font. So you can pass a directly font size here and kind of we have a bigger font here. So that's opposed to the 11. the default size is 11 so we can actually remove that so yeah there is another also kind of important option for the beamer itself so this is the aspect ratio so we can control the aspect ratio So the default value you're seeing, so the aspect ratio is the proportion for the width and height of the slide. So the default one is 4 by 3.

So let's make it kind of wider. So let's say 16 by 10. So you insert the number proportion of the width and height without any separators. So this is actually 16 by 10, just like 4 by 3 and 16 by 9 and so on.

So this is also a thing that you can control. Okay, it's now we have kind of a wider aspect ratio. So it kind of gives you some space. So yeah, you can control that. But I will leave the default aspect ratio four by three.

Okay, here are again. So yeah, the aspect ratio is what is important after this hide all subsections. So let's go back to the sectional units thing. Again, this is a latex document so you can freely outside a frame place a sectional unit. So let's say that solely we have this blocks section.

So here we'll explore some different types of colored box environments. Those are called in Beamer blocks. So, but before that, there is a handy trick that you can use that may enhance the process of tracking your presentations parts and that's to generate a frame after a section that typesets the table of content with the current section highlighted. So essentially, whenever you insert a new sectional unit, you can have a slide that comes after that that tells you what is the running section. So yeah, actually, we can do it after this block environment here.

So it'll be a frame. And for this shortcut, we'll use the frame command. And inside the frame, we see Table of Contents. So we will have a dedicated frame after making this one with the complete Table of Contents that has an optional argument that says current section. So this command will insert a dedicated frame that holds the entire Table of Contents but only has the current section, which is blocks, highlighted.

need of course to run again, this is a table of contents slide. And here it is. So yeah, after we have created this section, if you have again, a long, long presentation, you can use this one line of code here, which is to create a frame that has a table of contents with the current section highlighted. So this will produce this effect, you will have the entire table of contents of the slides up until now with the running with the current section only highlighted. So kind of when you're showing the presentations, the listeners or the audience will know at which part you are.

So yeah, this is quite useful. So now let's create the block elements frame. So after that, let's create a frame. So It'll have a title called Block Elements. So let's see this right now.

OK, here we are. So yeah, Beamer offers some classic boss environments that you saw actually in the previous video in the example of a typical Beamer slide. So those have a title and a body parts. So the very first one is called Block. So we have here this, we say the block environment.

So the very first one, let's begin a block. Yeah, autocomplete. Let's give it a title. And let's say put some content here. So this is the first block environment.

Let's see how it looks. Okay here it is so by default the block environment has a blue theme and the title that you specify here appears at the color one and then we have the content in the body that it of course can be stretched so this is the very first classic block environment in Beamer and the second one is called the alert block so the second environment is called alert block so let's begin we say alert block and let's give it a title the alert and let's also put some content so this is the very basic form of those environments you insert a title to appear here and then the body okay so by default the alert block gives a red color as the name suggests so it has the same format but in a different color and the third one is called the example block so we have the example block environment and we begin we say example block this is the name of this environment and title and then end.

This example block will produce a green alternative for those. And here it is. So those are the three very basic and essential blocks. We have the block which is blue, we have the alert block which is red, and we have the example block environment which is green. So now you may be wondering about how to alter the default style of these environments.

And this is a good chance to talk about the Beamer templates. So like any other package, Beamer offers some commands and environments with predefined styling and provides a way to change that default style. So this is the rule of templates in Beamer. so for every feature beamer offers like a block environment it gives a template which you can consider to be an object with some name that helps you change the lock of that feature And you can do that without having to play with the general themes of the presentation. So you can have this set of specified themes running and at the same time change specific look or style of some portion or element of your slides.

So we can do that by templates and colors and fonts as we'll see. So we can change the templates or set them through some special set commands as we'll see. So let's in this spot before the environment itself say using templates. so let's begin by the frame title template this one controls the overall appearance of the title of a frame so this one here so this is a feature of beamer this is an object or whatever you want to call it so beamer gives us a template the template we can set it through some set command, as you'll see, and that way we can define the style and the look of that feature. So yeah, so actually there are three types of set commands you can use to play around with templates.

So let's begin by the one that is for colors. It's called set beamer color. So first of all, set beamer color.

So and we can actually say that this is the way we can define or set the color. So yeah, we put the name of the template defined by the package in the first argument. So frame title. So this frame title now again is a feature offered by Beamer. So this is a predefined object by the package itself.

So, yeah, you learn about it and you insert its name here. And then we put, of course, the color specification that we want in the second argument. So now Beamer differentiates between the color of the text, which is considered as a foreground. So we say FGCold. Let's make the text of this block elements to be green.

And you have also a background color that comes behind it. So yeah, let's actually see the effect of changing the foreground or the text color. Okay, and now we have this block elements in green, and then you can change the background color by BG. So let's say teal range combination. So look at this portion here.

And all of a sudden, we have a different background. And as you can see, the changed area is what is specified for the frame title. So Again, we have this is called a template. This template can be set through three different methods. The first one is to control the color part of it.

So yeah, we can have it changed through the setBeamerColor. We specify its name and then the color specification as a foreground and a background. So yeah. the second set command is for fonts so this is the second way you can change the look and the set command for the font is of course set font set beamer font set beamer font And again, it takes two arguments. The first one is the name of the template.

So this time we will change the font part of this template. So let's say series equals BF, BF series. So this is the series font family, and then we make it bold. So now look at this text here. Okay.

And it's now bold. And the third one is called setBeamerTemplate. So, we have the setBeamerColor, the setBeamerFont, and then we have the set, setting the overall template. So, this is setBeamerTemplate. So, again, we have the name of the template in the first argument.

And then in the second argument, we put some macros. So this set beamer template actually is the generic set command for the beamer template. And it can actually hold the font and color specification that we've done earlier. But those are separated for a reason that you will know about in a moment. So this one takes or can take any valid text formatting macros actually.

So let's say that we want to center the title of this frame here. So let's say one way you can center a text in LaTeX is to place a center environment. So yeah, it can hold whole environment inside its body. And then what we can actually put here. so if you think about it in a normal latex location inside the center you put the content to align it horizontally centered in the page but here we want to align the block elements so what do we put like in in the beamer color we have only the frame title and then we had this value foreground and background and for the font we have this series and its value.

So what do we put inside this center? So actually, we will put a placeholder for the title, this one. So Beamer provides a placeholder for the value of the title, which is a command called insert frame title. So when running this macro, it'll plug in the text of the frame title to be centered. So again, this is a placeholder.

When you run this, it'll grab that title of the frame that is applied before, and then it will put it here and center it horizontally. So and actually, to make sure that this command holds exactly the value text of this one, you can apply some formatting around this one. So you can, let's say you can just add some curly braces to print them. But of course, you will have to skip those. So before each one, we put a backslash and let's run.

And as you can see, here we have the block elements specified it when when we run this text goes here. So this is at the running time is a text and it appears that it accepts some formatting. So we put some extra delimiters around it. But of course, you can see that a kind of by the effect of the center environment, The title now is downshifted so we can easily fix that by a negative V space. So here inside this template as stated you can perform whatever macros you want so if you think about this normally in a normal case you'd kind of one of the fixes you can do is to add a negative V space so we can actually put put that here, so V space, let's add a negative one and a half centimeters, and that will bring it up again in its area here.

Okay, so now great. So now again, this said beamer template is the general command that you can control a certain beamer template by, and it can hold the specification of the color and the font inside its body and they will work so but I separated those settings for a reason and it is to let you know about the different styles styling schemes of course So and of course setting this template freely in the document is quite will have a global effect so from now on if you ask again this frame title is a beamer offered way to change the title of each frame in the entire presentation. So we can of course have this in a preamble with some specifications if we want to apply that same styling for each title of every frame that we have in our presentation. So yeah, again, this is a generic template for all the frame titles in the document. So of course, we can limit its effect by adding a group around its definition here and the specific frame that we want to apply in to limit its effect.

Okay, so now known about and using color and font commands can help you avoid stacking so many settings in one place. So it's kind of more elegant, let's say, or intuitive to separate the color and the font specification if you want to apply any from the template itself. so and a good effect of separating the color and font specification from the main template so let's say that you changed your mind later on at some later frame and you want to adjust the color part of this template here so instead of rewriting the entire setbeamer template and changing only the specific color portion You can just set again the set beamer color on its own. And by doing that at a later stage, you will only define or overwrite the color part without touching the frame title itself. So yeah, this kind of gives you freedom so we can put the general styling in the set template like centering the frame title and leave the color and font specification independently inserted in other macros to easily tweak them if needed to obtain different styles at various frames.

So we can actually limit these changes here by this template to this environment only by setting some group character braces before and after actually here before we set any kind of changes to the style we can add a group, so begin group here. After the end of the frame, we end that group. So now this is, as you can see, let's highlight it. So here inside this, we have changed the frame title template to set this bizarre shape. And now its effect will be limited only to this frame.

So if you want to make sure of that, we can actually begin a frame, give that frame a title. And then we have some content. And let's see this. So you will see that this frame now will restore the default blue and left aligned title. Okay, so here we have a normal title as before.

and the effect of setting the beamer title template is limited to this one here. So of course we can comment this group effect and now those changes to the frame title will be applied to the frame title of this new title slide here. So look at this now, it will look exactly like this one. And here it is. So just because we didn't limit the effect of the set beamer commands, it applies from now on.

So yeah, you can choose to do whatever you want. We can actually see the effect that I was talking about. So let's actually comment this again, this group to apply this globally. And the reason why I separated this is that at a later stage, you may want to preserve the centering action that is set in the SetBeamer template and you want to preserve also the font, but you want to change the color. So for that, if we have only the SetBeamer color with the color and the font specification, you would rewrite the entire set beamer template and change the color part or the frame part, the font part inside of it.

But now we have them separated. So yeah, we can actually say set beamer color. And then we can say frame title and let's say the foreground of the text wanted to be red why let's leave the teal background so here it is so you can it kind of gives you some flexibility with that so remove this and uncomment this group so again this group is applied before the set commands and extends to span the frame itself So now we will have this frame on the left again. OK, so all of that was essentially to know how to control the style of block environments. If you recall, we started this talk about templates to change the look of those example blocks here.

And for that, if you want to change the look of block environments, we have a general Beamer template called blocks. So we can stay here inside this group. And after this template, we say setting the style of the block environments. So we will set beamer template. And the template that we'll use to change the look of block environments is called blocks.

So this is known as a parent template, which is essentially an object that affects multiple related classes of one family. So for example, the blocks here, the name of the template refers to the block environment and the alert environment and the example environment. So blocks refers to all of those three environments. And you can have these child environments rounded like the current case as an effect of the inner theme. So actually by default, if you didn't choose this inner theme rounded here, so let's actually comment that out to see the default shape of those block environments.

They are actually sharp rectangular blocks. I may have started guess actually this this takes two arguments, of course. So sorry about that common data. Also, I removed the inner theme rounded for you to see that this is actually the default lock of the block environments. So yeah, if you recall, the inner theme changes all of them.

So we can restore our inner theme. can actually see that the numbering here also was rectangular when we removed the rounded theme. So yeah, if you want, if you find yourself in this situation is that you need the rounded inner theme, but you need to restore the default log that you just saw for those block environments, which is rectangular. So you can do so freely by adjusting this beamer template blocks by setting an optional argument for it that says default. So this default option will restore the sharp rectangular shape of those blocks.

Okay, seems like we have this not working. And the reason is actually, it's quite strange, but you actually put this default option after the name of the so that that was my fault, actually, the default option here is inserted after the name of this template. Again, look at those, they will have sharp edges. Okay, so yeah, again, this is the default. And we've got it through this option that is inserted after the name of the environment because we had the inner theme rounded.

For more precise control, Beamer also offers some objects, either templates or fonts or colors, for each of the three environments. So you can set each one separately to control each and every aspect of that. So you can read more about them in the section 12.3 in the user guide that is titled block environments. But as an example, let's look at the color object block title.

So we can use that to change both the color and the font of the block environment title. So we can use this one after this parent template here. So let's say set beamer color, and we want to set the color of this object that is called block title. Again, this block title is a feature of beamer itself. So in the section 12.3, the block environments, you will find all the details about those different templates and color and font objects.

So let's say that for the first blue block title, again, this this block is for the block environment here. So we'll find some alternatives for the alert and example block. So let's say we want the foreground or the text to be of black color. And let's make the background to be gray. So now look at the color of this text and its background.

Again, this is a color object or this is an object that can be actually set by the color and the font, and we'll see the difference between those in just a minute. But yeah, this is an object that can be used to style the block environments, and we're adjusting the color part of it by this one. So look at this first one here. Yep, and here it is. So the background is gray.

It's this area of the title for the block environment, which is this one was blue, and then we have the text in black. So before moving on, I would like to clarify a concept about how the user guide is documented. For each feature, like titles of frames, titles of different blocking environments, you would find one of the following variations of customizing objects. In a generic case, Beamer might offer kind of a joker object like this one. So when it says beamer template color font, so here for this QED symbol, we will see that in the theorem environment.

So this is an object. Again, this is a thing that you can take control of some styling. So when you find this specification, this type in the documentation that says beamer template slash dash color, which is beamer color, dash font, which means beamer font. So this is the most generic case. So it means that this object highlighted in red can be set through the set beamer template and the set beamer color and the set beamer font, all three of them.

So this is a generic styling object. And sometimes you may find a color font object. So like the block title that I was just talking about before getting here. So this means that this is a BMR color and a BMR font only. So the block title, you can use it only to adjust the color and the font.

So it's not actually a template. It's a color object or element of beamer. And you can have something like this, the parent beamer blocks. So this means that the highlighted object in red is only a beamer template. So you can only change its options or utilize it inside the set beamer template.

And you can have an object that is only a color or only a font. So I just wanted to clarify that so you don't get lost and understand what types of objects or styling elements that Bimmer offers. So in the most generic case, again, you can set the object through the template color and font commands, you can have it acting both on the color and font aspect without the template. So the block title here, if you try to use this in the subbeamer template, you will get an error actually. And in the third case here, you can have some styling option or element as a template only.

So the blocks and the block begin and so on, you cannot use those for color and font commands. And you can have a styling option that can be used only inside a color or only inside a set font command. So pay attention to this kind of methodology in laying down the documentation. So we get back here. So let's alter the text for the title of the empty frame.

Let's see examples of theorem-like environments. So it's not actually quite empty. It's this one here. And let's actually change this title. So Beamer has its own predefined theorem environments with normal structure So and this is an example So here it is begin theorem and we give it first a title for the theorem environment and this is the body so look at This one now it will appear here Okay, it looks like I didn't get some space.

So yeah, I actually I forgot about that. I'm sorry. We're in a completely different frame, which is the theorem like one here. So yeah, this is a the typical look of the theorem environment. inside Beamer.

So this isn't actually the theme environment that we know. This is a modified style or modified version of the theme environment that Beamer actually gave it its look of a colored box. So yeah, you've got by default that the word theorem and then you have what you lay down inside this option of the environment, it's our parentheses. And of course, you've got the body of the environment in the body of this block. So we can change its look using the block title object, but this time inserted in the environment hook at begin environment.

So let's say that again, this is a block environment. So let's say at begin environment trying to be correct. So where is the environment that we want to alter? So it's theory. So we'll apply some changes at the beginning of this environment.

So what are those changes? Well, simply it's color of the block type. we want the background to be brown. So look at this background now. And here it is, we have it in brown.

So you can think of this environment hook here as another intuitive way to control or limit the effect of beamer objects. So here we have the, again, to control the styling of the theorem environment, we use the block, which is actually was belonging to the Default block environment and you saw that the block environment is in blue by default and the theorem the modification that beamer applies to the theorem environment it makes it blue so we can actually use the block and then the title and again if you recall that this block title only applies for color and font commands so we do that but this time inside an environment hook that is specialized for the theorem environment here so yeah, you can Think of that as limiting this effect only to this environment. And of course, we have the rest of the theorem-like environments. So let's say that we want to insert an example of a proof. And here, inside this, let's separate them by a comment.

So let's say proof. So inside this same frame, we have a proof environment. Okay, and again, we have it in blue, and we have this QED symbol. And again, this can be set through setting the block title. So before that, using the same method for the title can actually insert another environment hook, this time at the beginning of the proof environment, and want to set the block title the background to be olive so let's see it okay here it is you can actually put this outside here we can put it in the variable doesn't matter I just put it here so additionally we can of course change this QED symbol and you saw that if you recall the first example in the slide in PowerPoint that I showed you earlier, the QED symbol, it's actually a template and a color and a font object.

So it's kind of a joke around that you can have multiple settings applied to it. So that's actually after this environment hook, let's say that we want to set Beamer template of this QED symbol. So actually, if we leave this template without any customizing options, it will remove this QED symbol. So if you don't like it, you can, first things first, you can remove it. So, and here it's gone by setting the BeamerTemplateQED symbol to be an empty, or you can have a check mark.

So you will get that check mark here. And of course, you can have any other macro that refers to a specific shape. And if we kind of zoom in a little bit, you can see that by default, the check mark of the QED symbol, it's kind of in blue. We can actually zoom in a little bit, see? So this is in blue.

So we can actually change its color. So we can set the Bimmer color to be of the QED symbol to be olive. foreground okay it's now much more appropriate so yeah this is a quick two examples of theorem like environments and how they are treated inside beamer and how you can change their look Okay, so now we'll explore some more features or things that you can insert in a Beamer slide, so types of content. So now we saw the default, the new blocks environment that we have, and then you have the theorem-like environments, and then we can actually make a new frame to see how we can utilize the itemize and the enumerate environments so let's begin a frame give it a name itemize and you can choose to put one of the two environments inside a beamer block So this is the first configuration, you put the itemize or the environment inside a block environment of Vimeo, or you can just insert it freely inside the frame directly. So let's try the itemize in a block environment.

So let's begin by an itemize example. And this itemize environment will be inserted within a block. So begin block. So let's give this block a title. And inside this block, let's begin the itemize environment and put some content.

So three items. Okay. So let's see this. Okay, so this is the first configuration. We have a block environment and inside this block, we have an itemized environment that acts as its content.

So here is the title and then we have the items. They have this bowl shape by default for the bullet points of the itemized items. And inside the frame, we can use the block title color to change the background if you want. So we can here, Insert setBeamerColor, and that's to the block title. So we want to change the default block blue title here.

So let's say we want the background, BG. shaded teal. Okay, so let's see this. Okay, here it is. And moreover, we can use it to set fonts.

So let's make the block title here a little bit larger than that. Here we will use this block title object to set BMR font, font. and this is the block title and let's make the title size to be large this is capital L for large and look at this area now and it's a bit bigger than that So as stated by default, you get a bowl shape for the items of the itemized list. But there are other options other than the bowl shape. So one of them is this circle, which is kind of a flat 2D version of the current bowl shape.

So yeah, we can zoom a little bit. So yeah, you can see this is kind of has a transparent partage. So this is actually a kind of a small 3D ball so we can have it to be a circle. So for that we will set a beamer template called itemize item. So set beamer template.

This one's called itemize that refers to the environment item. So to set the shape of those bullet points here, and then in the optional argument for that, we say circle. And look at this now, it's kind of will be flattened. And here it is. So kind of unified flat color or shape actually, because it's now sticks to the default blue color and we'll change that.

So to change this marker color, we can use a beamer color called local structure. And you can read more about this local structural color in the user guide in section 12.2, which has the name Highlighting. So yeah, here after this, after changing the shape, we can change the color. So set Beamer.

color, we'll use a color called local structure. And it is the foreground that will change to teal shaded just like this one here. So it will have this color. And here it is. So that was a quick example of how you can insert an itemize environment, you can have it as the content of a block.

And we changed the block title color, this one here and change the font to make it a little bit bigger. And then we changed the shape of the itemize item template to be a circle. And then we changed its color through the local structure color. So now if you don't like one of the default shapes for the markers, the ball shape or the circle, you can make use of a simple and powerful package called pyfont. It offers a lot of shapes.

So we can actually here, we can say use package pyfont. So this package is a part of a collection called PSNFSS.

and you will find its documentation in the resources for this video. And what we want here from this package can be found in page number seven, section number seven in the documentation. So let's increase one more item so we can have an intuition about how to use this Python to change This markers have different symbols so we can have an item this time with an option Let's call this item pyfont So the pyfont offers a handy command called ding that takes one argument and So we will change the shape of this itemized item or marker here or bullet point or whatever, a different shape through the Python using its ding command. Ding command takes only one argument. And this argument is the number that refers to a specific symbol defined by the package.

So I will use the 225. So a complete list of the available symbols and their indices can be found in this table in the figure.

So I chose the 225 right solid arrow. And this is the table two in the page number nine in the documentation. So we just here to change the symbol again of this bullet point. we add an option to the item that we want to change its symbol. And then we use the ding command offered by the Python package and then refer to a specific shape by a number and the shape and the number of course, or the index are introduced by the package.

So let's see the look of this one now. And all of a sudden we have an increased item with the specified shape. Okay, and note that you must pass this ding command as an option for the item command for the later one to identify that this is the new marker. So otherwise, you get the basic setup. Okay, and take a look at the documentation of Python.

It has some pretty useful and handy stuff. So the second method to add a list is to simply insert it hanging free inside the frame, so without a block. So let's try that with an enumerate example. So here, directly inside this frame, let's say this is enumerate. And here it is.

So item 123. and here it is so it has no formatting around it so normal latex look but now the the markers or the now the arabic numerals they have by default again the ball shape of the item by default So for that, we will use an adjacent template for the itemize item, but this time it is called a number rate item. So yeah, you have said Bimmer template and inside that it's called a number rate item. And this time let's use the square. Sorry, this is an option.

So let's use the square.

Now this will be changed. Okay, here it is. And also the local structural color works for the enumerate. So we can try that here. So the local structural color, it's kind of that you overwriting the first entry here.

So we will make this shaded black. So look at those small cards here. We will lose this tail look. That is specified here and here it is. So yeah, we can do that either So okay, and just a quick note here, if you're thinking about constructing a whole list with special Python marks, so either for itemize or enumerate, actually, then, of course, you would want to insert a ding command for each item entry in your list.

So if you don't only know about the ding command, then you think that you have to insert it as an option for each itemize in your itemize or in your enumerate environments. And of course, this will be frustrating and overkill for such a thing. So luckily, rather than that, you can use a special itemize environment version offered by the Python package called ding list. Or for the case of the enumerate, you can use the ding auto list for numbered enumerate list. So those are two new environments for lists that are offered by the Python package that you can use instead of the basic itemize or enumerate.

And the benefit of using those ding lists or ding auto lists is that you can pass the desired shape of your items as an option for the environment. So yeah, go check it out in the documentation. So finally, let's wrap this long video by making multi column content. So this will be quite quick. So we've been looking at content that is stacking vertically.

So yeah, that's the default behavior of LaTeX anywhere. So in Beamer, you can have content that is side by side by the effect of columns. So, so let's begin a dedicated section for that. And let's begin a frame. Let's give it a title.

So let's run. Okay, so this is achieved, of course, by the one and only columns environment. So you can freely insert that in this frame here. So we have columns And as normal, we put the column command. So to separate the different pieces of contents.

So let's begin by the first column. So let's say it will occupy 45% of the text width. And for this first column, we'll put a simple block environment. So calling this a definition, but it's a block. So after this, we can put the second block.

So this is this will be an example block with some math content and a title. And I actually stupidly forgot to put the specification of this second title. So I'm very sorry about that. So we have the first title and the content of it and the second title and its content. So now those will appear side by side.

Apologies. Okay, so now here we are. So this is kind of another layer to the structure of your presentation. So just to recap, I've done a whole lot of things here in this video. So we have this title page.

We learned about the table of content. the simple sectional units. We learned about blocking environments and how to control them. We learned that you can insert theorem-like environments and then how to deal with lists and do not forget the special environments, the pyfons. And then you can also structure your content inside blocks or other.

You can just freely use the columns environment inside your frames. So And now just before actually terminating the video, the very last thing is a cool trick to change the overall basic color for the entire presentation itself. So this is the structural color. So let's say that you don't like you like the aesthetics of this theme. but you don't like the overall color.

So instead of using another color theme, if you don't like any one of the offered color themes, actually, so you can use this simple trick. So let's say here in the preamble, we will set beamer color that is called structure. And we want to change the foreground to some teal shade. So look at every basic thing that is left in blue, it will have the teal 50 color now. And here it is.

So yes, crawling down everything again that was left in blue. So of course, the things that we have specified, it's the same but the things that was in blue like this definition. And here, of course, those Table of contents and the sidebar and the default area for the block and the title frame, they are all changed. But of course, we have some defaults for the photo. So yeah, this is in one shot, we can change the base color of the whole thing.

I will comment that to restore the default color. And that brings us to the end of this video. Thanks for watching and bearing with me. And I will see you in the next video.

Okay, so we're still in this presentation and in this part, I will show some methods to display the content of frames bit by bit. So now Wimmer offers some functions that can be used to control the distribution of your content in the frame along its slides. So, mainly you will be displaying certain pieces of the content in different slides that you choose. So, this is kind of known as a piecewise presentation.

Let's create a new section and let's say so suppose that you have a frame that contains an enumerate environment you use to illustrate some concepts. So let's say that we have this frame and inside this frame we have an enumerate environment. So let's run this first. Here it is. So let's say that you wish only to show the first item in the first slide.

So this item here says that this is the first item to appear. So how can we actually print in the output only this item in this first slide of the frame? without the second and the third one. So that's actually the concept that we're looking at. So you have some content generally inside your frame.

It could be some couple of environments, some blocks. So what we're going to do actually in this video is to look at how can we control the appearance when and where to print some pieces of contents inside your frame. So again, yeah, let's say that we only want for the first slide in this frame when only this first item to appear. There are actually a couple of ways to do that. The first and most basic one is to use the pause command.

So here you come after the thing that you want actually to break after. So it's kind of a thing like a page break. So we say pause. And this pause is actually again like a page break. So it breaks after typesetting this part and it leaves those out to the upcoming slide.

So the pause command is the very first and most basic way to control the appearance of some content inside the frame. So let's see what will happen. Okay, here we are. So this is the first frame of this slide. And by the effect of the pause command, we paused after that.

And then in the upcoming frames, they actually accumulate. So of course, you would have the entire content of the frame. So actually, let's state first that this is the pause command method.

so sorry about that it's this is the title of the frame okay so here it is so and we can repeat that for the second item here so in the first slide you will see the first item in the second slide you will see the first and the second items and in the third slide you will see all of them so let's actually see it so this is the first slide here and again here after we run the first slide you see the first item or the couple of contents until the first pause command actually and in the second slide you see the content of the frame until the second pause command and in the third one of course you have all of them so kind of the end of the frame is the pause command itself so it terminates here so it displays in the last slide of the frame the entire content of it So, actually the pause command can be inserted anywhere in the frame body to break at certain locations. So, you can try it in a previous multi-column frame. Let's do that after the first definition block. So, here it is and here is its location. that was the first column and this is the second column so before the entry of the second column or the second example block here we can pause this so it's kind of a break-in command again so you can insert it anywhere you want here in the first frame of this multi-column in the first slide here we have only the content up until the first pause command and then Again, in the second and the last slide of this frame, you have the accumulated content of the frame itself.

So I will leave this commented out, so to reduce the number of slides. Okay, here it is, one frame. So great. Now the pulse command can be useful in simple straightforward cases in which we don't actually need much of control. So it's kind of basic.

So, if you look close at the pause command, it is so strict and it forces to break when inserted actually. So, for example, for the enumerate list, what if you want to print or show the third item in the second slide, so this item here. Let's say that you wish for the first slide, you want only to print the first item but in the second slide we want to print the first and the third item and eliminate the second item so it's kind of straightforward and it goes step by step so for this case actually in the second slide if you want to print the first item and the third item you cannot do that with the pause command So that was the very basic one. And for that reason, and actually to obtain much more flexibility in uncovering the content of the frame. So actually, this action also is called uncovering.

So you begin by some piece of content and you uncover another one and so on. So the pause command is not actually flexible. So we can use a more powerful feature in Beamer that is called overlay specification. So, yeah, actually, the this overlay specification, it's a flexible concept in which we get to insert some instructions or settings for pieces of contents inside the frame to have the most flexible uncovering scheme for them. So by flexible uncovering, I mean, again, this example that we want here for the second frame to insert only the first and the third ones.

So we're kind of shuffling the order of those items here. So again, you can not do that with how the pause command is so basic. So the overlay specification is this concept. It's a couple of actions or instructions that you put actually for environments, not just item commands. So as we will see, it can be applicable actually for any command or environment that is inserted inside a beamer frame.

Let's for that begin a new frame. The overlay specification is actually an optional element that can be given again to lots, but not all actually of the beamer commands. So there are some exceptions. It is simply a way again that enables a great control of the appearance of a frame content. Whichever this content is, it can be a text, a table, an image, a block environment or other elements of course.

So let's consider another enumerate list for simplicity. So here, let's begin enumerate. And then let's say that we have item that is red, and then item green and blue. So an overlay specification is just a range of number slides you want your element to appear within. And this specification or instruction is given to the element that we want to control inside a bear of angular brackets.

So in the most generic form, the range has a starting number, that is inserted before this dash for anything that is considered as a range, you put a starting number and an end number and you separate those by a dash or a hyphen. So in the most generic case, because this kind of instructions or the way you control how many slides and where this item, for example, will be shown, it has so many forms that you can specify that so in the most generic form again this range has a starting number for the first slide that the item will appear in so let's say that we want this red to appear let's say from the third slide to the fifth slide So this is basically what overlay specification is. And in some forms, as you will see, we can drop either of the starting or the ending slide number. So if we kind of omitted the end number, this means that we want this red item here to start appearing from the third slide to the end of the frame, to the last slide of the frame. So that's actually what it means to omit the ending number.

So let's say in some cases, we can omit the starting number. And this by default means that we want this item again to start appearing from the first slide to the fifth slide. So it's kind of a range. If you set it like that, so that's an explicit range that you want, we want this item to appear from slide three to slide five. If you omit again the ending number, so you want this item to keep showing until the end of the frame.

And if we omit the starting number, it means that we want to start from the first slide. So let's say that we want this red item to start appearing from the first slide. it's it's it is the default if we omit it but yeah let's insert that and see what will happen okay so this is actually the default case that we have so this yeah it has only one frame because here in in this overlay specification we actually didn't increase the number of the slides in the frame so yeah by default of course you have each item appearing from the first slide but let's say that to clarify this let's say that we want this first red item to start appearing from the second slide let's see how this will look like okay at the first glance you may say that well what i know is that we have only one slide in this frame because maybe this kind this amount of content can fit in one slide and we didn't give the allow frame breaks here and we actually don't need to do that here but the overlay specification if it's defined in one element let's say command or environment inside a frame and it has a number greater than one then that means that you will increase the number of the slides of your frame by the maximum amount an overlay specification have in the entire frame so that's the default behavior of this one here so this concept isn't kind of tied to the amount of content that you have it's explicitly you say that well I want this item to start appearing from the second slide So here in the first slide, we are in this frame called flexible overlays. We have in the first slide, the red, the first red item is missing. We only have green and blue.

And as specified, this red only starts appearing from the second slide, which so happened to be the last one because the greater number in the overlay specification in any overlay specification in the frame, it's two. so this will become much more obvious as we go through a couple of examples so let's move on so let's say for the blue one here we want to start we want this item to start appearing from the third slide to the end the end again will be the third slide itself So let's see what will happen. Let's retract to the first slide. And all of a sudden, we only have in this first slide the green item because it does not have an overlay specification. So by default, it starts appearing from the first slide.

and then in the second slide we can see that the red appears because that's what is specified and in the third slide we have them all so the red started from the second one and the green is here from the first slide and as we specify the blue it's only shown in this third one So yeah, let's play around with this again. So let's say that for the green, we want this to start at two and end at four.

see what will happen. Okay, so now actually the first slide is empty because there is no starting number in each in any one of the items that is specified as one or left empty. So the first slide is actually empty. And then following the specification that you put you can see that the red starts from the second slide to the fourth and final slide and again the green starts at two so yeah it's here two three and four and as specified the blue again starts at the third slide and it has no in the number. So it goes on to the end.

And now what number of slides we have in the frame. So four, because this is kind of the maximum range in any overlay specification that is inserted for an element inside the frame. So, yeah, you get the idea. It's kind of a powerful and flexible way to control where and when to print or show pieces of content in your presentation. And again, this can be inserted to commands, Beamer commands, Beamer environments, and actually another environments that can operate inside Beamer, and we'll see that.

So, yeah. So actually there is a shortcut specification that can be given as an option to the enumerate environment. So let's actually reduce the amount of settings that we have here. So let's say we'll have a sequence. So yeah, that's actually it.

So one, two, and three have them revealed in order. So the first item red starts here and then the green appears and then the red. So for this specific arrangement, there is actually a shortcut specification that can be given as an option to the enumerate environment. So if this is your goal from overlay specification to uncover items one by one in the natural order that they are inserted in the input file, So instead of repeating this and saying 123, there is actually a shortcut specification that can be given to the whole enumerate environment itself, which is, again, we have angular brackets after the the beginning of the declaration. And this shortcut is actually plus and then minus.

And let's remove those so we don't need this specification again. So, yeah, again, we have those in the output. They are revealed one by one. So you can replace all of that with this alternative compact overlay specification given to the enumerate environment as whole. And this small plus and minus, it will reveal the items of the enumerate environment one by one.

So basically, we will have the same arrangement as here. Okay, so I actually made a dummy mistake. I said that the overlay specification for an environment is actually given as an option for that environment. So it's not inserted like freely after the declaration. So that was my fault.

So we have here this some wrong perhaps a missing item. So actually LaTeX cannot process this environment because it found some kind of strange declaration. So we had this angular brackets hanging free after the beginning number. So that was my fault. This shortcut of the overlay specification is actually given as an option to the environment declaration.

So yeah, let's see it again. So supposedly we will have the entire same arrangement. So yeah, this is the flexible overlays. And by the effect of this, we have the first item here in the first slide, and then the second item appears and then the third one. So yeah, the very same effect that we had when we specified one to the end, two to the end, three to the end.

So If your goal, again, if you have lots and lots of items inside and enumerate or itemize and you want to uncover them one by one, so this can be actually useful if you're explaining some sequences and you can imagine some situations for that. So this is a handy shortcut that you can keep in mind. So as stated, given a range for an item or an environment or this, it's one way of specifying overlays. So we can actually throw one number inside the angular bracket. So let's increase an item here and we want to control its time to show up.

And here we can insert one number of this item. So let's run to see what's the effect of that. Let's go up to the first slide. Okay so this is an intruder that has the color teal so it will be visually distinct and then in the first slide we have those are uncovered one by one by this effect so in the first slide we have the red and then in the next second slide the red and the green appears by this effect and this item appears so and moving on it disappears so what happens when you insert only one number inside the angular brackets of the overlay setting well it will only appear in this location So here we have three slides, one, two, and three. We said that we only want this item in this slide number.

So this is the second way. So it's not only you can provide ranges, it's that you can specify only one and only slide that you want some piece of content to appear in. So that's kind of the second form of specifying overlays. and moreover you can actually combine ranges of number slides separated by a comma if you have kind of a large frame and you hope to place some elements in specified sparse locations so imagine that you have a 10 slide frame and for some reason you want an item let's say an item here to appear from the second slide to the fifth and then delete it or make it disappear and then you want again the same item to start appearing from the eighth slide to the end of the frame so how you can arrange that if you think about it this is kind of two ranges so we have from two to five and then we have from eight to ten so you can actually have multiple ranges inside the angular brackets for the overlay and they are separated by a comma so now to have an example of this range let's increase three more slides so we will have three more slides by the effect of this overlay specification general one so we have this cn element and then we have a couple of more elements so Let's run them first. So previously we had 3 and then we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.

So total of 6 slides. Actually this is an intruder so it does not count. So yeah. Let's say that for this scene element we want it to appear in the first two slides, drop in the third and then start from 4 to the end. So first of all let's say that we want from 1 to 2 so this cn element we want it to start actually appearing from the very first slide here and then it will appear again in the second slide by the effect of the ending here and so actually let's see this so yep here it is this is the fifth item by the enumeration of the environment so it's placed in the first and second items only and that's it so to combine this range let's say that you want this cn element to drop this third slide and then start appearing from the fourth to the fifth which is the last one so it's kind of a range so yeah we put here for an dash and then the scene element will be placed here and here and yes we have from one to two and that's the case this is the first one this is the second slide and the third slide it does not show up because we have another range that tells it to start appearing from the fourth to the fifth or to the last one which is the fifth.

So yeah, this is another configuration of the overlay specification. You can have multiple ranges to control exactly where we want specific element to appear and disappear. Okay, so you can actually pause the video now and try playing with overlays to gain a better understanding. So it might seem cumbersome at the beginning, but yeah, you'll get the grasp of it. So let's now go back a little bit in this presentation to the block elements section.

So it's this, this one here. Let's say that you only want to display each element in a standalone slide. We have here three block environments in this frame. And what we want to achieve is to break this frame into three slides, each slide having only one element. So the first slide will have this gray block environment only the second slide will have this red environment only and it explodes the first and the third and so on for the third slide it will have this green block only and it will delete the first two so again how we can achieve that an overlay specification that has a one number slide for the block environments the overlay specification is inserted actually hanging free between the declaration and the title of the environment itself or the title of the blog, because those environments are defined by Beamer, so we can do that without the need for option space for the environment.

The first slide, we want only this first block environment to appear. The second slide here between the declaration and the block title. Again, we want the second slide to have this environment only and the third one. So there is no accumulation. We broke this frame that was one slide into one, two, and three slides.

Each one has the one and only specified block. See that? So here this is the first slide. It has the block only. The second slide has the alert only, and the third slide has the example block only.

So this is how you can apply overlay specification. Of course, you can have ranges, whatever you want. So it's applied directly inside the Angular brackets, hanging free between the declaration and the block title. actually since we are applying this sparse representation kind of there is a cool trick that you can use which is let's say that at the same time when you want only one block at each slide so let's say that you wish to have also the rest of the elements so here in this first slide we have we want the other red and green blocks that appear here but kind of transparent so then we can use a command that is called set beamer covered so set beamer covered and then we pass the transparent value for this one so let's see its effect and all of a sudden in the first slide we actually have only the first block or kind of only first block but we have the rest of the elements i.e.

the other two block environments they appear kind of with some opacity so they are kind of shaded by the effect of this transparent and so for the second and third slide So, actually the name of this set, Beamer Covered, is actually intuitive and the reason why is that you see for the first slide, you have only one shown block and the other two block environments are considered covered. So this is shown and those are covered for this first slide. And in the second slide, of course, you have only one element that is considered as shown, which is the alert block. And Beamer treats the other elements, here the first and the third block, as covered. So in the default state of the setting for the covered Beamer element, it's actually invisible.

So this is the default state of the covered element in a beamer slide. Here we are. This is the default state. So for each slide, if you have an overlay specification, then there are some elements that are considered as shown or they are there. And there are some elements that are considered as covered.

So the set beamer covered helps you to identify the nature of the covered elements in some slide. So, yeah, so let's restore that transparent. And then this is actually quite useful orientation that we have. So this is a gradual uncovering. So I actually saw that a lot in the past.

So that's how we can achieve this. So you have overlay specification one by one, and then you treat the covered elements in each slide as a transparent elements. So yeah, having this control scheme that is called overlay specification inside an angular brackets for some environments or for some commands, this is actually one way you can control the appearance of the elements in your slide. And actually, Beamer provides a special commands for this overlay thing. so let's say that you have kind of some piece of text hanging free inside your frame so how can you apply an option to that text so for that reason Beamer offers some special commands that can be used in kind of such a situation when you don't have a macro or an environment that is wrapping your content that you want to control.

And so for that, we will look at a table example. So we have a special commands for the overlay. So we'll see an example of a table for that matter so we will set the beamer covered the covered element by the effect of the overlay specification in each slide again the transparent So we can see what is hidden and then we will have a table float. This is centering a tabular environment. So in this tabular we will have two columns.

So this will be a two column small table with three rows. So let's begin by the top H line and then we have the first row for the head. So we have this item part of the head and then we have actually price, then the second H line. And then comes the body. So this is inserted directly without H lines.

So let's see this first. Actually, we can increase one H line here. We will need that. Okay. So it appears that intelligently, I forgot to break the line or the row for this first row head.

So apologies. Hope you discovered this dummy mistake. And again, I forgot to put this. So yeah, so again, finally, we have it here. So this is our table.

So I was talking about the special overlay specification commands. And I said that we will take the tabular or a table as an example. So how can actually we control the appearance of this RAM second row here? This is part of a table, so we can consider it as a text. and it's not wrapped inside kind of a macro or it's not an entire environment.

We actually here for this specific example, we will control the overlay or the location and positioning of those rows here inside this table. So for this job at this time, we will use special commands, not just ranges for Angular brackets. So let's say that you want to uncover the rows of that table separately in several slides. So this time for this task we will use a command called onslide and this command will be inserted at the beginning of each row. So here let's say before this row we type on slide angle brackets and then we leave some space.

So as the name suggests this command takes an overlay specification of course by the same configurations as before and it prints the following content on the specified slide number or range. So on slide. we can actually begin by the first yeah so let's retract this from here so we can start by the first head row here and let's say that we want to start covering this from the first slide to the end and for this RAM row here we want to have it kind of a sequential So this row here, start from the second. Okay, so for this GPU, we want it actually to start appearing from the fourth slide. And lastly, so yeah, here we are.

A lot of alignment. This is so annoying. So let's shuffle this. Let's start seeing this CPU from the third slide. So now we will have four slides for this table and each row will appear by the specification range that is applied to it by the onslide command that is inserted before each row content.

So this is how you can do it for a table rows. So as usual, I made a very super typo and then I copied it. So this is slide is actually begins to be exhausting apologies so yeah the quack effect starts this first row it's start appearing only so it's solely appearing in the first slide because there are different specifications for the rest of the rows so they are covered so transparent so in the second one the RAM row starts to appear and it continues and then here we have the third slide we have the CPU that is appearing and this GPU is still hidden until the fourth slide and the final one. So again, yeah, this is how you can apply an overlay specification for a plain text. And the rows of the table here is an example of that.

So there is another useful overlay command, which is the uncover command. So let's try it actually with the caption of the table float. So uncover the overlay specification and then the argument inside this argument, we put the thing that we want to control. So this is the caption. So let's say caption for this table.

And here in this one, let's say that we want only the caption to start or to appear only in the fourth slide. So it'll be hidden from the first to the third, and it will only be appearing in the fourth slide. Okay, so nothing here, here, nothing here, and here it appears. So I note actually that you can use the uncover as the onslide without surrounding the content with a braces but to obtain this correct output you would want to use this. So that was a quick tour so actually there are other similar commands with various behaviors in the user guide and even standalone special overlay environments.

So it's not actually some angular brackets or commands, you have overlay specification environments. You can see those defined in user guide for the BML class. Take a look at those if you want to learn more. They can be found in section number nine in the second part.

Okay so now there is a useful application of overlays that can serve a good presentation purpose which is to repeat slides or entire frames. So let's look at that.

So let's say that for some reason you're presenting a wide or long presentation that has let's say 15 slides and you decide at the 11th slide that you want to repeat the fourth slide for example so after presenting 11 slides you want to repeat the fourth slide kind of as a recall action so you want to have some certain previous slides at some later stage. So you can remind your audience by some concepts that you presented. So you can do this actually by a command that is called again frame. And this command is overlay specification aware. So it accepts a range and now the argument here in those braces takes the label of the frame you want to repeat so that's the mechanism is kind of a citation or a referencing scheme so in order to repeat some frame you would want actually at first give name or a label for that frame so you can use that later So a label can be given to a frame in the options of the frame environment, you have the label field, and then we have a value which is the chosen label by the user.

So here, I say that we want to repeat this table frame here. So the first thing is that you want to mark the frame environment that you want to repeat by a label. So you put that here and inside the argument of the again frame, you put the name of the label directly. You can actually do that without any overlay specification. So in this default state, look at the number of slides, the entire, actually the entire frame, the entire slides of the frame will be repeated.

so this is the first entry this is the original entry so here this is the original entry and it ended here at this slide this fourth slide if you recall and then you can actually look at the active section if you're lost So from this one, oh, yeah, sorry about that. This is a subsection. And we have hide all subsections given to the environment. So whatever. Yeah, this is the again frame here.

So by default, the again frame prints the entire frame and the entire slides of the repeated frame but of course this command again is overlay aware so we can actually repeat only the third slide so one two three this one here with this orientation so look at that. So we limit the repeat that we want to make or actually we choose one slide of the entire frame. So this is the last of the complete entry of the frame. And here this slide is made by the again frame, we choose the third slide. So it's this one from the frame that has this label.

So yeah, this this command is quite powerful, it allows you to repeat an entire frame, or you can select range of slides or one slide by an overlay specification applied to it. And finally, I'll wrap this video by a useful feature that helps navigate through the slides of representation, which is actually hyperlinks, which you can use to connect slides and entire frames. So this is hyperlinking. So let's have a frame and then let's put this time we'll try an itemize environment. We will give the shortcut overlay specification of plus or minus for gradual appearing of the items.

So Beamer offers a command called hyperlink. This command takes two arguments. Let's see it after the content of this first item. So here we will insert the hyper In the first argument, we pass the label name of the target frame that we want to connect with. So actually, this will connect this frame to the frame that has the label that is inserted in its first argument.

So we have this table frame here and let's say that we want specifically to make this connection with the third slide of this label here so actually the first argument of this hyperlink can accept a label for a frame and this label is actually can take an overlay specification for itself so and in the second argument we pass the text for the link So this linking actually will be a button where you get to click that will navigate you to the specified frame or slide of that frame. So this is actually what we're going to do with this hyperlink here. So we will insert a button in this first argument of this frame that will direct us when clicking at it to this specific location. So how we can insert a button so actually Bimmer offers a lot of button shapes. So we have this Bimmer return button.

The Bimmer return button is just a small colored box that will hold the link to the target slide. so we click at this text here it will direct us to this location and let's see it first okay here it is so actually in the first slide here we have this first item this is the effect of the hyperlink so as you can see the beamer return button has an argument this argument controls the text that will appear inside this button so You can choose to say a return or go back or whatever. So, and here it is. So we now have the text return, which is the value of this beamer return button. And when we click at that, it directs us to the third slide of this frame, this one here.

so the reason why i have two items and i split the frame of this itemize into two slides here is that the hyperlink command itself accepts overlay specification so this hyperlink is this functionality here that has a beamer return button Again, this is a colored box with this text that direct us to this specific location. This is a label for a frame and this is the specification, the slide that we want to target of this frame. But the hyperlink itself accepts an overlay specification. So let's say that we want this button only to start or to appear in the first slide. so we can actually achieve that so here it is those are the two slides of this last frame and by this overlay effect the hyperlink only exists in the first slide and we can see both of the item contents in the second slide but the return button itself does not show up And final note here, the links and the buttons, all the details about those can be found in section 11 of the second part of the Beamer User Guide.

So that's actually it for this presentation. So I hope that you learned a lot in this one and those concepts and features that you learned about can help you start building your own presentations with confidence. So Look at the next video. We will make an example of a slightly modern community-based theme so you can see some other options that you can use with Beamers. So yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you there.

Hello and welcome you guys to this video. For this one we're going to look at how Beamer can look modern with other themes that are customized by the users of the later community. So specifically we will look at one good example for a Beamer theme that is called Metropolis. this will be an example of the potential beamer actually can have and it could make it a perfect tool to make scientific lecture slides especially for math and physics related topics so we'll just explore this theme by making a presentation with it so without going into detail of how it's made in the background So customizing and building themes is an off topic for the scope of this treatment. But if you want to get an idea about how you can utilize Beamer and TIGs to make outstanding frame styles, you will find some custom frame examples that you can put together using the Beamer class and the features of TIGs.

So you can just automate the changing of the styles and so on. So you find some custom frame examples in the LaTeX-Beamer website. So there is, I think, seven or 10 examples of custom headline frames that are done with tigs, and they are in an awesome shape. So first of all, let's go back to Metropolis. This is actually a normal package.

So to use it, you will need to install it from the MyTech console. So it goes with the name BimmerTheme-Metropolis. So add it to your distribution. And in the resources of this video, you can find the documentation for this theme or package. And for this installation stage, additionally, just make sure that the dependencies listed in section 2.4 in the documentation of Metropolis are installed as well.

So to avoid any potential problems. And now having done that, so let's use it in this class documentation. So I have here a beamer with the VBS names for colors. And let's as a first step, say use theme Metropolis. So again, in order to be able to do this, make sure that you install beamer theme dash Metropolis package.

And now let's use the cant ellipsum with the x color. So as usual, we'll start by the title fame information. So here in that preamble, let's say that title frame. And here are the four basic components of a title page, the title, the author, this is the author of the metropolis theme and the institution and the date. So activate this, we can solely insert make title.

And let's see it. Okay, here it is, nice and clean and simple. So we have this frame here with this kind of black teal color, whatever, dark one, and this small line divider here, and then you have the author, the institution, and the date before that, and then the institution with small font. So this is how the title page looks in this frame or in this theme. And so additionally, let's add a logo.

So for that, I will use the title graphic. It's actually graphic without an S. And inside that, we will use a Tiggs picture. So for that, let's use Tiggs, K, And inside this, I will actually use the code that I showed you the last time that I made this hist command with. So just you can see that we can have a tix picture inside a title graphic as I stated in the second video of this series.

So yeah, we have defined a color and this is the code for that. Okay, here it is. So we have a bounding box. This text picture is centered with the effect of the bounding box that reserves space in the page that we have. And then we have this circle and the white node that has this command.

So yeah, neat and clean. And you can play around with those number here for the bounding box for the components and the positioning of the node or the filling. So yeah, if you want it in different places, you can play around with this takes code. So now let's go to actually the body document. And let's make a section that we call first section.

And let's see this now. And actually, we got an error. So the log says that there is an arithmetic overflow here. What's about it? This is just a normal section.

So this is an exception raised due to internal issues with the metropolis theme. So to fix this, we will work around it by setting an option to specify how the theme should handle this section entry. And this option will be inserted in command or a macro definition in the framework that is called Metro set. So Metro from Metropolis and then setting normal styling macro. Now by default inserting a section here causes the theme by default to create what is called a section page.

So here we inserted this section hanging free. So the theme in the background creates a section page. The section page is actually a dedicated slide that prints the section name centered solely in a different standalone slide. So we will set this section page to simple. So we have this section page, yes, and we have the simple

value. So, yep, this is one way of how you can present, let's say, this section page. So yeah, like to recurrent this bizarre error for the section, consider this small hack. So after this section, we can add a normal frame that allows breaking over multiple slides, just as we did with the previous presentation. So let's say frame, and this frame can accept allow frame breaks.

Okay, and it can has a title, of course. And let's put a can paragraph inside that. And let's see it. Here it is. So it breaks into two slides.

So this is the bare minimum of using this theme. So let's from here jump directly to the block environments. So let's see how basic BMR block environments look in this theme. And here is a simple example of a block environment that has this title. Let's see it.

Okay, here it is. Actually, this is the default look of the block environments. They appear in plain style. So this is can be easily altered with block fill option set and this metro set. So by default, it's transparent kind of.

or plain style, then we can have block equals fill. And here we have it. So this is a global option, of course, so that takes some default fill colors for the block environments. And without it, you will have them in plain style, all of them, not just the block environment. And here it is.

So it appears in kind of shades of gray. And we can actually insert another example. So here we have the alert block that says caution and the example plug that says example. So those will obtain different color flavors. So actually the difference is that for the color of the block titles and the body itself, it's unified by default.

So after that, let's have a look at a different listing environment that is quite handy, which is the description environment. So we have tried before, we've seen the itemize and the enumerate before in Beamer frames. So this time we will use the description environment. Let's actually put it inside this frame here of the blocks instead of giving it a standalone. frame for itself.

So yeah, here we are. So let's begin description. It's actually there. Okay. So the description takes an item command entries like the normal lists.

So item, but this time we use the option and this option will print what comes inside it in bold font before the content of the item itself. So Let's say that we want to list the name of IEEE and this is of course the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. let's see how this looks okay so this is a normal kind of item entry here so we have IEEE in bold font and then the rest comes after that and the environment itself is centered in the page or the slide horizontal wise and here are two more items and the ASME and the ASCII one for civil and one for mechanical engineers So this is another way that you can present your content if you have kind of keys or identifiers for some content. So yeah. so a quick side note here if you look at the lower right corner of the slides you can see that by default the theme produces an enumeration scheme for the slides so it appears from the first slide so one two and three so if you don't like that so in the metro set here we can say that numbering is none, is none.

So yeah, and this will drop those numbers here. Okay. And, and they are gone. So there is another configuration for that, which is some, if you may find useful, which is to print the number of each slide per total number of slides. And this one is called fraction.

removing all of them. So we'll have one of the total number, let's say three. So here, yeah, one of three, we have a total of three slides. This is one of three, this is two of three, and this is three of three. So by default, you will get a standalone absolute numbering.

If you don't like it, you can set the numbering to none. If you want this configuration, which counts the state of this slide by the total number of slides, you can use the fraction. I will keep it dropped. So here, let's say none.

Okay, so what we're going to do next is to explore two more box environments that are offered by Beamer. Of course, they work on other themes, but I found that this is a good chance to introduce them. And for that, we'll arrange the content shown in the figure. We'll build one frame for that. So let's begin a frame.

So we'll build this nice frame using a beamer based environment for the first big part that is called a beamer color box. So let's give title for this frame. So we have the color box blocks and then we'll instantiate a beamer color box environment. So that's its name. So this environment is what is going to hold the picture and the table and the first color box.

So now the desired beamer color is passed as a mandatory argument in the environment declaration. So here we'll have a one mandatory argument to pass the color of the box. So this is a colored box. And without that, you will get a plain structure. So for this job here, let's set a special Beamer color for this environment and can call it color box block.

actually before the frame here, let's set BMR color. And let's say color box block. So we name that. And then we say the foreground is white for the text. And then the background is black.

as it's shown. Sorry about that. Okay. And we're ready to copy and paste the name of this color and pass it to the boomer color box environment. So let's actually put some placeholder

Okay, this is the basic look of that. And now it's obvious that this environment will need to tweak some dimension options. And there are plenty of style options for this environment, for the Bimmer color box. So you can find those in page 122, specifically section 12.5 in the Bimmer user guide, if you want to read more about that.

So now let's first put the header of this part, which is a large piece of content. So we'll begin by, let's see, let's delete this and place the first sentence that you see, a table and a figure and columns. So yeah, it's inserted directly inside those braces here to limit the effect of this large font size. And let's actually see that. before proceeding.

Okay, here it is. And actually before tweaking the options, let's insert the rest of the content for this box. So here we have again a table and an image that they are splitted into two columns within the columns environment. So we'll go back to the columns environment. So that's the base container for the figure and the table.

we have a column that takes 75% of the text width. So this is the first column. And this is the second column with the same dimensions. So for the first column on the left, we have a table. So let's directly insert that here.

So this is a table float, okay, centering and then the tabular and the rest of the table that we used in the past video. So yeah, again, up until now, we have this beamer color box, we have this title head, The columns environment hold the first column that has a table and the second column features an include graphics command that has our hist logo with a scale denoted by 20%. So of course I have this hist logo in the same directory as here. So let's see this configuration now. Okay, so initially the columns, we have the first column that has this table and then the second column that has this picture.

So to obtain the format that you saw in the figure, a couple of things need to change in the options of this environment. I'm talking about the Beamer color box environment. So let's open a option space and break actually for this color. Again, this is the mandatory argument of the environment, which is the color that we're using. So foreground, white and background, black.

So Inside here, we put the customizing options for how this colored box will look like. So first of all, we need to increase the inner area between the content, of course, and the boundaries of the box. So the inner padding or separation as usual, So we have the sep option, and let's set that to 15 points. So now look at the area surrounding our content here. Here it is.

So the environment is kind of stretched from the inside. And then after that, we need to center the text inside the box. So this one here, we want to center this text here in the box. So to do that, we simply pass the center option here. Just as a reminder, the couple of options beyond what we're going to specify for this Abumakar box can be found in section 12.5 as stated in the page 12.2 in the user guide.

And I'm talking about the Beamer user guide because this Beamer color box is a Beamer class defined environment. This environment does not relate only to the metropolis. You can use it in any other Beamer theme. So yeah. And after this center, so actually let's run to see it.

Okay, here it is. Nice and clean. And then what is left is actually to make the edges rounded and to have some shadow as an option here. So after this center, we can say rounded equals true and shaded or shadow, I'm sorry about that, equals true. So rounded and shadow.

look at the contour of this box now here it is okay so the the very last thing actually is that we can actually increase the space between this head this plain text here and the the columns environment that follows it so this is kind of so tight So the very basic solution for that is this breaking action that we did for this line of text can accept an optional argument that sets a vertical space that follows it. So yeah, this is how we can do it. So look at this space now, it'll be increased. Yep. And this is it.

So yeah, revise this code. And I think this is a good configuration. So the second part of this frame here is actually another version of a rounded box. So this is called Beamer Boxes Rounded.

So this environment is rounded version of the colored box environment that is offered. So it's rounded by default. You don't need this rounded true. So for the content, we have this simple A equals B, and we'll have an option and a mandatory argument. The mandatory argument for this specific environment takes the block head.

So, we have here the word theorem as the block head and in the options we will set two of them. They will hold the beamer color as their value. So, namely, we have two options, upper and lower. So both of those options will take a beamer color. So the upper refers to the area of the block head, the theorem part here, and the lower option is for the body.

So for both actually we will set beamer colors called block head and block body. So we say here block head, let's actually break this. And here for the lower, we say block body. Okay. And then as a last option, actually we can have the shadow again, if you prefer that.

So you can do that here, of course. And then let's go to the preamble and insert a at begin environment hook. for this beamer boxes rounded to set those colors. I want the block head and the block body. So here, let's actually put it after the metro set.

So at begin, so let's copy the name of the environment is quite long. And we want at the beginning of this environment, We will set both of the blockhead color and the blockhead body color. So set primal color with foreground and background specified. So those are set by this environment hook that holds those two set primal colors. And for the upper and lower options, we passed the name of those colors and the rest of this simple environment.

Okay. So as stated for this block head, we have a foreground of white and a background of black. And for the block body, which holds the content, we have a foreground of black and a background of shaded blue. So this can be considered as a flexible version of the normal block environments, but it's kind of rounded by default. so here before this rounded we can insert a vphantom to increase the space between those okay perfect so for the last frame for us here i will put a frame that is somewhat like the thanks for watching slide that I put at the end of each PowerPoint presentation.

So it's kind of a one color frame that has a text that is centered both vertically and horizontally. So in Metropolis, this is called a standout frame. So begin frame, and then you have an option. And this is thanks for watching. And to activate the centering and the state of this standout, you simply say stand out.

And this is how it looks. So, yep, this is exactly like the last slide in all of my platform presentations. So it's kind of a good ending slide for your presentation. So before leaving this presentation, I would like to let you know about yet another useful feature of Beamer itself. And this one is a possible configuration for the slides of your frames in which you get to combine multiple of them in one page like this one.

And this is known as the handout mode. So here in this first page, this is actually one page in the output file. So it holds four slides. And in the second page in the output file of the tech document, we have three slides. So it's kind of per page, we have four slides and this is called handout mode.

Okay, so here we can activate this mode by first inserting the handout option to the document class, beamer. So handout, and then we'll make use of the package pgfpages. So this is the second step, pgfpages. And by the way, this is an extremely useful LaTeX toolkit for creating custom page layouts and arrangements. And through one of its macros, we will create the handout.

So this is actually the third step. So there are three steps actually to have the shape that was shown in PowerPoint. The first one is to tell LaTeX that this is a handout beamer document. And then we can use or load the PDF package and using one of the packages macro, which is called pgf pages use layout, we'll complete the last step. So let's say pgf page or pages use layout.

We want as stated four slides per page. So we specify that by this input value, four on one. And I think this is quite obvious. Okay, so handout, pgf pages, and then pgf pages use layout. And here by default, we've got, of course, we have only seven slides in our entire presentation.

So four of them in the first page and three in the second page. And actually two on one is also another possible input. So you can have two slides per page. okay here it is this is the first slide this is the page the section page slide and then the second and third the fourth and the fifth and then we have yes so so yeah two slides per frame i'll use again four on one so that's more compact if you want to deliver short kind of short document that contains all the information of your presentation. So, and as you can see, we actually need to put some spaces between the slides so they are stacked on top of each other and we may actually want to separate them from the boundaries of the page.

So you can leave it like that if you like it. The headers for each slide, they are kind of fused to each other and to the top and the bottom. So yeah, a lot of padding and separation is needed here. So this is done through adding some options to this pgf command here in a printable. So first of all, let's actually inform it that this is an A4 paper.

And of course you can have another paper sizes. And then an important option here is the landscape for the orientation. So if we want to increase some space here, it's useful to have this in the landscape mode. Okay, and this error here is actually because an error in the pgf pages package, it says that I don't know this square brackets. So as usual, that's my fault, but you can actually take this as a benefit to remember the orientation of this is that the magnetic argument comes first and then the options.

So let's see it. Okay. And zoomed by default. So, yep, here we have some separation. By default, this A4 paper and landscape, they get us some space between each stack of slides.

And we have also some white space here between the body of the page and the borders. So actually what is, so this is the kind of the horizontal splitters of those slides. And what is left is that we wish to add again, some V space here, some vertical space and here, and to separate those slides. So to adjust that, we'll use an option called border shrink. Let's break this.

Border shrink and give it some value and let's run. Okay, here it is. And if you zoom, you can see that we have a space added here and a space that separates the slides and space at the end. So yeah, this is how you can produce this handout. So now there are other features of this theme, the Metropolis, that relate to color and font specification of some elements that I didn't mention here.

So if you like this tile and you want to use it, navigate through the documentation that you will find in the resources of this video for the rest of customization options.

Okay, so lastly, when I was preparing for this video, I found a modern and relatively new theme that is called Trigon. And the description of this theme on the CTAIN archive says that it's influenced heavily by the metropolis general style.

This is a demo PDF example that is provided by the author. So it's a good example fuse. This is the title, then the table of content, kind of a page, a section page, I think, and some content section page again, some elements, we have text and math, some plots, some lists, and then figures, tables, blocks, and so on. So yeah, it's kind of, I see that it looks good and it's well designed also. So explore this demo and you will find the documentation also in the resources as a PDF named Trigon theme.

So go check it out on the C10 for full information. If you like this, this is also a better modern theme. So actually, that's it for this session, and I will see you in the next video to create posters. So thanks for watching. I'll see you there.

Okay, so this is the last video for this graphical section, at least for now, I think. So anyways, this is a quick snap on yet another one type of documents that you can obtain with latech, generally speaking, which is the poster. So there are many packages and document classes in LaTeX for making posters. Some of them will be pointed at the end when we come to the resources slide. But now I saw that for this small example, it's a good idea to introduce this type of application with Beamer.

So specifically, we'll build this landscape Beamer poster. So as you can see, it's a normal looking poster or beamer frame. So it has this title, we have some authors and institutions, so kind of title page. And then we have some blocking environments. And again, this is a small example to feature the structure of posters and you can fit, you can play around with the sizes.

You can fit whatever content you want in any kind of environment shape. Yeah.

Let's begin by setting the document class to be Beamer.

To make this poster, we use the package BeamerPoster. So let's load that.

So this is the Beamer utility to make posters. The package combines the features of two document classes, Beamer and A0Poster. The A0Poster is kind of the OG of making posters in LaTeX. And since we're here, let's use the CantLibSim to generate some paragraphs. And the theme that you saw is called simple dark blue.

It's dark. And let's begin the document. So the simple dark blue here is a community theme that you need to install before using it, just like the metropolis. So just type the name without spaces in my tech console and install it. So type this simple dark blue and install that.

Okay, so here is a demo for how this symbol arc blue theme looks in normal frame size. So here it is, those are different block and alert and examples view. So it's kind of flat modern colors. Okay, theorem like environment and then the end. So yeah, this is how this theme looks.

So make sure that you install that before using it. And you can search actually for this theme on the CTN archive. So in the resources for this video, you will find the theme PDF sample just shown alongside with the code to create it in a tech file called symbol dark blue sample. So first of all, we need title section information. So actually in a preamble, as usual, for the first part, we have the four title, author, institute, and then date.

And inside the document, we can make this title. So let's see it. Okay, this is we cannot zoom out other than that. So you can see that this is how it looks. And now let's set some options for the BeamerPoster package to make everything work properly for us.

So first thing is the orientation. It's much more appropriate for such a document to be in a landscape for extra width. So here for this beam reposer, so you can see that we used this package along with this theme. So we produced this wide frame. And here on top of that, we say orientation equals landscape land.

Yep. And let's see. Okay. So, and then we can set the size of the paper and some scaling. So let's say we want this to be bigger size, this one, a one, and we can put a scale

So those values can be changed freely according to your needs and enlarging the scale will have a great effect on the area of the page occupied by the content itself. So look at this kind of big difference now. Okay, now we have more compact a one landscape oriented, be more poster. And now the rest of the poster body, of course, this title will bring itself up as we increase title in the body of the document here. So don't worry about that.

And the rest is actually a pretty straightforward content. It'll be one frame structures, the block environments in a column fashion. So one frame, just to remember what was the structure of the blocks. So as you can see in the picture, we have three columns in this one page with a block environments that contain text. So there will be a top aligned columns environment.

So let's do that. Begin columns. And we have here three column commands that are placed, each taken barely a third of the line width. Before adding the columns, let's top align this environment. So this is the first column, the second one, and the third one.

OK, and here are some three columns separating those for clarity. Under the first column, there exist two instances of the block environment. here they are. So in the first one, we have two cam paragraphs. And in the second one, we have only one paragraph, so two blocks under the same column.

And then in the second column, we have two example of the alert block, in reverse configuration of this one. So here we have the first alert block that has one cam paragraph and the second has two. So this is just a simple structure. And in the third column, we have one example block with three paragraphs. here it is so first column two blocks with some text and then the second column two other blocks and the third one has only one example block so let's finally see it and here it is Okay, and it looks like we have the first title frame or the first title page in a separate page other than the content of this first frame.

And the reason for that is this, the position of this make title command. This make title inserts a title page or title slide on its own. So and then it is separated from the frame in the import file. So if you wish to leave this like that, it's up to you. But here we have both of them in the first page.

So we can fuse those or bring those together by actually putting the frame, the make title inside this one frame here. So This will bring the content and the title information in one page. And here it is. So make title alongside with the content of this one and only frame. Okay, so and what's left is to add some V space between the block environments.

So if we zoom a little bit, we can see that they're kind of tied to each other. So we can add some spaces for those. And the way we'll do it is using our after end environment hook. So

So for the block, let's add a half of a centimeter of V space. So this is the block and then we insert, let's actually bring this in the same line. It's quite compact, one command V space. And additionally, another entry of this hook is inserted for the alert blocks. So we do that for the middle column.

As you can see, we have two entries here for the block. So we insert one for the block and we have two instances for the alert block. So we do that. And if you separate those three paragraphs in two, so we'd have to insert another one for the example block, but I didn't do that here. So this is the alert block environment.

And that's it. So this will increase this V space here and this for the second column. Okay. And this space is increased and this space also. And you can see that there is a slight difference here in this third one.

So you can easily again add our V phantom. It'll apply some blank line here. Okay. And they are all aligned. So, yeah, that's it.

We're done actually. So that was a quick example of how we can structure a Beamer poster. And of course, you can add whatever types of contents again, if you desire that. So make use of the knowledge you gain for handling Beamer elements with some documentation help if you need to do so, or search online for that. So yeah.

So one thing that is left here is to explore some BIMR poster resources. So if you're in a situation in which you need to make a scientific poster from an article for a conference, so a lot of researchers need to do so. So there are other choices that you can pick from to achieve your goals. So there are some useful packages like the widely used TIGS poster here. So this is actually a class also.

So take a look at this entry in the CTAIN. And there is also the SciPoster class. And this has a variety of options for the aesthetics, like various paper sizes, fonts, and titles, and so on. And for those of you who are Persian or Latin, so let me know if there is any. So another choice can be much appropriate for this case.

It's the third package, which is called xeba-poster. So this is a dedicated class to make Persian and Latin posters. So take a look at those provided links if you're interested. And additionally, for more practice, here are other useful resources that have templates and example use cases in different flavors. So yeah, that was actually for it.

And this brings us to the end of this video and the whole section. So thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next part of the course.

Okay so hello and welcome you guys to this part of the course. Now beginning by this video in this section we're going to explore three topics that are important in the process of building a formal document usually. So the first topic that we will look at is how to make an index. So the index of a document is an essential part that adds actually to the overall formality of the entire project. So what's shown in this picture here is a typical structure of an index.

And this usually can be found in many textbooks, of course. So simply an alphabetical listing of some entries that points to a specific part of your document that you get to mark, of course, in the text. So as you will see, you input the name of the index text for each entry. And the number printed after that is simply the page number, of course, which directs you to the indexed word. So the index for document serves as a navigation tool that allows the reader to quickly reach a specific concept discussed in the book itself is kind of this concept like the table of content, but usually can be found at the end of the document.

So as an example of that, you can have an index of commands that you've used in your document to write it or maybe a list of function names of some programming language and so on. Now, in order to generate such an index, you typically have to insert three commands in your document. So that's the general workflow. The first one is make index, which holds some generic options for the processing and formatting at a higher level. And this is to be added in the preamble, of course.

So now after that, for the body, you have got the index command. This one holds the text of the index entry. And of course, you can have as much entries as you would like. And the third command is the print index. which usually outputs the results of the index generation process to the output file.

So generally, you have make index with some options that we'll see, you have the index word, so action here, and algebra, as you can see, and so on. So this is the body of the index, what is shown here. And then this print index dictates the location in which this generated interface will appear. And typically, it's at the end of the document, of course. So this is the required workflow.

Now processing of the indices is a complex set of actions in the background. So that's why the bare minimum of creating our index entries in the output is split in three steps in the input. So what carries the operations of this process in the background is a dictated program that is sometimes referred to as the index processor. We will be using the standard most widely used index processor or program for this job, which is called MakeIndex. There are other alternatives, of course, out there, but this will be sufficient and more than enough to get you started.

And besides the three command setup, we have to load the package first to handle parts of the process. I'll use the imake-idx package. You'll find this documentation in the resources of this video, as usual, alongside with a document title, index preparation and processing. This PDF file presents the topic in a nice detailed way. So you can browse it and read through it after finishing this video or the upcoming one.

So now let's actually do it. Okay, this is the base template for the input file that that we'll be working with. So this is an article force I have the I make IDX package loaded some title made the title and then I have a table of contents. So in the first page I have a section and then paragraph that will use its words to make the indices and then we break to make another section with another paragraph in the second page. So let's actually run to see this.

Okay, here we are. And now first step is to add the make index command in the framework. So we come here after the date and say, make index. After that, let's add our first index entry. can begin by the gravity first word in the first paragraph this one here.

So let's copy that and index it can see it right away. Now that this gravity word here inside the index command has no influence in the output in the running text. So it only appears in the index at last when we say print print index. So make sure that you do not cut and paste that this is the original gravity word that appears here. And we just copied it to the index.

And of course, this index does not output anything in the running text or document. So that's actually the second step. So we have make index, we have index to show. And then at the end of the document, usually we say print index. So this is what generates the index at last.

So actually note that this is this command is what creates or typesets the index page. So pay attention to its placement location first as stated, usually it's at the end. Okay, so let's see it. Okay, here we have a third page with the word index for the title of the index page. And we have gravity one, of course, this is the output of this gravity word, and it's in the first page or page one.

So this is the base framework of generated an index, you have the make index, we'll add some formatting. After that, you have index entries through the index command. And you have this command, which generates this entire page. And of course, the indices that I have. Now let's stop here for a second to understand what's going on behind the scenes.

This is an explanation of the index processing workflow. So let's take a step by step to see what's happening. So when compiling a tech file that must create an index, three more files are added to the project. Those are with the extensions IDX, ILG, and IND. Each one holds some instructions that relate to an action in the index generation process.

So let's see that in a simple input output graph. First of all, you've got the input tech file that is processed as an input to the PDF latex engine. So now later collects all the index entries in the document and produces the raw index file. This is the file with the extension IDX, this first one here. This raw index file serves as an input to the make index program.

This is the man that generates the index. This is the index processor or the program. And this program outputs the IND file, which is a formatted index file and we'll open that and take a look at it. So this one actually holds a alphabetized index, of course, as we'll see in a moment again. So besides that, besides this IND output, the make index processor gives you back the third file, which is the ILG.

This is simply a log file that stores information about the process, such as the actions performed with the output files, Also, it keeps track of warnings about missing entries or anything like that that may have gone wrong during the process. So it's a log file that is related to the index processing operation. So that's what's happening actually. you have the tech file, you run PDF latex generates this first file, make index takes the IDX, which is a collection of index entries that later collects through the PDF latex run. And then the output of that is an index file that will be read by PDF latex again to produce the output.

and you have the second output of the make index program, a log file that contains information for the index generation process. So now as we'll see in the formatting video, in order to style our indices, we will need to create a dedicated style file for that. So this file goes with the extension.ist for index style file. And this actually is an optional input to the make index program.

So here this program takes one mandatory input, which is an automatic output of the PDF light being run on a tech file. And optionally, if we would like to change the format or the style of the index, as we'll do in the next video, we can create a standalone file that takes this extension specifically. And of course, when running in the background, make index program detects this file in our directory and performs the styling effects that that it has. So yeah, that's that's another second input, which is optional to the make index program. And finally, we run the input tech file again, one more time through the PDF latex engine, along with the formatted index.

So as I said, this contains the kind of the last shape for the the index that will be shown in the output file. And then after that, a second run of the PDF flytick engine on the tech file alongside with this formatted index. And of course, this produces the typeset output that we see in the PDF viewer. So now let's take a look at the files and their content. So we are here in this directory of the input tech file after we have run the input tech and now we have this IDX, ILG and IND.

So let's first open this IDX. Now by default, I have for these types of documents or files, the code editor VS code. So this simply contains some text, so you can open it in any kind of text editor. You can even open it from the Techmaker or through a plain text editor. It doesn't matter actually, but for those kinds of files, I love to open them in VS code.

So what is this actually contains? This is the index IDX file. Remember that this is the output of the first run on the stack file. So as stated, supposedly it has a collection of index entries. So this command index entry is created by the I make IDX package that collects the index word and the page.

So this kind of command is a special for this IDX file. Again, this IDX file is the input of the make index program, which is an automatic process by the package. So after running the PDF light tech again on the on the tech input file, We must see here a collection of all the index commands, but they appear in this file as in this macro index entry, the word and the page number. After that, McIndex takes this collection and format them to produce the IND file. So the IND file contains an environment called the index.

The index environment is simply a listing environment. So as you can see, it has the item command. So it transformed.

Sorry about that. So we have here, this is the input to the make index. We have this index entry, and then the output of the make index program is an environment. This environment is read by latex in the second run to produce the output. So that's actually how the job is done.

You have in the first run, latex collects those and in the second run, it produces this formatted output in an environment called the index, which has multiple index multiple item entries for each index you have. Okay, so let's go back to slides, summarize this.

First of all, we have the input tech file, which has multiple entries of the index command, as we saw. Then we run PDF Latex Engine that produces the IDX file, which is a collection of the index entries, their text and the page. And then the way that this process works is automatically by the I make IDX package, it runs the make index using this IDX input to produce the formatted index.ind file. This is the last stage, which has a normal LaTeX environment called the index, which contains item commands for each index you have.

So this is just the simple workflow. And then again, as we saw, we run, or actually the package automatically runs again PDF latex on the index file, as we saw here. And the output is what we saw in the document at first, this title and the formatted index in the output file. So here we have it in different extensions, and we've browsed the files and we'll do that again. Okay so one last time for this stage in the file explorer.

Of course I didn't forget about the ilg file but this time to see what's happening let's open the command line here and run the pdf latech engine on the input tech file which is index.tech from here so you type pdf latech space and then the name of the file with the .tech extension and run Okay, here we are. So what's happening actually is this is PDF latex. So this is the run of the latex.

So and here it gives us a little warning, no author given this typically in the log file. So now the run the automatic run in the background for the make index here. So this is number two, this is make index version, blah, blah, blah, and mic tech. So it scans the file IDX, this is the input. So one entry is accepted, as we saw, and zero rejected.

And then it does some sorting if any, so zero comparisons, we don't have sorting up until now. And then and then it generates the output file, which is the dot ind, the formatted index file that has the five lines written, which is actually the number of lines for the mate for the index environment, which is inside the IND, we can actually see it. So at first, let's look at this output written in the index file. And then it shows transcript, which is the log of the information is written in the ILG file. And this is the auxiliary file for the indexes.

So here we have the ILG. Let's see it. Here we are. Let's bring the command line one more time. So As stated, the third ILG file new file that we have today contains some information for the make index processor specifically.

So this is a make index that the beginning of the running of the index processor which is here. Number two, this is make index and up until here last transcript written in index ILG. It's here. So yeah, this new line this new file. Sorry contains the information for the process.

Okay, great. Now let's go back to the tech info file to see some more index preparing formats. Now there is a cool fact about the index in the output file. Normally, if you right click on any thing here in the output file, let's say right click on this section title, click jump to the line It'll direct you if of course if this info file is large, it will direct you and browse you to the scroll to the specific location. So but if you try this right click on the index page, jump to the line, it opens the .ind formatted index file that have the index environment.

So this is a shortcut way that you can access this index file to see what is happening. This will be essential in the next video, as you will see, so it will give us some information about specific parts. So this this can be helpful, actually. And if you right click on a specific index in this index page, it'll direct you to it. So yeah, this index page takes you to the index file that is the output of the make index program.

So keep this in mind and back again here. So now let's index another word say the plural galaxies in the third line so it's this one here copy and after that we say backslash index here we have it run okay here we have it galaxies and one By default, you have both the entries side by side in a two column fashion. And that's the base behavior here. So if you don't like this, then we can add an option inserted to the make index macro here in the preamble. The option says columns

equals and then one, we want only one column. And let's run. Okay, and then we have them stacked top of each other. So now the input of the index command can be more flexible than just one word, you can even index an entire sentence if you will. So let's say that we want to index this, I will just take it cut because because I will undo that, but just for illustration.

So can index an entire sentence if you want that. So here we have it, it breaks the line and says page one. So it's kind of flexible, it's not just one word. Undo that. And moreover, indexing of math mode content is also available.

So let's try to have an index of math mode. inside those signs says a x plus b equals c anything so just math mode indexing here it is so here we have it the equation or just the content the input of the index package and the page number And additionally, another form of versatility for the index command is the fact that it allows you to group child entries under a parent one. So in other words, to create sub-indices. So imagine that you have some concepts that fall under the same topic. This is one use case of that.

and you wish to record that in the index as the topic being the first level and beneath that lies all the concepts that it holds. So maybe you're discussing measure concept in a section so you can index this section and then you have subsections or you have multiple concepts in that. So you have you create those concepts as sub indices to the main index. And all what you need to do that is to separate the levels of the index by an exclamation mark. Let's make an example of that.

let's say that here beginning by this on earth a dummy example will be putting earth under universe so let's say here after earth we have an index and the way that we split the indices and the output to multiple levels is that we claim that we have a parent level index which is this the first word and then we put an exclamation mark and then we say earth for the child. So let's see it since that here we have it. So this index universe exclamation earth created this structure in the output. This is considered as a parent index and the child index the first tier is separated from the parent by an exclamation mark. Okay, and we can actually go deeper by one level.

So third tier, if you will grandchild. So exclamation mark after the earth here, and insert a object. So kind of refers to this objects thing. So we have in this index, the universe, the parent and then the earth after an exclamation mark, and then the objects. Let's see it.

Yeah, here it is. So universe, earth, and then objects. So I think that this is enough for the first paragraph or page. And before heading to the next page, let's see another useful options for the make index command. So this one here, by default, the make index type sets the word index as the title for the index page, as we see here.

So this is can be altered through simply the title, option. So this is provided by the package, let's say indexes, the plural form of index. And yep, here it is. Of course, this is a text input. So you can, for example, italicize it for method generally, okay.

And the next option relates to having an entry for the index in the table of contents. So let's see the table of contents here. It has only the first and the second sections of this document. So in order to have the index here appears in the table of contents, we say in talk, in TOC, in table of contents, run, think we will need a second one. And here it is.

You have indexes and the page number for the index page. Now if you'd like to keep the two column fashion so you can try this stack here. So you delete this columns equal one and by default it has two. So you can make a separation rule and a separation value for that rule here. So you can try it.

So now let's hop to the second page, this one here. So if we add an index for a previously indexed word like gravity, here what happens. So we're in the second page and we say gravity again. we run this and can see it right here. Let's zoom in quite a bit and this is the gravity word here.

So one and two referring to the index in the first page and in the second page. So it kind of for the same, when it detects the same word exactly with the same spelling, it separates the pages by a comma. And rest assured that if you repeat the index twice in a page, so let's say that for some reason you repeat this index gravity in the same second page, you simply end with nothing. So only one index entry in the output. So by the way, if you look now in the index file, so let's see it.

Click here and here is the index. So you can see that the equation appears up top, you have an index space. So this is generated by default by the program. The index again here, the numbers for the pages are generated automatically for us. And this is the three tier index level that we did here.

The parent level takes the item command, the sub item goes to the child, and the sub sub item command goes to the grandchild.

let's index another word here to see a cool feature so let's take this relativity here let's say index this relativity and run here we are so there is a flavor of cross-referencing between indices that you can make So it's just adding the word see after some index to refer to another one. So it's kind of a semantic cross referencing. So let's actually see it. Let's say that after this index, we have again backslash index, you put the name of the index that you will hold the reference to. So let's say relativity, we want to direct the user to this kind of concept.

then you separate by the pipe character or operator and then we put the word for the index that you are referring to as the argument of the so-called C encapsulator so this will appear as relativity comma C what's inside this C here so let's say gravity let's see it see the type of this output here it is so this is kind of again as a semantic or logical cross-referencing so for this index entry you have the pipe operator and then you have the C encapsulator So this is called encapsulation, this pipe character that has left and right parts and then you say C inside of pair of color brackets you have another index that you are referring to so relativity to C gravity. And additionally for that you've got also the C also encapsulator. So let's say for this word universal here you say after that backslash index and you say universal the encapsulator the pipe character and then you see also give it a value let's say a bold font universe word.

So let's see the output. So here it is. This is another another version of this mental cross referencing. So you have the universal here and then see also and then a formatted another index. So directs to Now there is a cool feature of indexing here and it's the ability to index a page range, i.e.

to have a word entry in the index page that has a range of pages instead of just one page number. So this might be useful in situations like if you wish to index not a word or a function or a command, but an entire concept that spans multiple pages in your document. So you're directing the user to a whole lot of group of pages that explains some concept in your document. So it's like telling the reader, for example, that the gravity topic here, for instance, is illustrated in pages one and two. So here we have first two paragraphs talks about gravity.

So we can open a page range here and close it here for the gravity. And in the output, we have gravity one dash two, so a page range. Let's see how we can do it. After the paragraph here, we can break this line. So we say backslash index, and let's index another entry with a different text.

This index entry will mark the start of the index page range for the input gravity topic here. So the way we start this page range is by two characters, a pipe and a lift brace. So this will start the page range and we take the same input in the page that we will stop and then say index the same page and to close the page range we say pipe character and a red brace so here we have an index this is the same as this one and And in the output, one text only, one index text will appear that takes a page range. We started by a pipe character and a left bracket and ended that with a pipe character and a right parentheses, actually. And here it is.

So gravity topic 1-2. So this is a page range. so this range is opened by a pipe character again and the left parenthesis and it's ended by a pipe and the right parenthesis so one of those is called parenthesis and both of them are called parentheses so yeah So just a quick side note here about the layout of the content to be indexed in the out in the input file. So it somewhat seems to be crowded here. And I know that so you may say that we have a lots of index commands in weird places.

And they actually do not contribute to the output. So why not having them condensed or grouped in one place? And normally, you wouldn't want to do what I'm doing here, so especially if you have several more indices, of course. It's actually better to leave the paragraphs or your content flowing without all of this clutter of interconnecting index commands Leave it clean and nice and insert the index commands elsewhere grouped in the page. So instead of having this two here, you can move those.

Actually, we can do that. We can remove this index to clean this one. So put this one here and this galaxies can remove it and put it here. And we can leave this, this is kind of won't harm us a this. Okay, so no other indices.

And you get the idea, nothing will change in the output. So you'll just find the same stack of indices. So this is advisable. Of course, it's a best practice. Leave your content as it is and group the index commands of each page in one place.

So yeah, this is much nicer. And of course, you can refine this one also. So this is will look like that. So indexes of this page is all of that. So the same thing as here.

Okay, so now next is to look at simple sorting and formatting features that you can apply to the index commands. So at this index level, so I suspect that you wondered why the equation ax equal b appears at the very top and it persists that so every single textual index comes after that and it's at the top so we can change that put it after some textual indices and the first page, voila, it will persist to be up top. That's simply because this is the default behavior of LaTeX. What fixes this is the function of sorting. let's say that we want to reverse this order i.e.

to print all math mode at the end instead of the beginning in other words we want to place this equation at the location of the letter z so it's kind of that this equation here is at the place of letter a because of course it appears that this is in alphabetical order So we can say that no, we want this math mode to be at the Z level, so at the end. So to do that, we simply add an at symbol at the very beginning of the index command input. so the sorting works as follows you have the at at the very beginning and then before that we put kind of the text that will control the sorting of that So this text can be a word or it can be a single letter. But of course, if we're looking at one tier sorting, sorting that is based on the first letter only, so we can just put Z here. So let's see what will happen.

And all of a sudden we have the equation now at the bottom. So this structure is called the key at visual key is the text that will control the alphabetical order of the index in the output file. So it's a key for sorting. And this at is just a syntax convention at visual. Visual here refers, this is just the formal definition of that.

So visual is what appears visually in the output. It's the true input of the index command. So this is identified as key at visual. So this is basic sorting here. This by default by LaTeX is sorted always math mode is sorted at the beginning.

So we can control that by key add visual. We put any kind of text that controls the alphabetical sorting and add in this convention here. So for example, we can make this R. So it'll be displayed, I suspect, before relativity. Yes, it appears before it.

So we can say rz. So to bring it after that, because r here, we're at r level. And then re, Now we have this equation at our Z. So it brings us to a little level behind this relativity. So you get it.

You have this key part that controls the alphabetical sorting and then at the syntax and then visual, which is the index, the part that will appear in the output file. So I'll keep this at the end. Okay, here it is. Yeah. Now the sorting function isn't limited for math mode indexes, it's a generic feature for any type of index.

So let's say that we will have an index called MIT.

Here it is. So we can bring this M sorted index to the top by the A letter. So let's say that we want this MIT to be sorted at A level. So it'll be brought here. Yes, here it is.

So A, the sorting at, and then visual, what appears in the output. And this same concept is also can be applied to macros, if you will. So let's say that we have an index that says LaTeX, our preferred type setting tool. So LaTeX as being a macro input for the index, it's like math mode by default appears up top. So we can control it by the add.

And then we put the key, let's say L. So, and we brought after G, of course, here. So, yep, you can use this key add visual for sorting textual index, macro index, math mode index, whatever you want. So it's kind of a quick, powerful tool for controlling the placement of your indices in an alphabetical system. So formatting the page number in the index output is possible with the encapsulator syntax made by the pipe character.

So let's see an example of that. Let's say first that we have at the V level this math mode which says vector of, yes, of F. let's see it so this is we'll have a small vector yes here it is so at the v level so to control out to simply format the page number you have the encapsulation through the pipe character and after that we insert the formatting macro So here the text bf for bold font and we insert that solely without a backslash. So instead of having this, you say no, I just want the name of the macro, just the plain name of the formatting macro. let's see what will happen to this number two if you spot it here it is so number two now is of bold font so you can see that this is quite complex but you get used to it this is the v level the sorting and then add visual what appears in the output.

And then after the sorting, we have a formatting through the pipe character for the page number. And we insert the name of the macro without an input because the input is encapsulated in the background. So, this is why it's called encapsulation. Supposedly, the formatting macros for the text have an input, and the input here is actually the page number in the background, and you insert that without a backslash. So, it's substituted with this pipe character.

Okay. This effect is also possible for page ranges. So, let's make the gravity topic 1-2 range to be italicized. so after that we say text it and here also we say text it before the end again with this is this actually had the encapsulator so we don't need it we just insert the formatting look at one dash two and it's now italicized as you can see so this is the encapsulator after the encapsulator we put the left brace and the right parenthesis, I'm sorry, and the right parenthesis here to make the page range. And this is the encapsulator.

So we insert directly after the parenthesis, the text formatting command. Okay. So from here, let's move on to put the final touches to this intro. So we will be indexing special characters.

There are some characters that may hold a special meaning for the index processor, just like the backslash, which has, of course, a special meaning for LaTeX. And if you try to insert them directly in the input of the index command, you will get nothing in return in the output. So let's try a thing that says Q at quotation. If you wrap the word quotation by double quotes, sorry about that. And we want to see this in the output, the quotation in double quotes, but in the output, well, you actually get nothing that the quote doesn't appear.

So that's because the double quotes have a special meaning for the make index processor. And as usual, to type sense such special characters, we need to escape them. So this is done by the double quote character itself in the index command. So here to have one index as we do with backslash in LaTeX. So we put double backslashes.

One of them is escaped. So here we have another double quotes. then another double quotes here, so that will allow for one of each two to appear. And here it is, you can see it. So double quotes escape the special meaning of the double quotes for the make index processor.

So, another example of that is the exclamation mark. So, at exclamation, we have one double quotes to escape the exclamation mark in order to have it printed in the output. Here it is.

So, whatever you encounter a character that gives you an error, for example, or doesn't show up in the output, proceed it with double quotes. And a quick side note for the pipe character to appear in the right vertical orientation in the output. So let's say that we want to print the pipe character. Of course, by now, you know that it holds special meaning, which is encapsulation. So let's say that we want pipe at pipe operator, we have this pipe character here, we wish to escape it by the double quotes.

Let's see what will happen. So instead of having it in the vertical orientation, we have it actually horizontal. And this is kind of the default orientation for it in LaTeX. So to escape this or to make it not to escape it to make it in the right vertical orientation, we use the typewriter font text TT. So we use the typewriter font and we put the pipe character and the escaping double quotes as an input to the text tt command.

So this will, yep, will hold the pipe character upright. And finally, of course, escaping works for the add character that has the special meaning of sorting. And here it is. Sorry about what you're going to see. Let's run and then inspect the input.

Well, here it is. Yes, we have it z sorted. So that's why it appears at the end. And then this is the entire visual part. So the visual part or the text of the index is key at visual.

Of course, this is escaped by the double quotes. So actually here we have this sorting, this key is activated as a sorting scheme. And supposedly what comes after that is the visual. So we wish to print this at in the output, so that it's a special character, of course, so we preceded it by a double quotes to escape it. So this makes this entire part key at visual to be the visual part or the the index itself that would appear in the output.

And this is sorted by the Z. So let's add one more thing here for this document, which is the index prologue. This is in

Prolog. This is a text that is displayed after the index title. So the input of this command is a text that will appear between the index title and the start of the indices themselves. Here is the input. Okay, so let's see it.

Here it is. Okay, so and an optional argument with a v space can be added to increase the space between the text and the indexes. So this index prologue can take an optional argument. Let's say a v space of 25 points. So let's see it.

So now as you can see, this bottom part is increased. So yeah, this is a thing that you can do if you want kind of to illustrate some concept about your index part. And eventually, actually at this time, this is the last concept, I promise. Let's wrap this video by looking at a default behavior of the make index program. Let's say no before the print index of course, page break.

The behavior is called implicit page range formation. So let's make a section for that. So implicit page range formation. So what's that actually? So suppose that you have this multi page index.

So here we have a stack of pages. We have an index called proof and then simple proof environment in this first page. And then we make a page break and then we repeat that page break, we read that. So we have the same index proof input in all of the three pages. Let's load the AMS theorem package and run and see what will happen.

So, I make IDX and AMS theorem and run. What will this look like? I have a lot of pages now, starting from the fourth page. or actually from the third page here, this is the index proof. So this is the first proof environment, the second proof environment, and the third proof environment here.

And in the index, let's zoom in. Yes, we have this proof entry. It says from three to five. So what happened is that the package detects that you've inputted the same index input in three consecutive pages. So when you do that, when you input the same text in the index in three or more consecutive pages, package does this, the implicit page range formation.

So instead of outputting three comma four comma five, it actually combines this in a page range. So if you don't like that, the make index command in the preamble can have an options field. Sorry about that. Equals options field. So the options field holds some options of how you would like the processor to operate.

The form of its entries is a dash followed by a letter. And this tells the program in the background, do this and do not do that. so to stop the page range formation here we pass hyphen and r so hyphen and r and you can read more about this option field and its possible inputs and their effects in the index chapter of the companion book so you have other things like that so hyphen r to the options inside the make index will make this three four and five let's see it Yep, here it is, three, four, five. So yeah, that was for it. Actually, I hope this was a good overview of simple indexing.

And in the next video, we will build style files to make some formatting. So yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you there. Okay, so in this video, we will take a look at how can we change the style of the index that is printed in the output file. So do you remember the layout of the index preparation process presented in the last video? I said there is an optional style file that takes the extension.ist and this can be an optional input to the make index program along with the raw index file.

So this is exactly what we're going to do today. The style file is a normal text file that can be edited in any text editor. And the file features a list of key value pairs, each in a line. Those could transform a messy index like this to a shape that is a bit nicer, like this layout. The specific values that I will give to the styling parameters are just for illustration.

So indeed, you can play around with them to practice and to make your own style. And just as a recommendation advice, do not overstyle indices. They are simple and have a straightforward function. So keep them like that. The starting parameters that we will tweak are listed in the companion book in this form.

From left, you have the keyword or the parameter. This is inserted in the file as it is, of course. And in the second column, we have the default value for that key. And according to your needs, those values can be changed. And they are either in numeric, like heading flag at the end or a string value that is encapsulated by double quotes.

The index preparation and formatting process is unfortunately quite complex, at least up until now. So I will try my best to make the formatting easier to understand by picking some parameters and tweak them to apply simple classic styling. So after finishing this video, you will have a good grasp of the foundations of this process, but maybe it'll require you to read more about it from the different sources to solidify your understanding. And besides the companion chapter I left in the resources a folder named makeindexmancair.com.

It has an HTML page that saved from Mancair website that lists some information about the process and also a good illustration of the styling parameters so check it out when you finish here. And also the index preparation document found in the resources of the previous video has in page number 10 a discussion about the formatting process. So again, those are two resources that you can read from to enhance your understanding. So now let's go to the tech input file to start our work. So I have here an article with the Vibs names for the colors, the Imig IDX, our index package, and the CantLipsum, some title here, I have the make index, the make title, and the print index.

We can begin by the options of the make index command. So the coloring of the index title is straightforward. We can style the title input. So we have here as we know, the title and inside that we can make a text color as we're operating in the text. and then we say huge, and it's index.

So and then the column orientation, we want only one color column, sorry, so columns equal one. After that comes an essential step in the index formatting, which is to tell the program that we will use a style file. So again, it's an optional input. So we have to tell the program that we want to use style file and point actually to the name of that style file in the directory. So this is done, again, through the options field that we saw the last video when we solved the issue of the page range formation through dash R, if you remember.

So here in the options field, we just type dash s. So the s letter is what tells the program that that we want to use a style file. And after that, just a normal space we input the name of that style file. I have one that I will be showing you in a moment. It's called index underscore style dot ist.

And that's it. And of course, this file is in the same directory as the input tick file. So before seeing that, let's input some content here in the body. So we will have a cant paragraph, a page break, another cant paragraph, That's another one. So three pages.

Okay. And before running, let's add some index entries to work with. So here, after this, we can say we can group our indices. So page one, indexes or indices, doesn't matter. We have for this page, the article index and its section child.

this one so an index called article and a child section so second tier and we have also in this page an index called book and its chapter here it is so book and second tier and in the second page we repeat the article section combination so here after this second page we say page two indexes In the second page, we will have the article section that same input found in page one, and we increase one more tier to that. So here in this second page, let's run this for now. Okay. So let's go here. So here we have it.

It says there is an article in page one and then a section. So the second tier in page one and two, this entry and this entry. And then we have a subsection that is found in the second page only. And we have a book in the first page and a chapter in the first page also. So yeah.

And of course, you can see that the index now is blue. So this is simple coloring that you can do in the make index to the type. So let's open the style file to work with it.

So let's see this index. So we'll see this index in a moment, but let's open this index style first. Okay, so let's make it like that to work with the file in the background, we have the editor. So this is index underscore style, that is the input here. So again, I have it in Visual Studio code, but you can open it in any text editor you want.

So You can play around with this .ist from within TechMaker. But just a small reminder, if you're sitting here, you won't see the .ist because this has this set of kind of by default extensions, so you would have to allow for all files. Once you do that, you will see, let's see this for example, and here it is, you can play around with the style file from within TechMaker, but allow for all extensions from the file open.

So let's get back here. Now the very first parameter to set is the headings flag. So headings and underscore of course flag. This is what controls the head letter of each alphabetical group. By default it is zero meaning that there is nothing i.e.

there is no letter identifying each group of indexes. So here we want a capital letter before each stack. So I'm talking about what will separate the index by letters. So So when we input one, this means that we want capital letters. Again, by default, it is zero.

So there is nothing, meaning that the flow of the indices is like that. There is nothing separating A from B from S and so on. When we input a value that is greater than zero, like one, this is typical. This means that we will have capital letters and a value minus one makes the group letters lowercase. So just here freely type headings underscore flag, small space and type one and save that.

Okay, do not forget that. So head to the input tag file and run. Now look at the indices. Now we have A before the A group. Of course, this isn't considered in the sorting.

This is the father only accounts. So here we have A before article and B before book. So now we have groups of the indices in the output that are categorized, if you will, by capital letters. Again, you can say minus one, save and then run. You will have this A and B in lowercase.

Here it is. So, notice again that there isn't a delimiter separating the key and the value in this file and there will not be any separator of course ending each line. So we will freely go to the second line and type the second key value pair. So I will restore the capital letter. Okay, here it is.

Now we need to insert the horizontal lines wrapping the letters. and also change their font and color. So we'll do that by two parameters called heading prefix or prefix and heading suffix. So here they are heading prefix.

This is a textual input not a number like the headings flag. We can actually separate them by a blank line doesn't matter and heading suffix.

and we have a space and double quotes separating each so as the names imply the first parameter the heading prefix apply some formatting before the group letter and the second which is the heading suffix styles what comes after the group letter so you can say that Up until here the group letter lies in between those prefix and suffix. It's almost encapsulated or wrapped by the input of the prefix and the input of the suffix. We will see that. So both of them again accept text input which of course include latex formatting markers as we will see. By the way, comments in this file can be with hashtags, like the first line, this first line here, insert another blank line.

This is a comment, of course, by hashtags. And you can use the percent signs like a typical latex. So if you do that, and this is a comment. Okay, so keep that in mind. so what do we have here now first there is a line above or before the group letters so we can simply insert a series of consecutive hyphens in the prefix key and here it is we can have this much of dashes or hyphens this will create the line above the letter that you're seeing.

We're in the prefix. And for the record, we can actually leave an empty parameter. It won't hurt. It won't cause no errors. So save and run here.

So take a look at the forefront of each group. Now we have okay we have a line preceding it again this is the heading prefix what's applied here comes before stretches and ends before the letter itself so to bring the letters down sorry for the tapping so to bring this letter and this one here down we can use simply the new line character backslash n so this creates a new line Of course, one parameter, this is applied for all index groups. So after that, we have backslash n to create a newline. This will bring the letters down. Okay, it didn't do it.

It actually added a small space and that means that we want yet another newline character. So I promise this time by double new line characters, backslash and backslash and after the line, this will this time it will be brought down. Okay, here we are. So the first one added a small space between the line and the character and the second one broke the line. Here it is.

now for the line below the letter also some hyphens are inserted so we can simply copy this amount of dashes and insert that in the heading suffix so let's save to see what will happen of course we will have the same issue as the first time what comes in the prefix is after the letter itself so we need a small space

look at this amount of space, you will have this this much increased, and yet another one. But this time, as you can see, of course, we have the double backslash in new line characters at at first. So increase one more to break the line and bring this line down. Okay, now we have line before the letter and line after the letter. So again, as you can see, what is inserted in the prefix comes before the letter and what's in the suffix comes after it and the group letter is literally wrapped by those values.

Okay, now the excess space that you see in the picture in the upper line can be added with a pipe character. So here in the prefix, just before the new line, we would like to insert a pipe character.

and run. So this will be increased. Okay, it's this one here. Now again, remember that the pipe character by default appears as a horizontal space if we recall. Previously in the last video when we wanted to print the pipe character and the index input and the output file, We have it wrapped in a text, I think, typewriter family.

You can make sure of that. So yeah, this excess space here in the line in the prefix is inserted just by the pipe character after the hyphens. So now we would like to insert some formatting macros for font and color. You can see that the color gray is applied starting from the upper line, walking through the group letter and extends to the lower line. So that means the commands for this style shall be inserted at the beginning of the heading prefix.

So to apply some coloring again, this is a textual space. It can read normal latex macros. So let's see it.

large, we say large, and then bf, bf series. Yes, bf series. And then color, we say gray.

Now we use double backslashes to align with the nature of the style file syntax. So this is required whenever do not forget that whenever you insert a latex macro or a command in here in the style file for a parameter, you insert double backslash is not only one. Okay, so keep that in mind. So here I apply a large BF series color gray on the prefix. So Let's save and see what will happen.

Let's run. Okay, as you can see what the the input of the heading prefix is started from the beginning, the very beginning before the group letter. And since we didn't limit that it actually extended to the end of that group. So what separates each group here is the end of each one. So this heading prefix is applied from here up until the last entry of each group and it repeats again and again for each group.

So since we didn't limit the effect of that, this stack of formatting, it stretched to the end of each group. So how we can limit that to actually to limit the font and color modifications, to the rules only and the group letter head, we can simply specify a closed scope for the styling command. So we literally kind of act acting in an environment that is similar to the input file. So if we want just this stack of formatting to apply to the rule and the group letter and the rule here, so and exclude the indices, we can stop this, this kind of wrap the heading prefix and the heading suffix in a closed group. So how do we can do that?

So actually, we can insert begin a group here at the beginning of the heading prefix and close this group here. as simple as that. Again the heading prefix comes before the group letter and here literally in between the heading prefix and the heading suffix we have the group letter itself and then the suffix is what applies after that so when we enclose the entire space, the entire values of the heading prefix and the suffix by a group this will exclude the indices. So, let's make sure of that. Save here and run.

Now we should see, of course, here we are. We should see that only this space, the prefix, the letter and the suffix, that's because we have a group. This is a closed scope. that ended or closed this kind of formatting after this line here. So it excluded again the index entries.

So this is the space or the span of the influence of the hidden prefix and suffix influence. So this is a thing that you can do. Now to really understand this, we need to open the index file that is produced by the make index program. So if you recall, we can do that by right click on the index and jump to that. It opens the .ind, the formatted index file, which is generated by the make index program.

Here we have, okay, what is this? We can bring this to see what is happening. So at the very beginning of the the index environment, we have the heading prefix. So of course, this contains all the letter groups that we have. So it starts by the heading prefix, which is this stack.

Okay, so large BF series. And as you can see, this double backslash is vanishes in the index file. So large BF series color gray, and then we have the dashes and the pipe character and the new line characters are applied so we have a space and we broke the line and after that heading prefix ended we have the a or the letter group generated by the headings flag by the package or by the program automatically and then we have the heading suffix this one here the dashes and the group ended so you can see that literally again the heading prefix comes after that and the heading suffix both are embracing or encapsulating the group letter So when we make that a group, now we stop the effect of the color gray. So imagine that before we did before we have inserted the group letters or the group scope, the color gray effect and those formatting applied to the items of each group. So and again, this same settings or styling is applied repeatedly for each group that we have.

So you can see that there is an index space, which is this space over here that we saw in the previous video and heading prefix is applied again to the B and the heading suffix and the items of B. And in other words, the make index for the process collects the entries in the raw index file.idx and takes into consideration the options for formatting specified in the style file. So that is to output the .ind file that features the index environment.

which is simply containing alphabetized formatted index entries. So that's what has happened. It gathers the collection of the entries with the options that we opted in the .ist, which is the generation of the group letters and the formatting that comes before and after each one. Note that you cannot play with this file to change the output.

So I'm talking about the dot ind, this is generated automatically. So you cannot, let's say that you say this is red, save it if you want, try to run and nothing will happen. So, the options come from the .ist. Okay, so this is just to let you know.

So, whenever we attempt to style an index, keep this file opened with a style one to see kind of how the indices are formatted, how is the scope of your parameters actually affect. So keep this .ind opened so you can have kind of a live visual interpretation of the options gathered with the items so you can target the formatting options the way you want. and as you can as we saw this small group effect solved us a problem of extending the the heading prefix to the entire space of each group here so previously before we have the index file, as we saw previously, we had only the items as we saw. So this time, we increase the heading flag, this and this and the heading prefix and suffix encapsulating that.

So now let's get back to slides to see a different style format.

So this is a different formatting option that we can do for the lines. So this time we will use the rule. Of course, the rule command takes two arguments, the width and the thickness. So to produce this style in the output, instead of using the dummy dashes, we can actually leverage the capabilities of LaTeX macros, again, the prefix and the suffix except any kind of formatting as you see, we can actually incorporate tags, as you will see later. So, so here we have in heading prefix, do not forget that we have to limit in this at least in this application, we have to limit the heading prefix and the suffix to this area.

This area is the what comes before the group letter, the group letter itself, and what comes after it. but ended before the items as we saw in the .ind file. So here, yeah. we have large BF series color gray.

And then instead of the hyphens, we have rule with four centimeters in width. This is the long one. And then two points in the thickness, that one here. So this is parsed in the .ind file, as you can see here, before the letter.

Then we have the double new line characters.

Again, and then in the suffix, we will repeat the rule command, but this time with 2.5 centimeters for a shorter run after each group letter. And again, do not forget about closing this in a closed scope. And here is the .ind file.

And this is what looks in the output. So it's important to understand the scope here. Again, this is a documentation for you. It's quite important. I know that the formatting process again is tedious and it can take some time to understand it and work with it.

So here we have kind of three scopes in this general area. The heading prefix applies before the group letter, this one here, and this encapsulates the letter. So the letter is hidden virtually lying in between the heading prefix and the heading suffix. And then we add the rest of the formatting options that we want after the group letter. So this is kind of gives you the structure.

So let's go back to the input tech file. Okay. We can actually go beyond the basic latex formatting, the style files are flexible. And we can, for example, work with tigs as stated to play around with the index look in the output. So yeah, here we are.

And let's increase in this area to call tigs. And as you saw, I have created a standalone style file for two examples of text formatting that we're going to see. So let's open it. Here it is. Okay.

Let's go to the input text file. Here we are. Okay. So here we have the headings flag one and heading prefix and the subx. And of course, before starting to work with that, let's actually have it here.

Do not forget about the name of the style file in the options of the make index. So what is called actually takes underscores style.

We'll just increase tigs underscore here. And we've got to go. So let's say that we want to replicate the rules convention here, but this time with tigs picture. We will attempt to achieve the style shown in the figure. Here we have for each group what can be considered to be four regions.

each one styled independently. So namely, we have the region before the letter group, then the letter group itself, and what comes after that, which is the suffix area, and lastly, the index entries. so yeah you can consider this to be four areas let's see how can we achieve that in the prefix we will start by placing the tigs picture so in the heading prefix double backslashes do not forget about that You can work for a couple of minutes and then for only one macro, kind of forget to insert double backslashes and you won't get the desired output. You can run into errors. And the reason is simply that you opted kind of environment name or command without double backstashed.

So this is a unique system. This the syntax convention. So please do not forget about that and check for it if you encountered some error. So let's say begin. Yes.

And then we have our beloved takes picture. You may not find this autocomplete. It's just because I played in this editor before. So yeah, they begin takes picture and the upper blue line is simply a tigs fill path. So we can freely after beginning this text picture, we can say double backslash and then the fill command.

Yes, here we have blue 80%. And we can say that we will start from zero and zero, this is a rectangle that stretches to four. And let's actually enlarge this. Okay. The rectangle will end at four and 0.2 in the y axis.

So it's kind of a small rule. And do not forget to close or end this text path Okay. And then for this example, let's close the TIGS picture here. So we can actually directly in the prefix, we're still in the prefix, say, and TIGS picture. Okay.

So we have here in the heading prefix, an entire TIGS environment that has a fill command, which is a rectangle, which is blue, of course. And I see that the area here isn't quite enough. So we can actually break the line. It doesn't hurt for each parameter. If it's long, you can freely break the line and your boundaries are determined by the double quotes of the parameter itself.

So, before running, we can actually insert the double line characters to break the line after this thick rule here. So yeah, let's save and see it. Let's run. Here it is. So as you can see, we can actually open the IND file.

Okay, it looks like I didn't close it. So we can actually close that and run again. So the editor can override it. So let's see it. Here it is the updated version.

So it's kind of TechMaker isn't able to override or update the .ind live kind of with its open. So you will have to close it. So here we have the takes picture the fill command and then we ended and then we had this group letter here which appears again kind of after the heading prefix and nothing in the suffix actually so that's created here so this is this is quite powerful so now let's put let's actually close this not forget about that and let's put another takes picture And this time is for the suffix to place in the lower rectangle. So here in the suffix, again, we'll start by double line characters.

So to break for the lower rule, and then we again insert another takes picture. And this is a shorter version of the fill path that we inserted here. So we can actually take this copy and paste. this, let's make this 60% for the color. And let's end this not at 4dx, but at 2.5.

And of course, do not forget to close the text picture, end it. So yeah, here we have it. I think we can run by now. So save and let's see it. We will have shorter thick roll here, okay, with different and then we can see it here.

So this is the prefix, the grobe head, and this is the suffix. And since this formatting is actually, of course, each takes picture is local on itself. So we don't need actually this time to close the entire area of the prefix and the suffix and the heading letter with a group because this is a closed school. This is an environment on its own. We can actually put a small trick here so you can kind of see what is happening.

So let's say that we want this group letter in each be of a let's say red color, and we will alter this. So what we have to do in the heading prefix, we can insert, let's say color, and then red. Okay. And of course, Yeah, we can we can leave it like that. Let's see what will happen.

Let's see what will happen if we inserted this color red in the heading graphics. Let's close this and run. So it applied for color red before this is inserted at the end of the heading graphics. So it applied to the group head and also to the index items. so what we can do again we can limit its scope so we can insert a group letter here and actually end that group letter at the beginning of the heading suffix and that's it so now we can we will have this left brace here and this right brace will have it here so this red color will be limited to each one of the group letters and one touch of course, the items.

So let's run. Here it is. So you can see it. So now, as I said, and of course, you can have it kind of large, if you want, and close this and run. So yeah, undefined control sequence.

This is the only mistake of me, actually, because Yeah, this is a good example here. What you can see is that we have an error that says undefined control sequence large A. So again, the package or the make index generates the group letters automatically. So LaTeX founds this large A After the E, there is nothing that separates the large macro from the group letter that is generated automatically by make index. So what we need simply is to insert some space.

Again, the group letter literally in the background is between the hidden prefix and the suffix. So let it cannot be cannot pass or identify a command that is called large a. So this is the first error that it encountered. So large a Yeah, here it is. this is the error later cannot pass this there's nothing called large a.

So now when we insert this small space here, a space will be added here like that and you got to go we will have the letters in large a. So I hope you start to understand this by now. The heading briefings and the suffix literally encapsulate the group letter and be aware of such dummy mistakes. if and this is a good example, of course, again, for you to explore the dot IND. As we saw, we have kind of an error.

So we need opened the dot IND, we found that dumb error. So we can configure this by just a small space added here at the end of the heading prefix. Let's save this, close this, okay close without saving doesn't matter and then let's run this here we pass without any errors and as you can see and we open this yeah here it is so this little small space here added before the end of the hidden prefix allowed for correct typing of macros in the .ind. Of course, again, as we stated in the previous video, the index environment in the .ind is read by LaTeX.

So that's why this is the output of the make index. So yeah, I hope that you start getting this feel of the influence space of those parameters and give you some ideas about how we can format the index here. So okay, to complete the style that we have, this is actually not the red color in the picture. Sorry about that. Yep, we have the gray color.

So color gray large, and then we will have BF series. Yeah, that's it. So this is a closed scope that is encapsulating each group letter. So this is again to align with the picture. So instead of red, we'll have it in gray.

So yeah, so what's left for our example here is to style the index items. we want to style this item area or space for each group. So we can simply do that. This is the second takes picture in the heading suffix. And you can see that, of course, as we know, the items that appears as the index entries appears after the heading suffix.

So at the end of the heading suffix, we can insert some formatting commands that appear before the items. Okay, so we can say, for example, TT family typewriter and color. Okay. Let's say, yeah, it's just one argument and then 80%. So save, close this, run that.

Here we are.

here we are. So this TT family in red, again, it's inserted before, after this, at the end of the suffix before the index entries and it repeats for each group. So yeah, kind of messy here, but this is just for illustration. You have the area before the letter, up until here so you can see that this shaded area is literally the heading prefix as we saw and this small space here we will find after that the letter group after the heading prefix and then for the suffix it's this area after here literally begins after each group up until the very first index entry so this shaded area now as you can see is the heading suffix up until this so yeah here it is so we can try another formatting so let's comment out this i will leave it for you of course so let's comment this out and this one the effect of the comment will extend to both of those lines. So yeah, we save that so we must end up without any formatting.

Let's make sure of that.

As you can see, we're back again to plain formatting. So this comment extended to both of the lines. So yeah. Okay, so let's copy and paste the heading prefix and the suffix names. Here it is.

So yep, and the suffix. So in this example, we will apply this one style shown in the picture. Now in the previous example, we had two separate rules. So it was better to insert two independent X pictures in the parameters in order to work with different coordinate systems. So that is actually what allowed us to start every rectangle from a special origin.

But in this example here, we have only one rectangular shape that centers the root letter within its body. So how do we think about achieving that? So we simply made this by a node. This is a node example. So we will begin by the takes picture in the prefix and end it in the suffix.

So begin takes picture. And this time, we won't end this text picture here in the prefix. We will have it ended in the suffix. So its effect will span this text picture and the node that we will insert within. Of course, as we know, we'll wrap the group letter within its body.

Now in the prefix, we start a node path. So we will make it by the node command, not the row. So the idea here is that we will make the automatic letter for each group to be the content of the node. So which is, if you remember, inserted in a braces. So the opening brace goes in the prefix.

So this is the content of the node. The content of the node will be the group letter. So node option, and then let's insert the space. And this is the beginning of the node content. And the end here will be in the suffix.

And that's it. So we won't insert, of course, we can have some formatting, but you get the idea in the hidden layer in the background, each word letter is inserted in between the header and graphics and the suffix. So literally, as we know, this pair that represents the note content will have each word letter within its body. So of course, after that, do not forget to end this node path here in the suffix. And let's draw this node to see the square shape.

So node draw, so we can see that square shape and we say white for the text force and fill black.

Yes. can actually save as that and run. Here it is nice and clean. And as stated again, let's focus on the first group only. Here we have begin the begin takes picture and the node up until the first the opening of the content.

So this is the heading briefcase all of that and what comes after it is the group letter and the suffix is just this time the end and the end text picture of course this one. what comes after the suffix is the item entries in the background. So we encapsulated the group letter here in note content portion of this path, and we'll give it some styling. And here again, we use only one takes a picture that is spanning the heading prefix and the suffix. So this is yet another example to think about how you can apply some formatting.

So we can actually increase some styling for the letter rope, some font formatting. So we do that at the very end of the prefix. So this one here, as I said, you can have some formatting here that will precede the group letter in this note content. So we can say this will be huge, for example, and we can have a TT family. Okay, and do not forget to leave some space here, leave some space so you can say that this is a standalone object.

So you later cannot mix the TT family with the group letter. So again, do not forget about that. So this is some formatting applied in between the the new content area that will precede each letter. So let's see it. We just enlarge the group letters, yes, and give them some font family.

So lastly, we can increase the size of this node. So one way we can do that is through the intercept, if you call that. But here we can leverage another version of the inner separation, which is kind of an inner padding for between the content and the boundaries of the draw of the node, we can use another version that is more specific of the inner separation that differentiates between the inner separation in the x axis and in the y axis. So those are two parameters or two options to the node that are called inner except and inner y step. So the inner separation in the x axis.

So let's say that we want that this to be two centimeters, and the inner separation in there. Sorry, in there. Y sub so this is yes, this is the inner separation along the y axis. So let's say that this of course will be kind of small eight points. And So add some spacing in the vertical direction, and we can actually bring the line after this.

So actually after the inner, it doesn't matter. Let's bring this. Okay, so let's save. So we just added the inner separation in the x axis and in the y axis to enlarge the size of the node. So this is just one way to do that.

Yeah. And here it is, you can see that increase in the x and y-axis. So yeah, here it is. This is the new content, the space. Do not forget about that.

And you can insert whatever you want from the new options that we know, or you can search for the specific use case of yours. And this is one takes picture again, this is the entire space of the heading prefix and the suffix. And what comes after that we didn't touch the index entries. I think this format looks nice. So we will stick to its style file.

So now we'll explore a couple of more parameters. But do not worry, they are much more smaller and easier than before. By the way, a quick note here for the horizontal size of the node, it will be actually better to make the value of the inner except dynamic instead of fixed value. So the two centimeter here, this one. Yeah.

this, this grid area here. So because if you have more than one column, it could be problematic to leave it like that. So I'm talking about this except here. So we can make this dynamic instead of explicit fixed value. So we can actually make it a portion of the line width.

So you can adjust the column orientation freely without having to worry about a fixed size for this. You can imagine that if you have a fixed size and you make this two column, it'll be actually problematic. So you can have it, let's say 20% of the line width. One more time. Do not forget about the double backslashes here.

Save and run. Can close this. Yeah, didn't reach. We have it here. Run one more time to update the .ind.

Okay. Yeah, here it is, 0.2 of the line width. So the upcoming parameter is called group skip.

Yeah, here it is group underscore skip textual input. So this one controls the vertical space between the index groups. So it's kind of the index space or the index skip in the index environment. So in other words, this is the height between the last index of a group. Okay, so this is the height between the last index of our group and the letterhead of the following group.

So it's this space here. We can increase it through this group skip. So let's save the space and let's make it huge, sort of. So this is two centimeters here.

Sorry about that. And let's close this and run. So this space will be increased now. Okay. And to simply fix this dummy mistake, we can add the backslash in lines before this vertical space.

So let's see it. Here it is. And we can see it right here. So where it is, the group skip. here it is.

So yeah, the effect of the group skip is that it just adds its value to the area between, again, the last index entry of some group, here A, and the beginning of the second group, here B. So this V space is inserted here. Okay. So now if you think about the space between the group letter and its first index entry, then a V space inserted at the end of the heading suffix will do the job. So as we know what separates the index entries, and this whole portion area here is the end of the suffix.

So we can freely insert a V space at the end of the suffix here. So this will present, let's say, this V space will be presented right here. After ending this text picture, we will have a V space here between this end of the text picture here and the beginning of the index entries. So this small area here can be increased by setting a V space at the end of the heading suffix. This is quite exhausting.

So yeah, 2.25. Let's close this and run. Observe this area now, it'll be increased. Here it is.

So you can see it here. Yeah, as stated, it's here, this V space between the end of the text picture, this bottom line and the start of the items, this one here. Okay. Next we can change the font and color options for the index entries by using the item parameters. So here let's try the item zero parameter.

So item, let's say item underscore zero, and the value in this key is inserted in front of a level zero item, mainly the parent index entry under the item command. So the default value is this. The default value, you'll find it in the table I showed you in the slides and you can have it in the companion and other places. So the default value for this is backslash in and then you have the item. So item zero is this item command here.

Oops.

So yeah, it's this one and there is a space here. So in order to change the font of this parent level, each item command in the index page can simply pass a switch command like the TT family after the item one here, so they're just inserted and run to see what will happen again leave some space Save that close this and run so look at this first level this article and this book Okay, here it is. This is actually a switch command so I Yeah, this is the item zero is this item level here, it's backslash in item. So a new line created and then the item command, this is the default value. And then we inserted the switch command TT family.

And the result was like, it's actually applied to the three tier level. And note that in this item underscore zero, you must leave this item command. So this is the default value, but you must leave it because this is the item command that holds the index entry here. This item is this item here. So you cannot remove it.

And of course, you can have some color here after switching that font. So we can say color, let's say green, percent, close this, run. Yeah, here it is. So I don't think that anyone would want to do that, but this is a possibility if you want. So yeah.

So now we will end this session by the delimiter parameters. As we know by default, a comma is what separates an index from its page number. This comma here by default. So we can change that through the parameter called the limb underscore zero. So we have the limb underscore zero, text input, of course.

And for this item level, let's say dot fill, we want to dot fill this. So instead of having a comma here, we will spend dots up until the end of the space allowed for each group. So this dot fill here, let's close the index and run, it'll replace the delimiter for this. Yeah, this is okay. So it stretches to the end, of course.

And this delimiter zero is for, yeah, we can see it here. it is for actually the first item level. And you can see that dot fill and after the double L, you can see one this is now the page number, this one here. So you can add some space if you want between the last dot and this one here. So like that, close this run again, okay, it's kind of not quite efficient in the output.

So

So yeah, this kind of, of course, the tilde worked for this. So yeah, this is how you can do it. You can actually add a space and after that add a tilde so you can yield some small space between the last dot and page number. So yeah. Now for the sub item level, we have the limb underscore one.

So it's not just only for the item level or the item command for the sub item, we have the limb underscore one, and we can actually H fill this one. So let's say H fill, and we'll have horizontal fill without any kind of any formatting. So no dots, no anything. So this, this second tier will be opted at the end. Yeah, here it is without anything.

So this is horizontal fill. And here it is. Yeah, here h fill, that is the input of the delimiter one, which is for the sub item level, it is between the index entry and its page number here. And for the third level, you get it, we have the delimiter underscore one, two, actually. Sorry about that.

Dilim two, this is for the sub sub item here. Let's close it. This time, we can again dot fill it. So dot fill, we can apply our magical spacing and let's run. Yep, here it is.

Additionally, there is also the DLIMM underscore N. So we can say DLIMM underscore N. This one is the separator between different page numbers. So we can, for example, leave this comma and increase the word and. So one comma and two.

this now will be the separator between the different pages so of course this section entry is repeated here let's see it okay here is one and two this is dummy we can leave some space run again Okay, so here we have this article section, two tier, repeated, so one and two. So the delim in is what separates the different page numbers. So this is a repeated index entry. So in page one and two, you can add whatever we want here. And the last parameter that we have today is this change the delimiter of the page range.

This will be the delimiter R. So the lim r, the delimiter that separates the page range, it's by default, I think it was hyphen. So let's make it a colon. So instead of, for example, one dash three for page range from page one to page three, we'll have one column three. So we don't have actually a page range.

So we can instantiate one. So here in the first page, we have index, and then let's call it canned par. So for kind of canned paragraph, doesn't matter. And if you recall, we can initiate the page range by the encapsulator and then the left parenthesis. And here in the last page, let's add another index entry.

Let's copy and paste this and ended by the encapsulator and the right parenthesis. So now we have a page range instead of one dash three, we'll have one colon three. Yep, here it is in the case. So this is a new field here can paragraph one colon three. So yeah, this is the DLIMM underscore R for range.

So that's it. The index formatting is tedious again at the beginning and needs lots of practice. So and also more reading if you will, if you have time and you're interested. So use all the resources you have by now if you feel you want to learn more about the subject and how to apply more customization. So I hope you found this beneficial as always.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Okay, so this video will be short and we will discuss two important concepts about index. The first one is how to generate multiple indexes. In other words, we will have multiple independent index pages, each one say for a different topic. So let's see how we can generate two indexes, one for later commands and the other for tech macros.

We will use the same imake-idx package, but here conveniently we will insert two make index commands in a preamble for each index topic. So Here, I have this article document that the package loaded, and I have a section for the tech commands. We'll just make an index page for the entries that will go here, and we'll generate another index page for this LaTeX. And previously, we had only one index page, so we had one make index, but now we will have two make index commands. So yeah, this is logical enough.

So one for tech and one for latech. So we'll have two independent index pages. And what sets those apart is an option called name. So how we can differentiate between this and that? Well, it's an option called name.

And this is a name or a label for each index page to differentiate it in the kind of will refer to this name and the index body with the index commands. And of course, with the print index at the end. So this is a label, we pass the value that we desire. And this will serve again as an identifier for each index to work with them separately. So let's name the first one tech and the other latech.

So just tech and latech. Okay, and then we pass a title for each one. So for tech, let's say we have this title index of tech commands and columns. So let's copy. Okay, we have it here.

This index of latech. light tech commands. And both of them has only one column. So this is the first page. This is the setup for the first one.

It's called latech and this is called tech and latech. And of course, each one can have its own style file. So for the options field here, we can say that we want a style file to style this tech index and another style file to independent dot ist files in the directory to style the other related file. So I created two different style files for each index. Let's see them.

Here it is, we have tech and latech. Let's open them both. Okay, here we have in tech, we have some large bf series, some red color. And the same as before, this is the very first index format. And from the previous video, recall when we used the dashes or the half ins.

So this is tech and latech is just the same thing, but with a blue color. So we have tech.ist and latech. So Let's input their names here. Okay, after the s and latech dot ist.

So this is the setup for the multi index. This is just to make index commands. And what sets those apart is the name. So now we print each index, and the name will play a role in this. So let's say at the end of the document, we went to print index, So which index then we'll have an optional argument that says tech and copy this and print latech.

So sorry about that latech so print tech this one and this is the second one to print. So now the entries. for simplicity, I will add only one index command in each section. So it'll suffice so index, okay, this time we will have an optional argument here. Of course, this one will hold the name of the index.

So again, we were dealing with multiple ones. So we have make index one that is index page that is called tech and the other one that is labeled as latech. So whenever you insert an index in the text with the index command, you have to explicitly specify which index will hold this entry. So here we're in the tech commands. So the name is tech.

And let's also insert one here. So index with an optional argument, this one is latech. So Let's insert the tech and later commands with text backslash. So this is just some formatting. So let's say text backslash, let's do it right.

So yeah, here it is. And after this text backslash, we have tech. And repeat that as an input for the latex one. Yeah. here it is so and then run and that's so here is the first section we have a can paragraph if you recall and this is the second can paragraph and the first index, index of tech commands, this is the title, we have it with this kind of orange like reddish.

And here we have this entry text backslash and tech. But look at this symbols word here. By default, we have it the index, if you recall, but when LaTeX identifies or finds an index entry that starts with a macro, so it calls it a symbols. So we can easily tweak this and work around it by sorting the index entries with a key at value. So let's say this is T at TeX and L at LaTeX.

So again, this is just for LaTeX to identify that this is not a symbol. Symbol refers to the index entries having or starting with a macro. So sorting each one will fix this thing. So yeah. here we have it.

I'm sorry, it's not index. It's the group letter. I'm sorry about that. So previously, the litig didn't identify the group letter because of the text backslash. So as we know, the group letters are instantiated from the index entries themselves.

So when litig parsed the import file for the index, it finds this macro. So this isn't an alphabetical starting value for the index file, so that's why we had the symbols. But when we sort this index entry at t, then we have a proper group letter for each actually. So here for the later page, the last one, if we don't have this, for example, we will have this as symbols. So the third one is correct, but the fourth one is symbols because this is a symbol, it starts with a backslash.

undo sorting can fix this issue. So keep that in mind whenever you want to index a macro name or anything that or any value for the index man that starts with a symbol, then try to sort it to work around with that and generate a proper group letters. And of course, this is semantic sorting. So we can actually see that this tech is sorted at the queue letter. So this will output the queue.

Okay. So yeah, the sorting, as we saw in the first video, is quite flexible. So no, we will restore it at the T level. So okay, T and L for tech analytics. So Actually the last concept to cover for indexes is cross-referencing, i.e.

to make the page numbers in the indexes in the output clickable. So we want typically when you use an index in the real-world documents, you can have this page number clickable. So it takes you to the page number directly of this index entry. So what do we use for that? Simply the hyperref, the hyperref package.

Okay, so just load this and you will have the page numbers being flexible. So this is automatic. So hover over one of them. And now we can see the cursor changing takes you to the first page. And This is in page number two, it takes you to the second page.

So automatically, when you load the hyper ref package in the background, it works with the I make the I make IDX and the big index to make your page numbers for the index entries clickable. And that's all we need actually. But we can add slight styling to the color of the page number. This is done actually through the preamble command hyper setup that is offered by the hyper ref package. So here we can say hyper set up.

So first of all, we need to allow for coloring. So we say color links, this is an option that must be set to true. So in order to have the page numbers or the references colored. So here it is. And this is kind of the default one.

And we can change the link color to make it blue. So we have consistency. So link color, this is yet another field that you can tweak. So let's say typically you have them in blue. So here it is blue.

And in page number four, it is blue. So yeah, you just load the hyperref package, you have them clickable. For the index, you say color links true, And after that you say the link of the color is anything. Here we have it blue. So yeah, here we have it.

And that's actually it. So yeah, hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. So hello and welcome you guys to this video. And today we will look at how to work with citations in our document.

So citations are cross references in the running text that direct the reader to an entry in the references or bibliography at the end of the document. So those references can be other documents that the author used, such as research papers, articles, books, and so on. and both of the processes will be discussed mainly how to insert a site for a reference in the text in multiple formats of course and how to generate the bibliography. So of course, the bibliography generation process will be automatic. This is the references entries here.

So we'll learn how to generate this. But in this video, we'll look at the formats, the different formats in this video and the upcoming one of how to cite references in the text. And we'll look at this later on. So just a quick side note here is, again, the bibliography generation will be an automatic process. So we can, of course, type this by hand.

We can enter this in the text in an environment of the input file by hand, but we will not be doing that. So rather, as we will see, there is a program that collects the bibliographical information that are inserted in a specific form and generates the references here at the specified location by the user in the specified style and format. So I preferred actually to introduce first the problem of citing the references in the text because it's much more simpler than dealing with bibliography generation. So yeah, this is the first topic here. Now there are multiple formats or schemes of how you can cite a reference in the text.

The most straightforward and widely used one is to cite the reference by its number in the bibliography. Like the example on the right here, so the citation entry will be a number that refers to the number of the bibliography entry, typically at the end of the text. And for that, in this video, we will use the site package to produce multiple forms of the number only scheme. So the number only scheme refers to the citation entry being only the number. So there are other formats, of course.

And actually, the second format or scheme is the author date, where you point to a reference by its author name and the publishing date. And for that, and in the next video, we will use the netbib package, of course, also to experience different representation forms for this problem. So In this video, we will look at variations of this number only scheme by the site package. In the next video, we'll use the package called NetBib, which is used in the author date. So this is an entire citation entry here.

We have the name of the author and the publication date. So this is yet another scheme. Those are the most popular ones. You either refer to a bibliography entry in the running text by a number or by the name of the author or authors and the publication date. So yeah.

and there are other schemes or systems like the short title that is most common in humanities and commentaries in juridical works so people use the package called jurabep for this matter and you can read more about it in section 12.5 of the companion book if you're interested in in the chapter number 12 for citation management So let's quickly take a look at the site package with the number only scheme Okay here I have an article document and a title and one section prepared so let's actually invoke the site package and

Save. Okay. Now to explore the citation features, we need to have a list of references in the document to point at. So this is a necessity, of course. And as stated, the automatic generation process for the bibliography list will be illustrated later.

But for this video and for the sake of simplicity, we can add a bunch of references manually. So we'll do that at the end of the document to play with. And this is done with an environment called the bibliography. So we can come up here at the end of the text and instantiate this bibliography. It's called the bibliography.

We'll see what this mandator argument is in a moment. But now this environment is actually a listing environment. So as you can imagine, we'll enter some entries here. They will appear in the running document at the end, just as a normal list. So it's kind of similar to the enumerate environment.

And what makes each reference here, so since this is an enumerate environment, what makes each reference is a command called bibitem. So instead of the normal item command found in the environment for lists, we have here bibitem. So I'll just explain this for one entry and I'll copy the others. Again, we will not be doing this, as we'll see. So this bibitem command takes only one argument from the user's choice, of course, which is the label of that reference, because in the running text, we need some kind of key or label to point at.

So this is the mandator argument here for this bibitem command. So let's see this lgc97. This is just a specific key for the item that we will insert this information. Now, you can choose whatever you want, we will use this label again, with the site commands in the running text point at specific item. And I took the information of the following bibliographies from the companion book.

So after entering the key that we will use, we type the body or the information of the bibliography entry here hanging free. So without any arguments, just like a normal item command, if you think of it, if this is a normal item command, you would like a kind of in the description environment, we can have an optional argument. And then after that, we input the body of the item, and so on. So the environment detects each item on its own. And here it is.

So let's mark this

as the first entry or the first reference. The new block command is an optional aesthetic that may be used to separate main chunks of information when we list the body of the reference. So it's kind of a semantic structure. It doesn't do anything to the body information. So we have here kind of the author's name and we have the publication date.

And this is a standalone blog that resembles what I see this is the title of the this publication. And here is I think this is the publisher. So yeah, this is the body of this reference that takes this key that we'll use later on. So This is how the bibliography environment is structured. It's a list of bib items.

Each one has its key and the body hanging free after that. And so here we have the second one. This is the second reference and up until here and the third one also. So yeah, this is quite good. We have here three references that we'll be using in the text with the citation commands to generate the references, the cross references in the running text.

So now let's come back to this Mandator argument. this is for indentation. Now, the value it takes can be a text or a number. So for example, we can pass only the number one, and just like that. So let's run this to see what will happen.

So here we are. Those are the numbers. So by default, we have this is, again, it's kind of an enumerate. It looks like an enumerate environment because those items have a sequential Arabic numbering in the output. And the one here is just the indentation from the left for this column of lists here.

So we can insert a couple of more ones and let's see what will happen. Yeah, and the environment shifts the entries by the amount of this entry. So this can be letters again. So yeah, we can increase one more S. So as you can see, this is a small difference by the amount.

You can imagine that those three SS are kind of printed here to the left of this environment. So yeah, this is kind of a dummy mandatory argument. You can leave it at let's say three ones or three zeros. It doesn't matter. So yeah, here you have it.

Now to the text, finally, to learn about citation. So let's add a subsection for the basic commands and some instance some sentence here. And let's say now the very basic citing command in latex is well, it's called site. That's inside this one mandator argument of the site command, we input the label or the key of the target reference. And that's by running in the output, we will have for more information referred to one, this is the label of the first reference.

So this is the basic site command in an even standard LaTeX. Now the site command can take an optional textual argument. So this argument say will direct the reader to a certain page in the reference. So this is a textual note. Actually, this is a note that will be printed as a note after a comma inside the brackets of the citation entry itself.

Now this optional argument is flexible so we can pass a range of pages for example. So let's leave this and say or refer to and site. Let's take this second reference now. And for the optional argument, we can say PP for pages, we can insert some space. So we're about that and 128, another small space and let's say put double dashes and then 130.

So yeah, this is quite big note over here. So yeah, here it is. This is the second entry here, this one. So here we have this kind of wide note here as the optional argument. So this is just the backslash and the comma of course is for small slight white space.

So yeah, as you can see, this is, of course, this is all considered as a textual input. So yeah, you can insert whatever you want. This is referred to as the note of the citation entry. Now, as a matter of fact, the site command actually in its origin accepts a list of labels. So we can have multiple citations here.

So let's insert first a small

line here. And here is an example. So you can also have multiple sites. So inside the argument of the site command, you will have, you can extend its input to be a comma separated list of labels. So we can refer to more than one reference in the text.

So here we have it inside the brackets, we see, we see that We have one comma and two. So yeah, this is a possibility, of course. So now the site package has a couple of useful options that can be used to refine the citation list in the output. So take, for example, the space option. So here for the site, the site, let's say space and look close at the comma in the last one comma two.

This one here does kind of appear attached or close to each other. When running with this option, irregular inter word space will be added afterwards. So look at this and here we have it. We have a small inter word normal white space after the comma. So this is quite useful for a list of entries inside one side command.

And moreover the site package applies a default sorting behavior in ascending order and at the same time it also compresses a list of citations in a range. And this happens if it detects three or more consecutive citation labels. So let's see an example of this default behavior. It makes a sorting and it compresses a range if it detects one. So let's make another subsection.

Here we have it. This will document the default behavior of the automatic sorting and compression. So we say that the site package sorts and compresses three or more consecutive citations into a range format. So let's say that we have this site command with input like this one that gathers the three citation references that we have. So this is one, two, three.

So we have three consecutive consecutive means, of course, in the output, this is three references that are attached to each other. So they are kind of not separated by any entry, they come after each other in this list. So the package by default when it detects such a three entries, it compresses eight. So instead of having kind of I don't know, this is three, and one and two. So this is 312.

Instead of having 312 inside brackets in the output, we will have one dash three. So it sorts it and it compresses it. So let's see it actually. Yeah, here we have it. The site package serves uncompressed three remote consecutive citations, one dash three, instead of let's say we must have three comma, this is one and two.

So instead of having this shape and format in the output by the order of course of the entries in the input file, the package detects that those three labels refer to three consecutive bib entries in the environment. So it performs two default behaviors. It sorts them. So Though in sorting you will have 1 and then 2 and then 3 and after sorting it does another thing which is compression. So it says 1-3.

So this is the default behavior that you expect to see but by default the package makes sorting and makes compression to have this 1-3 in the output. So how can we stop that if we don't like it? Well, the matter is simple. We can use a package option called no sort and no compress.

So no sort do not perform sorting and do not perform compression. So when we do that, we will see that this will now be three to one. Here it is three to one because we stopped the automatic sorting by no sort and we stopped the automatic compression by no compress. So we can actually document this. So without sorting and compression, we'll have three, one, and two, because I will actually delete those.

So replace them with just a small note. Of course, you can have them. It doesn't matter, but I would like to document it in this way. So this is a note. You can stop the sorting and compression by no sort, no compress.

And by default, as you can see, this is now in the output compressed and sorted to 1-3. And without sorting or compression, you will have it 3, 1, and 2. So yeah, this is how you can stop the sorting on its own, you can stop the compression, whatever you want. So now there is a command that is defined within the package that gives you only the number of the reference without any formatting. So it's kind of a plain citation.

So I'm talking about getting rid of those brackets, square brackets, if you don't like them. So for that, we can say subsection, plain citing.

So plain citation with site package is like the command I'm talking about is called site n and we pass a name or label and here we have it so we're pointing to the last third entry so we have it without any kind of formatting. And lastly, for this small package, there are some global customization effects to change the format and punctuation of the citation lists here. So the package stores some values in commands that can be changed with the renew command. So something like the separator, the delimiter, and the encapsulator of each citation entry in the output. The package stores those values in some commands, and those commands can be reset or changed by the renew command.

So you can change this delimiter or this page encapsulator here. So for example, we have the site punct. This is a macro that has the value of the delimiter that separates the numbers. And the default value for that, of course, is a comma. So I'm talking about the numbers in the citation lists, not in the page range.

So I'm talking about in the citation lists. And this is an example, of course, in the Sorry about that. In the preamble we can change this by the Renew command. We say site punked.

Yes, here it is. And let's say that we want a comma and then name the word and and a small space. So now we will have one comma and two. And of course, this little space separates the word and from two. So look at this.

Yep, here it is one comma and two. So the value of the site, the site punked is what separates the lists here. So we can actually make it like this. But of course you don't want to do that. So this is, this is actually a range semantic delimiter.

So yeah, just for you to imagine, this is what separates the page numbers for a list. And moreover, you can also change the separator of the citation number and its note. So the note is the optional argument as we saw. So the site punct separates multiple references. But if we have a citation like this one, when we had only one reference, but we have a comma and then we have the note which is this optional argument of the site command, we have another command that is called site mid.

So let's see renew of the site mid. So instead of a comma here, here this one, instead of the page number comma and the note, we can have let's say semicolon. So yeah, look at this by now. Yeah, here it is. You have a one and then semicolon and then the text of the note.

Of course, if you don't like this being so tight, you can increase the space a little bit. Yeah, this is quite spacious, we can have a tilde. I think this will insert. Yep, this is having much more space here. So yeah, whatever you want.

So the site mid is what controls the delimiter or the separator between a page number for one reference and its note. So now with the paging capsulator, so if we would like to change the default square brackets that are surrounding the citations in the output, there are two separate commands that can be modified for that one for the left, of course, that is called site left. Of course, if you remember, we can use the Renew command, putting the name of the macro that we're changing either inside an argument or leaving it hanging free attached to the Renew command like that. So this is site left. This is the left encapsulator for the pages.

So we can change it to be a parenthesis. And the second one is called site right. And we put here the right parenthesis. Let's see that.

and all of a sudden here we have all of our citations in the text being encapsulated by parentheses here here here and of course this is part of the text here it is so don't forget about that and the site and as stated it has no format at all so yeah the site right the set left and right can change the page encapsulator And the last command that we will see for this matter is called site dash. As you can expect, this is the delimiter of the compressed page range, this one here. So by default, it's dash as the name suggests, so we can make it well a colon like that. Here we have the site dash. I just insert a small space before and after the delimiter that will be inserted here between the page range So look at one, yeah, one, and then colon and then three.

So this is the side dash. So here you have the side punctuation that separates the numbers in a list, you have the site mid, which separates the page number from its node, node, note, actually not node, it's note. And then you have the site left and right for the encapsulators of the page and or the citation entry as all. And you have the side dash that controls the separator of the compressed page range. so yeah and lastly before ending this video let's integrate the hyper ref package as we did with the index in the last video so we can say use package and then hyper ref so we can make this any citation entry clickable and it should take us when when click it to the exact location of the reference entry and in this references section.

And let's actually break the page before this. So it can, when we click on one citation entry, it takes us to another page. So let's break the page here.

Yeah. And again, just by loading, by only loading the hyperref package in the background, it supports the citation commands and embeds a links for the entries that they refer to. So click on one of them and it will take you to the references page. And actually the this action of direction by the hyperref package is quite accurate. But in order to see that, let's see this out PDF file outside of techmaker.

So here I have just opened this in Microsoft Edge. And if we would click at any link now, it will direct you to the it will make the top boundary of the page actually sitting at the exact location of the reference that you clicked. So this is quite accurate. We can try it with two, for example. look at that and it directs you to two exactly.

And one more time with one this time, click on one, it'll stop you at the exact location of the entry that you clicked at in the references or the bibliography section at the end of the document. So I think this is only observable here from any PDF reader outside TechMaker.

And as we did for the index, we can allow for coloring through the hyper setup command. So here we have it hyper set up and we can say color links.

equals true. And let's see. And the color link I think will be green by default for citation. Yeah, here, here we have it. The hyper ref defaults for green color for the citations.

So change this if you don't like it, we use this time a special coloring option for the citations. So if you remember, we used link color. For indexing, we used link color to change that. But for citations, the hyperref package has a special option that is called site color for differentiation. And we can say blue if you like it and run.

So Here we have it in blue. So yeah, this is color links. To Allah for coloring, you will have it by default green as you saw. And to change that, the citation entries, you have cite color and you input the name of the color that you want. So, yeah, this is actually it.

You have lots of tools now to produce citations in the LaTeX preferred, actually the preferred scheme, which is the number only scheme. And in the next video, we'll look at the author date citations. So yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you there.

Okay, hello and welcome you guys to this video. This is the second citation video. And in this one, we will talk about the author date citation scheme using the net bib package. So I have here an article and title. Second, of course, we break the page before the bibliography environment.

We have this time, first reference, second and third one, which is quite big. The bib entry this time is quite different. And this is actually due to some instructions, if you will, of the netbib package. Of course, you don't need to worry whatsoever about this. Again, the bibliography generation is an automatic process that we'll see starting from the next video.

But this is what will appear actually in the output. So in the last video, we only saw the option of the demand data argument of the item which is the label or the key of this reference that is used in the running text but by the citation commands to refer to. But this time also we have an optional argument for the bib item, which is what we will be seeing in the output. So instead of having a sequential numbering for the bibliography, this time we'll have this input actually in the in the output. So let's first begin by using the netbib package.

So load that. The naming of this package comes from the words natural and bibliography. And this is referring to the natural sciences bibliography. So this is the convention. and you will find its documentation along with a compact reference sheet for using it in the resources of this video.

The NetBib package is a big facility for different modes of citations. So not only the author date system is supported, but also you have, as you will see, the number only system as for the site package we saw in the last video. So Now there is a slight difference this time with the bib items, as I stated, here we have this optional argument. Now you see in the previous video, we had this references, where the bibliography environment sequentially numbered the references, of course, by using Arabic numbers. So when we cite one of them, it points to its number.

Now this time with the author date format, and by using an API package, the output of the citation in a text will be the author or author's names, plus the publishing date. So it so happened that to achieve this, we need to set out the output explicitly for each reference, which is passed in this optional argument. So, of course, we use the label of the pip entry in the mandator argument to reference in the text. And what shows up in the PDF file is what's inserted in the optional argument. So, this is how the store goes for the netpip package.

So, let's begin by some basic commands. So, here in this first Let's insert a section. The netbib package is a re implementation of the standard latex site command. So it provides a wide interface of commands to play with. But almost it's all about two basic commands.

the site T and site P for textual and parenthetical citations respectively. So we'll be exploring the different forms of these commands through a description environment. So just to give a refresh or structured representation of the material of this video. So let's say description. Yeah, here it is.

And inside that, let's begin by an item that says textual citation. This will feature the very first special NetPay package command, which is site t. Of course, here we pass a label of a reference. Let's take this first entry here and run, see what will happen. Okay, it looks like we need a second run.

Here it is. So yeah, it resolves into runs. As you can see, after this textual citation, the input of the item in this description, the site T have the name of the author, which is here, Donald E. Knuth, and the publishing date. You can see that the name is hanging free and the date or the year is within parentheses, or parentheses, a couple of them, actually.

So as stated at the beginning, this optional argument is what appears here. So we have it exactly. So we use the label here. And what appears is the optional argument that is inserted here, as opposed for numerical citations by numbers as we saw in the last video. So the second command that we have is the site P, which refers to parenthetical citations.

pretty huge name. And you can have it loaded automatically site P. So increase the P here for parenthetical. And this time, we will have the parentheses surrounding the entire output of the citation entry. So let's actually have the same entry.

So we can see the difference between those. And let's run So yeah, this time we have the name and then the comma and the year and all of that the entire citation entry is surrounded by parentheses. So hence the name this is parenthetical citation, it refers to the entire citation entry being encapsulated or wrapped by parentheses and the textual citation we have only the year is what's appearing inside those parentheses. So That was for a reference that has only one author. So this Knoth entry has only one author.

So let's look at the third BIP item entry, this one here. So this features a list of items. So as we know by now, the entire input of this optional argument should appear in the output when we refer to this entry. So we have the first name and then we have Again, this repeated name, we'll see where or when will this appear. And we have the list of the three names, so gozins and rats.

And then we have Merlbach, and those are kind of a comma, comma, and then and. So again, this is do not worry about this. It's kind of a special format for the netpip package. So let's try to run one citation command to refer to this. Yeah, this is the key this.

So let's try this site T and we'll have author abbreviation. The author abbreviation is this. ITL, ITL means I think and others. So it's a convention in the research world. So what we will have by referring to this entry that has multiple authors using the site T, the text source citation, we will have this shaded portion here.

Yeah, here it is. So by default, this site T makes an abbreviation. It only parses this first special format here, this ITL part. Now to view the complete author list, if we want that, we can use the starred version of the command and this kind of will unfold the author names. So instead of having the author names abbreviated, we can have a full author list by using site T star this time and refer to the same entry.

And now we should see this entire list of course with the year. So let's see it.

here it is, we can see that name two and three, this is the full author list. And it features of course, the year. So yeah, this is if you want to know this is how you format a item for an epi package. If you have a list of authors, you put the abbreviation in this format with the year, and then you repeat the name of the first domain author, and then the contributors or the rest of the authors are listed in this way. So yeah, what we want to know because this is a citation tutorial, the site T if you have a list of authors, it will parse the abbreviated author list which features the main author and the year.

And if you have or if you want to have the entire full list of the authors, you can use the start version of the site T and of course the site P. So if we if we can make this P, let's say yeah, this P and this site P. So look at this, you will have kind of it's the same for the parenthetical citations. Yeah, here we have it, the site P if it features a full list of authors, it abbreviates it in this format. And unfold it, you will use the site P star.

So it's the effect is the same for the site T and the site P.

Okay, so now the commands here for the netpib citation package can accept an optional argument to print a note besides the reference, of course. So, break this by a comment and say, incorporating notes. The difference here is that we can pass two optional arguments in separate brackets. So previously in the site for the site command only, it accepts only one optional argument. But here we can have two optional arguments.

The first one features a pre note that comes before the citation body. And the second one features a post note that comes after the citation entry itself. So let's try the post note.

We will have site T. Let's insert, let's direct you to chapter number five of Canute here. Let's run. So yeah, here it is. Now when you insert only supposedly we can insert two optional arguments, one for the pre-note on the left or before and one for the post-note on the right or after.

But when you insert only one optional argument here and drop the other, the package considered this to be a post-note. So that's, that's how it works. Just like the one optional argument for the site package as before, it prints the text of this option argument after the citation entry ends. So here is an example of the full note. So the full note, we will have the both of the arguments set.

So this is now the pre-note and this is the post-note. So see this reference in chapter five. So let's see this arrangement. Yeah, here it is. See, this is the pre-note, the first optional argument.

And then chapter five comes after the entry itself. So a pre and post. So now in order to have a pre-note, so this is item, this is called pre-note. we actually have to drop the second out. So this is the first one is the pre note.

So in order to have a pre note only, we must drop out the second option argument for the post note, meaning to leave it empty. So let's try site T. So in order to only see the pre-note, we must insert an empty post-note because of course, if we didn't and inserted the label as the first case, this will be considered a post-note. So in order to have a pre-note only, we must insert a second empty optional argument for again, let's say if you note, so this is the same reference. So yeah, this is how it looks.

The pre note in the site T comes before the year. But of course, if we would like site P, we can see it before the body completely. So yeah, this is how the note here, if you insert only one note, it'll be considered as a post note comes after the body of the citation entry. When you insert both of them, this is considered the pre-note and this is the post-note. And in order to pass only a pre-note on its own to appear before the citation, you must provide a second empty argument for the post-note.

Yeah, this is how the note thing works here. So Okay, so now we can insert one rule here. So we can actually do that in an item to separate the regions of the commands or the representation that we see here. So after presenting the basic features, we can separate this three items of the note thing by an item that holds a rule. So you can actually do that.

So Yeah, here it is. And we can insert another one to work with multiple citations. After the second, the third pre note, here it is, you can have different areas. And this this one will talk about multiple citations. So of course, the site T and site P can feature a comma separated list of different labels for citations.

So more than one citation entry and a command So this time we'll see different authors.

You can list labels that points to where references that have different authors. So this is completely possible. So let's say Knoth and then we have TCM, which is I think the third one. It's the second one. So it doesn't matter.

Let's see it. can easily have Yeah, this is quite a big citation. So this only one citation has two labels. This is the first one. And this is the second one.

And you can even have multiple entries of the same author. So you can have same author. So this is referring to the name of the author. So I'm talking about this, the name of the author here, so we can actually increase one more entry. let's say this time we will make this a different date so here we're referring to the same author this is the exact same author name but different dates okay so and let's call this of course labels cannot be repeated I think you're aware of that this is TCM1, and this is only TCM, type setting can create mathematics, and this is TCM1.

But what I'm talking about here, the different authors, you can see it. This is Donald E. Knuth, and this is D. E. Knuth.

Of course, those for the pragmatic analysis or the workflow of LaTeX, those are considered as two different authors because of the pronounce or the typeset of the name. But what I'm talking here about in the same author, if you have the same exact author name, but you have two different or more different years, so you can definitely have that. So for this, we're gonna have site T. So let's say site T, and we have TCM and TCM one. Let's see it.

resolve for the new bibliography. And here it is. And as you can see, the package detects that this is the same author name. So it only prints it one, although we have this as a list of two citation labels, but the same author. So it gathers the different years found in the bibliography and the parentheses here.

So yeah, that is considered as the same author.

Okay, so continuing on from here, and let's make a new section and another description environment, see a couple of more commands offered by the package. So after that, let's make a new section called extended commands as referred to by the package, and then we have the description. So the package offers an alternative versions for the citing commands that suppress the parentheses. So we can have some different commands that drop the parentheses that you see over here. So you can have a textual citation without parentheses.

So this is the alternative of the site T. This command is called site alt for site alternative T. Let's see how this looks.

Here it is. It's the same as the first site T, but without parentheses surrounding the year. And then you have site ALP, which we can call a parenthetical citation without parentheses. So we suppress or drop the parentheses here. It's called site ALP.

Again, we can have the same Knuth input. Let's look at that. Yeah, supposedly. Now, you can see that the difference here between the site alt and the site alt is this small comma right here. And that's why comparing this site alt with a site T, you can see that there is no delimiter separating the author name and the year.

So when we suppressed, the parentheses by the site alt, it kind of flows like that, just with a white space. But with a site alt, the alternative suppressed site P. So here site P, we have parentheses around this combination, and we have this small comma right here. So when we suppress that by this alternative version of site P, which is site ALP, we can find that the difference between site ALT and site ALP is this small comma here due to the original versions of those, the site T and site P. So now the default mode of the netbib package is the author here.

So just by loading this netbib without any options, you get this format, which lists the author name and the publication date. Later on, and at the end of this video, we'll look at the numerical mode, which is activated by an option called numbers to the netbib package declaration here. So but one of the commands that the package offers that works in this default mode of citation of author year citation is actually the site num. It's it's a number like citation that works in the default mode of the author year scheme that we see in here. So this is called citation number that is called site num.

It simply takes a list of labels and returns in the output the number of each label in the list of the references. So let's say that we have this list. This is the first one. And let's shuffle this. this is the second one and this is the third one the TCM so here we have it three I think this is one and then now four and two one four and two so this is the output actually we'll have one four and two Yeah, here it is.

So the site num, although that we don't have any sequential numbering for the references and the output, this is the default style of the netpy package for the bibliography that are generated by this environment over here. But the number This is one command that we can use, which is the site num, which returns the exact numbering, which is the order of these items here. So yeah, although this is the mode for author here, but the site num here can detect the number of this label, its location, and prints you the number in the output. so let's insert two rules to wrap with the next command here we can copy and paste this rule one two and then in between those let's look at the command that is called site text So we'll have another item here with this sighting with text. And we can say that under this, we will have the command that is called site text.

in the argument of this command, you can write some text just as straightforward as that. So you can pass some citing commands within so we have some text and I can have citing commands within this text like site T and site P and so on. So it's kind of a citations citations commands within some text. So let's say for example, we want to refer to then site T, let's say Knuth one more time, or check site P this time, let's say TCM. So yeah, here it is, we can retract this.

Yeah, here it is. And okay, so inside this site text, it's citation commands within some text. And that's it. This entire thing will be printed in the output. Of course, this is a citation command.

So here it is citing within text. And you can see that the input of the site takes the entire input is separate is surrounded by parentheses. So refer to refer to and then say this is the citation entry here or check the other citation entry over there. So yeah, this is another command that the package offers.

So continuing on after this second rule here, there are two more commands that can be useful in some situations that separate the author name and the author year. So you're not only first to see the full body or the full system and format of the author and year, you can have the author only appearing in the citation or as a citation. this is done through the site author command so we have site author and as the name implies you will see the name of the author only without the date and the counterpart of this which is to cite the year so citing year only this is called cite year

should see the year only. Here it is. So this is, you can separate the system, you can cite the author only, or you can cite the year only. Actually, there is a version for the site year that is called, I can leave it like this, yeah, let's see it, or site year par for parentheses, site year par.

This will surround the year with a couple of parentheses. Here it is. So yeah, this is one possibility for citing the year. So you can have a plane with site here or you can have it with parentheses.

Okay, so let's increase the text height in the page to allow for more vertical space. So it's kind of we're running out of space for this rest here. So here we can say set length. Yep. This is the text height.

We want that to be of this amount. So this will be quite increased. Yep. I am sorry about that. Text height.

yeah here it is so we can have some more space here so by the way the default for this of course you don't remember this is 592 points so i just increased it to 650 we can have some v space here between the sections since we have more space let's say half of a centimeter here so we can see him in a sparse. So yeah, this is quite useful. So this is a kind of a bird eye view. Yeah. So here we are.

So we're still here in this second section, the extended command section in this second description. We can have one more. Yeah, here it is. One more rule after this citing year commands. So, okay.

So now for this, we'll see that the package provides an alias versions of the site T and site P commands. This is in which you get to change the text that appears in the output. So the text that appears in the output is the optional argument of bib item. And through those alias commands, we can change this. So this is actually the body of the citation entry.

To do that, the functionality is simple. We first need to give some reference and alias name. And this is done with the def site alias command. So let's see it. And by example, it will be obvious.

So def site alias. So def site alias. it actually accepts two arguments. So in the first one, we put the label of the reference that we want to give an alias to. So this is the key or the label of the the target bibliography entry.

And in a second argument, the command holds the text we wish to type set in the output. So for this canoe with instead of having Donald E. Knuth, this is actually referred to as the tech book. So this is the alias here. So this is what we wish to have in the output file, the tech.

And then let's insert a small space here and then book. So now let's insert another item, which is called textual alias. For that, we will use the command site t alias for textual citations, so site t, and then alias. And this time we input Knuth. Supposedly, up until now, you expect that we will see this this body in the output.

But since we're using the site t alias, we're using the other name. So the alias the other name that this label have, which is defined here in the site t alias. So now when you're referring to this, we'll see Yeah, we will see that textbook. instead of seeing the optional argument here of the bib item, which is as we know the output for each one by net bib here in the PDF, we gave Knuth an alias name through define site alias. This is the other name that we can use for and then we use the site T alias or site P alias.

Here it is site P So we can have some parentheses surrounding this. So again, it's giving some bib entry, another name to show up. And to print this other name in the output, we use the site alias commands. And you define this other name by using the command site def, def site alias. So this actually can be useful sometimes.

If you have an entry in your document that is quite popular in the context or in the topic that you're covering, of course, here we have the volume A of Computers and Typesetting by Donald Knuth is referred to as the textbook. So for if you were referring to this much or much in your document, it might be helpful to define an alias for that and use the site P or site T alias and people and the reader, of course, will identify that the textbook is the first volume of computers and typesetting book series. So this is yet another functionality that NamPip offers. It's a great package. It can act as a standalone facility for citation and bibliography, as we'll see later on.

can actually give this a color. So let's say text color, orange. And this is the body. Okay, this is the definition of the alias and load the x color, the options of this. So orange is not defined.

So about that, this is small o,

here it is. Yeah. So this is a normal, the input for the aliasing is a normal textual input. So you can identify it by this color just if you want. Now a quick side note here about defining the site alias, you must pay attention to where you insert the definition of the alias.

So here the definition command is inserted inside this environment inside this description environment. So of course, they'll it will have a little exhibit a limited scope for that. So if you try to use site alias by dock north outside this, it won't work like that. So of course, yeah, pay attention to the scope things of this, if this will play a major role in your document, kind of referring to a well known citation, it's advisable, of course, to have this citation alias in the preamble or at the beginning of the document so you can use it more over and over again without worrying about its scope of influence. Okay, and last thing for this mode, as usual, if you have the hyper ref package loaded, you can make this the citations here clickable hyper ref.

So yeah, just by loading the package, let's see those.

Of course, it's quite accurate as we saw. If you open this PDF file in a PDF reader, you will be directed. It'll kind of stop like this as we saw in the last video. Okay, so let's quickly see how to switch to the numerical mode if you want to use the NetPay package to produce numerical citations. As mentioned, the NetPay package can be considered as a standalone citation scheme and can work with numbering citations in the text.

So to activate the numerical mode, we pass the numbers option to the NetPay package. So we have here numbers, And that's it, actually. So when you run, we should see some changes in the output. And here it is. So all of a sudden, instead of having citations as a author year combination, now we have it kind of as small Arabic numbers that are referring to the target in the app.

But of course, exceptions of that is the site the site here and the site author, of course, the site author and site here, of course, those cannot be changed. But yeah, here you have it. And again, when you have this numbers option, you work with number scheme as we saw in the last video. So now the net bib affects the bibliography environment. And in the output, you can see that sequential numbering as before.

And of course, those are clickable links. So yeah, this is how we can switch from author year to number only system of the last video by just passing the numbers option. So now that's concept that is related to this numerical mode with the NAPI package. The package doesn't perform sorting and compression by default, unlike to the site package. So let's add a default shuffle version of the item citation numbers in the second section here.

So this is, yeah, here it is, you can see where it is in the output. Yeah, here in one, four, and two. So yeah, it's shuffled, of course. I This is our example here. So as you can see, we have switched to the numerical mode and you still have it in the correct order that you have in the input file.

So NABIP in their numerical mode again does not perform any sorting or compression by default. So if you want any kind of sorting and compressing you can do that you can have sort so look at this look at this citation number now we will have one two and four here it is so after sorting we've got one two and four by the sort command So in order to see compression here, we have one, two, and then four. So this is in this way, we cannot compress it. So we actually need to increase the third item here. So one, let's say three after one, which is TCM one.

So again, if we recall the compression, works only when it detects three or more consecutive. So one, two, and four, we've dropped three. So now I have added this. So now we have one, two, three, and four shuffled, and we have sort. So we should see that.

Yeah, we have sort. So in order we have one, two, three, and four. So if we want to compress this, there is another option that is called sort and compress. So sort and its own is an option and we, and this ampersand and compress. So sort and compress does the both of them.

So now we should have one dash four. Yeah, here it is. So yeah, by default, when you have a range, when you have three or more consecutive references, by default, NABP package does not perform any sorting or compressing. So you have to have one of them or both of them. And that's actually it.

So yeah, that was a quick walk through this and that bit package. Again, discover or walk through the documentation that you will find or the reference sheet. So there are a couple of other things that I didn't mention here. So you can actually make benefit of that. So yeah, thanks for watching.

I hope you found it beneficial and I'll catch you in the next video, which is the first one about generating bibliography. So yeah, see you there.

Okay hello and welcome you guys to this video. So this is the time to learn how to generate bibliography in an automatic way. So in the past videos for citation, we saw the manual listing of the references using the bibliography environment. But when it comes to real world applications, people use specialized programs to generate and handle and also format the bibliography. So it's like something similar to the idea behind the index processor program, like make index, we saw at the beginning of this section.

Now there are different variations and choices to the programs we can use for this task. But following the traditional convention, and for simplicity, we'll be using the bibtech. This is a simple and straightforward program and it provides different essential layout styles to printing the list of the references. So other advanced and more capable and versatile alternatives like biblaytech exist of course, and also quite common these days. But for now and as a good starting point that will satisfy most of our needs, we will stick to bibtech.

Okay, so let's first see the general workflow of generating the bibliography with BIPTAC. Now on one side we have the input TAC file. Here we have three main steps to generate the references, all of which are made with standard LaTeX features, as we'll see. So no packages at this stage are required. BIPTAC is offered in the standard distribution of LaTeX.

So the first step that we must carry in the input file is to choose the bibliography style. This is made through a dedicated preamble command which is called bibliography style. chosen style will format the structure of each entry in the bibliography. So this contains kind of the order of the reference components, how the citation key is printed, meaning a number or author name with a year, and it also controls how the text of the title and list of the authors will be formatted. Amongst other several parts, like punctuation, and so on.

So this is kind of the general generic style that controls all of those elements for each entry. So that was the first step. The second one is to cite the references, of course, so through any kind of the normal site command of the site package or site PNT of NetBeb and so on. And the third step is to invoke the file that has the information for each reference entry. So this time we will not have the entries in the input file as we did with the bibliography environment in the manual method.

Actually, this time we will use an external file that holds our bibliography entry or references in some format. And for this, the command bibliography is used that takes the file name of that database without an extension, of course. So, what is that database file exactly? Well, this is again an external file that goes with the extension dot bib. So in that we list the information for each reference in a certain format.

The format takes this shape. So each reference will be passed in this structure. So first of all, you have the at symbol and followed by the type of the reference, i.e. kind of a book or an article, a proceeding or miscellaneous or whatever.

And after that, we open a group brackets. as you can see here, to hold kind of two main parts of the information about that reference entry. The first one is the citation key, as you can see here. So this is essential. This is the label that was previously the mandatory argument of the bib item in the bibliography environment.

So now we have it in this format. And after that, we have several entries of a key value pairs that are separated with commas, of course. Those key value entries resemble the building blocks of the reference body that includes the author name or names, actually the title, the publisher, the date, another information, the URL and so on. So this key value pairs can have so many fields. according to the type of information you want to structure, you want to use to structure the references, entries in the text.

So this is the database file. It's, it's a file that is specialized for latex that takes the name or that takes the extension dot bib, you invoke the name of this file, typically at the very big at the very end of the input tick file using bibliography with the file name only without the extension. And this database file contains multiple entries of this format or this shape that you're seeing here. So we'll have multiple ones of these. So those the format for Bibtex takes this shape.

So happened that this is the case, it is at and then type in this is article or book or whatever. And inside a group brackets, we begin by a user defined citation style citation key. So this is again, the label that we will use here, as you can see, this site key is what we'll be using to cite this reference in the text. And what comes after that is a variation according to the definition or the structure that we want for our reference. So this is the build for the external database that will be used in the input tech file to generate the bibliography list in the output.

So this is the general workflow. Again, we have the input tech file, we use the bibliography style to choose some style, we cite some references, and then we invoke the name of the external database file that holds the information of each entry. And BibTech does its magic with LaTeX, of course, to provide us with a a formatted list of bibliographies in the output. So essentially, what happens is this, you build a database file, run big tag program to produce the formatted output. This is kind of a compact version of how this is structured.

So you have here, for example, this dot bit file, Okay, that has this ad book, this is can be lowercase, it doesn't matter. So uppercase B or lowercase. And the key here is this black one, and then is followed by several formats. So author, title, publisher, and so on key value pairs, we run BipTek on this file to produce in the output PDF this formatted entry. So what BibTake does, it takes all of this information and output this formatted text.

Now normally, you don't have to worry about typing the info of the references in the .bib database file yourself. You will not be structuring this. because typically authors of any document that you wish to list most probably provide the reader with a ready to use BIPTEC entry like this one here. So whenever you want to cite, you can open a book or an article, as you will see in a small demo in a moment, you will find people online providing you with this entry so you can copy and paste it.

into your .bip file and use it right away. So let's see some examples of how you may find big tech entries online.

So the very first website is, of course, Google Scholar, you can search any topic you want, and then you will have the results. So let's see, for example, this later for technical writing article, at the end of each block, you will find some links. One of them is this site link over here, when you click on that, you will have the citation entry for this article, and you will be greeted by a link for the big tech entry. And here it is. So you can copy and paste this into your database.

So scrolling down, here is another site. Again, you click on web tech and you will be greeted by this result and copy and paste this right away.

The second website is the archive of Cornell University. You can reach so many results from this page. So clicking on one of the articles, you can find a link for the PDF and other things. Again, click on that to reach the home page of this article. And on the right, you can find this export BIP tech citation.

When you click on that, again, you will have the result formatted for you. And you can copy and paste this again. So the third website is called sites here x. This one again contains a lot of articles, you can search for them. And here is the shape of the results against some blocks and in at the end of the block, you can find the citation entry ready for you to be transferred into your database.

So these are just some examples of where you can find ready to use citation entries. And lastly, here is a free example away from the engines that you can serve for articles in. This is a webpage for a deep learning book from MIT Press. You can find that the authors already provide you with a bib entry, bibtech entry, so you can cite the work in the most appropriate way. So this is a free hanging example.

So going back here again, now if you would like to structure your own BipTek entries or entry for your document, then you can read more about the specific details for how to format a database entry for the BipTek program in this section of the companion book. And if you don't have enough time for that, then you can take a look at one of the mini online bibliography generators. There are plenty of them. But one of the most useful and best open source free options for this is This website is called MyBib.com.

It's a new one. So it's great for this drag and drop layout of your BibTeq entry. So the website also features a Chrome extension that you can find in the Chrome Web Store by this entry over here if you want it. And here is a quick demo of how you can utilize this tool to make your own BibTeq entry quickly to provide it to your readers.

So here is my bib.com website, you will have this window, the first time you open the website, you can have you'll be shown some cards that hold some information about how we can use the website, actually, you can follow them to learn more. So here is the here are the styles, I can choose different styles as we as we will see. So

here is the panel, the directory that you will work in, you can start a new project from here, you can rename it, of course. So let's call this references. Okay. And you can add citation from this button, you can choose the type of the citation entry or the bibliography actually entry that I've broken on. So here you can input a link which is quite helpful and useful feature of the website.

And when you hit search, the website will generate a kind of a template will fill in some of the information that it parsed from the link that you provided. So, you have here our deeplearningbook.org website. You can see that we have here at the end in this live preview, when you play with any one of the fields, you can see that the change is reflected immediately. And of course he can remove some authors, he can add author and editor and so many fields actually you can find them here.

Okay. You have the date and the website name. Okay. And some annotations. And here is the complete preview of the bibliography entry.

Yes. Here it is. You can choose again from this card the type of the entry that you've broken with. So let's say this is a new e-book and hit save. When you do that, you have this work cited in this page over here, and up top in the middle.

Okay, here we are. Yes, this is the project up top here in the middle, you can choose the format of the bibliography So here is plenty of choices available for you. So this will depend on your preferred style or the publisher or the journal that you're working with. Okay, here it is.

And this is telling you that you can download the references list in different formats. But of course, what we're interested in is the bib tech. So when you do that, you will have a dot bib file downloaded. So let's open this and here it is. Of course, we have only one bibliography entry, which is miscellaneous.

And you have all the information that you entered over here. So yeah, going back, you can, again, you can duplicate a project.

and rename it to differentiate between those. So let's call the second list. And the beautiful thing here is that you can merge two projects, two lists of bibliography. So you have here a choice merge with project. So we are merging the second list with the references.

And when you do that, you will be greeted with the merged project that contains the both of the references that you have in the merged products. So yeah, this is a cool feature of the of the website again. Okay, so, of course, you can delete a project. And let's download this merged one again and open it. Yes, here it is this contains the entries from the merged projects, both of them.

we can add you can add another citation to a project and you can choose it or you can enter manually. So this will open a plethora of options that you can work with. And the website again will generate will compose this according to the style that you chose. one more time. So yeah, here is the citation style, you can change some font, font specification and text size, and all of that great stuff.

So this this website is full of so many features. So yeah, let's restore the this star old doesn't matter. Actually, we have Yes, you can share it. This is a cool feature of the project. You can share it from within here, you can create a free account.

And here is the extension, you can click on this to install their extension. And yes, you can choose can toggle between the dark mode.

Okay, back again after this demo. So last thing before going to the tech file. After finishing this session, take a look at this website. It's called bibtech.com.

This is provided by PaperPile over here. It's one of the most useful resources out there to learn more about the program. And if you ask the original official website of the big tech program is called big tech.org. So big tech.org is the official website, but big tech.com is from paper pile and it contains this, those three sections, one that talks about the formatting and one that talks in details about the styling,

and some tools that you can use to convert between other files and the Big Tech formats. So this is the time to go to the tech file. Okay, here we have this article and just a small document. So I have listed the three steps that we want as stated. First of all, we use bibliography style.

So let's start with plain style, which gives a sequential Arabic numbering for our list. that one we saw multiple times before, so we'll have the list one, two, three, four, and so on. So this is the plain style. And after that, let's take a look at the .bib database file.

So let's go to the file explorer. So here in the directory of this bibtech import file, I have this bibbase.bib. which is automatically loaded in TechMaker. So again, it doesn't matter if this is B or capital or lower letter.

So here we have a book entry with this label and some information. And again, an article with this label and some information. As you can see, this is one entry, this is the other entry. And then we have a manual, and then a miscellaneous and then a proceeding with this label over here. So I have one, two, three, four, and five, we have five entries in this database.

So it's called bebase.beb. So let's save this small change and go back to the tech file. And here We jump to the end of the document to use the bibbase. So this is done through bibliography.

And then we say bibbase. This is the name of our, yeah, it's called bibbase.bib, of course, without extension.

And to produce an output, let's cite the first entry. So let's put only one entry. So C must use the basic site. And then we enter the label. This is Knuth.b.

This is the entry, the key for this entry. over here. And so, now the compiling process here for the bibliography generation using the BibTeX program is quite different than what we used to do so far. We'll need to run the BibTeX program manually. So unlike the MakeIndexProcessor, where we use the iMakeIDX package, which runs the processor, of course, automatically in the background, we're just quick building the document, here we use standard LaTeX features.

So the compiling procedure is as follows. First, you need to run PDF latex, then run BipTak. Then steps three and four are consecutive runs of PDF latex again. So twice at the end. So you have PDF latex, BipTak, PDF latex, and PDF latex.

in techmaker this is translated to the following so if we let's try only running this you won't get nothing and if you keep running this more and more you won't get nothing there is no nothing so so in order to produce an output we must run the quick build Okay, so yeah, again, one more time, and then choose BitTech, run, and then choose the Quick Build and run twice. Here it is. So this is kind of the manual sequence for running for bibtech. This is essential, you guys. So again, you run quick build, you choose bibtech and run, and then you go back to quick build and run twice to end up with this output over here.

Now, by default, LaTeX only prints the entries of the bib database that are cited in the text. as you can see this bitbase had five entries and what appears in the references is only the one that is cited in the text so that's why we ended up of course with the first textbook entry solely in the app so as opposed for what you might have expected to come up with the entire list of references. So this is not the case by default with Bibtex. It's only what is cited in the text that will appear. Of course, there is a workaround or there is a fix for that.

If you want to print the entire database here, here in the output without having to worry about citing them or not, then there is a command that is called no site. The no-site allows you to print bibliography entries that are not cited in the text. And when used with the star version or when the asterisk input, then this asterisk of course as we know its convention is all. So print all the not cited text. So again, the running procedure, run QuickBuild, run BipTek, and then QuickBuild twice.

here it is. So as stated, again, you will end up only in the output with the bibliography entries that are cited in the text as we saw, and there is the command that is called no site. This is an old convention that people used to have in their documents. in this kind of simple case, which is to use the no site with the asterisk referring to all of the entries that you have in your input file. And of course, you can see that previously, we have this that take entry one, actually, because it was printed solely.

But now we have this full list. And now the textbook is number two. So now you may be asking, do I have every time to switch between the Quick Build and the Bib Tech every time I want to build my project? Then the answer is of course, no. There is another way you can work with this because the Quick Build in itself is a custom command.

So we can encapsulate this sequence, which is running PDF LaTeX, then running BibTeX, and then running PDF LaTeX twice again. The first steps can be encapsulating in the quick build command in this way. So we configure TechMaker. So about that, you go to options, configure TechMaker, and then you go to quick build. And here we can see the quick build command.

By default, you will have this checked here, which is the quick build what it does, it actually runs PDF latex, and the view PDF, which is the PDF viewer here so you can see the output. So this is what the quick build does by default, it only runs the PDF latex engine. And of course this isn't sufficient. So that's why at the very beginning when we kept running the quick build in this format, it only in the background runs the PDF LaTeX engine and it doesn't touch BibTeX. So that's why I didn't resolve for the bibliography.

So what we simply need is to check the second input over here. So this is PDF LaTeX, BibTeX or LaTeX. plus pdf latex twice This is our sequence. And then the view PDF. So just by checking this, you configure the quick build command that we use here to this sequence.

And that's it. Click OK. And then we can comment this to only end up with the cited textbook here. So instead of switching between this back and forth, we can then run. Look at this.

This is refreshing. And here it is. So yeah, and we can uncomment this again and run. You can see this cursor refreshing here. And here it is.

So what's happening in the background when we run the quick build command is that it runs this time pdf latex, then bibtech and bdf latex twice and views the output. So this is the sequence now, instead of just running PDF latex engine. So this is an abstracted way you can work with kind of straightforward document like this. Of course, we'll see other configurations and so many things to compile your document later on, but this is a simple abstraction for the quick build command. And the reason why we have this time, the textbook, number two is kind of in the background due to some sorting mechanism of the plain style.

So well, if you don't like that, you can use other one like on sort. So compile and see the multiple runs in the background. And this time, we have it in its place actually in the input file. So we're referring to the first input in the database. So the plain style applied some sorting.

So it came in the second place. But this time, when we used the answer, so it stops the sorting. So answer it actually gives the same format and style as the plane, but it stops the sorting mechanism that it does, which means it lists the references in the output in the same order that are inserted in the dot bib database file. So now with the on sort, we are referring to the first entry in the database here. So we've got it here in as the first entry in the output and number one for citation.

Okay, and you can see a comprehensive list of available styles in section 13.5 in the companion book. This is the chapter for bibliography. I'm speaking, of course, for the second version of The Late Companion because the third version is released this year. So if you have it, I hope that this is the same chapter.

So anyways, additionally, take a look at the page for styles in the bibtech.com presented earlier in the slides. So there are other two standard style options that don't use the numbering for the references here. So first one's called alpha. So let's try this.

Okay, waiting for the runs. And as you can see, this one gives a label for each entry that is created from the author name and the year publication. So it's kind of a concatenation of the author name and the year. So, and of course, in the citation, you have the same key here that appears in the bibliography. And there is another one that is called APA like.

here it is, which gives it the kind of here a brackets and inside that it exhibits a more readable version of the combination of the author name and the year. So the alpha previously, we have kind of the style in the background creates a concatenated key that is formatted from entry itself. But this time with ABA like, you have the complete name and comma and now the year. So it appears here actually in the text.

So now let's see briefly how the Biptex program actually works in the background.

So first of all, we run the input tech file through PDF Latex. This produces an auxiliary file that contains at first the cited references, alongside with the database and the style files for the bibliography also written. After that comes the turn for the big tech program. It takes as an input the auxiliary file and the big database file. And it does a simple job, which is to search using the citation keys for the cited references in the bibliography database file.

And this search is to produce the formatted list of references using the third input, which is the bibliography style. So as for the index style file, which was optional, but now the bibliography style file is mandatory, and we'll see where it is in a moment. So yeah, this is the inputs to the BIPTEC program. It takes the auxiliary file that is created by PDF Latex engine, alongside with the database, of course, and the style. And actually, this dot best style file here, this is the input of the bib style command that we saw like plain and APL like and answered and all of those things.

So there is actually in the location of the distribution of latex, for example, a style file that is called plain dot best. dot bibliography style. So the plain and API like and all of those are actually a style bibliography style files. So this is the third input to the program. So the output of bibtech are two files.

The first one is the formatted bibliography file dot BBL. This contains the bibliography environment that we know with its bib items ready to be read by LaTeX to print the output. Note that of course, the bib items that are written here depend on their citation status in the text. So in this picture, we have them all because of the no site asterisk command. But look what happens if we remove that command.

You actually end up only with bib items that are generated for the cited references in the text.

so that was the first output of bibtech which is .bbl containing the bibliography environment with the bib items for the references formatted of course and the second output of the bibtech is a log file which takes the extension .blg bibliography log. This simply contains the warnings and error messages for the bibliography generation process. Just like the .log for the main tech file, this is a log file that is specialized for the pip tech program.

So after this big tech run, if you recall, with the compiling sequence is PDF latex, and then big tech run. And after that comes the second run of PDF latex, which reads bytes turn the formatted dot BBL. So this second run here, by now we know that it has, of course, the auxiliary file. And this time it has the bibliography environment. So supposedly, what we did in the citation videos, we had the bibliography environment in the input file.

So this is exactly the same, but when generated automatically, BibTech is what creates the formatted bib items and the bibliography environment in this file. So it makes sense that this time PDF latex should read this bibliography environment from this file alongside with the auxiliary file, of course. The output of that is the auxiliary file again runs to the last bibtech call or the last stage in this process. So here is, of course, the compiling sequence in this short format. Again, you have PDF latex, which is this one.

You have bibtech, which is, those are the details, the inputs and the outputs. This is pdf latex, which reads do.bibble. And then we have the last bdf engine latex that completes for the output. Now looking at this process, we can see that big tech doesn't approach or reads anything from the input tech file.

So if you look at this stage over here, it has the auxiliary tag, the auxiliary file created by the first run. the database, the style file, it outputs a formatted standalone file and a log error. So BipTak does not ever approach the .tech import file. So it deals with a set of external files as we saw, and especially this auxiliary file over here, it plays an important role in the background to organize how LaTeX and BipTak communicates with each other.

to work seamlessly. So this is a feature input here that regulates how PDF LaTeX as a tech engine and BibTeX program will work with each other. So let's go back to the input tech file. By the way, you can typeset the word BibTeX as you see it over here sometimes, but of course with this in a lowercase like this.

see it? Yeah, here it is. Let's zoom in. So this is the convention for writing the EBTAC program name. We have the text SC, the small caps, we have the tag, of course, with this, which is this portion, the small caps capitalizes the lowercase letters that are present in its input, but prints them in a lowercase than the uppercase letters that it holds.

So it's actually for this a capitalizes the lowercase letters and produces them in a lowercase in a smaller font than the other uppercase letters that it has. So yeah, this is how you can typeset this name here. So now I would like to clarify a fact here about the style files, as I said, so the input of the bibliography style. This APA like here is actually a file with .best, the bibliography style as stated.

And since we're using LaTeX standard distribution, then the engine searches for this file in the installation of LaTeX to apply the formatting instruction that it holds. So what I mean by that is since this is a file, so supposedly this is

a file with dot best extension. Now, you may say so we must see this in the directory. So let's go to the directory. this is it. And by searching here, you cannot find any dot best or API like so actually this style file is there in the standard distribution of latex.

And when running the engine searches for this file to carry out all the styling options that it has. So how can we find this those style files, then let's open the my tech console to see that So here is the microtech console to locate the dot BST files, you go to settings, and then you go to directories. And then you go to the installation directory, and you click on this open in file browser, So it opens this file. And then you go to BipTak, which is the folder for the program. And then you go to bibliography style folder.

And inside that you open BipTak again. Here it is. Here you can find the alpha, the APA like and the plane. So when you run LaTeX, the bibliography style command actually has its input is a file and LaTeX searches for this bibliography style file in one of those or actually in any. So for example, netbib as you will see has its own three bibliography style.

So if you're using that bib, then the package locates the directory for the style files, as you will see. So yeah, this is kind of and this is bibliotech. This is a complete different story. This is Jura bib. If you look at it, it has its own style files, of course.

So yeah, this is the location for the plate. if you're wondering about that. So yeah, I just wanted to let you know about that. So yeah, here you can find it in the installation and click again on this, you go to Bib Tech, bibliography style, you open Bib Tech again, and you can find the default location for the plain style file, for example. this is just since the input to the bibliography style is actually a file.

And that file isn't in you cannot find it in the directory of the input tech file. So I just wanted to let you know about that.

actually must be aware of which style file you're using. As we'll see in a moment, packages like netbib as stated have their own dedicated style files. So for example, if you try to use inappropriate style for the citation system you're currently utilizing, you'll end up with an unexpected error that lies outside the input tech document. So one of the second reason that I want to let you know about the location for this style file is if you have an appropriate style here. So let's say that you want to change this with Chicago.

This is a style file that is not appropriate with the default citation scheme that we have here by default. So let's try to run this. Yeah, at the run at the second run, if you observe that of the big tech, the process exited by some errors. So it says on the undefined control sequence. And you say that what is that site author year.

So we didn't actually cite any author here, we're working only with supposedly number scheme with, of course, have changed the style, but there is no site author here. So this Chicago style cannot be used in this case. And again, as the red message says that there is an undefined control sequence, so supposedly a command that we're using that, for example, we didn't load the package of it. And you know, this this red message, So you can search in the entire input tech file and you won't find this site author year. So this error lies outside the the scope of the input file.

So where it is, let's go to the explorer to know the error here is actually with this file. the dot Bible file that contains the bibliography environment and the bit tip, the bib items. So let's open it. I'll have it in VS code. We can have it in any text editor.

Supposedly, we don't have this site author year, you see the Chicago is an author date style. And the increased author year command here in any in each the item for the five is what stopped the compiling process. And the reason why is simple, we're not using, for example, any package that works with the author year system. So what happened is that when we used the Chicago style file, since, since it's an author year system, it increased this input here to the web items. And again, we're not using any package that is related to author year or author date system.

So it created this default here and it lied outside LaTeX or outside the input file here in this formatted file. So fixing this will require not only using a proper style, going back to plain and run,

we're still in the same fault, which is the site author year on back to here again and opening that and this same command here is stopping the process again. So we actually need to delete the .bbl file, this same file. We need now to delete it and then compile and the Bibtex program will build it again. So let's delete it with the auxiliary file, the blog and the log, it doesn't matter.

So, hit delete, and then go to the tech file, compile again, and you should be okay this time. Here it is, it resolved, the process succeeded, and now this new biptic.bbl is free, as for any numerical citation. So it has only the bib item, as we saw in the very first citation video, if you recall. And the bib item has its only one mandatory argument, which is the parsed key that is given to each bib item from the database file, and so on.

So yeah, we got rid of the author year command that was causing the problem. when we used an inappropriate style like Chicago, which is special to the author year. So be careful again about using styles. And what I have done actually here, which is deleting previously this .bbl file is a part of a best practice when dealing with citations and bibliography in LaTeX, which is to clean the auxiliary files.

Now you see, not only the dot au x file, this this one here, this is not the the only auxiliary file. So actually, dot bbl and dot blog, and the log, all of those are considered to be an auxiliary file. So just it is just a naming convention. So When dealing with bibliography in LaTeX, deleting those four files or specifically deleting the auxiliary file and the formatted bibliography and the log is a best practice at each compile or at each new build of the project. And the reason why to get rid of some folds that can happen when you change the styling or any other element that is related to the process itself.

So as we saw when we changed something that was related to the process, like the style, we ended up with a strange command that is stopping the process. And the only fix for that is to delete this .bbl file as we did. So again, this is a best practice to delete those auxiliary files. And you can consider the log or the talk or any other redundant file that LaTeX and its packages can produce at each compile.

So when we make a change in our workflow, such as modifying or deleting entries from the database, for example, or as we did, of course, as stated, changing the style, which may apply certain instructions to the bibliography. Now, things get cluttered, and it can lead to inaccuracies and inconsistencies in the workflow. and since bibtech of course can easily generate these files each run it has been a best practice to clean them up whenever a modification happened to the bibliography So for this job, we can use bash remove command for that. So of course, you can if you want to do that, but of course, don't actually do not hop to the Explorer and delete them by yourself. A better alternative with that is to use bash.

So we can get bash here. And for that, we can use the remove command RM. And then we want to remove all of the dot auxiliary files that we have all the dot Babel files, all the dot blog, and so on. So remove deletes permanently what comes after it. And here we're assigning extensions.

This is kind of a list. This is a white space, white space here separating each file, then we put the supposedly we can put the name of the file. But here we substitute for that with the asterisk, which of course refers to the all files that takes this extension. and repeat that all the files suppose if we have, as you will see, in the upcoming or in the third video, this bibliography series, we will have multiple bibliographies. So then we have multiple auxiliary files and multiple formatted bibliographies and so on.

So asterisk and then the extension of the file deletes all the files that takes this extension and so on. So of course, if you have a table of content, you can increase that and so on. But here we will just delete those four. And by clicking Enter, they are removed. So this is a quick method, you can remove those.

We will automate this step in the compiling process in the last video, but I just wanted to let you know about it here. So you can keep this when working with bibliography, you can keep a bash running in your directory here, and you can have this command over here. So let's say that we compile this file again, Okay. And here we have the auxiliary files and all of that. So if you're working, you can keep this open window here and you can restore for quick elimination of the auxiliary files, hit enter, and they are gone if you're making any kind of modifications.

So yeah, this is a quick way to use the remove command of bash. And by the way, since we're in the Explorer, we can open a command window here, command line, and we can compile the project here step by step. So we can start by PDF, PDF latex, run on the input tech file. This is its name. So look at this.

Now the auxiliary file will be generated. This is the first step.

here it is with the log. Okay. And the second step is to run BipTek. So you type BipTek space and the BipTek program is operated if you recall on the auxiliary file. So we say BipTek dot aux, you can omit the extension if you want.

So this is the BipTek run. And what is the output of that? The dot BBL, the dot blog, and that's it actually. So here we have them, .bbl and .blog.

And then to complete the compiling process, we repeat the PDF latex run twice. So one and then twice. And that's it. This resolves the bibliography here. And here it is.

You can see that this is in the PDF reader. We have it right here. So let's go back to slides from here. Here is a summary for the reasons of this action, which is to remove, to get rid of the style files you can read through this. It really helps to keep this in mind.

And this is the note for the shell command to get rid of those. So let's go back to the tech file. Let's end this video by quickly seeing how to work with NetBeb package here for bibliography. So that's it that will be useful if you prefer the author year citation. So we can use that bit.

Okay. And the package provides three special versions of the standard styles, of course, to be compatible with its functionality. So first of all, we have the plane. So let's remove this, we know by now that this is a file. So we have a plane.

And for net bib, we have plane, net. Okay, so this is the plain style for the netbip package. I've shown you the three style files for this. So you can see them from the directory that we observed in my tech console. And now let's transform the citing commands to netbip command.

So I have actually only one citing command here. So let's say that this is site T, Yes. So what do we have done here? We have used the package. We have used a new style.

We've changed the siting command. So what do we do? We clean the auxiliary files.

clean that and run from here. This is the only way that you can make sure that you won't get into some stupid errors in the output. So yeah, here it is. This is the plain net style. So you can see that this IT here now has the author and the year, and this is the format of the plain net style from NetBear package.

Okay let's try another style here which is the uncertainty. So we've seen uncertainty before but we increase net to work with that. So

let's from here, clean the auxiliary files and run. So observe the this, the tech book now will be in the first place as for the default on sort, so prevent sorting. So yeah, right clicking actually as for the index, right clicking on this will take you directly to the formatted dot BBL file. So yeah, you can see here that this is the geography and all of that formatting for the web item and some, some, some default styling at the beginning. So yeah.

And lastly, you have the abbreviation style, which is abbreviate net. So, uh, supposedly for standard latex without the net bit package, you have a brief, which kind of makes this author name or names abbreviated. So instead of Donald E Knuth here, we will have D E Knuth with this abbreviate, but let's say net and again, so as a cautious step and run again, look at this name right now and you will have it. Okay. It done some sorting as the plane, but yeah, it have this author name or names abbreviated.

So this is enough. Actually, I'm sure this was quite long. So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Okay, so in this video, we will take a look at one of the many methods we can use to generate multiple bibliographies. And that's done for different parts of our document.

So if you browse the conference proceeding before, you probably have seen that each chapter talks about specific topic. and the authors of that chapter list a dedicated bibliography for it at the end. So overall, the document has several independent bibliographies for each of its chapters. So that's exactly what we're going to do. So it's not only for chapters, of course, of a book generally, it can be done for any part or sectional part of our document class.

So we'll see the concept applied, of course, for article sections as well. Yeah, so we'll use the package that is called bib units. You will find this documentation in the resources as usual. And the idea behind this is that it separates or divides the document into chunks. Those chunks or little parts are called bib units.

And the package provides two methods to generate the bibliography for each unit, of course, separately. And despite being a simple utility, it's actually a flexible package. So for example, the database that will feed our document can be one shared dot bib file that all of the parts in our document get to cite the references from. So all of the parts share or cite from the shared one database file. or you can have multiple .bib files, each one serving our part.

So we will see both of those cases. Let's say that this is a chapter and this is a chapter. We can parse or cite references from one database or we can have a dedicated database file for each part in our document. So now let's see what we have in our directory. So here I have the input tech file and two database files for the parts of the document.

So this is the first case we will take references for the chapters of the book from those two databases. So let's see. Here is the input tech file here is base one it contains only a book and an article and this is base two proceeding and miscellaneous one so we will work with a book I have the bib units package loaded and this is the workhorse of the first method

So the first method that we have is through the bibliography unit command. In this way, we have three things to do. And I'm talking about the document, the input document force. The first one is to use the package with a necessary option that we will see in a bit. And next, after beginning the document, we have the bib unit or the bibliography unit command.

The input for that is either a chapter or a section. And note that this command must be inserted after beginning the document. And then we have the body of our document. Here we will have multiple sectional units, each citing references from the target database. So this is the basic structure that we have to generate multiple bibliographies.

Of course, we have the package, we have this option. At the beginning of the document, we insert the command that is called the bibliography unit. This course is provided by the baby units package. And this has an optional input, which is either a backslash chapter, if we're generating a specific or dedicated bibliography for each chapter, if we're in a book, or if we wish to generate standard or separate bibliography for each section. We can input this backslash section to the bibliography unit.

And of course, we can generate dedicated bibliographies for a section inside the book document class. So it doesn't actually matter for this input of this command here. The document class is redundant. So yeah. And after that, either we have a chapter or a section and then we have the content of that section or chapter with of course, the citation entries.

And at the end or where we wish to print the bibliography in the output, we use the command put bib. Now in case we have a one global dot bib database file, then we put the command without the option. So if we are taking the citations of this chapter from, let's say global dot bib, and the citation from the upcoming chapter, of course, also comes from the same global dot bib. So in this case, you just put bib command without any optional argument. But of course, if we have multiple dot bit files dedicated to each unit, then we would like to insert the name of that file.

So this is kind of replacement for the sender command bibliography that we saw in the last video. So as you'll see, if we have a chapter one, we can say put bib base one, which holds the references for this that are cited in this chapter, and base two, and so on. So this optional argument is there for this printing command if you have several bib files. So yeah, of course, this is an example. So you can have this chapter one, chapter one, of course, without the extension, the extension b.bib, you inserted here plain like that.

So yeah, if this is the dedicated database file that holds the references for this chapter, it will be like that. So now back to the first step, actually, to talk about this option. For this method to work properly, we have to insert one of two options that are section bib or the subsection bib. The section bib, if we are printing references after each chapter, so if the input of bibliography unit is a chapter, then we would like to insert section bib as an option to the bib units. as you'll see.

And if the input of bibliography unit is a section, that is, we're printing bibliography for each section, then we would like to use the command or the option subsection. This is a recommendation by the package documentation for citations in the output to be result correctly. So enough talking and let's get back to the tech file to execute this method. So yeah, this is the first method that we use the bibliography unit. So copying this and as stated after beginning the document, we put this bibliography unit.

And let's say since we are in a book, let's start by making a dedicated separate bibliography for each one of those chapters. And this is the first step. Of course, again, since this is a chapter, so here in the options of the package, we input section bib. So this is essential. And after that, for each one of the two chapters that we have here, let's cite both of the two references exist in its dedicated base file.

So as I showed you in a moment, the base one contains two references. This will be the resource of reference for the first chapter. And this is, of course, has two of course again. So for each chapter of those, let's cite the two references that we have. So here is the references that we have.

This is a book and this is think an article. So this this comes from base one. So yeah, let's do this. This is the last step. So we have put bib to print the bibliography of this section.

And where do we get those references there from the file that is called base one? Yeah, and that's and we do the same for the second chapter here. So we put the references, the two references that we have in the base file two. Okay, now for compiling. Recall that the sequence was one LaTeX run, then operate bibtex on the generated auxiliary file.

And then we have two more LaTeX runs. Now previously, we had only one .bib file. So LaTeX generates one auxiliary file as a result, of course, which required only one bibtex run. But now we have two .bib files.

So simply we run big tech on all of the auxiliary files that we have in our input document. And after finishing, we pass two PDF latex runs. So the sequence for such a document that we have will be run PDF latex, run big tech on the auxiliary file of this first base, and then run big tech again on the second auxiliary file for this base two. And after that, we have two more later grounds. So basically, we run Biptex for all of the auxiliary files if we have more than one database in our document.

So for this matter, I should state that doing this sequence for multiple .bip files by the drop-down list of the TechMaker here, so i.e. choosing this .bip tech as we previously done with one auxiliary file, so doing this isn't actually possible because the editor won't be able to deal with more than one auxiliary file from this interface here from this drop down list so that leaves us with two methods of compiling our document the first one is manually through the command line so this is the most obvious one Here we're in the directory.

So let's say, let's open a command interface. And so what is the first step PDF latex on BIP. This is the name of the input tech file dot tech. And the package will create the following auxiliary files. Let's hit enter.

So here we have only the auxiliary file for the big tech. OK. That's of course I saved before going to the explorer.

Okay, here we are, let's open a command line here. And then what is the first step, then run PDF light tech on the bib units dot tech, our input file, and hit Enter. And look at the auxiliary files that will be generated for this stack of files. hit Enter. And all of a sudden, we have three auxiliary files.

The first one is, of course, I can be identified easily. This is that's off the input tech file their regular run. But this time we have two more auxiliary files. bib units package provides an auxiliary file for each database file that we have in this naming convention. It does BU and then it adds a sequential numbering for the databases that we have.

So BU1 is for the first base that is detected in the input file. And BU2 is for the second database file that it detects in actually the put bib command in order in the tech file. So yeah, this is a naming convention that is done by the bib units package. Just by running later for the first time on the input file, we have its auxiliary file, we won't touch that. We'll see it later.

But this time, we will need to run bibtech on all those auxiliary files to resolve the citations and the bibliography for each chapter. So done the first step, the second step is to call bibtech, on BU1.Auxiliary, you can drop the extension. This will generate the bibliography for the first chapter. Hit enter.

And here we have the BU1.bibble. This is the formatted bibliography, a file that contains actually, let's see it. This contains, of course, the bibliography environment with the bib items. We have here two.

Yes, here it is the first item and the second item. This is for chapter number one.

So let's continue. The second big tech run is for the second auxiliary file for the second chapter, which is BU to dot auxiliary.

Okay, and hit Enter. And you will see that the second formatted bibliography now is resolved. So we can see that it has this miscellaneous and this proceeding as you see it here. So yeah, all done. And after that, so we have completed all the necessary big tech runs that we have.

Sorry for that. And what remains is to PDF latech runs on the baby units, we can actually go up by the up arrow. So here it is PDF latech on baby units.

And one more time, this is the last run. And we're ready to take a look at the output. Here it is nice and clean. This is the first chapter, we have the citations and the bibliography. And here is the second chapter with its citation and bibliography.

So yeah, this is the manual method sequence that you have to carry out when working with multiple bibliographies. Again, If we have let's say base one for chapter one and base two and so on, it doesn't matter the naming. So we have multiple bibliographies. And then when running PDF later on the input tick file for the first time, bib units package specifically will generate one auxiliary file for each database and it will name them by BU, let's say X. So sequential numbering BU one for base one and so on.

And what comes after the first PDF engine run is a big tech run for each auxiliary file to create those formatted bibliographies that will be read by latech in the subsequent PDF latech runs, which are two. And after that, after this sequence, you can observe the PDF output as usual. That was actually one approach of compiling. You can work in the directory outside the PDF viewer and TechMaker interface. And it's actually acceptable.

So compiling new tech projects can have manual steps. And this method is good for a small number of bibliography databases. And of course, running BitTech on the auxiliary files will be only necessary when you modify the bibliography. So if you resolve for them for the first time, then when you add a new entry in one of the databases or cite some new reference in the running text, then you will have, of course, to run BitTech. But there is a quite better method than that.

which is, of course, the flavor of automation. And this is done through, again, configuring the quick build command inside TechMaker here. So let's see how can we automate this. You go to Options, then configure TechMaker. You go to Quick Build, and you can see that from the last time I selected this radio button that has the sequence for only one, one and only, as you can see, Bibtex run one only, but this time we'll use this option, this user option over here.

this field over here, which is the user lets all the runs that the editor need to properly build our document. And of course, print the output in the PDF viewer at the end. So each run command is separated by a pipe character from the next one. So if we go all the way up to the beginning, we can say that the first command here is bip is PDF latech, which is running the tech engine on the input tech file with some options, of course. This is the very beginning and what separates, you can see it over here.

Let's put some spaces. What separates each command, this is the command, the first PDF latex run, the name of the running or the current or the main tech file is substituted by this percent sign. So this percent sign refers to the baby units word here that is the name of the main tech file. This is the first command, and it is separated by a pipe character from the second command, which is BipTak. You can see this note here, the commands must must be separated by pipe character.

And the second note that the percent sign refers to the file name without extension. So here for PDF latex, we run it on the input tech file. So percent sign dot tech means bib units dot tech, this is kind of to make this configuration here flexible, if you will change the name of the input tech file. So no explicit or hard naming here. After that, the second command that we have here is the big tech run.

By default, if you didn't play with this, most probably you will find it like that. Big tech percent sign dot auxiliary. So as you can see, this is one only, this is one big tech run. And this is supposedly for the case that we have one global bibliography. So the default configuration here refers to as we will run bibtech one time on the auxiliary file dot auxiliary that holds the name of the baby units.

So as you can see, again, this percent sign, when we run as we know, when we run PDF latex on the input tech file, it generates an a general auxiliary file that holds the very same name of the input tech file. So of course, we saw the baby units dot auxiliary, this is exactly this percent sign dot auxiliary here. So again, by default, you have only one big tech. So Configuring TechMaker, since we have here, we have one database and second database, as we saw, we generated BU1.Auxiliary and BU2.Auxiliary.

And we built our project by running BibTech on those two bibliography auxiliary files, sorry. configuring TechMaker here to automate running BipTek for each auxiliary file that we have in the document is actually altering this command here and adding another one. So what we have exactly in the command line, we'll do it here. So we will say BipTek run on BU1.Auxiliary, and we will increase the second BipTek run.

So take a space, insert a pipe character to separate the second bib tech run that is performed on bu2.Auxiliary And that's it. This is how we configure TechMaker to run multiple BitTech operations on each of our auxiliary files that we have. And do not forget, of course, this pipe character over here. And that's all what we need actually.

So we can save that, click okay. And then the quick build now is ready to be used in the TechMaker. So you can see that it updates, this is the subsequent runs. And all of a sudden, we have the exact same output that we produced by running manually in the command line, the first chapter here, this is the second chapter with the correct citations and bibliography. So again, you have two ways of running your document.

If you have multiple bibliographies, either you follow a manual sequence in the command line, or you configure your TechMaker quick build command by using this custom user command. And you go all the way up to find BibTech and insert the necessary names of the auxiliary files for each bibliography that we have. And that's Okay, now let's try section level bibliography. So a couple of things need to be changed over here in the input. First, let's add some sections, of course, after each chapter.

So let's say section, first section, anything doesn't matter. So this is the first section. And let's add a section for the second one. So

Okay, and after that, the input of the bibliography, this time, the units that will that we will be generating bibliography to our sections. So in the bibliography unit option will be section without of course without any inputs. Yeah, backslash section only. save and the third step is to use the subsection bib option here so subsection bib and that's it you have this option for the backslash section for the bibliography unit and we have some sections, inserted, of course, freely. So after that, this lies under this first section over here.

And now since we have this backslash section for our bibliography unit, then this put bib will be attached to this section over here. by the way the option here for the bibli units is what controls the size of the bibliography title so if you look here the word bibliography here for the first chapter or for the second chapter this is the section level head So, when we have the bibliography printed for this section, then we would like this bibliography word to be in the size of the subsection. So essentially, it's one level down the section that we are generating the bibliography to. So previously, in this state, I didn't, of course, run this new configuration. In this state, we have, for example, this first chapter and the bibliography for when we used section bib.

This bibliography is the same size as this first section here, for example. And since we now will use the section, then the subsection will print this bibliography in the format or the size of the subsection. Hope that this is clear. again, this option is important. And without it, you may have the citations in the text in the output not resolved.

So in other words, instead of having one and two, if you omit this option here for either of the cases, you will get question marks instead of one and two. So we'll have the bibliographies generated, but you will have the citations in the text appearing not appearing actually, so we'll have a problem with that. So pay attention to this option over here. And to compile for this new configuration, let's see, let's first get bash here and remove this. Let's enlarge this.

So let's remove all the auxiliary files if you recall, all the bibble, all the blog, all the log.

Okay, so we have a clean project.

And from here, they're running the configuration is still okay. So I mean, the configuration of the TechMaker, the quick build, it is the same. So for the package, we'll still have two auxiliary files that are named BU1.Auxiliary, BU2.Auxiliary.

The only difference in this case is that those bibliography will be generated for each section now. So we're ready to run actually. Yep, here we are. This is the first section. And now we can observe that the bibliography due to this option is at the subsection level.

So we can actually make sure of this. Let's say we have a subsection here that is some subsection. Let's run again. Yeah, and you can see that those are the same, the same level or the same font or size over here, this is due to this option. So to make sure that this bibliography is generated for this section, you can actually insert one more section under the same chapter.

over here so let's say backslash section test section and we can even invoke the cant ellipsum to make one cant paragraph for this one and run So you can see that easily we have now this time the bibliography is for this section. So yeah, this is how we can generate a separate bibliography for a section using this command and this configuration over here with this option.

Okay, now as stated, the package is flexible. And we can work for the sectional bibliography from one shared dot bibliography database. So let's write this out.

Let's create a new bibliography file. So instantiate just dot txt and select all to type biblio dot bib. Okay, yes, change the format. And now we can open this in TechMaker. Here we have it.

And now let's copy and paste the four entries that we have in the base one and base two files. So this will be a composed general bibliography file that has the entries from base one, copy and paste, and then go to base two, copy those and paste them. So here we have in this biblio.bib for entries.

And now for the put bib commands, it's possible to replace base one and two with a combined .bib file name. So as stated in the presentation at the beginning, if we would like to parse all the citations for the different separate bibliographies from one and only .bib file, Then we can cite the references as as usual, we can specify the unit that we will be generating the bibliography to but for the bib for the pod bib, we can omit this option over here if we are using only shared one database. But actually, we can leave it'll work if we left this option for each put bib in each unit and replace it with the name of the shared bibliography base.

So this time, it'll work, of course, if you keep repeating this over and over, if we have three or four sections, each section, we repeat the same put bit with the same name of this one and only shared bibliography file, it'll work just fine. But actually, this isn't preferred, of course, because this is redundant to repeat this over and over again. So we will, let's cut this, we will omit this option over here. And where do we put the definition or the declaration of the bib file, we of course have to tell LaTeX where to search for those cited references. For this, we can use a dedicated command by the package called default bibliography.

And the name explains in everything. So yeah, the default bibliography for all of the put bibs, put bib commands in our document is this one, this shared one that has, in our case, four entries, those four entries cited here and here. and if you ask about compiling then let's see how many auxiliary files in this case we have so you may suspect that since we have one database file then we will have one auxiliary file but this isn't the case let's actually see it We're here in this directory. Let's remove again, the files that we have. Let's open a command window and make sure if we are only using one shared bibliography, how many auxiliary files that the package will produce.

So forget those the base for now. And let's run PDF latech on the bib units dot tech and hit enter. And again, the compiling will be the same because the package still generates two auxiliary files with the same naming convention as before. Because guess what? The package creates those auxiliary files for the put bib commands.

So the put bib is what is used to print the bibliography in the output. And the package, if we have only one bibliography file, it will still generate two auxiliary files, each one contains, of course, after running bibtex on it, it will produce the dot bibble that contains the bibliography environment that is read by LaTeX to produce this out. So it doesn't matter if we have two different base one and base two, two bibliographies, or we have one default bibliography, the package will still again generate an auxiliary file for each put bib command that we have. So I cannot stress this more than that. So let's actually again, get rid of those.

Okay.

This is just to run from here over here. So we can make sure that we have the correct yes, as we saw, still the package in this case creates the BU1 and BU2. So we're all just fine. And then we can resolve from this one and only shared bibliography. So yeah, the same output doesn't matter.

But this time we parsed the references that are cited in text from this one bibliography.

So that was the first method actually to deal with the job of generating multiple bibliographies using the package which is again the method of bibliography unit command and all that stuff that we've been working so far. And the second method of partitioning the documents into the bib units. So again, we call that the convention of the semantics of the logic of the package is that it separates our document into several parts. Each part contains its own dedicated bibliography and those parts, the package called them bib units. So we have partitioned our document so far for bib units using the command bibliography unit.

But this isn't, that was actually one method. And the second one of partitioning or dividing our document into several bib units is using a dedicated command that is called bib unit. So here we have this second method of the bib unit environment. But before exploring how this method works, I should state that you can only use one of the two methods to partition your document. So you either use the command bibliography unit or you use the environment bib unit.

So both of them are mutually exclusive as the package states, so you cannot mix them. So the bibunit environment is structured as this, you have begin bibunit, and then you will have an optional argument for the environment that is the style. So let's say plain, a brave, or whatever. So this is the bibliography style. And inside, so this time we can we actually encapsulate our sectional levels and all of those and all of their content inside this bib unit environment.

So inside that we'll have a chapter or a section or both actually, doesn't matter. And then we have the content with the citing commands. And then we have the put bib command again with the name of the file that will parse the citation or the references from. So this, of course, will have multiple bib unit environments for each part that we have. So yeah, this is the second method straight forward like that.

You put several bib units, bib unit environments in your document, you define this tile, and then you put all the entire chapter with its content and citations. And at the very end, after you complete your type setting and your content here, you put bib with the bibliography file and it will resolve without any other requirements. So for example, the section bib and the subsection bib options of the bib units package will not be required in this case. So we can omit them as we'll see. Okay, so finally, as a last concept, if you thought about it, you can have of course, a global bibliography at the very end of the document.

And this will be done using the standard bibliography command stack for tech. So we have bibliography style and bibliography from a global.bib file, which is completely different from the several bibliography databases that we have for each bib units. We can create a whole new one called global.bib and use this standard stack for generating bibliography.

And of course, do not forget about the compiling sequence. So whenever you have kind of new or extra bibliography file or database in your workflow, think of the compiling sequence. Think of what are the auxiliary files that you need to run BipTick on to generate the target bibliography that you wish. So we'll increase this bib tech and then the percent signed up auxiliary. Because if you think about it, this will be outside of our bib units, this bibliography style and bibliography.

This is a free floating bibliography generation in our document. And when running PDF latex, then the auxiliary file that holds the name of the input tech file will have this this bibliography setup here. So let's say that we will have two baby units. So we'll have BU1 dot axillary BU2 dot axillary. And if we will increase a global bibliography for our document, then we can add this bibtech percent sign dot auxiliary.

Again, percent sign refers to the name of the running tech file. So think about this if you will increase a global bibliography at the end of your document away from those of the bib units. So let's go to the tech file to work with this baby unit method over here. For that, we will need to comment out the entire first method because again, you choose between one only method of them. You cannot mix using bibliography unit and the baby unit environment.

And here is the bibliography unit entries. Okay. So here we have two instances, two chapters. Each chapter is inserted inside the bib unit. You will have the style here as an optional argument for the environment.

You have the content with the citations. And then we have the put bib with the bibliography file name that will parse this references from. And the same thing goes for the second. So as you can see, this time, all of our sectional levels and their content is wrapped inside the bib unit environment. And at the very end, we put bib to print the bibliography in the output.

So this time, do we want to think about compiling? No, we have base one, so BU one, and then second bibliography file. So BU two, let's make sure of that. And here, yes, till we we add the same stage, BU one and BU two. So okay, and save that.

Okay, and let's clean the auxiliary files one more time.

So here are nice and clean.

Oh, and we can actually get rid of this, this of course you can leave it. It doesn't matter. It won't hurt. But I would like to get rid of it and compile.

Okay, so as you can see, we'll have those extra empty pages for default work of chapter in light text. So here we have this first reference. And here is the bibliography, the first one by this command over here. And here is the second chapter, its references and its bibliography by this command over here. And now eventually for the global bibliography, Let's see the file explorer.

Here I have added this global.bib file. Let's see it. Here it is. It contains some entries.

I think one, two, three, four, five. Those are five entries. So this will be our floating or final or general global, whatever you want to call it, bibliography at the end of the document away from the bibliographies specified for the bib units. So we will choose a different style, say alpha. And of course, we have the og bibliography command with the name of the .bip file without the extension.

And to skip the citation, we can say no site and then asterisk. And that's it. Clean the auxiliary files one last time. And this time, if you recall, we will have one two, and three bibliographies. So that means three auxiliary files that we will need to run the Big Tech on.

we have here in the configuration, we have BU1 and BU2. This will be fine for put bib base one and put bib base two, but we can increase at the beginning the command bib tech percent sign dot auxiliary. This refers to the auxiliary file generated by Lite Tech that will resolve the no site or the global bibliography here. So this is essentially running BipTek on the main auxiliary file that is specialized or takes the same name as the input file. So yeah, hit OK. And we're ready to run.

Okay, increased number of pages, of course, still one, two with their bibliography units. And then the last one is here. One, two, three, four, and five with the alpha style. So, yeah, this is how you do it. Again, I cannot stress this more than that.

Pay attention to the number of the bibliographies that you wish to generate in the output so you can know how and how many times you need to run BipTag and on what auxiliary files in what order. The order actually doesn't matter. So we can take a look at this. At the first, we actually run bibtech on the general auxiliary file that is this bibliography global over here. So we put this at the beginning, and then we run for this and this.

So actually, it doesn't matter the order here in the user custom, custom quick build command doesn't, it doesn't matter. So that was it for our today's video. In the next one, we'll see another package and another method to generate multiple bibliographies in one document. So thanks for watching and see you there. Okay, so this is another video about how to create multiple bibliographies for our document.

So in this one, we will make use of a package called bibtopic. It's another utility that allows you to parse references from multiple database files into different parts in the document independently. So, the name topic comes from a convention of semantically separating your bib databases by topic. So, for example, having the references, let's say for books in a .bib file and the references for articles in another database and so on.

So, it's actually having a unit type listing. So you will generate, for example, books.bib that have only bibtech entries of type book and articles.bib that only lists references of type article and so on. So it's kind of a logic or a semantic differentiation.

Okay, so the way this package works is as follows. First, we have the main tech file, and in that we will have multiple parts, of course, that hold content with a cited reference. And to generate a bibliography for each part, the package provides an environment called btsect. This serves as a container for the bibliography generation command only, so no content goes there. The optional argument takes a style.

And if specified, it overrides the style of the command bibliography style, if you have it in your document. So basically, the bibliography style, if you have it will will be applied as a general for all the BT sect environments. But of course, having a style that is declared directly and locally specifically for each one, then this tile will override the default style that is inserted in the bibliography style standard command. So now the Mandator argument that we have here, which is this one, will simply hold the name of the database file. And inside this environment, we use one of three variants that the package provides to print the bibliography in the output.

So, here the very obvious one is PT print cited, which only shows in the output the bibliography entries that are cited in the text. There is also the bt print not cited command, which shows the entries that haven't been cited. And there is also the bt for beptopic print all, which is considered to be kind of the union of the bt print cited and pt print not cited. And the print all will have all the entries from the BIF file printed in the output whether you have cited them or not. So it's actually this BT print all is similar to the no site star convention.

So by default, this environment doesn't print a head for the list of references. So, if you just insert this as it is, you won't have references or bibliography, you won't have a head for your generated references. So, to have a title, we can, for example, use the start version of the section command and we put it, of course, before the printing command of the bibliography. So the thing that can go inside here is this section star references or bibliography or whatever. So it goes inside this BT sect before the printing, of course, before printing the bibliography.

Now the package handles the generation process in terms of the files as follows. For the input.txt file, it generates as many auxiliary files for each printed bibliography. So the same concept as for the bibunits package of the previous video, and it's actually related to the nature of bib.txt as we saw in the first bibliography video.

So generating multiple auxiliary files for each required bibliography is a thing that is related to bib.txt program. And now the auxiliary files take the name of the main tech file. So here you can see that if we have, for example, two BT sect environments in our document, so two bibliographies, then the PDF flytick at the first run, the package pip topic will create main one for the first required bibliography to be printed and all the way up to main X. So a kind of the naming convention here.

So previously for bib units, if we recall, we have BU and then we have the name, the sequential number, sorry, for the required bibliography. The naming convention here is different. It's tied to the name of the input tick file. So the package creates main one for the first one and so on up to the last required BT sect. So, this means that we would like to compile the project manually.

Of course, after first PDF latex run, we must run bibtech on all of the generated auxiliary files that hold the input tech name in order. So yeah, after the first one, we will have manually bibtech main1234.Auxiliary and so on. And of course, we can have some flavor of automation. So if we would like to configure TechMaker, then we can simply list the auxiliary file names as we learned in the user field of the Quick Build command.

And since the auxiliary files hold the name of the running tech file, then we can take advantage of that of course and replace it with a percent sign as a placeholder for the measure part. So this is a configuration that you can do. You can say bibtech %sign, and then one.Auxiliary all the way up %sign x. So you know that since the naming convention of bibtopic is to list the name of the running tech file and then attach an Arabic numbering to the auxiliary files, then we can emit to reduce the clutter in the user field of the QuickBuild command, we can emit this and say %1, %2 to refer to the order of the auxiliary files for each bibliography that we have.

So we can make this hack to reduce the number of tokens that we have here. So let's see an example of that. Here I have the article, we have the bit topic, a title, don't know why. Sorry about that. We can actually remove it.

Well, it doesn't matter. And then we have two sections. Now, here I have alongside this bit topic dot tech, I have two database files as stated at the beginning, And this is a semantic or logic separation of the references that I have in my document. And for example, I can have articles. Let's see them.

So yeah. Okay. Here I have articles, only article inputs, books. So book inputs only. Here is the tech file.

So now let's add some citation entries. for the first book section. So yeah, I have citing some books. So let's actually do that. Okay, so refer to this and this.

Okay, and let's after this initialize the btsect environment to insert our print command. So btsect, observe that this is a capital S. Let's take a copy. Let's give this a plain style as an optional argument. And here I have the books, of course, without .bib.

So this is the name of the database file that those citation references come from. So on inside that, as stated, we can have a head by using the start version of a section command, let's say references. And after that, to print the bibliography, those citations from here, we can say BT print cited.

And let's do the same thing for the second section that we have here. So now this time citing some articles is actually the two entries that you have in the articles dot bib. So copy and paste this. Let's see articles.

yeah and references let's say this time bibliography and bt print cited you can change this to alpha if we want just as a change so now time for building Let's try the manual sequence first. So again, here we have two. So, okay. So let's begin by opening a command window. And first step is to run PDF latech on bib topic dot tech, our input file and run.

Okay, so you can see here that we have an auxiliary file for document and we have bib topic for the first bd sect, the second one, and some additional auxiliary files that are actually redundant in our process. But I can see also that the package creates the bibl files from the first run. I think this is the first time I experienced such a thing, but it doesn't matter actually. So most probably you will see only the auxiliary files with the log, of course, and the general auxiliary file for the package created. So mostly you won't see this .bib file generated by just running PDF LaTeX.

Supposedly those are the output of BipTek runs on the auxiliary files. So we can open one of them, see what it holds. And you can see that it's actually empty. So produced automatically. Yeah.

So it looks like the package provides them by running just PDF latex. So it doesn't actually matter. It's empty. So there is no the bibliography and the item commands for the entries. it doesn't actually matter.

So whether if you have the auxiliary files, but then yeah, you will have the .bibble. Mostly it's a template for the bibliography environment. So it doesn't matter actually. So that was the first bib PDF latex.

And then we have, we want to run bibtech. This is the first bibtech run on bib topic one dot auxiliary. Run. Okay. And here we have it.

We have the bibliography log. This means that the process is okay, so with no warnings. And then up and change to topic two to resolve for the second bibliography. And then we repeat our PDF latex runs again.

And let's see the output. Okay, you can see that this is an article, the first section, the citations, the bibliography, second one with its special title. So yeah, this is basically the usual manual run of this project. So let's clean this from here. And sorry about that.

We're here. So let's remove all of that. And so we can actually remove this also. and go back to the input tech file. So we can configure TechMaker, of course, as we saw.

So let's see that. Let's see that here in this is from the last video when we had BU1 and BU2 of the BB units. So this time as stated, we have two bibliographies. Those bibliographies generates, the package generates for them auxiliary files that takes the name of the input tech file with sequential numbering. And we said that we can make a small trick to reduce the number of tokens.

So we have bibtech run on the bib topic one dot auxiliary, and then we increase One more, so pipe character and bibtech. So that's essentially again what we have inserted in the command line. So person sign as a holder and then to dot auxiliary. And that's it. So yeah, here we are only two, sorry about that.

Yeah, only two bibtech runs for the required bibliographies that we have. head, okay. And then let's compile this. And indeed, the same output that we produced with the manual method. By the way, there is an option to this package that can print head titles for the bibliographies.

So as we know by default, if we omit this actually, that's to make sure of that, save, and then we can clean and run again. So this time we won't have these references and bibliography. Okay, here it is. So another method to print the heads is that you can say print headings.

this is an option here. So actually nothing has changed for the bibliography. So we can run without cleaning the auxiliary files. And this time, by default, you will have the word references to either use print headings to have this references for all of them, or you can use this section star, if you would like to change this references, if you have this print heading. So yeah, that's, that's how you can have So please note that the standard bibliography command of LaTeX is disabled by the bibtopic package.

So you cannot have the so-called the global bibliography as we did with the bibunits package because the standard bibliography command is disabled. You cannot use it while loading the bibtopic package. But on the other side, the bibliography style command works. So as I said in their presentation earlier, the style of the BT sect overrides the default style that is inserted in the bibliography style command if you have it. So the two commands for the standard bibliography generation process in LaTeX bibliography isn't functional here with the PIP topic, but bibliography style is functional.

So let's say that we will omit this and then provide a bibliography style. Yes. And let's say we will have it abbreviate and save.

clean the Oceler files. Of course, we will have to clean it because now we have a change to the generation process. And now this first pdsect does not feature a local specific style for it. So it'll use this bibliography style general one and see it. So look at this one now.

Yes, it'll have de, this is the abbreviation for the author or author's names. And of course, the alpha that is set explicitly to the second BT sect overrides this, so we don't get this abbreviation here. Instead, we have the alpha. Okay, so now the package also provides another wider framework for unit-based bibliography generation. Let's see what this is, which is the so-called BT unit environment.

So you can consider this to be a parent environment that embraces multiple BT sect environments within its body. So the idea behind this structure is just to give the document a semantic or logical architecture. in which there is kind of an independent bibliography units. This is a similar concept to the bib unit packages behavior. So it's just a wider structure or architecture that you can exhibit in your documents.

You have a bit topic unit. So it's a global container that have the BT sect or the bibliography sections, if you will. So yeah, this is another structure. this structure now we can embed the cited content to the bt sect environment along with the printing command so before we had command with the citations outside the bt sect under the part but now if you would like to use this bt unit convention and environment then it's actually better to put the citation and the content specific for each BT sect inside its body are alongside with one of the three printing commands. They are the BTE print all print cited or print not cited.

So let's go to the directory. Here I have updated the .bip files to feature more entries and also added a big general .bip file. So let's open them one by one.

Okay, here we have this general. It features so many inputs. And then we have the articles now with four instead of two. And the books now also features four entries instead of two.

will find the first small versions of the books and the articles, the bib files in the resources folder of this video in a folder called initial bib files. So essentially the folder that is called initial bib files will hold this article document class with the articles and books databases that are just two that features two entries only because I will switch now to a book document class and we will use the updated extended versions of the articles and the books alongside with a general one. So let's actually do it. Let's make this a book document class. Let's actually delete this print headings.

You can leave it if you want. And after that, we can remove the entire body here. Again, you will find this in the initial bit files. So don't worry about that. So yeah, here we will use the BT unit structure.

So you can see that it's more suitable, if you will, semantically for large documents. So, here is the first baby unit. So, let's begin the environment. Again, this U, of course, is capital. It's kind of obvious.

And inside this, let's begin by the first chapter entry. So, this is kind of a part that is book citations.

Note that you can easily have this book command outside or before the bib unit. So it doesn't matter actually. And after that, we will have two BT sect environments to print separate bibliographies for each section in this chapter. So to save some time, here is the structure. It is simple and clean.

We have one BT sect and the second. So the first one has its own local style. It has a bib file that invokes the citations from and inside this BT sect, we have a section and Sorry about that. And the content is cited. And then of course, this time, the content is cited inside the BT sect, because now we have kind of a general style, if you will, we can separate this by one percent sign.

Yeah, like that. And then we have for this section, the print cited. So now we will have only two because now the books features four, it has four entries. So print cited will print only those two. So this is the first bibliography that we have for this BT sect and its section.

And then inside the general BT unit. We have another BT sect for the second section in this chapter. It has its own style and it evokes the citations only from the same file. And then we say this time, let's try print not cited. So print not cited here will print the other two books that we didn't cite so far in the text.

Okay. So that was the first BT unit and here is the second one. Again, the structure is simple, so there is no need to waste time with it. So here is the BT unit, then we have another chapter and the same as before, two sections, so two BT section environments with kind of different styles and they invoke citations or references from the same articles.bib database file.

And now we have this section with its content, so multiple sites, and then we print the cited. And for the second one, we insert another section and another print not cited. So fairly the same structure, but the difference here is that in the first BT unit, we utilize the first books database file. And then in the second one, we use the articles database file. And semantically to have a global or general bibliography in our document, we can actually insert a BT sect or a BT unit environment targeting our general .bib file that we saw without any content.

So yeah, you can consider this the general BT unit for global bibliography. and as simple as that we insert a third BT unit or at the end we use the chapter starred to have a title for that so as stated here we insert the environments of the web topic without any kind of content here so in the output this will appear solely as usual So you can say that this is the flavor of the global bibliography here with the bib topic, since we cannot use the standard bibliography command. And of course, we instantiate a bib sect, a style, and then this general.bib. And we say this time pt print all.

So pt print all will print the entire database as for no site star in our standard convention. So yeah, that was it. I think this is a logical structure. And this is the idea behind BipTopic. So it's another way that adds an intuitive semantics to the structure of your document.

Yeah. So now let's go back to the file explorer to compile this manually. But of course, let's let's have a look at this. Again, when you think of compiling any dot tech file that has multiple bibliographies, you look at how many required bibliographies that you have. So here, five, actually, in the first BT unit, we have two btsects.

In the second one, we have two and we have a general one. So we have total of five required bibliographies to resolve. So that means that we will, we'll need to run Babetech on five different auxiliary files. so file here so and then so say the first step PDF latech on bib topics still the same document it's bit topic and sorry about that dot tech let's run So, yeah, here we have this bibtopic.Auxiliary, the main one by LaTeX, and then we have one, two, three, four, and five, and those redundant auxiliary files.

As said, and of course, as we saw, those are generated at the first step automatically by the bibtopic package. The bibble file, we're kind of preparing them for running bibtech. So, five runs, bib, tech, and then we have, let's say this is the first one, so we can actually take it without the extension and then say, bib topic one, all good, two,

arrow up three one more time four one last time five and then we go up to pdf latech pdf latech again and that's it let's take a look at the output and here we have it nice and clean the first chapter The first section, its citations, its bibliography, and so on. So here we have print not cited, I think, so there is no citations here. The same structure for the second chapter. and the global bibliography as usual. So here we have this, this is the chapter star entry.

And this is the BT print all inside the BT sect. This is the last BT unit that we had in the tech file. So yeah, this is how you can do it. So again, we pay attention to how many auxiliary files, or if we did forget, if you work with this manually after running PDF later for the first time, you can see that you can observe all the required auxiliary files that you need to run. So now I know that it can be tedious to follow along with these multiple manual steps to build a document.

And of course, especially for large projects as you grow up. So that's why we need method of automating this compiling process. So let's go to slides to see what is this.

And the way to do that is by making a shell script. If you're using bash scripting, then most probably you know what you need to do. But if you don't, don't worry. The job is pretty straightforward for our case here. Now the shell files that each one takes this extension.sh is simply a way of encapsulating some instructions to tell the operating system that we would like to automate some processes done on some files or full files actually in some directory.

And that's literally what we need here, if you think about it. We want to automate the process of building LaTeX or running PDF, LaTeX and running BibTeX. So we wish to have all of those instructions written dynamically in one place. And when compiling or running this one and only file, it follows along all the steps and resolves the entire project for us. So that's what we're going to do.

So There are dozens of material actually, so first of all, there are some materials out there about patch scripting, and I encourage you to take a look at, for example, the Udacity Quick Shell Workshop in this link. And of course, you can find lots of courses here and there on YouTube and other sites about shell scripting. so to the body of this routine here if you think about it what we are doing so far is a routine to build a project so we typically start by cleaning the auxiliary files So here, here in this shell script, we will combine the process of cleaning the auxiliary file and the entire building sequence for our tech document. So we start by always cleaning the auxiliary files that we do in the git bash interpreter. So this time we will fit this in one place.

So we start by that. so and the F here is to force deleting permanently those files over here so remove forcibly those the entire files that take those these kind of extensions and the second step so if you imagining this this done in one place. Then after cleaning the auxiliary files, we actually run PDF light tech on the main.tech file. And after that, we have multiple runs of the big tech.

So until this is done through a simple loop, we loop on all the auxiliary files that we have and run BipTek on all of them. So we can, you will just copy and paste this. It's a simple loop that automates the multiple BipTek runs that we need for all the auxiliary files that exist in the directory. So this is quite powerful. And instead of typing with tech, let's say main $1 auxiliary, two, three, four, and over and over again.

So no, you won't do that. So simple looping. And after that, of course, we run PDF latex again, twice on our main tech file. So those are the, of course, this line will be duplicated in the script, as we'll see in a moment, but there is no place here. So that's why I have this cross too.

So this is the routine that we do every time we build our document. As we know from the first video, we clean the auxiliary files to get rid of any potential errors. And then our compiling sequence is pdf latex, a loop to run bibtech on all the auxiliary files that we have, and we run pdf latex twice again at the end. So we'll embed all of those instructions in one shell command. And we run that shell command in the interpreter by this convention.

So we say dot and then a forward slash, and we type the name of the shell script or file with the extension. And that's it. Okay, so let's go to the file explorer to see this file.

Here we have it, I have added this compile dot h h. Yeah, here it is. And to open it, I will have it, of course, as usual in VS code. And here it is. You can see that it's a bash script, the first step, and then the second step, and then the steps that we have, of course, the PDF litig at the end is twice.

And there is an optional echo command here that displays a message to indicate that the process is successful. So yeah, this is an optional aesthetic here. so when running this file so where do we run it we need a bash interpreter and then let's yeah let's have it big as that here and then to run this dot forward slash the name of the file so compile.sh

So before I hit enter, observe the, the files, the state of the files here. Our first step is to clean them. So in a moment you will have those cleaned and then they will be written again by the first PDF later. So take a look at this live event, if you will. Okay.

And

sorry about this silly typo so my fault run take a look at this and this is the magic so yeah okay here it is all done simple as that let's see this here it is again so yeah And this is chapter one, the same thing. Yeah. So that's how we can automate this process just by running one script over here, which is this sequence of commands cleaning and then the sequence. Of course, this is a loop. So when running this script in this way, it actually carries out all the steps that we have here, starting from cleaning the auxiliary files.

So we can play with this one more time and take a look at the files as they clean and write again. Here we are. Yeah.

of course the output file is here it is one more time nice and clean all things resolved okay that was it actually for the bibliography up until now and yeah thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video

Okay, hello and welcome you guys to this video. So starting by this one, we will take a look at some of the advanced features of Playtech. And those will enhance the customizable experience of type setting with this magnificent system, of course. So the concepts discussed in this chapter goes beyond the straightforward usage of the offered functionality of Playtech. So either from the standard distribution or from the community packages.

And the tools presented here will help you abstract certain routines into reusable commands and environments, which of course opens a gigantic window of customization and creativity at the same time. So it always starts by learning how can you define your own commands. Now we've already seen several examples throughout the course of redefining existing commands by the Renew command, which slightly allowed to tweak the behavior of target commands. But in this stage, we wish to build our own custom commands from the ground up. So let's say that you have a routine that looks like this.

Maybe it's a piece of formatted text and some commands with it that you get to use more and more throughout your document. So instead of repeating all of it, which sounds stupid, why not define it once or abstracted in a new command and use that later on. So we do that using the new command declaration. It takes two main arguments, one that state the desired name for the new command force. And the other is for the routine that will appear in the output when the command is used.

So after that, we use our custom command repeatedly as this. So this is the big picture, we have here some routines in our document that instead of forbidding them one by one, again, we can define it once and then we can use the new command macro for that we define the name of the command, of course, with backslash. And then we abstract this routine here once and then in the document, we use the command more and more as we like and in the output, the routine and the second argument of this new command macro appears in the PDF output. Now for the naming, of course, you have to be careful with it. So when creating a new command, so don't put numbers and avoid any name of an existing command.

So either in LaTeX or a current package that you're using, of course, this will make some clashes. So to prevent that, make sure that you come up with a new command name that doesn't exist in the standard distribution or actually any package that you're loading and using in the document. So let's take a look at the basic usage of this function. You know, it's literally like defining functions in normal programming languages. It's the same concept of course.

So I have here an article, I have some packages loaded, and then I have the text height is stretched and then the make title and our first section. So for our first example, let's say that we would like to have a command when used in a document, it prints out the name of BibTech program formatted like this. So we'll start by new command. Yes, here it is. Let's give it a name backslash bib tech.

And then here in the content that will appear when you when we use this new macro, if you recall, we use the text SC for small caps, we give capital B and then I and B. And after that, we put backslash tech. And we can insert some space here distilled. So this, this was our approach to print the big tech. So instead of typing this more and more again and again in the document, we can abstract it inside a new command.

And then when we use this command as of this and run, and here it is, we can have it right here. We can use this again and again. We can break this line and say, type setting bibtech with the new command. Bring the line also and yeah, you can use it over and over again. So this is the very basic idea of creating a new command.

So let's see another example that combines formatted tech and LaTeX words. Here it is. So I call it tech names. And here we have this text that says some logos and then the typeset of the word latech and tech consecutively. And then we have the call for this new command.

So yeah, here we are. We can give it some new intent if we want.

So yeah, this is the basic idea, you put the text generally or any other type of content here in the second argument of the new command macro. Okay, so another example, but this time for math content. So of course, as stated, you can have a text in normal mode, or you can have new commands, of course, in math mode. So let's initialize this. It so happens sometimes that we need to print some formulas or laws again and again, of course, in the document, if it's a math document.

So instead of, again, if we're reading this math typeset, which can be clumsy and can brag at the input file, we can encapsulate the math formula in a new command. And calling that, of course, will do the job. So let's see that we want a C rec.

so the body of this C rec command will print the Pythagorean theorem colored in blue we can break this line over here and say some grouping for the color and say blue and then we print the Pythagorean theorem here so let's see it Oh, nothing. I'm sorry about that. We didn't actually use it. So here is an equation. We say C rec.

So yeah, here it is. So here we have this serif font. And again, we can use it more and more.

Yeah, I think you'll start seeing that. So this small thing abstracts this whole formula. So that's a special thing in your content. This will save you a whole lot of time and will ease the readability of the input file. Okay, so now this form of the custom commands can be referred to as being static.

As you can see this, there is no interaction between the user and the command. We only have a fixed content, either text or math inside the argument, which is to be printed in the output when the commands call. So when the user uses such of commands, there is no interaction, you just print the name of the command and the fixed content of this new macro appears in the output. So of course, in this case, any changes to apply on the command must be directly done in the commands definition. So if we change our mind later, and we want to change the, let's say we want to make this a bold font, So, to do that, we must either of course, abstract that here, let's say text bf and we say bib tech.

But that will be, I don't know, I don't like it if we can make this an option, let's say, or yeah, maybe we can have this new command being more flexible. So remove that. So such commands that have fixed content like those one here can be useful in some cases, such as kind of the need for repeating fixed pieces of contents that have a special meaning, of course. So let's mark this section as being static. And of course, we can go much more flexible than that.

So we'll start doing that. So let's say v space. And after that, we make a new section, or call it new commands dynamic. More specifically, we will show how to create new commands that take arguments from the user. Of course, the arguments that the user will provide will shape the typeset of the output.

This, okay.

Now as we know, mandatory arguments for later commands are essential parts of the output of certain commands. So say that we have a command called sentence that produces this output. The one mandatory argument of this command controls what will appear in the location of the black square in the output. So the user have to give a specification for that in order to shape the print of the PDF output. So if the argument is the word output, then this will be shown in the PDF output, of course.

So that's exactly what we do when allowing our new commands to have an argument. And a syntax of this for the new command, the extended one is like this. Here we have the new command. The first argument is mandatory, of course, which is the name of the new command. If we jump to the last argument here, which is also mandatory, this is the body of the command definition.

And the increase here is this bracket. This bracket holds the number of arguments that will allow the user of our new macro to input. So this, of course, this location is specific, the number of arguments that you will put must be between the name of the command and the body of the definition. Now latex only allows for nine arguments. So at peak, allow the user to change nine things, let's say in the output.

So if you say for this sentence, we will make it only one argument. So we will type one here. And then we have to put a an allocation or a placeholder for this command for this argument, as you will see, those are called dummy arguments. And they take the hashtag and then the number of the argument. So we'll see that in detail.

But this is the syntax here. So we increase this brackets with a number of the mandatory arguments that we wish to design our new macro with the maximum is nine. And then the placement of those arguments in the formatting of the body of the new macro takes the these number arguments, which have a hashtag and then the number of the argument as you will see. So just as a quick example, if you would like to make the upper sentence command, this is how we do it. So if we would like to give our sentence command one argument for the user to input, so we say backslash sentence, and then we have only one argument, which is the second argument of the new macro command here inside those brackets.

And then this is the hashtag one of sentence. This hashtag one refers to the first argument here, which only we only have one. So when the user uses this backslash sentence, when they input a word, this word is shipped to this location. So if the user uses this backslash sentence with the input word output, this one only one argument here will be taken to this location of this dummy argument. So this is a placeholder for the argument that the user puts when using it.

So this output chips the dislocation to fill the sentence, this is the output of sentence. So this is the general idea. So in order to allow for our new macros to have their own arguments, like most of the normal latex macros kind of give versatility for the output, we would like to insert the number of arguments that we will design our body with in this brackets over here, again, the maximum of nine. And within the definition, we put placeholders that are called dummy arguments that will parse their values from the user. So this hashtag one here is a placeholder for the first argument that the user provides.

for the first command. And of course, if we have two, we will have two locations, hashtag one and hashtag two, and they will parse their values from the user when he or she uses the command. So yeah, let's actually try this out. here we are in this new section. So we say backslash new command, and we call it and again, sentence, essay, and here as an intermediate optional argument, of course, this is an optional argument for the new macro command, we put the number of the arguments that we want our new command to hold, which is only one.

And inside that we put our content. So this is the and we design our new command to make this location this word inside the definition to be a choice of the user. So we put a placeholder for the argument that the user will provide when using our command. And again, the value will be shipped to this location. hashtag one off sentence.

And then when we use it, we say backslash sentence. And then this time we provide a mandator argument for our new command. And then we type any any kind of text or other things that we want to print in this location. So let's say output when using when running this latex will take this value of the argument of force and put it here. So that's what I mean by parsing its value.

So this is the number argument, this one will parse its value from the user. I think this is pretty obvious. And here it is. So this is kind of versatile, so we can use it again. Let's say we want to make this of bold font.

So we shall have it. So as you can see this, this is quite flexible. And of course, we can format this dummy argument itself, this is a placeholder. So we can actually format this. So cut and let's say, text it so make it italic.

Yeah, it works like that. So both of them in the output, yeah, this is italic. And this is bold found by the user. But in the definition, it has a format of itself. So the dummy arguments or the placeholders of the mandator arguments that the user give, of course, they can be formatted, let's say we can apply the latex macros on them.

So you can consider this hashtag one, a normal piece of text inside the document that you get to play with. Okay, so let's try having two arguments. We can increase the number of arguments here, let's say two. And simply here, let's say this is the again, hashtag two output. Let's bring this down.

So yeah, as you can see, we have two arguments this time that this is the first placeholder. This is the first location of the first one. And this is the second one now. And those are two mandatory arguments. So we cannot use the sentence with only one.

So of course we will have some strange output over here. So instead of that, we can say, let's say second. Okay, yeah, second output. And here, let's say second again. So now this sentence have two mandatory argument, it has two mandatory argument, this is the first one, this is parsed to this location.

And the second is parsed to this location, as you can see, and the same thing applies for the second call. So let's actually break the line to identify the arguments in the output. So yeah, here they are. This is the output. This is the first call.

And then we have this is the second output over here. And in the second call, we have the TextBF output over here and we have second again as the placeholder over here. So this is how we can play basically with the mandator arguments of our command, we put the number here up to nine, maximum of nine arguments. And you put your structure, the content of your new command as you wish, and where you want to make the command dynamic, or where you want to parse the values for certain content from the user, you put placeholders, you put dummy arguments, them arguments take hashtag and the number of the command. So of course, when you use that, you have to be specific, you use them in order Of course, this is the first one.

This is the second one, but you can shuffle. As we will see, you can shuffle the order of the Dharma arguments or the placeholders as you wish, but you have to be strict when using this new command. That's how little works as we know. So yeah, this is the first one. This is the first one, of course.

And the second comes after that. Okay, now let's see another example. Say that we want to create a command that takes only one argument. And what it does is simply to print a number of can't paragraphs from one up to the number specified in the argument. So let's see what what is this.

Let's call this new command can't P for or KP, let's say KP for can't paragraphs. we want to have only one command. And inside the body, we invoke the can't command. And here we say from one up to the number specified by the user. And that's when use this KP.

For example, let's see, we want KP, of course, this is a mandatory argument right now. And we'll say to So kp of two will call the cant from one up to the first argument of our new command, which is two, this will print two paragraphs. Here we are, this is the first one, this is the second one. Okay, one more example. We want to make a new command that prints its one argument as it is in the output.

So kind of verbatim command. And we want to do that with some coloring like this picture. Let's call it tech cmd. So here we will have a new command. Let's call it tech cmd.

And here, of course, we'll have one argument. Let's break this. So we can open a group racist, kind of limit the effect of the color. And then we can use, of course, the color command with 70% red.

Now if you think about using the verb command in this way, meaning to encapsulate the argument within the pipes of the verb command, then that won't work. And this will produce you an error. And the reason for that, we're not allowed to pass the verb command in the definition of another command. You cannot do that. So instead of that, and to print the argument of our command as it is in the output, we use another command called detokenize.

So detokenize. And for the argument of this detokenize, we put the placeholder for our argument. And that's it. So here we have only one argument, we cannot use backslash verb, you cannot use verb inside definition of a new command. Those are for the color.

And yeah, here we are, we use this detokenize and We can use it like this. Before using that, we can wrap this whole de-tokenize in text tt. Yeah, here we are. So this is kind of the verb version that you can use inside a new command definition. And this is the typewriter family.

So we say trying the verb, this is just to print the name of the command, techcmd to produce, and then we say techcmd of only let's say latech. Yeah, that's it. So this LaTeX now will be shipped to this location. It will be de-tokenized to print as it is in the output with typewriter and 7% red color. Here it is, trying XCMD to produce LaTeX.

So just want you to know about the specific case of not allowing to use the verb inside the definition here. Now I would like to point an issue with this command over here. So if you are trying to enter more than one piece of text in the usage of this techcmd command like this. So let's say techcmd and then inside that we put kind of arbitrary new command, command definition thing. So this is a whole line that we want to print as it is using the tokenize.

Let's see what will happen. break the line. I don't know. Let's see it. Okay, here it is.

Now we can observe those extra spaces over here that do not exist in the input file. Eliminating those white spaces using the tokenize macro is a relatively hard problem. So if you want to print a long macro name, let's say if you're doing kind of documentation for a package like this, instead of using the tokenize, you can simply do this. So let's cover this up. And then we can say no and end.

and then break the line need that. So yeah, instead, we can say color, and then we give this color blue, that'll be better, actually. So here, we say verb, and then we print this. I know that this will be long, but yeah, again, eliminating the spaces that appeared after this and this and that the tokenize is a different complicated story. So to eliminate those white spaces in such a long command, a macro name like this, it's a hard problem.

So yeah, we need to type this explicitly using kind of the color command and the verb actually outside a definition. Okay, so using the arguments can also be useful, of course, for math, new macro math commands. So let's say that we want to create a new command, let's call it chain. This will have three mandator arguments. And supposedly this new chain command will be used to quickly print the train rule of two functions like this example.

So if we would like to arrange the parameters as this, so let's document this. So this is our choice over here. So the first one will be for the letter Y or the variable Y. The second one will be for let's say X and the third one will be for U. So this is how we will structure this chain rule over here.

So embedding arguments can help you make math formula templates that the user can use more and more again in a dynamic way. So now the following definition of the formula in this picture. So following the definition of the formula in the picture, we can compose this new command as follows. So we say dollar signs and we we can actually break this. So you can make it of course a standalone formula that takes an entire line by the backslash square brackets combo, but I will keep it in line by those dollar signs over here.

So the first fraction command will be for y and x, or arguments one and two, as for numerator and denominator, respectively. So we say backslash frag, this is the left hand side. And then we say D, the placeholder for one, which is y, as you can see, and then over the placeholder d of two, which is x. So this will be dy over dx. And then we pass a nice equal sign and then we break the line, if you will.

So at the beginning of the right hand side, we'll have the first split fraction to be for y and u, which are the arguments one and three. So another fraction. So you fill up your formula. But the main thing is that now we have arguments that the user can put to print multiple versions or formats of this template. So we say here one and three, so the one and D three.

This is just filling the definition. And then we say c dot, if you recall, and after that for u and x. So another fraction, one last time, d for three and two, d two. So yeah, one and two and then one and three and then three and two. Yeah.

So if you have those functions over here, so let's use this chain over here. So if y is equal to f of u, y is a function of u and u is a function of x,

then we use, we can produce the chain rule like this. We say, of course, we have three arguments, y, and then we have x, and then we have u. So y is the first one, x is the second one, and u is the third one as we chose to define this argument. And of course, each one of those will be shipped to its location in the definition here, and the formula will be printed as we like. So yeah, here we are.

If this and this, we have on this, so dy by dx, dy by du multiplied by du by dx. So you can change those variables or functions over here and you will get the same template, but with different inputs. So yeah, embedding arguments is great when making new macros to make them flexible and versatile. Now, just to make this clear, As stated before, when you define a new command, you put the number of the arguments and inside the definition for the new command macro over here, no ordering of the arguments is required. Of course, you have the full flexibility by shuffling your arguments, those dummy arguments, the placeholders as you wish.

So let's say that we have three arguments for this name, this is the second argument while this is the third. So no ordering and the last one comes at the end. So you have freedom in how you can define your argument in terms of placing the dummy arguments for them and data arguments of your new macro. But when you use that, when the user uses this new macro, they have to input the arguments in place by order. So the first argument here will be taken to the first dummy argument.

The second one will be taken to this place and so on. So when you define and the definition phase, no order is required for how you arrange your content in the definition. But of course, To map this just right semantically to have the desired output, you should be careful and aware that you have to input them one by one. This will be what you put here in the first argument in those first graces. When you call that will be taken to the first location directly and so on.

So as an example, let's say that we want to make a new command to print an integral like this one in the picture. So say that we will fix the upper limit for the integral at infinity. So we'll be left with two arguments to set up. So just to make sure of this shuffling thing, we have this int x, we will have three arguments, one will be for the lower limit. So here we input zero, And one for the function, here we have X.

And the last one is for the differential element, the DT. So if we would like to make this in line again, break this. So we say backslash int underscore the lower limit, the lower limit will be for the third or the third mandatory argument that the user will provide will be parsed to this location, which is the lower limit. And then we have the upper limit, which will be fixed at infinity. So here, backslash inf.

And yeah, then we have this backslash two for the differential element, small space over here. And then we can say D, I'm sorry about that. The second one is for the function. So, and the first one, which comes last in this definition will be the differential element. So the body again has the arguments not ordered.

We have freedom. We have three and then two and then one. But when we use that to obtain the desired output, we should be aware of the ordering of this new command. So integrating. So say integrating x, and say we say int x, here, this first one, the DT will be this first one.

So T will be parsed to this to DT. And then the second one, which is the function, we say x, and then the third one, which comes at first will be the lower limit, which is zero. So freedom in the definition, but you have to strict in the ordering when using the command. And yeah, that's it. We can actually, yeah, let's say that we have here one, two, three.

So to make sure that you don't miss with this and let's see it. Yeah, here it is. So zero, which is the third one, the lower limit. And then the user inputted X, the second one appears here. And then the third one is T, which taken to be this last one over here.

Okay, so one last concept in this video, it'll be an important note about defining new commands in math mode. So if you try to use, for example, the int x command inside math mode, you will get an error. So if you say trying to use the int x with three arguments over here, but the command itself, the call for our new command is inside math mode, this will give you an error. it won't work.

So to allow for our commands to be operable in math mode, so to create commands like this, and when you insert this itself in a math mode, if you need to do so to avoid this clash over here, so because supposedly this int x is a math command in general. So it could happen that you will need to use this in a greater scope that is with other math typeset in math mode. So to avoid this stupid error over here, we wrap the body of our command in the so called ensure math command. So let's see this, let's make one last new command. Let's call it DD.

And this will have two arguments. And inside that, we put the ensure math command. And the inside the argument of this, we put our math definition. First, as the name implies, this command makes sure that it's feasible to typeset with our new command in math mode. So that ensures that this DD will work effectively inside math mode.

So we put the math formula here. So let's say, can break this if you want. Inside this intro math, we have a fraction, and then we say D1 and D2. And when using this,

differentiating so differentiating x by time anything so here we now put math mode and then we say dd x and t

everything works just fine. So yeah, those are kind of two ways to define math macros, new math macros, you can have the math mode initiated inside the body. But when we use this, as we saw inside math mode in the type set inside our document, you will get an error. So if you're target targeting to use your new command inside math mode in the text, consider putting your definition your math definition and inside the ensure math command. And of course, inside here, we don't we don't need any dollar signs or math mode initialization.

So we put it like that inside ensure math, that will allow to use our new command inside math mode if this is preferred. So either way, you will have both of them right now. So I'll stop here for now and complete in the next video.

Okay, so in the last video, we saw the basics of making new commands in text and math mode. And we looked also at how to embed mandatory arguments to make them versatile. And in this one, it's the time to see how can we work with optional arguments. So subsection embedding optional arguments. Now, There are two standard ways in which you can work with optional arguments when building new commands.

So in the basic litig distribution, the first one is to build your command with only one argument that is optional. So this configuration takes this syntax. What's increased here is the second pair of brackets that store the default value for the first argument. So here we have this backslash new command, the name, and then we have this. This is the number of the arguments.

Let's say one. And after that, we increase an optional argument. This is an optional argument for the new command. Inside those brackets, we put the default value for this one and only optional argument. So when you use the new command in this way, this is the full definition, the full use case of the new command, you have only one argument over here.

This argument is considered to be optional. If you input this default value over here. So in this method, we can use the new command in two ways. the first one is to call its name without any arguments. So again, if you have this combo over here, you have one in this bracket and you have a default value you input to default value here, then latex will consider this one and only argument as an optional argument.

And you can use So that means that you can use the command solely without any arguments. And in the output, you will get formatting the argument, and then you will get this default output over here. And now in the second way is to input an override for the optional argument. So I stated if you have this one, and you have a default value over here, so you have another set of square brackets that hold some text, let's say so latex will consider the one and only argument that we have as an optional argument, and we'll take this as a default value for it. So if you omit that, it will it will directly put this default value in the placement of the argument.

And if you use it, you will override this default value. So in the output you will get if you use this optional argument here for this version of calling your new command, you will get formatting the argument. And let's say after that you will get text bf of the new optional in the output. So yeah, this is the first method of how you can work with an optional argument. Either this is the first one, you will have only one argument, and you will set the default value for that argument.

In this combination, LaTeX considers the one argument of a new command as an optional, and you can use the command dropping this. And in this case, LaTeX of course will take the default value for that. Or you can override the default value for the optional argument and it will be directed to the placeholder or the demo argument location. Let's see a close example to this one in action. So here we are, let's say that this is the first case, so sub subsection, let's call it one as optional, that is defining a new command that takes only one argument and setting the fold value for that argument to tell LaTeX that this one argument that we have is an optional argument.

So let's say that we have a new command that is called BT for blue text and one argument. And then inside the content, we say color. We can actually break this if you like. Okay. So here we have, sorry about that, backslash color.

And then we say blue. Yep.

and in the content, we just place this one argument over here. Now in the normal case, as of previously, this will be mandatory argument. So when you use this BT, you will have to input the value of this, of this argument over here. But after the brackets for the number of arguments, if it's one and you input anything any value, text or math inside a second pair of brackets, this first one only first argument will be taken to the option again. So let's say for that we say default.

So this is the word default over here. So when trying to use this in the first way, just calling the command name without any arguments, LaTeX will take the default value for the optional argument, set it here and type set the output. See this in the second page. So here we are. This is the first case that you can use this.

And of course, second one is to override this default value. So let's say new.

Here we are. Okay, this is the first case. The first case when you have only one argument. And the second method is to have two arguments for the new command or actually more than one argument. It's not only two arguments.

It's up to nine arguments. So now, let's say that we will only have two arguments. Now this default value for the optional argument will be for the first one. That's how the story goes. So if your command has only one argument, then this default of course will be for that one argument.

And if your new command for new macro have more than one argument, then this default value will be for the first one. So if you have two over here, and then latex will consider this first one as an optional argument. So when you use it, if you omit that optional argument, and put the mandator argument, which is the second one, It will take the default value that you put in the definition. So that's the first way that you can use this. So again, you have here more than one argument and you put this second pair of square brackets that have some value.

LaTeX will consider that this value is the default value for the optional argument, which is the first argument of your command. This is how latex is built. So more than one argument, this default value is taken for the first one. So in this case, you have two methods of using such a command, either by passing only the mandatory argument, which is here the second, the third, the fourth, and so on, not the first one. So from second and up to nine, if you have, of course, more than two.

And the first one is considered to be optional because you have provided a default value for that in this second set of square brackets. So in this case, you dropped the optional argument, then LaTeX will take this default first, for example, and put it for the dumb argument of the first command. or you can use the optional argument. So override this default first. So when you use such a call, you will have from adding the arguments, for example, new first here in text BF, and then the mandator argument is shipped to the second dummy argument for text over here.

So this is just to pay attention to how we how you design the definition the body of your new macro. If you provide a default value for an optional argument, this will be taken for the first one. So take that in your consideration. And when you're using you start by providing the mandatory arguments from to and up. So let's see an example of this.

Let's say sub subsection again, more than one first being optional. Let's say that we want to build a command that takes two arguments to print two words in fraction like text fraction like this one in the figure. We decided to have only one argument of the two to be mandatory. So we want to split it like one mandatory on one option. So new command, we call it text frac, let's see.

And here we have two total arguments in our new macro and we provide the default value for the first one because we chose to make the first one option. Let's say that we will call this def for default. And inside here, we simply put text it one over two. And that's it. So now when we use this, this one is optional.

If we dropped it, it will take this def and this is mandatory. So the first case again is by using this new command over here with only the mandator argument, which happens to be the second one. So let's say denominator. So let's see what will happen. Okay.

It's there. We used only the mandator argument of our new command, which happens to be the second one. So it shipped to this location. over here. And since we dropped the optional argument, which is the first one, it took its default value from the definition over here.

And as before, we can override the optional argument value, let's say new, And then we provide the mandatory argument again, which is the second argument, let's say again, denominator. So now this new which is optional will be taken to be here in the numerator. And this then this mandatory argument will be taken to the second dummy argument in the definition. and run. Yeah, here it is.

Now we have this new parse the dislocation. And then we have again, the mandator. So to default for the first, and then we have the definition. And when using, you can use only the mandator argument, which is the second one, or you can use the optional argument to override the full value for the first one. So we can we can say that for this, let's comment this out and say new command.

Let's say name. And then we have args, which is the number of arguments, and we have default first. just keep this in mind, this is the syntax. And this is the definition, let's say the body, so the eliminate confusion. So the name, the number of arguments, the default value for the first argument, and then the body of the definition.

And over here, again, it's the same, it's actually the same syntax as this But nice. Let's not say arguments, let's say one, and just default first. So you either have for your command, one argument and provide a value for it, or you can have more than one argument and provide the default value for the first one. So you can actually let's say let's say that we will make this three. And I don't know, let's let's just print this third argument over here.

So now how can we use this command right now, now we have total of three arguments in our command, this is the default for the first one. So when using that, we have to provide the two men data arguments, number two, and number three. So let's say that this is three. Okay, so this is the basic usage right now because we have two mandator arguments, three total, this is the default for the first one, which is optional. So the basic usage is to provide the mandator arguments for the command, which happens to be two and three.

And of course, we can in the second case, provide a default value for the first one and still provide the mandator arguments for the rest of the commands. So three again, see this now. Yep, here we are. So more than one. And inside here, we put the default value for the first one, if we choose to make it optional.

And you, of course, provide the mandatory arguments in order. This is the second one. This is the third one, and so on. And the first one you've got is Option. So you can drop it or you can overwrite its default value.

So I hope that this quick demo on how you can embed optional arguments will be clear by now. You just provide the default. In general, rest assured, you only provide the default value for the first argument. You can either have one or more.

So using optional arguments can somewhat be useful in some situation and it can add diversity to how you can define and use custom commands. So take for example, this quite practical example of a new command called red text. that gives a red color for its argument. But the thing here is that we will allow the user to input the shading or the opacity of the color that the text takes as an optional argument. So we will have two arguments, And then we'll provide initial or first value for the shading or mixing with white, which is 100%.

This is the value that comes after the exclamation mark. And inside here, we can this time use the text color. And here we say red, and then mix with the first argument. like the content in the second argument. So now we have total of two.

The first one here is the default that will be taken after this exclamation mark. By default, if the user meets this argument, it will be complete red of this second argument. So yeah, let's use this and it'll be obvious. So this is a

Yeah, red text. And we say, well, red text. This is the basic usage of it because we have provided again an optional argument, an optional, yes, an optional argument. This is the default value for the optional argument. So when we drop that, this is the default, of course.

So we dropped it here. This is the second one, which is the text to be colored. And now This hashtag one will take 100%. So this will be 100% red. Yep.

And this is versus new red text when we use the optional argument. So say that this time we want red 80%. So we put 80 here for the value of the first optional argument. And then we put again, the Mandela argument, which is the text to be colored, make this over here and run. So yeah, this is just one example.

It doesn't actually make

any change. So let's, yeah, this is quite obvious right now. Sorry about that. So 80%, it doesn't visually appeal or it's not different from 100%. So again, what we've done here is that we have created a new command It has two arguments total.

The first one is optional. And we choose this first optional to be the percentage of mixing with white. And we make it optional. So by default, if the user uses the command with only the Mandela argument, which is the second one here, the text to be colored by the text color command, then in the output, they will have 100% red by default.

But if the user chooses another mixing percentage, they can input that as an optional argument. This is the first one over here. So now we have read 60% of the content in them in their argument, which appears over here. So yeah, using optional arguments can help you further in making your commands flexible and versatile in a different way. that is allowing the user to tweak some things optionally and give them a default value if they choose not to do so.

Yeah, that's it. Now as usual, latex is amazing and it's flexible. So if you don't like this default value for the first argument, you can just omit it. So just by providing this set of square brackets, you're telling latex to make the first argument optional. So now there is no default value for this first option argument, and no one will be harmed.

So let's make this 50%. And run. So you still be used to be just fine. So yeah, this is a possibility also. So if you don't like cluttering this, or you don't, you're not thinking of a default value for the first optional argument, just by providing this empty square brackets after the one that takes the total number of arguments, You're telling LaTeX by making so to make the first argument optional and you don't provide any default value for it and that'll work too if you like that.

So yeah, let's leave it like that or as you want. In the next video, we will see how to make new macros with two optional arguments that will require a package. But for now, let's wrap this video by a small, straightforward concept, which is using existing custom commands inside the definition of another macros. So this is a subsection as whole. So we're now out of this embedding optional arguments thing.

So say that we have a new command called x that prints the letter x in math mode in the output. So s called backslash x. And what it does, it simply puts this in the output x in math mode with some spacing. So using this x right now, we can precede this by a sentence like this. So the command x now is this.

Okay. And the thing or the idea is that we can simply use this command x in the body of the definition of another command. So let's say that this another command is called x y. And what it does it's this this new one uses the value of x like that calls the command x and prints, let's say y, and that's it. And when using this, it'll print x and y.

Okay, we can get outside this over here. So here we have this X printing only X at the beginning. And then we use the idea here is to use an existing command inside the definition of another command. This is a possibility. So you can say that it's an abstraction inside an abstraction to make use of existing routines in defining new custom routines.

So previously x was printing x, and then we used this x, we called the x inside the x y, and put the y towards that. So now this is x y. So yeah, you can use existing commands either by the standard distribution or by the packages or custom commands that you make inside the definition of new custom commands. Yeah, and that's so thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

Okay, so we're still on this topic of defining new commands. And in the last video, of course, we saw how can we create macros with optional arguments. And to have more than one optional argument, there are actually a couple of ways to do that. And we're going to show here only one of them. And this is for the scope of LaTeX 2e, which is kind of the version of LaTeX that we've been using so far.

And in LaTeX 3, there are facilities like the XParse package that provides some flexible and advanced command interfaces that extend the LaTeX 2e standard macros. But LaTeX 3 is a different story, and this isn't the time for it. So, for the scope of this section, we will see how to create macros with only two optional arguments at maximum. And that is done with the toOpt package. This is a part of the overdick bundle of packages.

So search with that word or this name in the microtech console to install this to opt package that we're going to use. And of course, as always, we'll find that you opt package documentation in the resources. Now, this package's mission is fairly simple. It provides an extended commands to create new macros. So mainly we have the new command to opt and the syntax is as you can see here.

So it's somewhat like the new command macro of the standard distribution. This is an extension of that. So the name here is increased with this, the name of the package to opt. it takes as a first mandator argument of course the name that you choose for the new command and then we have the total number of the arguments and then since we since this time we will have two optional arguments we will increase two square bracket groups the first one is as the previous one, the default value for the first argument. And then we increase the default value for the second argument.

So now we'll have, let's say, four arguments. And then when we use both of those options over here of the default values under this new command to opt, so we'll have a hashtag one and two being optional. And then we'll have a hashtag three and four being mandatory. And of course, inside the last mandatory argument of this command here, we put the definition with the dummy arguments. So to use it can do one of the variations.

So either we can stick only to the mandatory input So or mandato inputs, it doesn't matter. So as I said, if you have a total number of arguments equal to four, and you choose to make the first two arguments optional by those optional arguments here of the toopt command, then you will have one and two optional. So you can emit them and you'll have three and four being mandatory. So of course, at the very basic version, you can only use the mandatory arguments of the command. And then we can use the first option only.

So we can have optional one, so the mandatory inputs. And then this is the first, the overhead of the first optional argument. Or of course, we can use both of the two optional arguments that we have. The first set of square brackets will have the new value for the first optional argument, hashtag one, and then we have in the second set of brackets, the new value for hashtag two, dummy arguments, and then we have mandator inputs. Or interchangeably, we can drop one of the optional arguments, meaning to provide an empty value for them and use only the second one.

So we'll see examples of that. So here, I break the page after this slide subsection here, and let's see. Okay, yeah, actually we need to use the package, so let's do that. We have tool opt. That's it.

So we'll come back here and say this is a new section. So let's create a new command using the new interface here. So new command, yes, but we increase to opt to the name. Okay, so we can call it to opt if we would like anything. And this, we will give it to make use of this new feature of having two optional arguments.

Of course, kind of we at least will have to input three total arguments. Two will be optional, hashtag one and two, and the third one will be mandatory, of course. So now the defaults for the first and second arguments, which of course, by now by using this one will be optional, we can say that the first one will be A and then the default for the first one, the letter A and the second one is letter B. And then inside the definition, we kind of just tag them to see how this will work. So hashtag one, and then two comma, and then three.

So now we are using the two opt, we have total number of three arguments, when we provide two set of square brackets for the default value for the first argument, the default value for the second argument, which are taken to be optional here, then we can play around with the definition as we like. So let's just use this to see how it will perform. And I will just use it with the third mandator argument over here. So this input over here, this is the third, let's say, argument. we will have a, b, and third arguments.

So first one optional, this is the default value for it. Here it is. This is the second one, and this is its default value, and this is the third one, which is the Mandatory input by the user. So let's give some vspace here, and we can override this time the first one. So here we'll use only one optional argument.

Of course, this will be taken to be the default for the first one or kind of the override for the first argument. So let's call this first new. And then yeah, let's let's take this to be third argument again. So after running, we'll have first new and then B, which is the default for the second, which we didn't change here again, when we only insert one square brackets, this will be taken to be the new value of the first optional argument. So Here it is, as you can see, first new, hashtag one, and then hashtag two, it is still B.

And then we have the third mandatory argument here with this third argument. So yeah. And again, we can give some space for that and use both of them. So sorry about that. So now we'll override both of the first and the second one.

So let's call this first. And the second over here, so we're overriding the hashtag one and two, and this is still three, anything. So this is the third way you can use this new command over here, so we have overriding both of the optional arguments. Yep. And we can interchangeably drop the default arguments.

So we by by dropping this, I mean, let's say to provide an empty first optional argument. So yeah, we can this three only. So this means that we will empty the default value for the first optional argument. So We'll have blank and then comma and then b and three only or three. Let's break after this to see this clearly and let's run again.

as you can see over here, let's zoom a little bit. So we have provided only one empty set of square brackets. So this is still in LaTeX. Do not print the default value of the first optional argument. So instead of having A, we have now an empty space for it.

And two, we didn't use two because we didn't insert the second set of square brackets. So we still get its default value over here, which is B. And then we have three, which is the Mandator argument. So now we can do the same thing with the second optional argument. So lots of ways of how can we use this.

So let's say to opt and then we provide both of them to be empty. So this is three only again. So this time truly we'll get only the mandator argument and then the placeholders, the arguments for the first and second optional arguments are freed up. And of course we can actually in between those provide the first one. So first one, which is A, and then the second one is empty and this is the third one.

Here I have provided a new value for the first optional argument, left the second one empty and provided of course the mandator argument. So we will have first and then blank, here it is, yeah shaded, first and then blank and then third. So I think those are the ways that we can use such a new command. So here again, we have three total arguments, the first one and the second one. And those are the ways that we can use it.

The first one is to provide only the value for the Mandator argument. And in this case, if we have provided a default values for the optional arguments, they will be printed. We can choose to override the default value of the first one and leave the second one as it is. as this case, and we can override both of them. So change the first and the second optional arguments.

And then we have three cases of dropping the optional arguments. So we can drop the first one as this one. So the A is gone. So this is disabling the default value printing and then we can, let's say, drop the second one while providing the first one and then we can remove both of them. And of course, lots of ways.

So we can actually hear why providing the first one, we can give the second one. So we can say second here. So in this line over here, when we drop the first one, this B will take this second over here. Look at the red line. Here it is.

And this is second. So yeah, you can play around with so many ways of how we can utilize such a small command. Okay, so I have embedded those cases here of using this command inside a description environment with some items. So you can kind of have them organized in the output. So now the toopt package, of course, offers a command to redefine or renew the macros created by its main command.

So for that, of course, we've got the renew command toopt macro. So let's create a subsection and make one example of that. So we can call it renew commands with two optional arguments. And then let's actually here, renew command and increase to opt to the name. We can again override this to opt.

So this command, it works exactly as the normal renew command. So let's say that we want to upgrade this to opt command to accept four total arguments this time. The first two will be optional, of course, and the third and the fourth will be mandatory. So we have to provide somewhat a new optional default values for the first and the second option one, let's say Q and P. So now new letters.

And here inside this definition, we can say underline the first underline the first optional argument. So here it is. And we can color the, or text color, it doesn't matter. So text color, Here we can say, for example, use the first mandatory, the fourth, sorry, the fourth mandatory argument to color the second optional argument. So when we provide this fourth mandatory argument, it will be the color when we use that.

So text color, let's say we have provided blue for the fourth mandatory argument, it will be shipped here. And this is this fourth mandatory argument will be used to color the second mandatory argument, the second optional argument. And simply for the third mandatory argument, yes, we have hashtag three takes eight. So this time for total arguments, the first one is optional, the second one is optional, the third and the fourth are mandatory. And this is some stuff here to format those.

So, let's print some of the use cases for this new version of the toopt command. And here we are, some ways to use that. So, the first one is by providing only the mandatory arguments as stated before, so this is the third mandator argument. This is the fourth mandator argument. So as stated, this fourth is the green here.

It'll be taken to color the second optional argument, which we drop in this first one. So it'll be taken from the default values. in the second one, we empty the first optional argument. And then we override the value of the second optional argument. And then we provide the mandatory set.

And this is giving an override value for the first mandate for the first optional argument, emptying the second optional argument and providing the mandatory set. So yeah, different ways as the one before, okay, We have undefined control sequence. Sorry, this is two opt, not two opts. Sorry about this typo. And let's run again.

here we are. So this is only the mandatory set. So we have here green, we used this green to color the second optional argument, which is P. And the first, the first optional argument, which is Q, it's underlined over here. So we have it.

And then we have the third mandatory argument, which is some input text. And then when we provide an override value for the second mandatory argument to make it the small caps P. And then in this case, we have the blue. So we have blue P over here. Let's zoom in a little bit to see it.

And the third mandatory argument is over here. And of course, the first optional argument is empty. I hope that you are following along with this. So it's kind of like the first one, some different ways of how you can use this. And the third one, given an override, the typewriter for the first argument, which is underlined, and then the second optional argument is now empty.

So, we don't get this colored letter. And of course, we have the third mandator argument over here. And you can notice that now we have a mandator argument that does nothing. This is the fourth, the hashtag four. But we use this hashtag four to color the second argument, which we empty in this case.

So, we have provided a mandator argument that does nothing. Let's see if we can drop this. And of course, we don't. So yeah, it says undefined color. So it's actually using this in the background and coloring it.

But when printing, we have emptied the second argument so we don't see it. So, do not think about this. If you have a mandatory argument that does some formatting for an optional argument that you drop, do not think about dropping the argument, the mandatory argument value itself when using the command, because most probably you will get an error for that. Emptying this is just not printing it, but in the background, LaTeX has performed this line over here. So, yeah, do not do that and run again.

And we're all set.

Okay. Now it's possible that you will drop the default values for the optional arguments when creating the new command itself. So we did that in the previous video. As stated before, you can have those optional arguments over here not having a default value. So let's see this.

Let's create a subsection for that. So omitting defaults of optional arguments. For this, let's make a new command that take three total arguments. So let's copy the name of this macro over here and create two. let's name it a text format, anything that takes three total arguments.

And then for the defaults for the two optional arguments that we have, we provide nothing. So again, providing empty sets, we tell LaTeX to make the first and the second one optional. And then we go directly to the definition body. And just listing this one, two, and three. just to let you know that this is a possible action, and then text format, some text, and that's it.

So we only provide the third mandatory argument, and we don't have default values for the first and second one.

but of course, we can still use them. So let's say this is the first one. And here, let's say we will provide first only. So provide a value for the first mandatory argument only. So we'll have first only and after that some text.

Let's break after this. Sorry about that.

So yeah, here we are. So first only and then some text. So let's call this third mandatory. And of course we can do all of the ways. So this is just an example of how you can initiate the first two arguments of your new command to be optional without having to put default values here.

So don't worry about that. You can rest assured you can do it. You can say that this case over here is like having a default values for the optional arguments, but providing empty square brackets in using. So yeah, this is the counterpart. It's the vice versa version of having default arguments, but providing or emptying them when using.

So you can do both ways. So yeah, I will close for now. In this video, we learned how to create commands that take two optional arguments instead of one using the tool opt package. So yeah, see you in the next video. Okay.

So continuing with this topic of creating and redefining custom commands, we can break the page to move on to the concept that this is actually new, which is redefining commands. We saw this previously in several occasions of how we can redefine our commands, but I just wanted to document this in this input tech over here. So yeah, let's break this page, and then create a new section, call it redefining commands. So of course, as a first step, we can say subsection, we can alter the built-in commands, of course. And of course, we can also use the Renew command to redefine user-defined macros.

Let's first see an example of this to recap. So let's renew the section command which controls the ordering of the section numbers. If we do that after this section over here to start having different formats from subsection onwards, we can say renew command and then say the section.

We can say alphabetical yes of section. So section is the counter. And let's see this now is fourth page, yes, over here. So as you can see, we have redefined this section, this is the counter for the section. So that's why we have alphabetical of this fourth section over here.

So D instead of four, but the subsection is still Arabic command. So if let's say,

If we put this here, you will have D instead of four. Here it is, yes. And then D1, we can say our Renew command and we can say the subsection that holds the value and let's say, yeah, let's, I don't know, let's Roman of subsection.

this is, yep, and we actually need to provide a numbering for the section itself. So yeah, this way, while we have only the lower case of Roman for the subsection, we're telling LaTeX that we want the label to print in front of every subsection level to be only the lowercase Roman of the subsection counter. So we have actually eliminated the counter of the parent section by not providing a value for it here. So let's say to fix this and we can actually increase this over here. That's what I talked about in redefining internal commands.

I don't actually do that so often so we have to be careful about this so we can print a format now for this section for the counter to have D over here and we can kind of provide a dot over here.

Yeah, here it is kind of strange and weird, but yeah, this is how we can do. So be careful about redefining things. Previously, when we had only the counter of the subsection, Latik did exactly what we ordered. So we only had this I over here. And now when we increased a formatted section counter, we have it.

So yeah, be careful about redefining again, one more time. Okay, so other things that we can do with the Renew command is that, for example, we can alter the table name macro. Let's put this after this one over here. And let's say Renew command. Of course, as we know, we can Sorry about that.

We can get rid of this and directly enter the table name, the name of the macro that we want to redefine. And inside here, we want to make this tabular. This is the label that appears before the caption of a tabular environment. So by default, of course, it's table. So now we will have it tabular.

So, let's actually insert a table to test this. Here it is. We have a table float here. Inside it, we're centering a tabular environment that is only one cell. And most importantly, we have a caption here.

So, in front of this caption, we will have, yes, tabular instead of table, which is this command over here. And of course, we can redefine the counter for the tables. This is actually inside a command called that table. Sorry about this. Get rid of those and that table.

We can make it again Roman of table. So this is the command that holds the value of this counter, just like the section and section. So instead of 1, we will get i, this over here. So, yeah. And of course, the list goes.

You can redefine lots of things. Okay, so that was kind of for changing one value that a macro holds, as you can see. So we have a macro that has a value, which is somewhat a counter or a text, and we override that. But in addition to that, there are no command can change the definition of existing commands with arguments also. So let's say that we don't want any annotation for this.

so let's say that we wish to alter the behavior of the textbf command to underline its input text besides making it a full face font so we can do that by renew command and then we say textbf so this is the name of the macro of course we don't put any arguments here for going inside the redefinition. Actually, to redefine a command that has arguments, so we want to override the value of the arguments or change their formatting. As we know, of course, the TextPF takes one mandatory argument, which is the text to be of bold font. So to override or to format this hashtag one, only a Mandator argument of this command, we have to put this one Mandator argument over here. So the Renew command just as the new command.

So we would like to alter the Mandator argument of this text BF. And inside that, we can simply put some groups to limit the effect of this. So underline, sorry about this, underline, what's going on under underline. Now, if you think that you must only provide the dumb argument for the first argument, let's see what will happen in this case. Let's now use this.

Let's call it new text vf. Just any random thing. Let's see what will happen. Yep, here it is. You only have the input of our TextBF underlined.

Again, because you didn't tell LaTeX to make this of bold font. Now, you have this command that is called TextBF. You renew this command, so you make a new definition for that. We alter its only Mandator argument by making it underlined. And we don't mention anything about the sizing of this argument over here.

So when we use that, we've got only the input of the text BF underlined. So you have to be careful again about this. So now how can we make this bold font? Yes, we can use the BF series. So the BF series will apply the bold font on this command over here, this argument, and this will make it underlined.

Yeah, so this time we have achieved our goal of increasing underline for the input of the text BF. So somewhat you have to be specific about the new definition, whether if you want to preserve the older or the original features of the command or not. So what you input here, you will get it outside. Actually, we don't need this surrounding group brackets. You can get rid of this and to make sure you can say some surrounding.

text. Of course we have the effect only not touching any surrounding text. So it can happen that you face errors or get uninspected results as we have here when changing the effect of some standard commands. So in some cases, when you're browsing the documentation of packages, also you may find that the authors allow you to redefine some macros that they offer to have some kind of a different styling for the use cases that you make. And in such cases, pay attention to the marked compatibility issues, so if any pointed by the author.

So be careful about that because a lot of clashes here and there between the commands in the background. So let's create sub subsection, be careful redefining existing commands. Let's open a group to limit the scope of the change we're going to make here. So a group like this and a new line. So the change that we're going to make in this limited scope is to redefine the math command VEC.

This is the original look of this command. So text backslash vec, which is this vector over here. So let's see it. So it just puts some, yeah, this is kind of a strange behavior over here because we didn't change the sub subsection counter. Do that if you like.

But focusing on the vec command, you can see that it only puts a small red arrow vector over its argument over here. Say that we wish to have the output of this vector to be of bold font. So at first glance, we might do this. We can rush over here and say, so let's renew this. as you know the vec and this one is taking the first one mandator argument and inside this new redefinition we can say that math bf bold font math for the argument of this vec So this is kind of the very first thought that we can get.

So redefine the vector. It's first only argument. So give it a math bf. So let's use this new version of the freq command. Say, but now it's

and put it inside this group over here. So let's say Vic of, yeah, let's say V. Let's see what will happen. It's sorry about this. Yeah.

Let's see what will happen.

Again, we have only the letter V of bold font, and that's it. There is no right arrow above the letter itself. So the very main feature of the vec command that we have by default, which is to make its input tile sized and have an arrow above that, when we redefine thinking that doing such a thing which applying the math bf on the mandator argument of the fit command only this does not preserve the the right arrow above the letter and again this is a reasonable result considering the body of our definition which is only of course thickening the argument of the command in math mode and that's it So we have completely changed the original implementation of the vec command thinking that we would get this. But our new definition says something else. So be careful, again, about the thought process when targeting such a goal.

And in this case, specifically, we might need to define a new command that gives a bold font to the output of the vig command without touching the vig command itself. So to get the result in the picture here, we can do this. So outside the scope, so now instead of redefining the command to make this thing bold overall, we can make a new command. So sometimes redefining an existing command to exhibit some formatting won't work. So it'll be a better idea actually to kind of tailor a new command in terms of the target command that you're trying to adjust.

So yeah, let's call this vectorize. Vectorize, yes. And of course, this will take one argument.

Now this time we won't use the mathbf command. Instead another bold mathfond command will be used which is backslash bm. So instead of mathbf no we will use backslash bm. And inside that, we put the vec command with the argument of the input. So we say vec, yes, and hashtag one, the dummy argument for our new command.

So this is defining a new command to give the output of the vec, which is the input of this command over here, we'll give it a bold math font. So, using this, let's say here, vectorize, and we give it small letter V. But before running, we should add the BM package. So this BM command relates to the BM package over here. So use package, BM.

The package is a part of the LaTeX tools in a standard distribution so use it, there is no installation needed. And of course you find its documentation also in the resources if you want to learn more about that. So going back here and run to see the output. Yeah, here it is. We can see that we have this V here of the vectorize bold and we preserve the red arrow presented by the vec command.

So instead of redefining that, we create a new command in terms of the target command and we apply this BM from the BM package for bold math font. Okay, so now let's end this video by making a new subsection to alter the user defined commands. Do you remember the x y command that we did before? So let's add the letter z to it this time. So we renew its definition for the x y.

And then this time, we preserve the old typeset of it, which is the x y letter and then we add z this time. And that's it. So x, let's say verb, backslash, verb of this one is now printing

x y. It'll give us x y z. Yeah, the x y is now printing x y z. So and that's it, actually. So let's restore the Arabic numbering of sections.

Here it is, and break this page to move on to the next concept. That'll be nesting definitions, but we'll do this in the next video. So thanks for watching, and I'll see you there.

Okay, so the concept of today's video is nesting the definitions of new commands. This is like having a an outer big command that is considered as a container, let's say, and inside that you want to have a new definition for a custom macro. So nesting definitions is to instantiate or to make a new command inside the definition of another new command you can say that this is the outer and this is the inner one now this structure is possible but pay attention to the brackets surrounding the definition of the inner commands so because without those you will get an error if you try to use the outer command more than one time as we will see so If you have an outer command like this, a parent one, and inside the definition of this one, you want to have a new commands, then you have to surround the entire declaration of this inner command with a brackets in order for you to use the outer command more than one. Because if you didn't do so, you will get an annual test that. So let's see an example to understand this.

Let's create a section here. So this will be under the new command, of course. So this is using the new command macro. There is another way that we will use this time. Okay, from the previous video, we have played around with this section and subsection.

So let's search for this. So let's comment those out. Also comment this. So get rid of all of this. So yeah, 5.1.

Okay. So let's say that we have a parent command that is called father. So this is a new command that is called father in which inside that we wish to abstract other routine and a new command called sun. So new command.

So inside this inner sun new command, we will have a text color of blue for some text or some content, anything. So now this definition of son is considered as a part of the body of the content for the father. So now inside the father, the definition of the father is now only the definition of this son. So let's, besides that, increase some text for the father and use the son within that. So if we use the father in this context, we get nothing because we have a definition inside a definition.

There is no text or input or anything to print in the output when using the father. So let's make sure of that. So let's say father, and you will get nothing, of course, because the body of your father over here have only a definition for the son. So after this definition, let's say that we can have some text that says father contains And now one of the reasons of course we can have an inner command and in definition inside a father one is to use it. So some kind of imagine that you have a very long definition for an outer big macro and inside that you wish as stated to abstract some routine in order to use it more and more inside the scope of the first one.

So son and son again. So, yeah, if it so happened that you want to, let's say, repeat this sound content in blue more than one, and you don't want to kind of repeat this more and more over again, so you abstract it in a macro and use it inside the context of the big one. So automation inside automation, so lots of abstractions. Yeah, here it is. So it says father contains some content and some content.

This is the content for the father now. So this is the basic state of how you can define a new command inside a new one. So nesting those commands. So now, as you can see, I have missed the group brackets around the definition of the inner command. So let's see what will happen if we try to use the father one more time.

So second call for the father. That won't work. And you will get this arrow that says the command son already defined. So this is the complaint now. And the reason is obvious as the error says.

After the first call, which is this one, we have registered a definition for the macro son here inside this definition in the first call. So when calling the father one more time, Latex tries to execute this, finds that there is a request to define a new command that is called son, but there is already one defined or registered in the background. So that's why Leitech is complaining about this son command that it's already defined. It's already registered from the first call of the father command. So solving this will require to wrap the entire inner definition inside a group bracket.

So let's say, yep, here it is to make this kind of obvious. I don't know. So those are the group for inner. So just by surrounding the entire declaration of the new command, this is yeah, this is the boundary for the content of the sun. So as you can see, surrounding the entire declaration of the inner by a group brackets solves this problem.

So it looks like we're missing some here. So undefined control sequence, it's pointing to the sun that it's undefined. And this is actually quite accurate from LaTeX and it's good that this error happened over here. Do you see what we've done? we have wrapped the entire declaration of this new command to this group over here so this is a limited scope this new command sun will be only visible and operable inside this scope but if you look outside that which is the rest of the body of the father you can see that we are using the sun so this is a limited scope When LaTeX tries to execute this sun and sun, it searched for it and it doesn't find it inside the body because it's closed inside this limited scope.

So in order for us to solve the problem of the second call for nesting this, we have to be careful about where we can use this inner definition. So cut this from the scope of the body, the greater scope of the body of the father and put it inside here. So here inside this group, we can say and group here. So this is the group for the inner definition. And we must use this inner definition if we would like to do so inside its scope.

So run and we'll get no errors. Yep, this time we have again, this is the second call over here. So again, we can list the definitions in order for us to use the first level command more than one time, we have to wrap the entire declaration of the inner commands by a group brackets. Okay. And if we are going to use those inner commands over here, of course, we have to put that usage inside this limited scope over here.

And you can use this over and over again as you like.

Yeah, here it is. So be careful about this group and where you use the inner commands. Of course, if you have another one, you can make another group and use it inside the group of the second inner, if you will. So let's actually document those facts. This is a description environment over here.

So yeah, you can see that for the second call to call the outer command more than once, you have to surround the inner commands with the group killer braces over here. And the scope, you have to watch for the scope of the inner command as we did over here. So when this line was outside this scope of the inner command, we get an error because later couldn't identify this macro sun because it's of limited scope. It's used outside of its limited scope. So be careful about the scope of the inner commands because of the mandatory group brackets that we put around them.

Now we can say that finding a practical use cases for nesting commands isn't easy. One can imagine again needing to structure a huge macro that contains lots of content that itself needs some abstraction for some of its instructions. So as stated, you may want to use this one line of code here more and more in the context of the father. So instead of doing so, you can abstract this in a command and use it here inside, of course, this code for the father. So yeah, this is one imaginary case.

So, yeah, overall, this process can end up being extremely complex if you go down in nesting levels, as you will have, of course, to maintain the group brackets, the structure, the right scopes for the inner commands in the order, of course, to produce desired output from the parent command. So it's a missive process, of course. And this task can be really problematic, so be cautious about this. Now, there is another configuration that I talked about for nesting definitions of new commands, which is to use the provide command macro that is used to define new commands. Let's see what is this.

Using text backslash, provide command. The provide command is another standard LaTeX macro to create custom commands. And this is just like the new command. But the difference between them is that the new command, as we know, raises an error when it detects that the required command name to be created is already defined. We already know that and we've seen this a moment ago with the sun.

So of course, for the second call, when we didn't have this group bracket. So overall, the new command, if it detects that the command name already exists, either in the standard distribution or in the package that you're using, it raises an error. But the provide command, when used to create a new macro, it searches to see if the name exists. so if not it creates it so when we use provide command let's say with father over here it searches for this father if it exists so if it doesn't exist it creates it exists, it does nothing. So if we try, let's say, yeah, let's let's try this with father.

If we say that we want to provide command, so creating a custom command that is called father, And this time, let's pretend that we're creating a new command. Let's say that it prints the word text somewhat in bold font and that's it. And now let's use this father over here. So what do you think that we'll get? This father contains some content and some content or this text BF of text.

Let's actually run to see what will happen. And we have the previous father song content and song content because when we provide the command that already exists, it does nothing. So provide command searches for the name of this and it finds it over here. So it does nothing for its body over here. So actually, this call is calling this one over here, this definition.

So this is the difference between the new command and provide command. New command raises an error if it finds that this, so yeah, if this is new command, so let's see the difference here. So if this is new command, And we say that this new command is called father. And then an inside that let's say, text, text it doesn't matter, we will get an error sooner or later. So off text.

So when latex observed this line of code, it tries to create a new command that is called father. When it serves, it already finds that father exists. So we'll get an error for that. This is the difference between provide command and new command. New command raises an error of the command exists.

Provide command does nothing if the command exists. So, and if it exists, of course, as we saw, we have the previous body in the output. So one more time, this is the difference provide command does nothing when it finds that the required new command exists, unlike command unlike new command, which raises an error. So comment this out, run again, Here we are. Okay.

So now I didn't mention the Provide command up until now because of its quite problematic behavior, because you can mistakenly create a new command in a document and end up with an unexpected behavior, because the context of using the Provide command to create new macros is typically done in building style files or packages or classes. So not in input documents like this one, because it can be risky to throw up definitions like that for commands that already exist. So as stated in a cluttered big document, you may think that you are providing a new command that will print this text bf in the output, and you forgot that this father exists. And when you do that, you get a strange output, unlike the definition that you're seeing. I'm just imagining a new big tech file that has so many, or a styled file even that has so many new commands inside it.

So that's why I left that for our case here. So what we're going to do is that we're going to use this provide command as the macro creator for the inner commands, the nested commands, the sun commands inside the father ones instead of having new command. Because as we saw when we did this new command, the inner run without the group brackets and tried to call the father one a second time, we'll get an error. that says that the sun already exists. So that's, that's why we're going to use the provide command, because it does nothing if the command exists.

And in this case, as we'll see, we will not need to have this group records that can be clumsy if you have so many nested definitions. So say that the parent command this time will be named outer. So We have a new command so we will still use the macro new command for the outer big definition. Inside it at the child level we may provide a nested command called inner. So this time we will use the provide command macro to set the definitions of the inner commands.

And provide here again let's say a text color of blue. that says some content again. Okay, so let's use this inner here actually. So with the same convention outer contains.

So now we have some content here for the outer one in this scope. And when calling outer in this case, let's make this orange. I don't know. Okay, so about this, I forgot the backslash for the provide command in the inner. I hope that you observed this.

So yeah, here it is. So this time instead of again using the new command for the inner command, we used the provide command. So what is the privilege now? This time we can call freely the outer one more time without any kind of problems. So as you can see, this inner definition is hanging free inside the outer scope without the need for any surrounding group reacts.

And the reason why is in the second call latex tries to make this new inner command with a provide command, it searches and it finds that it's already defined from the previous call. So since we're using the provide command, it does nothing and uses the definition that it knows, which is this one. which is this exact behavior that we have explained. So the provide command comes handy in such situation to avoid having this need for the group brackets to surround this over here. And I say that in this case, you can quite go deeper easily in the levels.

So since the provide command does not produce an error of the required command already defined. So let's say that inside this inner in the content of this inner, let's say we want to define a new command using the provide command here that's called inside that uses the red color to color this text. So we have an outer command that has in an inner command using the provide command. And this inner command in its body, it contains this provide command, which is called inside. So now outer contains inner and inside.

So watch out for this rich content that will appear here. Here it is. So it says outer contains grand and some content and grand content. So this is kind of the preferred way for you to have NISTed definitions. to use the new command.

And for the inner definitions, use freely the provide command. Because when it searches for the name of the required macro to be created, and it finds that it exists, it does nothing and it uses the old definition of that. So it doesn't reason error. And again, in this case, we avoid using excess group brackets like this. I hope that this is clear by now.

You can make some arbitrary examples, replay this video to get it. So let's document this as the previous one with a description environment. Here it is. So now the provide behavior, we have it over here and the scope of the inner. Now those scopes are accessible freely because we don't have any limiting by any groups.

So now you have this inner accessible here and the inside that is inside inner is accessible outside here inside the context of the outer big group. So you can go deeper and deeper in the levels without any group practice cluttering the definition.

Okay, here we are. So that was one method. And the second one is with provide command as stated. So those are the two ways and their limitations of how you can nest definitions inside each other. Okay.

Now if you ask about having arguments in such nested structures for outer, father, and inner definitions, then you shall have it. So we can actually give the outer command and the inner commands some arguments to play with. So let's create a new command. This is called father with lowercase f. So be careful about this.

This one will take a one mandatory argument. Of course, this first level father command takes its argument as we learned so far using the demo arguments, hashtag one, two, three, and so on. So let's say that the body of this father will contain a red 80% for its one and only mandatory argument. And then when we add an inner son command, let's say using the provide command this time to avoid access errors. Let's call this backslash son with lowercase s. We'll give it also one command.

And inside that, of course, the provide command as the new command allows for argument embedding. But here inside this child or nested or son command, the dummy arguments for it will be using double hashtags. So, let's say that we want this, let's say, green, 80%. And this dummer argument that is pointing to the mandator argument of the sun command will require double hashtags. So this is the child level.

So the outside level, the first argument, of course, has its own argument like that. And if we wish to give the provide command of the inside the inner or the nested definition, an argument, then the dummy argument to the placeholder for that will require double hashtags. we can use the sun now. So now this sun has a an argument now I mean that argument that is just a text. So this one will be shipped to this location.

which is hashtag hashtag one, we can actually bring this over here. So we can say that when we use the father, let's use this compound. Now, let's say father. So this father over here is the mandator argument of this outer one, it'll be shipped to this location. and have a red 80%.

So this now will be evaluated to father in red 80% that contains the song content. So we can put some contains word over here.

And when we run, yeah, we'll have it. Father contains song content. So

Let's see if this affects anything. No, we're all still good. So this is how we can use the arguments for the nested definitions on the bigger level for the father one, we deal easily normally with its arguments using the dumb arguments, hashtag, and then the number of the argument. But for the inner definitions, if they will require to use an arguments, then we use at the sun level, we use double hashtags. Now, if you would like to go deeper, meaning to provide a command at the third level, the grandchildren inside this provide command, you will have to put quadruple four of those hashtags in front of the number of the argument.

So you can say that the number of hashtags required before the number of the argument doubles. as you go deeper. So at the very first level, we have one, and the sun level, we have two, and then the grandchild level will require four. So let's say that we will commit this crime over here by providing another command at the grandchild level. Let's call it grand.

it'll require one argument and this is the body of the definition of this grand and then we give it text color like this let's say teal 80 percent and now we will require one two three four and then one so some content and and grand of grand content

This is just using the inner commands over here with their mandator arguments inside the scope of the father. So father, this is the same thing. And yep, here it is. We have father, which is the argument here that this is the argument of the outer bigger command that is shipped to this location of hashtag one. And inside that, a call for the sun level command is needed.

So this sun content is shipped to this location of hashtag hashtag one. And at the third level, we have this grand with its argument, which is shipped to this location, this strange dummy argument for the third tier level, first level, second level, and then third level. So again, the number of hashtags, doubles as you go deeper. So one hashtag, two hashtags at the Sun level, four hashtags at the grandchild level, the third tier. So believe me, you don't want to do that, especially if you have lots of arguments, and this can be really, really like hell.

But I don't think that you can go deeper than that, requiring eight arguments, so eight hashtags, sorry. So let's actually, I don't know why we can do this, but let's test it. Let's say that we'll provide command at this level. Let's call it fourth. This is the fourth level, one argument.

And inside that, let's give it again a text color. This time, I don't know, yellow, 80% of what.

I don't know, eight. This is the fourth level, so we double that. Paste, paste, and one. I hope, I don't know, this might not work, but let's try. And also, let's increase a call for this fourth one.

Exclamation mark and run. Okay. So we have it. Oh, great. This is not great at all.

Yeah, this is the fourth level. It can break. It doesn't matter. So some content, grand content. This is four hashtags.

And then the fourth level, which required eight hashtags. If you try to go deeper inside here, you'll get an error. I think this is maximum. So first level, second level for the sun, third level for the grandchild. And then we have this fourth level, which required eight hashtags for its dummy arguments.

So yeah, this is how you can do it. You double the number of hashtags in order to go deeper and play around with the arguments of those nested definitions.

So yeah, that's it. That's the end of the session or topic for defining and redefining and playing around with user custom command. I hope that you found this videos beneficial and give you some ideas. And yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. We will look at how to create custom user defined environments.

So thanks for watching. I'll see you there. Okay, hello and welcome you guys to this video. So today we will take a look at how can we build our own custom environments. Of course, it could happen sometimes that you have a long architecture of commands and instructions that may not be sufficient for a command to hold.

So broadening the body of your custom structure may be a good alternative for that. So, for this, Latex offers a new environment macro and, of course, a re-new one that both act exactly somewhat like the command counterparts. So, the full syntax for this macro is as follows. You have, of course, the name of the environment, which is to be added, of course, this time without any backslash because this is a name for a new environment, not a command. And then we have the total number of arguments, if any, if you choose to embed some arguments.

And after that, we have the default value for the first argument. So if we choose to make the first argument optional one, so just like as before, if this is more than one argument, and you opt this, you embed this default value for an optional argument, of course, it will be for the first one, and the rest will be mandatory. And then we come to the body of the definition for the new environment. Now, this is quite different from the command method, because here the definition is split between the two mandatory arguments for the new environment macro, this one and this one. The first one holds the instructions that will be performed just right after beginning the environment.

So you can consider this to be the main part of the definition body. Here we put all of the commands and text with formatting as you want. And those will be carried out when beginning or initializing the environment. Now an important note here for this first part is that this is the place where you are allowed only to use the arguments. So I'm talking about the dummy arguments, hashtag and the number of the arguments.

you can only put those placeholders in this kind of second mandator argument for the new environment. So as I stated, the definition for the structure or the body of the environment is plated between those two arguments, We are only allowed to use the placeholder in this first part of the definition body. And what we insert here, those are carried out just right after initializing or beginning the environment, as you will see. So the hashtag dummy placeholders are only permitted and functional with this first argument over here. And if you try to use the demo arguments in the second part, you will get an error.

Here in the second part of the definition body, you put the instructions that will be applied after terminating the environment. So the opposite way from the first one. So here we put all the instructions and the commands that we want to apply or typeset after terminating the new environment. And here, of course, again, you can insert the macros you wish as long as they don't incorporate any dummy arguments. So hashtag N is only permitted in this first part.

so typically for this for the second the end part of the definition as you will see it contains things like vertical spaces that we wish to have after every occurrence of the new environment so if you think about it if we want to insert some space vertically after each instance of this new environment we're using it in the the text then we can put this V space here. So let's apply this V space. It's somewhat like after end environment hook, if you recall that. Or we can also put the end statements for any built-in environment we have used in the definition. So of course, again, as we'll see, if we want to use one of the built-in environments, of course, to define our own new environment, and we begin the environment any environment in this first part.

So we put the end statement of that environment as you will see in the second part. So overall, again, the definition of the new environment is split it now between two arguments, not only one as for the new command, So here, this is the beginning the definition, all what we put here are carried out. This is the main part of the body of the environment, they start to type set the commands here, or the environments here after, of course, beginning the environment. And this is the location or the space, we are allowed to use our own arguments. And in the second part, we finish, we finalize our definition by commands, and in statements that will be carried out after terminating this new environment.

This will be more clear with some examples, so let's actually do that. Here I have an article and I have the CantLibsum and GraphicX loaded. Okay, so let's say that we want to create an environment that prints this arrangement in the figure. Here we have a large font paragraph with the initial letter being huge, something similar to the first chapter of a novel or so. And at the end, we have a horizontal rule plus some spaces in multiple places in this structure.

So let's see how we can make this up using a new environment. So I would like typically to insert any definitions for new environments in the parameter. But of course, you can put it anywhere else. So new environment, yes, over here. So as you can see, by default, we have this for the name and those mandatory for the two parts of the definition.

So let's call this my paragraph, my power, of course, again, the name of the environment has no backslashes. Let's split this up. Also do the same thing for the second part. So this is the first part of the definition. This is the second part.

Okay. so this first example will have no arguments so it'll be quite static so later on we will redefine this but for now let's focus on the basics of the process So first of all, in the first argument here, this first part of the definition, we can begin by inserting a vspace to be applied at the very beginning of the environment before printing the paragraph, just to separate our paragraph from the preceding content in the document. So essentially, a vspace above or at the beginning of our environment. So let's begin by this V space. This space will serve as a separator from a kind of a section heading, for example, like this one.

After that, we can format the first letter of the paragraph, which we will fix for now to be a capital letter T. So yeah, let's break this line and say, huge, and then we say text SC, sorry about that, and capital T. Now the formatting macros we put in this first argument are applied on all the content that we will insert in the body of the environment. So this huge statement is sizing macro that if we leave it hanging free like this in the body of the definition, it will actually be applied to the content that we will use inside the environment here in a text. So what I mean is that if we only need to give this letter T a huge font like this, so we will have to limit this by a group.

Okay, so now only this huge is applied to this text sc of t, because if we leave it like that, it will be applied for all of the content until something switching happens. So yeah, let's just focus on this. And after that, we can say large. So this this backslash large is what will give the entire paragraph that we will use inside the environment. Here in a moment, this will give it the large font size.

And actually, that's it for the initial instructions. So we have this v space that will separate from section headings. And then we have we begin by a capital letter T that is fixed. And then we give the rest of the environment some formatting, which is a large size font. So what is actually that this command will format?

Well, it is the can paragraph that we will put inside the body of this my bar environment when we use it just right here. So Now the rule part is semantically separated from the initial phase and needs to be inserted in the second part of the definition. So let's first place an instance fusing this environment, of course, to understand the structure of the definition. So yeah, let's do it here before making anything else. So let's begin by a new section.

So, new structure for paragraphs, and then we begin our custom environment, which is my par, and we end it. so now we put the rest of the first sentence without the letter t so of course what we will insert here will have the formatting that we apply in the definition somewhat it all adds up so we have here a fixed t so we set the rest so as of tech but now tx the rest of the sentence. And after that, we put our cant paragraph. So now this is the body of our definition. So this, this is the first part, we will have this v space above.

So what we have here will be applied just right after beginning the environment. So let's say that the instructions of the begin definition, which is the first part, starts here. So before this content of the new environment, we'll have this V space, we will have this capital letter T, which will be typeset here to complete the word tech. And this and anything else that we can insert here, it'll be applied on this. So this large is what will give this entire body the large size.

So yeah, the instructions that we have here in the first part of the definition will be initialized and typeset just right after beginning this environment. So now what we will put in the second part of the definition here is what appears after typesetting the environment body. So after completing the initial instructions in the first part, and after typesetting what the user have put inside this new environment, we can put here the rest of the definitions that we kind of we wish to apply after finishing the environment. So let's say that the instructions to carry out after finishing.

So this is, let's say, end definition. So we need the rule to be printed, of course, after the paragraph. So for that, of course, we'll have a typeset after ending the environment in this second part of the definition. So here, you can see that there is some kind of a V space that separates the last line of the paragraph from this rule. So we can begin this area of the definition by a V space.

So let's say that this is one centimeter. And then we put no indent for the rule. this is kind of essential for alignment to have the row have its end right end and left end with the paragraph and then we put the row command so we wanted to span the text width so of course width wide and this the height will be three points so if you recall this is a row

width and height. And what's remaining for this part is an optional vspace again to be applied after this rules to separate the last portion of the entire environment from what's coming after that in the document. So let's say one centimeter to separate that. So here in this second part, we'll have this V space, this one centimeter V space in this second part will be applied after this can paragraph after finishing the content entered by the user. And then we'll have our role and then we'll have again, one more V space to separate the role from the rest of the content.

So yeah, this is the time to see it and see if that we will get. Okay, here we are. Yeah, everything is working just fine. And as you can see, here we have this, if you look at that, we have this V space of half a centimeter, this is the separator here from this section heading up until to the first line. And then we have we begin by this capital letter T. And after that, the body is typeset.

So we have this x until amazing in those dots. And then we have this can paragraph. And all of this gained its formatting from this large over here. So this is applied from starting at the environment onwards. And then after finishing the environment, or after specifically after finishing the typeset of the content, LaTeX applied the rules that we gave it in the second part of the definition.

So it is started by one centimeter v space. This is that one there. And then we have our horizontal rule over here. And then we have the other v space after or below our rule. So yeah, this is as you can see, the definition works with the content of the body, what we have here is typeset before.

So that's why we have this T before the sentence. And any formatting that we put actually inside this first argument will be applied on the entire content of the body that the user gave in the text. And after finishing typesetting this body that that is inserted by the user, let it starts to apply those instructions that you give it after or at the termination of the environment. So you can see that there is kind of a unwanted horizontal space here between the this huge letter T it's actually somewhat because of this big sizing so we can retract this by a negative V space so H space and let's say

0.4 centimeters. So we we are kind of putting a negative horizontal space before beginning. Again, this part, all of the all of those commands and instructions are applied before beginning the content of the environment. So with this negative H space here will be applied before this E.

So it'll put it to the left to reduce this unwanted space. Here it is, as you can see. So this is the last part of the beginning of the definition. All of it is applied before beginning the typeset of the body of the environment entered by the user. So yeah, I cannot stress this enough.

We'll make some more examples to be clear for you. And of course, we can, for example, to fully understand this, cut all of this and empty this second part of the definition and see what will happen if we insert those last instructions in the first part of the definition, the begin definition. Let's run to see what will happen. And yes, as latech does exactly as we told it, so we have all of this until this age space. And then we have the role and those spaces applied before the entire content on of the environment before here.

as you can see. So that makes sense because now we don't have anything to apply after finishing the environment and all of what we have is in the first part and all of this is applied or typeset before beginning the content entered by the user. So that's actually what I mean by semantically separating the parts of the definition. So between a beginning part and an end part. So the semantics, of course, is the logical layout of your function.

So when you miss with it, you won't get an error. But you will most probably obtain an unwanted behavior for your structure in the output. So be careful about designing your costumes. So let's undo this and run one more time. Okay, here we are back again.

And you know what, we can actually increase one more rule in this upper part. So you can have somewhat a visual distinction between those two parts. So we can insert an upper rule here, let's say upper rule. And so yeah, paste this. And as you can see, here we have the same no indent, but this time I give a text color of gray to make them visually different.

And inside the body of the text color command, the second argument, we have the entire rule with the same dimensions as before. And again, one more space we can I don't know. Yeah, this is one centimeter. So this will be applied before the letter T here. So this is the same space as the first space in the second part, which is this one here.

So kind of to center the entire content vertically, to have the same spacing between the upper and the lower rows. So let's run to see this. Okay, it looks like we have to use the X color package for that. So let's load it. I always forget about this X color.

So let's see that. Here we are. Yeah. So we have some symmetry over here. So this V space is what separates the header from the upper row.

And then we have this upper row and the V space below it. And then we have the T, of course, as before, and all of those instructions just as before. It looks like we can somewhat increase this negative space over here. So yeah. Okay, here it is.

And be careful about this v space entry in the definition. Sometimes it'll work if it's compact like this. And sometimes it'll require you to insert a blank line. So let's see what kind of will happen if we remove this blank line. Maybe it'll work.

Well, it doesn't work. So yeah, I was specific about this. So be aware of that. These spaces can sometimes be problematic. And somewhat like this H space here, we need it after entering some new commands to increase its value.

So those cases happen. Because of course, latex can sometimes be clumsy and due to internal interactions between different spacing and formatting macros, you may want, of course, as we did, to adjust some things in the input file. So again, you can find yourself in a situation that you must insert some blank lines after re-spaces. or adjusting values for some lengths, as we did here with this H space to come closer and closer to the T letter. So yeah, overall, this is the basics of how we can set up a new environment.

So first part, all of this is applied before the environment content entered by the user. And second part, that will be applied after typesetting the content entered by the user.

Okay now it's indeed possible that you can use built-in environments in the definition of your new environments as stated. So let's make a simple example where a custom environment will center its content in the background using the center environment. And at the same time, we'll apply a bold font. So this is a new environment. Let's see it.

We'll call it BF center. So new environment, bold font, and then center. So the entire mission of this, let's say BF center. So the entire function of this environment is that it will center its content using the center environment that we will insert in the parts of the definition in the moment and give some bold font for the content entered by the user and that's it. So this is just an example of using a LaTeX built in environment in the definition of a custom environment.

So let's actually do this. Let's break those parts over here and for this also. So in the first part, we begin the center environment that we will use. So remove this end from here. So cut this end.

So to use an environment to use a built in environment in the definition of a custom environment, you always just like if you if you want the new environment to wrap the entire content by the user, as we will see, so this this bf center, we want to center all of the content that the user will input. So that's why we begin the center environment in the first part, and then we end it here in the second part. So this way, let's say the content of the user will make another instance. So let's say the content is wrapped in between here. So that's why we begin this center in the first part and end it in the second part.

And again, we want to apply some bold font on the user input content so we can use a switch command like BF series for that. Yeah. And that's it actually. So let's make an example and this will be more clear. So this is a new bold face centered environment.

So let's begin. Let's take its name. BF center.

and end it. Inside that, just put some Kent paragraph, only one. So what will happen is that the first part over here will be applied before the paragraph. So a center environment will begin before this paragraph. And then a bold font series will be applied on the paragraph.

And after finishing typeset of this paragraph in the output, the second part will come. So you can imagine that this can paragraph is wrapped over here. So this is the the user input. So if you imagine that we do this in a normal mode in the text without any custom environments, we will do this would begin a central environment, give a BF series and some centering if you'd like, and then we have the content. So that's why we must begin the central environment in the first part and end it in the second part to wrap the entire content entered by the user.

Because as again, as you will, as we know, this different the instructions here apply after beginning the environment. And this one is applied after finishing the typeset of the content entered by the user. Okay, so let's run to see it. Yep, here it is. So nice and clean.

We have the entire can paragraph centered by the center environment and has its text and bold font. So let's say, let's say that to understand this, let's copy this. I have commented this out and removed the end statement to the first part. What do you think that will happen? Well, nothing.

So yeah, nothing at all. Because now what happened is that just after beginning the environment, latex executed the first part of the definition, which is a centered environment with some formatting, but without any content. So this entire begin center bf series, and center is right here, just before right here before the definite before the content entered by the user. So now we don't have any wrapping, there is nothing applied. And of course this BF series is in a closed scope, which is an environment.

So we don't have anything in this case. So yeah, again, that's why we have our begin statement in the first part and end statement in the second part. Again, to wrap, you can imagine that by this comment to wrap the content of the user.

So I hope that the behavior of this new environment macro is clear by now.

Okay, so let's extend this. Now, of course, you can insert multiple nested environments if you're structuring a compound environment for yourself. So take, for example, the centered node in this figure. What you see is a centered piece of text that is composed of two parts, the bold font note word, which is to be fixed in the definition of the environment, and the rest of the note, which is to be entered by the user in the text. So now one way to create this is by using the mini page and the center environments.

So before building a new environment, it's always a good idea to test your thought process when creating a new structure in the text or in the input. So by making a model in the running text to see the layout in the output. So what I say that is let's say that before we have built this BF center, we may have done this in the output. So let's say that we are testing of how can we create this bf center over here so in the normal case if i told you build this centered bold font you do this so let's say center and inside that again we say bf series and so let's be bf series

Yeah. And after that, we put our content, which is somewhat a can't paragraph. So you do this, if you would like, if you're thinking about having a custom environment that does centering and boldface for some content, you do this in the input tested in the output. So you will have the same thing. And after that, you start by thinking how can you abstract this structure over here in a new environment, kind of to reduce this the amount of typeset that you have.

So after doing that, you think that yeah, I can, I can start a new environment, put the beginning statement of the center with this formatting in the first part and then put the end in the second part and allow the user to enter this piece of content that we want to format in the text. So yeah, this is one way this is the best practice actually, to build things you can start by building format of the typeset that you wish by an example here and then thinking about how can you abstract this inside a new environment to use it later. So this part and this part over here is for the definition and this is for the user. And of course, we split those. Again, we semantically split this part and this part to wrap this to end up with our desired typeset in the output.

So yeah, let's remove this. So we can do this same concept of making a model for the thought process of the end output that we wish. So we'll do that for this, for the section, the CNOTE that was here. So let's say model for the new just get rid of this part over here. Okay.

Yeah. Okay. To build this center note that we see, we can again begin by a center center environment like this. Okay. And then inside this center environment, we can establish a mini page that takes a portion of the text width.

So inside this center, we can say begin, and we have mini page, this will take 80% of the text width. Okay. Now the outer center environment is to center the mini page itself, the whole mini page. So this center over here will center the entire mini page. But what for the justification or the alignment of the content inside the mini page.

So what I mean by that, if we leave this like that, and we input our content here, we'll have a centered mini page, center mini page like this, but the content inside the mini page will be left aligned. So inside the mini page itself, we need a centering action, which will be the centering command. Of course, we can have another center environment, but that will be overkill for this. The scope of the centering is for the entire mini page content. So it's okay to use such a switching command.

So after this centering, we put the content. Okay, so here we have this content over here, which is a text bf of the word note and then some note. So let's see this. And we'll talk about Yeah, okay, here it is. So this is the thought process.

Again, you can think by making a model to see what is the end result that you wish. So here we have a center environment. This center environment has brought our entire mini page to the center of the page. and inside the mini page to have the content centered, meaning this notes here this after breaking the line, if we don't have this centering, let's comment this, this note here will be left justify. Here it is.

So that this this is the role of the enter the inner centering for the content. So after this, if this is the end result that we wish, again, we start thinking how can we abstract this in a custom structure that we can use later on. So the thought process is simple. We think of what are the things that we need to push after the user initializes their environment. So we can start by beginning the center environment, beginning the mini page, put the centering and we choose to fix this note.

So this is a design choice, we choose to fix this node, and the user will input this piece of content over here. So this part will be left over for the user to input when using our new environment. And the second part of the definition will be for the end statements for the mini page and the center. So yeah, we see it like that, what we need for the first part of the definition, what the user will do, and what is the end part of the definition. So let's actually do this.

So one more time in the preamble, let's say new environment, and call it CNOTE, call it whatever you want, and heartbreaking this. So again, here in the first part, we start by begin center and begin mini page, and taking the centering, of course, and this note over here, all of this will be applied before the content entered by the user, as you can see. So here it is, you can eliminate this, no need actually here for this much of indentation. Yeah, just fine. And after that comes the part for the user.

And to wrap this, we put the end statements in the second part of the definition. So when you compare this structure to this structure, the, the only missing part is the body of the note. And this of course is left for the user and somewhat it will be inserted here in the background. So the first part and the second part will wrap this content by the user. So let's make a subsection to use this.

So this is for the new node environment. We call the CNOTE like this. So we begin this CNOTE, end it. And what we have left is the content. So let's copy this out here.

So and paste it. Okay. And we are ready to run. See it. Yeah, here it is.

So as you can see, we have kind of the same formatting, we will insert some H space here. So again, we can put somewhat a negative H space after the word note to reduce this quite a bit. So let's say this much.

Yeah, here it is. So this negative H space here after the word node and before the beginning of the body entered by the user reduced this and we have this perfect alignment over here. So we have this model and then we have our abstraction to reduce all of this. All of this is not needed by now and less focus only when using on the body of the content. So this is an example of how we can think when designing a new structure.

Okay, now it's also possible to define or renew commands inside the definition of a new environment. So using the new command and renew command macro in the definition of a new environment. Of course, this is completely possible. So take, for example, the list of items in the figure. This list is a modified version of the itemize environment where the labels of the different tiered items are changed.

So of course it was originally like this.

And of course, this structure is a nested lists to obtain this hierarchy that you see. So let's actually make it directly. So let's begin here before the document and say, renew, sorry, new environment. Let's call this environment items. So we define a new environment called items in terms of itemize, and we change the labels of the items.

So of course, we start by initializing the itemize environment. So only the begin statement here in the first part. Of course, if you're designing a new environment that require formatting some content, inside an environment in this first part, of course, you can do it. So do not think that you must insert only begin statements in this first part. No, you can insert a whole formatted environment over here.

So this is completely possible. But for our design choices, so far, we want to wrap the user content

in by our definition here. So that's why I have begin here and then end here. But of course, you can have here an entire environment, begin and end that has some content. And of course, this will be applied before the content entered by the user for this environment. And here at the end, of course, you can have a begin and end statement, the full declaration for another environment that will be applied after finishing the content of the user.

So again, this begin and end splitting this here is a for semantics because we want to wrap our entire content entered by the user by this environment over here. So yeah, this is the itemized environment. And after that, we can give some BF series again. And then we redefined commands to adjust the label for the items. We started by the label item I for the first level.

So here, remember this example was kind of showcase that you can use new command and renew command. So this is the example here. So let's say renew command, label item I for the first level. And then we can say text circled, yes, of A. this circle around the letter A, as you can see.

So the first level of the item now inside this items environment, as we'll see, we'll have the text circled of the letter A. So after that, we have the label item II for the child level. So the second tier, here it is, and we use this dagger, the backslash dag. And then the third tier, which is the, let's say grandchildren, label item triple i the third tier and then we have text greater the greater simple text mode now this approach of defining a new environment in terms of an existing one is actually better than redefining the itemize environment So if you think about, for example, if the reason for you to create these items is that you want an itemized environment with the labels of the items custom as you wish, this is actually better to create a new environment using an existing one is better than redefining this itemized environment in the text by the command the macro renew environment. Of course, at least that's how I see it.

This will keep the original environment, let's say itemize here as it is, so you can use it, use the original features of it more and more again. And when you need the new environment, you use the items that you make. So what I mean is that it's not a good idea to redefine built-in commands and environments excessively in your document because you will lose the original features of the itemized environment and you somewhat you can forget about this and try to use the itemized data run and exhibit some strange behavior or typeset in the output. So Yeah, do not read new environments. Let's say just only create new ones in terms of the target existing one that you want to change its format or style.

Okay. So anyways, now let's use this down below in the text. So now we have, we have begin itemize, we have BF series, and then we renew the commands for the labels. And after that, for the user, they will insert the items here and then we'll wrap this by an itemize. So Let's create a subsection for this, call it a new style itemize.

And then we begin our items. This is a custom environment over here. And since the definition of this items as we saw, includes the itemize. So you can freely put items over here. Here is the body of this items.

Again, as stated, this is a nested items to have three tier because of course, if we have item, item and item, they will all appear at the very same level. But now we have this tier one and then we have this begin items. this is a nested items, as we can see here. So yeah, this is second one. And then we have this tier two and inside this nested items, we have another nested items that hold the third tier for the text.

So yeah, here it is. And let's see it. course here it is. So this is just an example of using the Renew command. And of course, if you have a new command, you can put it here, use it here, or use it inside the new environment in the text.

So if you define a new command here, it'll be feasible here. So we can try this if you would like. So let's say that we have a new command here. Let's call it BibTech anything just testing the concept inside this we say BibTech. So yeah, let's use it now.

Let's use it inside. Of course, this is in the background, this is an itemized environment. So you only use this under an item component. So Let's use it. We have an error that says command BipTak already defined.

Okay, well, it points out to the nested definition, the nested items environment over here. Can you say what is the reason? Well, the reason actually is that we have defined this with a new command. So in the first call, which is this items environment, Latex tries to typeset this. So it defines this new environment and this new command.

I'm sorry about this, this new command. And it passes this line without any problems. But when it tries to typeset this second items, well, this is a second call for the custom environment. So it searches here. So until it reaches this new command, and it tries to define this new command one more time, but it already exists.

It exists from the first from the outer one. So you can see the problem. So after this first call, we have defined already this BipTak. And when LaTeX reaches this nested items, it tries to define it again. And because we have used the new command, so this command exists from the outer items environment.

So yeah, that's why I give us this error that this command already exists. So what do we do about this? If you recall, we can provide command and we'll set it must appear. Yes, here it is. as you can see it, here it is in the first item.

So yeah, the thing was for, we can leave it. So you can actually define or provide new commands over here and they will be feasible in the usage in the text. So we can insert the original type set example of the itemize. So just to see the difference between the labels for the different tiers, here it is. So this is our altered labels, items environment over here.

And this is the same structure, but with the itemize environment. So we have it here. So that's what I was talking about. It's actually better if you would like to end up with something like this sometimes. it is better actually to define a new environment in terms of the second one and leave the built-in one as it is to have its original typeset whenever needed.

Okay, now let's see a simple example of incorporating arguments. Yeah, this is the time for arguments. So let's break this page over here. And then we provide a section. So this one says embedding of arguments.

Here we are. So let's make a new figure insertion environment using the figure float. so say that this is a subsection this is a new figure insertion environment let's call it fig so again one more time in the preamble we can say a new environment let's call it fig of course this time we will have arguments So we can design this in many different ways. But let's keep it quite simple by only allowing for three arguments, three total arguments. So the first one is for the float placement of the figure float.

So here in the first part of the definition, we start again, of course, we would like to wrap this so we start by figure, we take this in statement from here and put it in the second part, Okay, so the first argument, hashtag one, the dummy argument, the placement for the first one will be for the placement, which is, of course, the optional argument of the figure float if you recall. And after that, we can say centering And the now the second and the third arguments, hashtag two and three are for the scale and the figure file name. So this inside the include graphics, so the scale, we will let it for the user to input for the second argument of this figure environment or fig environment. And then the name also will be an argument, which is the third one. And that's it.

So I left the caption, as we'll see for the for the usage stage. But this is a new fig with three arguments, we start the figure float, we allow the user to input the first argument and data argument of this environment, to be a letter representing the placement for the float. And then we insert the include graphics in the first part of the definition of this new environment, we allow the user to input the scale as a second mandatory argument of this fig environment, and the file name as a third mandatory argument for this fig environment. And of course, as always to wrap the content by the user, we put the end statement of the initialized environment here in second part. So let's use this.

So over here, we begin this new environment. No, this is fake that has three mandator arguments. And then we say, and fake. So the first argument is for the placement, let's say here, the second one is for the place for the scaling of the of the input picture. So let's say half that scale this down by 50%.

And then the third hashtag three is for the name of the figure I have this BNG picture in the same directory with this input tech file. So here it is. So now our fig environment utilizes the figure float in the background with those three And there are arguments chosen to be the placement, the scaling in the include graphics and the name of the file in the include graphics. And intentionally, I have left the caption in order to fill something here in the using stage. Of course, we can have this up in the definition.

But it's a good idea to leave it over here. So we load the Leitech Hummerbird logo. Okay, so let's see it. Yeah, here it is. So Okay, again, do not forget that you're only allowed to place the arguments inside the first definition.

So let's say let's say to test this out, let's say that comment this caption, and mistakenly insert this caption here inside the second part of the definition, and say that this is the fourth, the fourth argument. this will leave you with an error. Yep. Number and definition of this is illegal parameter. So it's pointing to this dummy argument, this dummy argument is illegal inside the second part of the definition.

So of course, you can move this out. So yeah, do not forget about this fact, dummy arguments are only allowed in the first part of the definition. And of course, if we want to make this as an argument, so first argument over here and copy this. So instead of having it explicitly in the document by the user, we'll wrap it inside this argument over here. And of course, you can of course, you can type set with an empty body for the page.

So the entire process is managed by the Mandator arguments of the environment. But of course, this isn't a good design choice, just at least leave the caption over here. So uncomment this and here in the definition, remove this caption and restore the total number of three. So and we're all good. Okay.

Okay, so now we can make this environment quite a little bit flexible more than that by making the first argument optional. So that's for versatility of allocation. And of course, the default value for that will be h for here. So I'm talking about having this argument over here, an optional argument. So this is the first one, we can make it an optional argument with a default of h for here placement of the float.

So kind of to use this with only two mandator arguments. Here is this version of the definition. So this is a new environment called Hfig. It has three total, but this time we insert the second pair of square brackets with a default value that is for the first argument. So now the placement for the picture inside this Hfig is optional.

And then the same thing, the same definition for the scale and the name of the picture. So when using this, so same thing, but this is just, of course, the name of the environment, hfig, and this time, the placement is optional. And that's. So let me come and burn again. So this is a second way that you can make this same environment over here by making the placement or the first argument optional.

And of course, you can bring this down. So since now we have the first argument being optional, we can try less zoom this out, we can try B, another placement for bottom. And then we'll have this. Yep, we'll have we'll have the picture here down below. So yeah, this is another way you can have it and amen that argument.

So force the user to specify explicitly the placement or you can make it optional of course, by passing a default argument and making your target optional the first argument as we made with a new command.

Okay, and lastly, just for record, let's take a look at renewing or redefining environments. Let's create a new section over here. We can actually break the page. So redefining environments, and then just making this dynamic MyPar. This is a redefining or renewing our first, very first environment, which is the MyPar.

for this paragraph over here. So, so we can renew this environment over here, of course, in a text, of course, redefining is a later stage after defining. So let's say my part, the exact same name, first part and second part. And of course, this time, it's dynamic. So we'll have some arguments over here.

Again, in such a design, we can do a lot of things for the user to customize. So play as you like with the nine arguments, remember that maximum of nine arguments. But let's limit our total arguments here to three one more time. And then we give a default value for the first argument to make it optional. Now this default optional is for the amount of the V space that's inserted above the paragraph.

So this is the first kind of dynamic option that we have here. So V space, we say hashtag one. This is this default value here or the user of course can redefine it. So this is basically the above space before the text. then we do the same formatting for the letter but of course this time it will be dynamic so it will be an input from the user so say let's say text sc but this time the the capital or the huge letter will be the second argument which is the first mandator argument over here because the first one is optional so this this letter by now will be chosen by the user And after that, we can insert the large font for this font over here.

And we can actually insert this H space, if you recall the negative H space to close the beginning of the environment body to the letter. So this will be actually, of course, the third argument by the user. So now, This environment, my partner will have three total environments, three total arguments. The first one is optional for this vspace over here. The second one will be for the capital letter at the beginning.

And then we have the same formatting and optionally space to reduce access, unwanted horizontal space at the beginning of the user content. So, In the second argument here, we put fixed things like vspace and the bottom rule and all of those things. So here it is, can have a vspace of one centimeter to be applied this one over here and then we have no indent and they roll over here. Now we have made this quite dynamic. And please note that this definition overrides the original one.

So actually, we will not have the gray upper rule over here. Again, that's why I said I don't like quite redefining custom environments or commands, because now this is a new definition. This definition takes over the old one. So now in the first one, we don't have this You can see it here, this gray rule, we have omitted this gray rule from the beginning of the environment. So we won't have this gray rule anymore.

So somewhat, if you want to preserve old features of a custom environment, you have to reinsert it here when you redefine for any reason your environment. So yeah, I will omit this for you, of course, to remember that this is a redefinition that overrides the original one. So anyway, so let's use it. Here is a quick demo. So we have this first space, which is the first optional argument.

And then we have the second argument, which is mandatory, the capital letter L. And then we have the third mandatory argument, which is the negative H space. And then the same format for the content so see it okay it says environment my par is not defined me par okay so what is this this is a huge typo of me let's remove this a from the very first definition I didn't actually take a look at this and of course adjust the name in the very first usage so sorry about this if you spotted this at the beginning of course you have defined it in the right way so now our environment is called mypar Yeah, we're all set. So yeah, sorry about this typo. Yep, here we are.

So now, of course, the same one is as it is the old definition with the upper gray rule. But now, yes, we have the environment dynamic by now. So we have this letter over here and all of those customizations, but this new definition override the old one. So be careful about this. So yeah, I hope that gave you a good overview of how you can structure your custom builds.

And we'll look, of course, at more examples as we go in this section with more features. So yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.

Okay, so this is a new slightly advanced concept. Of course, if you know kind of some programming principles, then this is kidding. But assuming no prior coding or programming knowledge for most of you, I will take this concept step by step to make this much more clear and easy to digest. So, what do we do here? Well, we will take a sneak peek at decision making for typesetting, or it's also naming branching or conditional typesetting, so many names for a simple concept, which is essentially controlling the printed output by a logical user defined condition.

So we'll control what exactly to choose to type set in the output based on some condition that is set up by the user in the input. So multiple outputs and a condition that will choose one of them if it's met true or false as we'll see to typeset in the output. So yeah, what we'll see is that if this condition is set to true, we'll show some content in the output. And if it's false, then we will choose to show something else. So generally, the workflow is like this, we start by defining a condition, which is a generally an F statement, sometimes referred to as a switch, because it controls the transition from one state that produces something to another state that gives something else.

So this is the first step, which is defining the switch object that will control what exactly to show in the output. So the state of this switch is true, we provide some related content for that typeset in the output. And if it's false, then we provide some other content. So in the in the input file, we'll have, let's say one sentence and another sentence, so different pieces of text. And based on the state of this switch, either true or false, one of those will appear in the output.

So this is the general idea here. If we would like to lay down this as steps, it'll be like this. We start by defining a new object called switcher condition. This will allow us to control the output of some content. And after that, we can provide the content to choose from based on the logical state of the condition again.

And then you actually choose which piece of content do you want to print through using the switch object and if it else statement or conditional state. So those are the general three steps here. Now I should say that Latex itself in the standard distribution and as a type setting system as whole based on tech, it doesn't support such a behavior because it's a markup language after all. But the base system tech does actually, it's a programmable interface. So we'll look briefly first at how to lay down this formulation in tech core syntax.

And then we'll discuss a latex package that abstracts the tech core function. So it's a latex package that does this conditional behavior. So in tech, this is how we can structure such functionality. Now to define the switch, we use the new if constructor. And this is followed immediately by a macro that is composed of two parts.

The if word concatenated with the name we choose for the switch and no spacing or the limiters between them. So again, this is tech syntax. So it's a bit weird for us. Okay, so this is the first step to define this, to put this new F, which is static. This is the macro that is responsible for the declaration.

And after that, without any kind of white spaces or delimiters, we put backslash and then F. This is also static and we attach the name that we choose to this F. So let's say we'll name this show. So this will be F show and so on. Okay, so the second step is to set the logical state for the switch.

And for that, this time we use a two part macro name also. First part is the user defined name for the switch, which is chosen in the previous step. This is also concatenated with a fixed part, either the word true or false. So after declaring this new switch by the new if, and then if, and the name we choose, the second step is to define the state, either true or false. So we say backslash, let's say show, and we attach true to the word show, which is the name of the switch that we put here.

Or we choose to declare the state of the switch at this, let's say, line of code in the input file to be false. So we do that in the same convention. Now, the importance of setting this state is for the last step, which is to typeset the content in the input with conditional statements that make use of the switch's value. So here an if-else statement is put as follows. We begin the structure by the switchIf macro name.

Now how this works by default is it looks to see if the switch's value is true and if so, it prints the input after its declaration. So this is the first part of the conditional workflow. After setting the declaration of the switch, and after choosing which state to put this switch now, we ask if switch. So if show, if you imagine. And by default, this is looking for the true state.

So meaning if true, if show is set to true, then we type set what comes after this first part in the output. Now this first if part could be enough, meaning to check if the switch is true and print the body in the output. And then we terminate after that using backslash if I, the reverse of if, which is the closing statement, of course. Now, that'll be sufficient if that's what we want or what we need. But also in a general workflow, we can increase an intermediate step.

This step will ask, well, what to do if the switch isn't true? So we said that let's say that we have if show, and then we have this show true. So the switch that will decide what to print in the output is set to true. And then we ask if show and of course, by default, this is asking if the state of the switch show is true, which is now true, then we will type set this. Okay, and we can stop at this part and then terminate this conditional statement.

But of course, if the show switch is false, then nothing will appear in the output if we limited this conditional to the first part only and of course the closing statement. So if we have show false, then nothing will appear in the output. So that's why in the general workflow, we need to type set some content or give some warning in the else state, which is the state when the switch is set to false. So if show, if show is true, then we type set this sentence here that comes after this first statement. If the switch is false, then the else statement is type set.

So content otherwise if false, if the switch is set to false, then we type set what is in the else close, let's say Okay, so note that all of this is to be inserted hanging free in the input file, so without group braces for either of the statements. So we say if show, and then we put this content here to print if the switch is true. We put that without any kind of group spacing. And then we break the line, we say backslash else and put the content to typeset if the switch is false and so on. So this is, we will typeset as it is.

Okay, so let's see some examples to sense how this is working.

Okay, so I have here an article, I have the tags and the x color packages loaded, and I have some title and the first section. So let's begin by a simple example. Say that we want to control whether some sentence is to be typeset or not. And we want to achieve that using a switch statement. If we begin by creating a new F for a switch called show, so like this, this is the first step.

So define a switch, a true false state object that will control the output. And yeah, let's name it new F and then backslash F and let's name it show. So this will control whether a statement will be typeset in the output or not. So note that you can leave a slight blank space here between the new F and the name of the switch. So this will work of course.

I said earlier that there is no spaces or delimiters between F and the name for this part of the definition. But between the new F, the constructor, and the name that we choose, we can insert some blank horizontal space here, let's say in the import file. But a best practice is to leave it like that. So this is the old convention of tech. So anyways, after that, we choose the current logical state for the switch object.

So this is the second step, which is set the logical, it is so-called truth value or the logical state. So we choose this at this step to be true. So we say the name of the switch, which is show and then true or false. Those are the two parts of this setting state. And the third step is to use the switch in a conditional structure like this.

So we say that the third step is to construct the condition. Okay, so the if statement is if and the name of the switch, which is the same part here. So again, this is asking if the switch show is true. By default, this is the question that Leitech will ask if the show switch is true, which is now of course true. And we can, as you will see, we can change this value, can set this as an override false value after that.

But for now, it's true. So yes, it's true. So we break the line, we can make some indentation. And this is the clause or the statement that will appear if the show switch is true. So we say that show content based on true switch.

And then we can close this statement. So what this is doing now is checking only for the state of show. If it's true, then it'll typeset this in the output. And that's it. There is no other statement.

There is no any other thing that we can do if this is false. So this is the first part here. This is the first stage. So as you can see here, of course, we have the show is true. So if show true, yes, it is.

So we typeset this in the output. so let's say what will happen if we said no false the show is false then nothing will appear in the output and the reason simply because we didn't tell LaTeX to do anything if show is false so that's why we can embed an else statement midway after the F1 so let's say telling the user that the show switch is false and by running this we can see that this statement appears. So in this state, we have the switch is false. Latex asks if show meaning if show is true, which is not the show is not true at this stage. So it ignores this body after this first declaration and goes and searches for an else statement and finds one.

So this else by default will be type set when show is false. So yeah, show is false. That's why we have this sentence in this clause in the output. And of course, we can use this as stated, this is an object now that we can use again and again. So let's say that in a later state, we say that true, we say that show is true.

Okay. And after that, we may do that to make a decision for a new statement. So let's say, again, if show, which is yes, if show is true, then it's true. So a new statement. And then we close this.

So if I so after running this, we can immediately see that new conditional statement. So this object can be used again and again, switching its state. This is false right now. So we have this first statement. And then we switch or we convert its state to true to use it in another conditional statement later on.

So I don't know, let's leave it. Let's give a condition. Now this powerful behavior can be embedded in the definition of a new command, of course, to control how the output of this new command will be formatted. So let's create a new subsection and say conditional new command. So say for example, that we want to determine based on the state of a switch, the color that the argument of the new command will take in the output.

So we'll make use of a switch to decide what color will the output of the new command will take in the output. So for that, we can create a new switch object. Let's call it this time format. So new F and then backslash F and the name is format. So if format, And then let's set it to true.

So format true, like that, or we can just say form to make this quite short. So form for format, and we set it to true. And then we declare the new command. So let's call it cond. So we have here new command, backslash cond.

And then this will take, of course, one argument. The third part of our conditional workflow, of course, will go inside the definition, which is this if clause and the else on the clause and closing if all of this will go inside the new command. So let's say that if the form switch evaluated to true, then we would have a green output. So setting the conditional workflow. So if form Meaning, again, if true, so if the form is true, we will have a green output.

So text color, green. And what is the output? Well, the output is actually the argument of the new command. So hashtag one, the dummy argument. Okay, and otherwise, we make it red.

So if we switch, as we will see the state of the of this object or this condition object then run, we would like in this state to give a red color for the output of the cond new command. So text color, we say red of hashtag one. And of course, do not forget to close the F statement. And that's it. So we have a new switch, we set the state, we put the conditional workflow inside a new command to make a decision on how the one and only argument of this command will appear in the output.

if the switch is true, then we give this dummy argument of the new command a green color. If it's false, we give it red color. So documenting that in the first use, this will be output when the form switch command and then backslash column is true. So at this stage, it's actually true. So we have this input in green.

Yeah, here it is. So we can say that now backslash count of this only one argument will be shifted to this conditional statement. If form is true, yes, it's true, then we have a green output. That's why we have it green. And let it say else, we make it red, but let it won't touch this part actually, because the form is true.

But what if we change this form state or truth value to false? Well, then in this state, we will have the red output. So when we turn it off, let's say turning this off is setting it to false. So we say form and then false. So inside in the middle of this text over here, so switching this off will make this red.

Let's see it. And here it is. So we can make a line break here with some space. So here it is. So in the first state, the switch was true.

So that's why this if form evaluated to true and LaTeX executed this line over here, this first state. And then in the second use case, we turn off or we convert or change the state of the form switch. We make it false. So when LaTeX executes this call for the new command, it ships this argument, of course, to one of those statements based on the condition of this or the state of this object, which is now false. So LaTeX skips in this second call, the first if statement and its clause and it goes to the else statement because now this is false.

So we have this red output. So this is again the basic idea behind using a switch object to control how to form the output of the input tech file. Okay, so this basic functionality by using core tech syntax is more than enough for simple binary use cases like this. And if we want to extend Then, of course, this won't be in the tech direction. This is, after all, a LaTeX course.

So for that, let's add a new section to work with the FTHEN package, which is the player for this conditional workflow in the LaTeX world. It's one of the best packages out there for this workflow. of course, if we would like to add so much functionality, that is more complex than this simple workflow in the tech syntax, that will be quite complex. And we won't do that here, of course. But I let you know about this, because it's actually it is simple and useful in so many situations, if you rely on on off state, let's say, but of course, this kind of won't be enough.

So that's why we're going to explore the if then package. So section, the then package.

Let's first load it. So here we are US package, do not forget to check if you have it or not in my tech console. As usual, of course, you'll find the documentation in the resources of this video. So let's actually go to the slides for a moment. Okay, so the main player of this package is a command called if then else.

This command takes three mandatory arguments. The first one is a test. And when this test is evaluated to true, LaTeX proceeds to typeset the then clause, which is of course the second argument as you can see. But if that test ended up being false, then LaTeX bypasses this then close and jumps to execute the else close in the third argument. So basically the same behavior as before.

Latex asks for a truth value for some true or false state of some object. So this is the test here. If that test is true, then we execute the then close in the second argument over here. And if that test is false, it jumps to the else close. Okay, now this test can take many shapes.

The first and the most basic one is the value of a Boolean object. This is the same concept as before, which is the state of true and false of some object, which is the Boolean or the switch, if you will. The rest of the test cases will be discussed in the next video. Just as before, we start by defining a new boolean object. This time for the if-then package, we do that by using the new boolean macro.

Then, we set the state of that object to either true or false. And this is done here with the command set boolean. And of course, this boolean must take two mandatory arguments. The first one is the name of our new switch or boolean object that we made with a new boolean macro. And of course, the second is true or false.

And note that the text for true and false words is not actually case sensitive. So you can type them in lowercase or in uppercase or you can actually mix lowercase and uppercase letters in typing this true or false. So you can have T and R in capital or in uppercase and U and E in lowercase. So it's completely up to you. So new Boolean for creating the new switch and set Boolean.

So you input the name, of course, and you choose to typeset either the word true or the word false in this second argument. Okay, and of course, the last step is to form a conditional statement using the if-then-else command. And here in our first case, the test is done on the Boolean object through a command called Boolean. So this one in blue over here. So boolean of name of the name of the switch is again asking by default if the state of that switch is true.

So this boolean kind of the latex counterpart of the backslash if and the name of the switch that we saw. So if show by default if show is true, this is equal and later for the if then package of Boolean of show. So Boolean of show will ask if Boolean of the switch or the Boolean object show is true. And of course, if it's true, then we execute the then clause in the second argument. If it's false, we execute the third argument in the false clause.

So new boolean for definition set boolean to choose true or false. And then the if then else conditional statement. The first argument is the test. Do not forget about that. This is the test.

And for now, our tests will be done on the state of the boolean object that we created. And of course, this is carried out through the macro Boolean that takes one argument, which is the name of the object. So this is asking if the state of the object is true. If it's true, we execute this if it's not, we execute that. So yeah, this is the test.

Okay, so let's see some examples. Back to the tech file. So under this new section of if-then package, because as stated, we'll have so many, we'll have other subsections for different forms of tests in the next video. So creating a subsection for this first type of tests, which is the Boolean. So basic usage of the boolean switch.

Let's define a new boolean object and call it switch this time and setting its value to true. So for that we say new boolean, let's call it switch and then set boolean

set the boolean switch to true. Okay, now know that you cannot create a new boolean that is already created before that exists. So be careful about naming that just like the new command macro. So this new boolean will search if this name is defined or created before or not. Okay, and after that, we can make our conditional statement using if then else command.

the three arguments, the first one takes the test. And the test that we know for now is Boolean backslash Boolean, it takes one argument, which is the name of the switch. So this is asking if again, if switch is true. So if it's true, we can, for example, print a bold output, let's say, and if it's false, we make it italicized. So, we can separate this if you want.

So, you cannot get confused about this and give some comments here. So, this is then close if let's say if switch. So, the name is true. Okay. And here in the third argument, this is the else close basically when the switch is false.

So yeah, and run.

Okay, of course, we have the switch is true. So that's why a litig executes this second argument of everything else. But if we make this false, then we'll have the italic output statement. Yeah, here it is. So the same concept of defining and setting switch and converting the state of the switch and making a conditional statement with different outputs based based on the state of the switch.

Okay, and just as before, let's embed this functionality inside a new command. So let's say we'll call it if command. So new command, if cmd, this will take two arguments as well. And inside this body, we can start again by creating a new boolean. Let's call it if switch or anything else you prefer and set this if switch through the set boolean.

But this time, we let the user choose the state. So let's say this will be the first argument. So instead of embedding a hard state or static explicit state inside the definition, I will let the user take the decision for the state of this switch, of course, to make this expression dynamic. And after that, of course, we make the if then else command with its three arguments. Okay.

In the first argument, the test is placed again through the boolean, which asks for the state of the switch, which is now a dynamic or user input through the first argument of the if of the new command, generally. So this is asking if the user chose to input true or false. And based on that, if the user chooses true, so let's say we give it again a green color. So text color here in the then clause, which is the second argument of if then else. So we say green 80% and

The content now, of course, is again will be provided by the user. So we don't provide hard content, we leave that for the user to embed in or to input in the second argument. And if the user chooses a false state for this switch, then we skip this then close and execute the else close over here. And of course, we give it a red color. So red, let's say 70%.

And then again, we leave that up to the user in the second argument. So let's use this. So if command, let's say first we choose the true to make this stay true. So this will go here in the dummy argument. The first one will set this if switch inner boolean to true.

And then let's have a green output of this. Okay. And let's see it. here it is, we can give some new line here. I think this will create a new line.

Yes, here it is. Can say if you don't like this, we'll leave it like that. So what happened here is this is the first command. This is the first argument sorry that the user chooses, which is true. So this is shipped to here, which is setting the state of the switch to be true.

So the conditional statement here prints the second argument or the then close. So it takes the second input argument from the user and makes a green. And that's what we have here in the output. So it's quite dynamic over here. We made a design choice to make the first argument to be shipped to the state of the switch and the second argument to be the content to be formatted.

So what if we choose false, then supposedly we will get the red format for the second argument over here. Okay, let's run.

Okay, seems that there is something that is not working. Well, let our command if if switch already defined. So if switch, this is the name of our switch object over here. And what happened is that if you recall the problem with the new command, inside a new command, which is the nesting new definitions from defining user macros, and they provide command solution. So what happened here is that in this second call, LaTeX tries to define a new boolean that is called if switch.

But this if switch is already defined from the first call of the if command. So that's why we have this error over here. As you can see, if you spotted this, we have the command if if switch. This is actually the format that we just saw with the tech core syntax for the Boolean. So it's kind of that the FDM package is actually abstracting a tech core, of course, in the background.

So this is F, which is a static part and then the F switch, the name of the boolean or the switch object that we chose. So this is actually a tech core functionality. So overall, the problem here is that with the new boolean, because at the second call for this new command, Latex tries to redefine or Latex tries to define a new boolean that already exists. So that's the complaint over here. So Luckily, the FDM package provides a command to create a switch that is called provide boolean that works the same as provide command as before.

So to solve this, we say provide boolean. And if this provide boolean checks that this switch is already defined, it does nothing actually. So It skips this part and uses the already existing definition in the background for this object and proceeds. So this will solve this problem. Yep, here it is.

So now this provide Boolean is quite handy when you embed the definition of a Boolean inside a new command, inside the definition of a new macro. Because of course, if you have this new Boolean and setting the Boolean outside this new command, you won't have any problems because you won't by calling the new command again and again, you won't be trying to define a new command or a new boolean that already exists. But just because we choose to set this definition and its state inside a new command, so we must use the provide boolean to avoid clashes when trying to call this new command one more time. So what happened here, of course, is that we choose this one to be false. So this boolean of switch evaluates to false.

So the else statement is carried out and we have our second argument over here in red in the output. So yeah, that's it. This is the basic functionality of the FDM package. I will stop for now and I will see you in the next video when we see some other formats of this test over here.

Okay, so in the last video, we've talked about the if-then-else command and how it's used in a basic way. Now, generally, this command evaluates a test expression in the first argument, of course, and based on that, it makes a decision for the type set output. We've only seen one type of test, which is, of course, the Boolean command, and that checks the truth value of a Boolean object that we create overhead. So today we'll complete on that and talk about some other test formats, meaning different expressions on other input values that the conditional statement will evaluate. So we have first the equal command and this is to compare two strings.

And if string one, for example, is equal to string two, like two identical words, then this expression returns true. So this is the first type of test other than the boolean that we saw. So we have backslash equal, and then we have two strings that this command compares to each other. And if they are identical, then this whole expression returns true, of course. And if they are not, then this returns false.

And of course, all of this macro with its argument goes inside the first argument of if then else. So remember all what we are going to explore goes inside the first command, the first argument of the if then else command. So yeah, this is the first one we can compare two strings. And as we as you will see, of course, one of them will be hard type set in the input file. And one of them will be a dummy argument waiting for some kind of user input inside the new command.

OK, so we've got also the number comparison. So this test has no macro. So we insert the two numbers directly inside the first argument of if then else. So we have here two numbers, number one and number two. And we can say number one less than or equal or greater than number two.

And whenever this condition evaluates to true, meaning for example, if we say number one is three, that is lower than five. So this is of course true. So this whole test returns true and then the then close is carried out. And if this comparison here doesn't hold, so then we go to the else close. So whatever you put here as a logical comparison between two numbers, if it's true, then the whole test is true and so on.

Okay, after that, we've got links. So we can as we can compare text, we can compare also links values. And this is done here through the length test macro. This macro takes only one argument. And inside that, we put two dimensions.

So let's say one centimeter and two centimeters. And in between that, we can say less than equal than greater, And whenever this is true, so this is a test that is comparing this first dimension and this second dimension. And again, one of them can be hard type set in a new command and one of them can wait for a user input. So of course, all of this length test goes inside the first argument of everything else. And the same story goes on.

Okay great, now other than comparisons, the if-then package also provides a test called isOdd. This macro takes only one number argument and checks if it's odd or not. And of course, it only returns true if the number is odd. So this is a pretty straightforward question. Is odd of number, let's say number is three, is odd of three, then yes, it's odd.

And then we have true value as a return. And if it's not odd, it's even, we get false. And all of this macro with the argument again goes inside the first argument here. So we can consider this as our condition here. So the thing that decides which close will be typeset in the output is a question about some number.

And you can imagine this number being the current page number, as you will see. So if the current page number is odd, for example, we print something here in the then clause. And if it's even, meaning this condition over here evaluates to false and then even page, then we type set some other thing in here in the else clause. Okay so similar to that the package also offers a check called isUndefined and this command in its only one argument it takes a macro name of course with a backslash here and this one returns true only when this command is undefined So again, this is a command, this is a logical question. So is undefined of this, I'm asking LaTeX to see if that backslash cmd is undefined or not.

So if it's undefined, then we get true. So this returns true if command is not defined and false if it's defined if it's already there. So you can imagine this if is undefined of this. So this is the condition that will derive our sequence over here. So all of those tests are different ways that the user can set to control the output conditionally.

So they all evaluate at the end to a true value, either true or false. And based on that, we make our decision for the typeset output. Okay, great. Let's go to the same input file of the previous video to see some examples of those in action.

Okay, so we're here. Let's start by comparing strings. So we will create a new subsection for that. Say comparing strings test. Let's create a new command for this and call it bf or it so for both font or italic.

this will take two arguments. And we'll decide how to format the second one based on comparing the string in the first one provided by the user. So yeah, let's see it. So we say new command, and then bf or it, and then we have two arguments over here. And in the body, of course, we set our condition.

So if then else with our three arguments, okay, great. Now the comparing goes here in this first argument, of course, this is the test, and equal, so backslash equal only, and this, of course, takes two arguments. So say that we will take the first argument that the user provides and compare it with the word bold. So here in the first argument of equal, supposedly, this is a placeholder for the string that the user will input. And then we would compare this hashtag one dummy argument with a hard typeset word, which is bold.

So as we will see, the only way that this is that this condition here will evaluate the true if the user inputs this same word and this same spelling, of course, Okay, so if the user did that, actually, and inputs bold, then we have here in the then clause, we will make the second argument bold. And if the user inputs any other thing else like a number or a text that doesn't equal to bold, we make it italic. So we make a decision for the second argument of this new command based on the word from the first argument comparing it to a hard typeset one in this equal test over here. So yeah, let's see how we can use this. So we say B, F, or at Let's say first type set bold.

So this first argument will be shipped this location and the equal will compare those two words. So it will return true. So we will carry out this then close over here. So let's say this is a bold text. And let's give some space over here and let's see it.

Okay, here it is zoom in. So yeah, the user chooses the same text that is called bold. And now if you if we provide any other string than the word bold exactly again with this spelling, of course, the test will be false, which will tell size this second argument over here. So let's say bf or eight, Let's say that you input the word bold, but with capital letter B. So when Leitech compares this, which is shipped here to the bold, those two words are not equal because of this capital B here.

So Leitech will jump to the else close, which italicize the second output over here. And let's give also some V space. Okay, so let's see this. So Okay, great. So we have here this italicized format of the else close, because of course, this word doesn't equal to this one.

So, okay, so great. Let's see other example that is quite practical, where this functionality can be handy. So say that we want to make a new command that will abstract a tig's picture to print a solid circle in the output. We want to give this command an optional argument so that if the user make use of it, then the output will be centered in a page. And this is as opposed to the default case when it's left aligned, as we'll see.

So we'll have a new command. When this command is used without any arguments, it creates a solid black circle left aligned by the effect of a text picture. And we'll make an optional argument for that new command so that if the user inputs a letter C, as you'll see, so this circle will be centered. So yeah, let's do it. So we have here, let's call it a black bowl.

Yes, here it is. This one takes one argument and we'll make this one argument optional by providing another empty set of square brackets. So we don't want here a default value for this optional argument of this new command black bowl. So here is the text picture that will field draw a 10 point circle radius. Okay, so actually, let's use this command in this state.

So by default, of course, this is left aligned. Yeah, as you can see here. So what we want to do is that when the user inputs an optional argument over here with the letter C, then this black ball will be centered. So one way we can achieve this optional centering behavior is to provide a center environment that wraps the tig's picture. So to put a initialization begin center over here, and in center after that to wrap this it takes picture.

And at the same time, we only activate this environment if the user inputs the optional argument. So let's say that we have here begin center, yeah, begin center. And let's take this in center cut, we put it after the digs picture. So first, in this case, by default, this will be centered. we don't want to do that.

We want this as an option and the default is left aligned. So going back, we can kind of comment this out. Okay. So to do that, we can put a conditional statement before beginning the tics picture. So what we're going to do basically is that tie this initialization and and determination of the center environment tie to some condition through the if then else command.

And we'll do that by comparing the text value of the optional argument that the user will provide here with the letter C. So let's say equal one more time of the first argument, which is optional, and the lowercase letter C. So in this first argument of the if then else, we have a text comparison, we compare the input from the user by the letter C. And then if that's true, meaning if the user chooses to put an optional argument with small letter C, then in the then clause, if that's true, we put the initialization of the begin center environment. And if it's false, meaning the user enters something else or doesn't provide the optional argument at all.

In the else clause, we do nothing. So here this is this is a quite clever trick, which is to tie the initialization or the beginning of the center environment that will wrap this text picture and put it in the center of the page, we make this tie to some condition. And this condition is that the user must choose to put an optional argument with this lowercase c over here. So it's a design choice, of course. And we do the same thing with the closing or determination of the center environment.

So of course, again, we tie this to a command to condition that condition again, is equal, we're comparing the same text over here with the lowercase c. And if it's true, then we can say that we want to end this center environment. And if it's false, like the first state, when the user doesn't provide an input, an optional argument, or for example, inputs a letter or any other thing else, or even an empty optional argument, so we do nothing. Okay, great. So let's see what will happen when we run over here.

Boom, the circle is centered. And the default case, of course, to match our figure over here is left aligned. Here it is. So yeah, the comparison allowed us to design this black bowl with an optional argument and compare this optional argument to a letter called C and make this test over here decide whether we are going to initialize the center environment or not. And the same thing goes with the closing statement over here.

So we actually tied the existence of the center environment to some condition, which is to check for a comparison of two strings, one that is provided by the user, and one that is hard type set in the definition. Okay, so let's see what will happen if we made this condition false. Again, let's say we input a, we will have it left aligned, of course, here it is, there's some indentation, don't worry about it. So what happened here is that this option argument is a, so it's shipped over here is a is equal to C, of course not. So we skip this, then close and go to the else close, which is nothing.

So we do nothing in this false state. And the same thing for the end. So we end up only with this takes picture environment functional. So that's why we have here, just like the default case, And of course, it's the same thing if we provide an empty argument. It's empty by default, of course.

So yeah, I hope this is a quite good example of how we can utilize such a comparison of texts. So it can allow us to define new commands with optional functionality like this. So this is just an illustrative example, and you may find some other cases, of course.

Okay, great. Now let's see comparing numbers. So we'll jump to a new subsection. So let's create a new command as we do, let's call it a cond n for a number chase two arguments. So this is quite straightforward.

Again, we have the F then else conditional statement. And inside here, the test will be just comparing some numbers, of course, one of them will be, let's say the first argument of this new command. And let's say if it's if the first argument that the user will provide is greater than, let's say zero. Okay, so if it's greater than zero, then we bold the second argument. And if it's not, so we make it italicized again.

So just comparing some numbers, one of them is dynamic, it's entered by the user. And we're comparing this by the greater sign to the zero value. So using this will be like, so we can start by this first example for here, when we provide one, one is greater than zero. So we'll have this is a bold font or bold text. And the second one, we provide a minus value, which is of course, not greater than zero.

So we have a title, a title sized text. So let's see it. here they are, this is the bold one out of this first one number, and then we have this italic over here. So yeah, this is another type of comparisons if you would like to compare two numbers and make this is your test or a condition that will control what typeset in the output. Okay, great.

Now let's jump to comparing lengths. a new subsection. So again, we create a new command. So we say this, the rule. Again, this will take two, of course.

And inside that one more time, we provide if then else. So this time here, we will have length test. This is the name of the macro. this takes only one argument, which is formatted as, let's say that we'll compare again, the first dimension or length unit that the user will provide for this new command that is called the role, and we'll compare this to the zero centimeters. So this length test takes only one argument, which is a comparison of two dimensions, two length values.

We make the first one dynamic by the user and the second one is hard. So if this condition holds true, then the user provides some other value that is greater than zero. So we make a in the then close, we initialize a horizontal rule. This will make use of the first argument that the user provided as a width and the second argument as a height or thickness. So if the first argument, which is let's say three centimeters, of course it's greater, then we jump to this and then close and we use this three centimeters as a width for this rule.

And the second argument provided by the user will be the thickness or the height. And for the else close when this condition is false, meaning the user can give zero or negative value for the hashtag one, the first argument, then we can, let's say print a red message that says text color red dimension is wrong. So first, if we have zero, then we cannot create a rule that is zero centimeters or even negative. So we'd like consistently have a first argument value that is greater than zero centimeters. Yeah, so let's use this as a first example, let's say the rule of five centimeters, the first argument, and then the second argument will be in points.

So this is the thickness.

see it. Here it is. Yes. So what happened is that those five centimeters are compared inside the length test to the zero. So of course, it's greater.

So we jump to the then close. And we then we use those five centimeters here as the width in the row command and the second argument, which are two points as a height. So what happens if we provide, so let's say the row provide, let's say negative one centimeters and three points doesn't matter. Nothing will happen. We'll have this red angry message over here.

So because this minus one is false, so we jump to the else close over here. So yeah, comparing lengths is another kind of test that you can make if it's kind of serves the logical or the semantic state of your new command or conditional as whole, if this is outside the new command. Okay, great. So jumping to the next test, which is the isOdd test. So let's create a subsection for that.

This test is quite handy because using it with the current page number as stated can enable us to print some content if the page is odd and some other content if the page is even, which you can imagine could be used to print certain repeated format based on the state of the page consistently. So we'll actually make a fancy example of that. But let's first, let's create a new command that is called even odd to test how this is working. So even odd, which is an odd name for a new command, it will have no arguments. So this will input again, and if then else in its body, yeah, three arguments.

So here we ask, this is the test is odd of the page. Of course, this stores the current page number. So if the page is odd, so this will be evaluated to true. So in the then clause, we give a red text indicator for that. So text color red, and this is an odd page.

And if is odd of the page is false. So let's say page two, if we use this new command, even odd that checks for the current number of the page is odd of page two is false, though we jump to the else close and we provide a blue indication of that. Here it is. So text color blue of this is an even page. And that's so this is just a new command that embeds this, this condition over here that uses the is odd that checks the state of the current page number.

Okay, so now let's use this, let's say even odd in this first page, if we can find some space over here and run. So yeah, here we are. So we have this is odd of this first page. Yeah, this is an odd page. And if we break this page and use it again.

In the second page, we can say that it says this is an even page. We're in the second page, of course, over here. So this is the basic usage of this test is odd over here. Okay so now let's see a quite practical use case for this conditional test. For this first let's create two more pages, black bowls as placeholders.

So we will break this page and provide a black bowl and we'll break this page again and provide also a black bowl. So creating some pages to have some even and odd pages for our work. So yeah, here we are. This is the third page over here, which is this one. This is the second page that we have the even odd.

And then this is the third page. This first one that has, we can center this. This is the third page and this is the fourth page over here. So yeah,

have him centered like that. So yeah, here we are. This is the third page. This is the fourth page, this one. So the thing here is to use the isOdd function with the fancy header package again, so as to create custom header for even and odd pages respectively.

So we will, as stated, type some content in the header of the odd page that is different from the header of the even page based on the condition is odd. So for that, this setup will be in the preamble. And first of all, let's use the fancy header package, fancy HDR, and we will also make use of the option to side. So we'll have the odd on the right and the even on the left or so. So this two side will allow us to have the headers on two sides like a book, of course.

So this two side provides a two sided headers for document classes that are not books like the article. So this is quite useful. So here in the preamble, we say the even odd headers setup, let's say. And for that, let's copy the functionality of the command that we did here. So talking about this is our command.

So we'll take this copy and paste in another new command, you can say that this will be special for this setup over here. So we'll call this check page. Inside that we have then the if then else, which tracks for the state of the page using this is odd. And as an argument, this time we don't use the that page macro, we use value of page, again, this value of page is kind of an acronym or an equal macro to the that page, which also holds the current page number. But this is this is quite crucial here, in order to be able to work with this in the setup for the fancy header.

So I think with the page, you will end up with some errors. So we'll get to know the difference between the page and this value of page later on. So again, based on this condition, so we have here, this is odd of value of the page. So this is the, now this is the holder the current page of that's true. So we say yeah, it's odd.

So red, and then the indicator. And then, of course, we have blue indicator for even pages, of course. So the first thing, of course, with the fancy header package is to make the page style over here. fancy. And then let's clear the default header and footer.

So they typically contain information about the running section level and so on. So we can clear the default

header and footer so we can provide our own. So we do that with the command fancy hf header and footer, and we provide empty arguments. And that's after that we provide our new header and footer. So we start by the fancy head for the header with an optional admin data argument. So in an admin data argument, we provide a call for our check page command, of course, and let it decide for us the appropriate header to place based on the page number.

So the value of the fancy head, which kind of in a normal state will be a hard type set kind of text. But over here, we'll make use of this check page. So we say that the header that we want will depend on this condition over here. If the again if the if this is odd, then we get this if it's even we get that so inside the mandator argument of the fancy new header, we have a call for the check page, and it decides. And for the optional argument, we can provide a direction for each head.

So let's say left of odd, and then we have right of even. So capital letter L and O left for odd and right for even. So we can document that. So left odd, and then right even. So this gives directions for the fancy head command.

So if the page is odd, then we have this red text on the left. And the page if it's even, we get this blue text on the right. So left odd, right even, and the content is decided by this macro that depends on the value of the page. And we have two contents to print. And of course, since we eliminated the default footer, so kind of we want to enter some new ones, so fancy foot, we make it centered, and this will just be the page, which is the page number, because this fancy hf will remove the number and the pages over here with the header, so we can center it again over the page, which is the page number.

Okay, great. This is completed. We have the fancy header with the tool side. We have a new command that holds the conditional content for our headers. We made the pages type fancy, we cleared default header and footer, and we provided our own.

And inside the fancy head, we make a call for our conditional statement over here. And we have some directions and some fancy foot. So before running, I should say that the first page over here will be of course, excluded from the headers because we're in an article document class. So this is the title page. So first, this has no headers.

So running this, Let's see what will happen. Yeah, we have no headers here. And when we scroll down, we have here in the second page, our blue indication that this is a second page on the right direction. Going down, we are on page three, pages odd. We have this red indication on the left.

We'll go down one more time for blue on the right and so on. So yeah, this is quite practical example of how we can make use of this is odd. We constructed this new macro over here, which we make a call inside the fancy head to decide what kind of content do we need for the page, the header and which direction of course. Yeah, here it is.

Okay, the isOdd is the first asking, let's say test. And let's take a look at the second one, which is the isUndefined test. So going down one more time, and we will put the subsection here before our third and fourth pages. So subsection, name it check if undefined. This one can help you determine whether a command is already defined or not.

So as to take an action if so and that's of course to avoid having an error if you were requested to declare a new command that is already there So I will put the conditional statement for this test inside a new command for illustration purposes But of course you can use it floating free in the document. So let's call this new command is there so kind of an new asking macro so is there this one will take two arguments, as usual, and inside that one more time we have if then else, So the test here will ask for the state of the required command name that is of course entered by the user if it's undefined or not. So is undefined of hashtag one, the dumb argument, the first argument that has been inputted by the user. So yeah, this is the test over here. And when this says evaluates to true, meaning the command is not defined.

So this is asking if is undefined of hashtag one that the user requested. So the user inputs a command name that is not defined, that doesn't exist in the background. So a logical action to take, let's say, well, we can define it. So inside the then clause over here, we define that argument, that name. So we initialize a new command over here.

So if the user inputted a new command name that doesn't exist, so this evaluates to true inside the then clause over here, we define that command for the user. So then clause, and let's say this is of course true. And let's say again, hashtag one doesn't exist. So that's why we define it for the user. Of course, the name is hashtag one.

So of course, the user inputs the name of this dumb argument over here with a backslash when using this. And the body for this new command will be a formatting for the second argument of the F is their command over here. So if this command doesn't exist, then we created and we format the second argument as usual. So yeah, let's say that we both found the second argument. So if is undefined of the first argument, then we define it.

And the body of that definition is formatting the second argument. So this is the first action to take if the command is undefined. And after that, and inside this then close, we can use this command. Because at this stage, if the user asks for a command name that doesn't exist, so in the then close, we define it and that's it, nothing will appear in the output because we didn't use this new command. So we can do that here after defining it.

And we can simply say hashtag one. Remember that this hashtag one abstracts a command name. So by the user, so let's forget that. So this is command name, let's say. So this hashtag one is equal to command name.

So the user asks about that in the is undefined. If it's undefined, then this is shipped over here and it's defined to format the second argument. And if we stop here, nothing will appear in the output because we just defined it. So we can use it after that. And we use that by just placing floating free the hashtag one dummy argument because it's already a call for a command.

So this is using the new command. And this is the VIN clause, the true state, which is undefined. And if it's defined, well, one thing we can do is to alert the user about that. So tell the user that the requested macro name is already defined when this evaluates to false, meaning the macro name is there. And we can optionally give them back the body of the command that they requested for.

So we can format this like this. So we say the requested macro name already defined. And here is its body. And guess what we call the command name. So the user inputted this command name.

And this test evaluated to false, then we jump to the else statement false, and we give it a call for the command that he or she asked for as based on that this command is already existing. So yeah, this is the structure over here. So let's use it. So we can say that is there. And first of all, let's ask about a brand new command name that doesn't exist.

Let's say that we can call it command BF. For example, this is a completely new command name that I just laid out over here that doesn't exist. So in the second argument, we say content for new command. Let's run to see what will happen.

Okay, here we're in the second page and we ended up with content for new command. So what happened here is that the user asked for this macro name. Is there, if it's defined. So this is shipped to the first argument over here is in this conditional. So if it's undefined, yes, this wasn't defined before.

So we entered this then close over here. LaTeX defined this argument. So this is the name command bf over here. And we format making bold font of the second argument. And after that, we make a call.

So that's why that's what I told you, if we only define the command without using it, we won't have nothing. Yeah, disappeared. Because we just created the command and we didn't do anything else. So we must have used this command over here. And of course, in this case, because this is a brand new command that is undefined, we neglected the else close.

So let's see what will happen if we try to ask for this same command name over here, this backslash command BF. Now we know that this is this is this have been defined already in the previous step. So we can say with confidence that this text won't be type set. Because when Leitech asks, then is undefined? No, this is false.

This command has been defined before. So we jump to this part over here. Let's see it. Okay, we can give some space.

And here we are. So is there of this command is undefined? No, it's defined. So we jumped to the else close, we have this sentence, and then we have a call for this defined. And now from the previous step, we have defined this command over here with this value.

So kind of interconnecting. So this first step, ask for a new command and defined it with this content over here. this one. So in the background, we already have a command that is called CMDBF with this body over here. So when we asked again about that, and jump to this, we ended up with this call equaling to the definition that we have from the previous call.

So yeah, this is how we can use this. Basically, we ask for a command name, if it doesn't exist, we do something and if it exists in the else close, we do something else. And what we do what we did here is if that command doesn't exist, we define it and we give it a call. And if it's already have been defined before, then we alert the user about that and give him the body back. And of course, this body will be from the last definition or redefinition that the command has, which is the first call over here.

Okay, so let's go to the slides for a second. Now, if you're familiar with logical operators, then you can use them. Those are part of core tech, and the F then package provides a clone functionality. So those are essentially an element that help us form a condition by combining multiple tests. So so far in the first argument of the F then else, we have only one test, one thing that latex asks if it's true or not.

But the logical operators will allow us to combine tests. So ask two questions. And based on the answers of those two questions, the overall expression in the first argument of FDNLs will evaluate either true or false. So not only one number comparing or length comparing, we can combine those. and in the very same first argument of everything else the big test we can combine two questions say asking for a comparison of some words and at the same time asking for a comparison for some numbers and based on the answer of those two questions the logical operator decides the the last or the overall truth value of the entire test of course, that the F then else will make use of to decide what clause to output the then or else.

So now, the first operator is and, and this one takes the shape of a macro, of course, so we have backslash and, and capital letters over here. So this is core tag and this is provided. So this capital functionality here is provided by the F then else. And that's what I'm going to use kind of to avoid some clashes in the background. So this operator is placed between two tests.

So this entire group over here is the first argument of the F then else. And we put this and backslash and in between those two tests. And for the overall test or for the overall condition over here to evaluate it true, that's one and test two must be true. So this question, let's say semantically or logically, this question must be true. And this question must be true.

This is the indication of and So we form a condition that asks two questions. And this whole expression will only evaluate the true if both of those tests are true. And of course, otherwise, it will be false. So otherwise being one is true and the other is false, or both are false. We'll see that.

So yeah, here is to enforce this, the test one and two, I did this whole statement over here is the first condition, the first argument of the if then else command. So in the contrary of that, we have the or operator. So same syntax backslash or lowercase or uppercase. And this is again is placed in between two tests. But this one is kind of much more forgiving.

So this whole expression over here will evaluate to true if only one of them is true. So this will be sufficient. If only test one is true, and this two is false, or test two is true, and one is false. So if only one of them is true, this will be sufficient for the whole condition to be true. So that means the OR operator will only end up being false if the two tests, the two questions are false.

So if test one and test two are false, then this is the only state that this whole expression will be false. So this is quite opposite to the AND. and is strict to end up with true value, you have to provide a true test one and true test two. But the or is quite flexible, you can have only one of them is true and the other is false to end up being true. And that leaves us with the false state for the or is when test one and test two both are false.

Yeah, so the last one is the not operator, the not when placed before a condition or a test, it reverses its state. So if this test over here is true, let's say five greater this test, let's say it's a number comparison five greater than three. So this is true, putting this backslash not before this test show evaluates it to false. So it reverses the truth state of this test. And if it's false, then the not will make it true overall.

And note that this not can appear before any any test. So we can actually have this not over here before this one. So and you can follow the logic over here. So this will be much more clear with some examples if you're not familiar with logical operators. So let's go back to the input tech file.

Let's actually start with the last operator, which is not. We will make this over here after this first combo of page break and black table, say subsection. Okay, so logically addressing tests. So the not operator can help us create some commands that have certain semantics based on the reversing state of some condition. So for example, let's say that we wish to create a new command that is called is even.

So the command is even can you can tell from now that is even is the counterpart question of isOdd. So what we're going to do is to reverse the state of isOdd. So yeah, let's see it. Inside this body, again, we will have if, then, else, so. we want to make use of the is odd in defining our is even.

And of course, we say over the page. But in this case, as you can see, let's say let's ignore this name over here. This is the first question, or the first expression as this command even odd over here. So what I'm saying that if we just leave this is odd of the page will be true. So this is odd.

and this is even what we're going to do is to reverse this condition to reverse this status so by putting the not operator over here if this page is three for example so we say is odd of three then this is true but placing not will make it false So isOddOf3 false, meaning that the then close will hold the indication of the even pages. So it's kind of reversed over here. And we can give a blue indication for even pages. So we have blue and then let's say this is an even page. This is an even page.

Yep. and for false this time false meaning what so what I'm saying that if this if the page is three then this will ask is odd of three then yes three is odd true but not will make this true false so this whole expression not is odd of three, is odd of three and itself is true, but not will make it false. So that's why the red indication of the odd pages is now in the else clause in the false state. We'll try this and I hope it'll be clear. So we have here red that says this is an odd page.

Please don't get angry at me. I'm just trying to explain some concepts for you to be aware of. And this is just for illustration. Now I hope that you can find some use cases that will serve a purpose for your sake. So we are now in the third page.

If you recall, this made our third page over here. So yeah, this is the hot page, fancy header. So this subsection will be in the third page. Let's actually make sure that run without using our command. So yeah, here we are.

So we will just use this command is even. We are in an odd page, the third page. So we have reversed the question of the test is odd. So this is new command over here. So is even third page, of course not.

It's odd. Says undefined control sequence. I made some typo over here else, man. Sorry for this. Yeah, let's run.

So we are in the third page. So is even over the third page? No, this is an odd page. So what happened over here is that it asks is odd of three, this evaluates to true. Yes, is odd is true of three.

But this gives us the not makes it false. So we jump to the else close over here, we end up with this vertex. So essentially not reverses the truth state of some test. And that's it. And this stupid command, if you will, over here of is even is just a semantic structure that is based on reversing the state of the is odd command.

So as to provide the user with a similar functionality to the is odd, which is a question that is called is even. Of course, after breaking this, we can ask the same question. So about that is even. we are now in the fourth page. Here it is.

Yes, this is an even page. So what happened here again, we are in the fourth page is odd of four. No, false, but not made it true. So that's why we have this close statement over here. So it's kind of reversed.

Okay, perfect. The last example today, let's take a look at how can we combine some tests. So this is actually the reason why we made this logical discussion over here. So to combine two tests. So subsection in this fourth page, combining tests.

Yeah, we are indeed in the fourth page. For that, let's create a new boolean. So return to boolean. and set it to true. Let's call this ruled.

So new boolean, if you recall, call it ruled, and then we can set this boolean ruled to true. This will be our first test. So the setup for the new command, this is our working man over here. So this new command is one last new command we'll call c rule. We'll test the this concept of combining tests in this c rule new command.

Of course, if then let's make sure that this is typed correctly. Yes. Okay. This structure over here will print a red horizontal rule if the current page is odd, and blue of course if it's even. And moreover, we would like to take this decision based on two factors.

So not not only the page number. So besides that, we will have the state of the boolean rule that we have. So our condition over here will not be one test will be two tests, a test for the page, which is is odd of the page, and a test for the truth value of the Boolean rule that we have over here. So let's say is odd of the page. This is the first question.

Let's equal ask is if it's the current page is odd. And the second question is Boolean, the question for the truth value of rolled. And we combine those by and or or operator. So let's start by and tight over here. So we can break this as that.

So this is combined test. So litig will ask two questions. If the page of the current page is odd, and if the truth value of the world is true, of course, as we know, the end will not pass this entire combination over here, meaning to true only in one state, if this is true, and this is true, which means so let's leave this boolean aside because we won't change its value just for the first use case at least. So this is will always be true. But for the is out of the page, when we are in an even when you first of all when we are in an odd page this will be true so let's say that we are in the third page is all of three yes true boolean if ruled is true so whole expression will be true So that's why the then close will be the red horizontal role of the odd pages.

So take it like that. Let's break this. So this is the thing close, we have odd that will direct us to the red. So it takes color red, we make a rule from the first argument and the second argument as before. and this is red.

Why in this combination, this is red. Again, you read this whole expression and based on the logical operator that combines those tests, we take this decision. So as an example, again, if the page is three is odd of three, true boolean of road is true. So whole of suppression is true, meaning we are in an odd page. So we give a red horizontal row.

And if actually we are in the page four, this one over here, so is odd of four, no, four is even, it's not odd. So this is false. And once you have a false state of false test, and the end operator, then this whole expression is false. So it's always for even pages, we will jump to the else close. Let's bring this one more time and state that this is the else close, the else close will be for the even pages, and we'll have blue horizontal role over here.

So I hope this is obvious by now. Let's in this fourth page create a rule. Let's say that will take five centimeters and three points and run will have a blue one. Indeed. Yeah, here it is.

So the reason why we are in the in the fourth page, electric asks is out of the page. No, it's false. This is an even page. So false state and and operator then directly will be in the fall in the falls or in the else close. So what will happen if we break this page to direct to the fifth page?

So let's take this same one over here and let's see what we will get. Yeah, the fifth page is odd is odd of five. Yes. Bullion of fraud is still true. So combined is true.

Then we access the then close and make a red horizontal row. So this is the difference. So I have here a quite meaningful documentation. So this, the Boolean text off-world is true. Yeah, it's true.

But is even, this is just kind of calling our is even. So to know the state of the page, which says this is an even page, but this is an even page, which means that part of our combined test is false. So that's why we end up with a blue rule that is made with the else clause over here. And when we jump to the fifth page, we say that now the rule is red, because this is an odd page and the Boolean rule is true. So our whole expression is true.

So that's why we jump to the second then clause. Okay, so playing with the truth values of this design will end up with kind of inappropriate output. Let's see what will happen if we transfer this state to false. So we made this world false. Now, let's see what will happen and explain that.

So in the fourth page, nothing happened. But in the fifth page, we have a blue one. Let's evaluate what happened. In the fourth page, we ask is odd of the page false? So directly we will have a blue one.

That's okay. So in this case, the truth state of the Boolean actually doesn't matter. But what happened for the fifth page is a complete disaster. Because this time, the truth value of the world actually affected the output. so what happened is that is odd of 5 yes true and boolean of rolled is false so now this time also we execute the else close so the boolean here ruined the end actually.

So it's a design. You can say that if you find yourself in a situation that needs asking about two questions, be specific about the Boolean that you use. If you use one, of course you can use comparisons here and so on and so forth. So you can make this quite meaningful by making a string comparison and force the user to say that this is odd or this is even. make a decision on that to enter the then close or the else close and so on so be careful about this going back to true the correct statement of this combined test so before ending the video let's actually in this state trial or we'll ruin this again this time we have the vice versa so what happens happened is that the OR is quite forgiving as stated.

So whenever one of those is true, this whole expression will evaluate to true. So what we have here is that, forget now about the page, odd or even of this page, this Boolean is always set to true. So with the OR operator, whenever you have one of the tests is true, which is in this time the Boolean is always true. So for each call of the C rule, this expression will evaluate the true. So each time we will execute the then close.

So that's why in the fourth page we have a red rule and in the fifth page we have a red rule also. the reason is that this is always true. And with or when someone is always true, then the then close will be always executed. So again, be careful about this, be careful about how we design the tests and how we combine them. Great.

Yeah, I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and being patient. And I'll see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. So the next concept or elements of Playtech we're going to touch are counters and links.

So this may take two or three videos to complete. Learning about these topics will help us further customize our type setting techniques. And we'll also open a wide window of possibilities for custom builds. So for macros and environments, of course. So let's start with counters.

We can see counters as objects that enable us to track certain things or elements in a document, almost kind of anything that can be numbered. And this is such as page numbers, sectional units and equations, etc. A counter can be defined more formally as a global variable of type integer, and that of course starts at zero and changes across the document. And its job is to track the occurrences of some object. So, alongside LaTeX built-in counters, we can define our own ones.

say to count the items of a newly constructed user list environment and that's without the need to kind of tweak the default counter for the items of course so kind of to preserve their own workflows We're going to see later some practical use cases of defining new counters. Those will include, for example, tracking the count of new custom structures. So yeah, we will have so many instances. An example of that is a new user defined environment that takes the shape of a theorem layout. So for such case, a new counter will be created and modified to number the times we type set using this new environment.

So the first time we will use this new theorem layout, we will have the number one and then two and then three and so on. So kind of numbering the instances or the occurrences of this new environment. So also we will see an example of a custom enumerated list like this one. Each item increments the value of the dedicated Roman displayed new counter inside a black tick circle. so this is a new counter we will build this so we have one two three this is the roman typeset of course and this will be a new counter customized for this new enumerated list and lastly one of the most important use cases for counters is the behavior of looping Loops in programming languages, of course, are the heart of automation.

Computers use them all the time to repeat tasks that have routine based workflows. So we saw previously the for each statement in the text coverage. Same thing will be done here. But generally to repeat any type set object, not just kind of text pictures. So loops will be treated in a separate videos later on.

But for now, we'll take a look at the while loop. So this statement repeats certain actions until we tell it to stop. So essentially, we will have a condition that tells the loop to stop. and what will enable us to form a stop condition is a counter. Meaning, for example, we can tell LaTeX to repeat type setting some word until the counter in command reaches five, and so on.

So the counter will keep increasing until it reaches five, for example, then we break the loop. We'll see what's that about when we get to it. Okay, so let's get to work.

I have here as usual an article document with a cantalipsum and takes packages loaded. And now we will be concerned till the rest of this video with creating and modifying and displaying new counters. And the applications will go in the next video. So let's start by defining and setting new counters. So let's make a section for that.

Here we are and a subsection to work with the basic operations. So the following macros are an essential part of LaTeX standard distribution. So to create a counter, we use the new counter command. Let's call this one a number. So we use the new counter.

The new counter command is a standard feature again, so we don't have to load any kind of package. It takes only one argument, sorry about that, which is of course the name of the counter. So now we defined a new counter inside LaTeX. And let's make a description environment to list the actions for better readability. So first of all, once you create a new counter, LaTeX forms a display macro that holds the current value for that counter.

So it does that of course in the background. So once we insert this new counter over here, in the background we have a dedicated display macro that LaTeX builds for us that we can check the current value of the counter using that macro. And this is just like the default counters, such as the page counter that has that page display macro. So that means now since we have defined this new number counter, we will have backslash the number and this one will display the current value of the counter in the output. So let's say this is the first item over here, check for the current value, which is zero, of course, and we'll see that.

So the initial value is and then we go there. And then we spell the name of the counter as we have defined it. So of course, this is case sensitive, you have to put it like that. So there, and then we have the name of the new counter, this command will print the current value of the counter, which is zero, of course, as stated account new counters start at zero. And now we can change the default zero value using the command set counter.

So this is the upcoming item over here inside this. So here it is, and we can separate those by a percentage over here. So setting the value for the counter, this will be using the set counter command. So we have it over here, set counter. Of course, this time the set counter takes two arguments.

The first one is the name of the counter. So we have here a number and the second one takes the value that we want to set that counter to. So let's say 15. And now the counter value has changed and we can print to see the new value. this will say 15.

So you have new counter. Once the new counter has been created, you have that and then the name of the new counter to print the current value. The second essential command here is set counter, it takes two arguments, the name of the counter and the desired value. And again, that and the name of that counter checks for the current value, which is 15 as we changed it for the last item. Now, in addition to that, we can choose to increase the value by one only.

So this is essentially stepping the counter. And we do that using the command step counter over here. And this takes only one argument, which is the name of the counter. So the step counter as the name implies increases the name of the counter in its one mandator argument by one only. So that's why we have here only one argument.

And then we can one more time check for the value of the counter, which will be 16. Here it is. So you can step the counter. This is pretty useful inside loops, of course. So adds only one.

So this is the second way you can change after setting and after defining and setting, you can change the value again by stepping. And now, what if we just don't want to change the value entirely using the set command, or even increase it by one with the step command? In other words, how can we add some constant value to the current value of the counter? So for that, we use the add to counter command. So let's create an item for that.

So here we say adding a constant value. And again, we use for that add to counter. And you can imagine that this command takes two arguments. The first one is the name of the counter. And the second one is the constant value that we want to increase over the current value.

So this is what it is, it increases the value in the second argument to the current state of the counter. So let's say that we have a current value for the counter of 16, we can increase four to see that it will turn to 20, of course.

And here it is. Yep, we have 20. So we defined, we set the counter, this is the very first time we get to change the counter value. Of course, we can use the set counter later on, it doesn't matter. This is just the way we can change the first counter that we have.

And then we can step the counter and then we can add a constant value to the current one of that counter. and this add to a counter can be used by a negative value so we can use this say by minus one to decrease this time a one from the counter value so decreasing the counter value so here we say add to counter. Yes, and here is the number counter and we can say minus one so we will end up with 19. So the add to accepts negative values. Here it is.

Okay. And now the last item for this environment. This will be for the fact that we can use the macro holding the current value of a counter to double its value. Let's see what this is. So here is an item for that that says doubling the counter value.

So here we say add to counter, and then we choose the counter that we want to change. And after that, inside this, we don't put an explicit numeric value. Instead, we use the number So this command, of course, holds the current value of the counter, which is 19. And we add it to itself. So that's what we're doing over here.

So add to counter that counter, we add it to itself. So this one contains 19, we'll add this 19 to the 19, of course, so we'll end up with, oh, I forgot to display. So sorry about that. Should end up with 38.

Here it is. So yeah, the thing here is that for the commands like the set counter and the step, the add to, you're not only tied to the explicit numeric values, you can use any kind of command that holds an integer. So that and number, which is the name of the counter, holds the current numeric integer value of that counter. So we can use it to add it to itself, meaning doubling it or so. So yeah.

having done that new counter can display its value can set its value can step it by one only and you can account some value to it positive or negative or of course you can use any again any kind of macro that has an integer value inside it. So before moving on to the next concept, let's rise the title of this document up a little bit. So over here, so if we zoom out a little bit, you can see that by default, we have a very large space between the beginning of the page and the title, which decreases the feasible area that we get are vertically for our content. So we can shrink this space a little bit by using the titling package. So this is a new package over here, it's called titling.

So uninstall it if you don't have it. This package gives some cool macros to play with a print of the make title command specifically. So here in this first title page of the article document class. So yeah, it's special for that. And of course you'll find its documentation attached.

Now simply what we're going to do is to increase the vertical space above this title over here. And for that we use a macro that package offers called drop title. And we will use the set length command to shrink that drop title. So set length, we use drop title. title.

And through this special drop title command offers by the title package, we can shrink this vertical space up to the beginning of the page. And for example, we can say minus three centimeters, of course, we want to shrink or decrease. So that's why we use a negative value. And look at this. Yeah, here it is.

And it's lifted up a little bit by this amount specifically, of course, and now we have kind of enough space in the page. And of course, you can easily imagine that when you give a positive value for this drop title macro, the title actually lowers. So let's say that this is five centimeters, look at this, And it got worse. So as you can see, the title is way down, it's almost in the center of the page. So yeah, this is what it is.

You can say again, three centimeters minus of course, and you can increase it to four or five, whatever. So yeah, I just want to give some space over here. so now the next concept is to learn how to tie or link two counters together and that's to form kind of a hierarchical counter something similar to the counter of the subsections which is of course tied or linked to the counter of the section So you can say that this is kind of a counter that is numbered within another counter. So let's get over here and start a new subsection. And we say correlated or hierarchical counters.

Let's put some V phantom.

Zoom in again. Here we are. And again, one more time, we will make use of the description environment. It's quite handy. And now there are two ways to link two counters together.

So pretty big comment over here. And now the first method is through the new counter command itself, this time with its optional argument. In this syntax over here we create a brand new counter and this is done of course inside the mandator argument of the new counter command which will be considered as the follower and what goes to the brackets of the optional argument is a name for an existing counter. say leader, and this leader inside the optional brackets will serve as the parent that the follower will lie in. So essentially, the follower is like subsection and later is like a section.

And again, the follower is brand new. This is the first time that we created and leader has to be predefined. So you can see that this syntax, we create the new counter that is called save follower for the first time. And at the very same time, we tie it to an existing one called leader. and the follower will be counted within the leader.

So we'll have 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, and so on. And when we break the first one, so enter section two, then the follower resets So we have 2.1 2.2 and so on exactly like a section subsection relationship.

Okay, great. And now just to make things readable in this description environment over here, I will center the headline of each method using the adjust box command and package. So I will create just an item at the beginning of the explanation of each method. And this item will be kind of a title for that one inside this description environment. And this item will be centered over here.

and the subsequent items beneath that will serve as the content for that head, if you will. And centering an item is kind of a tricky task. So that's why we're going to use the adjust box package. So let's load it, adjust box. Okay, as usual, the documentation for this one is attached and we may spread a special coverage for this one after finishing the essential training.

So yeah, now generally this is an extremely helpful and important utility that you should know about. And we will just use the simplest form of its main command, the adjust box command. And again, that's the center on item inside this to serve as a head. So item and then adjust box. So the name follows the name of the package itself.

This command takes two arguments. In the first one, we put the alignment. So again, we want it to be centered over here, you will see it in a bit. And the second one takes the content. So we will have a pretty big or large BF series title using the new counter follower later.

Again, we're in the first method of tying or linking two counters together. And here we are. Yes. So yeah, centering an item isn't an easy task. You won't be able to do it with centering or the center environment.

So yeah, that's why I chose to put the content of this item, which is just this usual text over here inside a adjust box command. So that's what we're doing. So all of this, of course, is the content for this head item over here. I just use the adjust box with the center horizontally, of course, to make this centered head. So yeah, the just box is a very helpful package.

So going back to counters, let's use the syntax of the new counter command with its optional argument to create a new counter and link it to the existing number one. So that implies that we say new counter mandator argument and optional argument. Inside the mandator argument, we put the brand new counter that will act as a follower. So say no for number. And then in the optional argument, we put the existing counter that will serve as a parent or as a leader for the new follower counter.

So we only have the number new counter that we have created. And having done that, they now the this n o counter will be numbered within the number farther or later counter. So whenever we change the value or stepping the value of the leader, the counter will be reset. So the initial value of this follower is, of course, zero. So let's make sure of that.

So just to make this question clear, we'll make a dedicated item for it. The value of the text no is zero, of course. Okay, here we are. And we can easily set its value, say to five, using the set counter command. And here is an item for that.

So we say setting the new counter no as a title. So set counter the name and then the value, and then we check for its value.

Here we are. So now we have the no counter is five. And keep in mind that the later value is still 38, which is the last value, the last checkpoint of this counter in the previous section, we didn't change the number value yet. and playing with the follower value of course includes adding to it. So let's make an item for that.

Yep, here we are. So we're adding to the new counter add to counter no and five to be to be 10. Yes, here it is. So and we can step it of course. So let's add an item for step counter of no, here it is.

So stepping the follower that is no and then it'll be 11. So you can play with it normally as any new counter. The thing is just it's numbered within the leader again. Now we can change the value of the leader actually. to see the effect.

So let's make an item for that. Here it is. This item says changing the leader to reset the follower. So we step the number which is the leader over here in the definition of the new no counter. And now the leader is and the follower is.

So we stepping the leader to be 39 and the follower will reset to zero. Here it is. So this is the link that we have here. This no is numbered within its parent number. This is the implication of defining it like that.

Once we change the value of the leader, the follower is is being reset. So by now, you may be asking, what if we want to type set the value of the follower concatenated with a dot to the leader, something like exactly like this. So now you can see that semantically in the background, the way how these works is that again, the follower is tied to the leader. But in the typeset in the output, they are separated when we check of course, for the value of the of the leader, we get its value only and same thing for the follower. So we do this linkage most often to work with a logic or semantic like the relationship between sections and subsections.

So what if we want to typeset like that? So something like this. So we say that the desired typeset of the follower, I'm talking about the followers. So since it's the one that has the limitation to it, so most often, we want to see it to see it like that. So we want to typeset what if we want to typeset directly the value of the follower as the number, which is the leader dot, and then the follower to be something like this.

So defining the follower and the leader using this convention of the new counter, in this case, this kind of desired type set isn't kind of available by default, you have to make it like that. So in the background, they are linked, but print wise, they are kind of detached. And that's actually what brings us to the second method of creating linked counters. So put a pretty big comment again for the second method just because we will have so many items here. So just as the first one we begin also by an item that is centered by the adjust box package.

And here it is. So this time we will use the counter within of the follower and the leader. And we actually saw this I think in the list video. Okay, originally, this counter within command was developed in a package called change counter, which you will find its documentation in the resources. But since 2018, the macros of this package are integrated into LaTeX.

So no need to load this package anymore. The counter within became a standard feature of the LaTeX distribution. So now, simply, this command takes the names of two existing counters that have been already, of course, defined in its mandatory arguments. So here the follower and the leader. So those we have here, as you can see, two mandatory arguments, those two counters are predefined, they already exist using the new counter command, of course.

And what the counter within command is doing is that it makes the counter in its first argument a follower to the counter in the second argument. And that's it. So the first one, we define a new counter and link it to an existing one. In the second method, we use the counter within command. This one again takes two mandatory arguments, counters that have been already defined.

And what the command is doing is it ties the first one to the second one. And that's it. Now the main advantage of this method is that the counter within command, as you'll see, redefines the typeset format for the follower. So that's the point that get us here, this one, this desired typeset followers. So this is the advantage that I see in using the counter within.

It redefines the macro that is called the follower, the typeset macro of the follower command in its first argument to typeset both the follower leader values attached. So let's create the new counters. So we can say that we are creating the new counters, the ones that we're going to tie together. And let's name them for convenience, leader and follower. So those are completely new counters over here.

And after defining this, We can say for example, before tying them together, we can set them give them some initial value other than zero. So we're going to start by setting the leader over here. So we set counter of leader say five and we check for its value to see five. Okay, here we are. And we'll leave the follower for now we will change its value.

Let's tie them together and print the follower to see directly 5.0. of course, for that we use the counter within the first one takes the follower, this is the convention, and the second one takes the leader. And that's it. So the implication of this is that the follower now is redefined the print macro, which is the follower.

So to see exactly from this highlighted one 5.0 over here. So both of the methods have the same effect in the background, which is a follower being tied to a leader, but the new counter with the optional command, which is the father, do not tie those together. So you have to this to kind of arrange it explicitly like that. And here just another method, which is the counter within, you have to have the both of the counters that you're trying to tie predefined, and then use the counter within.

And just when you check for the value of the follower, you see exactly or directly the value of the father, which is now five, which is the leader, we have said that, and we have left the follower to its initial zero value. So yeah, here we have it. And now we can easily step this follower to see to see it changing. So here is one more item for that. So we say if stepped and then we step counter of follower and that's it and we check for its value.

So we will see 5.1

here it is. So this is the redefinition that the counter within command does to the print macro of the follower, follower that came in its first argument over here. You can increase comments if you'd like kind of to keep tracking of those processes, but I would like to give it tight like that for some space. But of course, you're welcome to add your comments. And now the turn is to change as before the value of the leader to see the reset of the counter, which is kind of the core behavior of this.

Here is an item for that one more time. So now stepping the leader, we step this time the leader to reset the follower to zero again, and we will have 5.0. Okay, we stepped, okay, yes, we stepped the leader. So for that, so we'll have 6.0.

So yeah. And then we can, of course, check for the value of the leader. So we will have this one item over here, the leader and the follower, the leader and the follower. So this is, you can do it, of course. Here, here we are.

So we have six for the leader and 6.0 for the follower to see the distinction between those. Okay so that was for linking two user defined new counters but counter within actually can be used to link a new counter to a latex default one. So like the ones for sectional units and so. or it can even couple two latex base default counters together.

So then the counter within is actually flexible, you can use it like our case here for completely user defined new counters, leader and follower, you can use it to tie a new counter by the user to a latex base one. And you can even use it to tie two latex default base counters together. So three cases over here. So as an example, let's create and set a new counter called within and set its value at the same time to five. So here we are, we can separate this.

So here we have new counter that is called within and we set its value to five. And then we can use the counter within command to tie this within counter to the subsection counter, the name of the counter for the subsection is named subsection. And that's it. So now we tie this within this user defined new counter that has a value of five to the base counter defined by latex for the subsection sectional unit. So now this will be numbered within the number of the subsection.

That is, when we change or add a new subsection, the within counter loses its last value, and then it resets. So we'll check for this right here. So let's first add the last item for this long description environment that says here the value of the counter command is something linked to the parent subsection, we are in subsection number two, So the within will be 2.5.

So it's actually going to be 1.2.5. That's a good example over here. So it won't be 2.5, it will be 1.2.5 because the subsection counter, which is the parent of our within five counter is itself tied as a follower to the number of the section.

by default by latex default settings. Of course, we know that so we are in the second subsection, this second subsection is tied to the first section. So the subsection counter inside latex is coupled with that section counter. So the number for our within case over here, this subsection is actually 1.2.

And when we link this within using the counter within to the subsection, we end up with the number of the subsection, which is 1.2.5. Yeah, here it is.

So when we insert a new subsection, the within counter will lose this five and return to zero. So let's actually do that. So outside this description environment, we can add a new subsection and say new subsection to reset the within. So we say yeah, new subsection later to reset the within counter. And now we can check the value of the within counter.

So here the value of within changes to something to match the subsection number, the subsection, the current subsection number is 1.3 as whole. So we'll have 1.3.0.

And yes, here it is.

So yeah, the point for this presentation is that you can use the counter within if this will serve as a purpose for you, you can use it to tie a new counter that you have created to any base counter that LaTeX defines. You may have a use case for this. So, and when you do that, you will end up redefining the print command of the new counter that you've just created to adopt this convention over here, which is parent dot follower, or a leader dot follower. So for this, we have tied the within to the subsection, the current subsection here was 1.2, because it follows the section, of course, as you will have this one, 1.2.5.

And then when we created or stepped a new subsection, the within counter loses its value and resets to zero. So now let's give it a value other than zero to see how can we detach it from the subsection counter. So as we have the counter within command, there is a counter without. So for distinction, let's give the within command a first value over here. So we set counter within to eight, and then we check for its value to see 1.3.8.

Yes, here it is. And now we're going to detach this within from the subsection. So you can couple them at some stage and then detach them at a later stage when your mission has been accomplished. So we say decoupling or freeing the within counter. So again, for this, we use the counter without command, counter without.

And you can imagine how we can use this. We put the name of the follower in the first argument and then the name of the leader inside the second one. And actually, yeah, we're decoupling the within from the subsection. It's the within which is following the subsection. So we're freeing the within from the limitation, the limited scope of the current value of the subsection, which is the leader.

So having done that, now we can check for the value of the within to make sure that it's decoupled. And when we do that, of course, we'll end up with eight only. So yeah, let's see it then within now is check for this to see only eight. Yep, here it is. It's now only eight.

And this is how you can tie two counters together and decouple them. So to recap quickly, you have this new counter, you define a brand new counter and tie it an existing one, or you can use the counter within. So you must have those predefined either by you or by LaTeX by default, and you use the counter without with the same convention to decouple them.

Okay, so next, let's check on the fly the ways we can print counter values. So just for record over here, Let's create a new section for that. So methods of printing counter values. So for that, let's make a new seven counter. So this is a counter that is called seven and is set to seven.

And after that, let's create one more description environment to list the ways we can print this counter value. We begin by Arabic and this is using the command Arabic of the counter name. So yeah, here are so we have Arabic and then you've got the lowercase Roman with the Roman command.

Here it is. And then we have the uppercase Roman.

k and then we have the alphabetical lowercase so it says g for 7 and then we have the capital alphabetical uppercase letter here we have it and then we have the footnote style using fn symbol footnote symbol

So double asterisks for number seven. This footnote style is a LaTeX special symbol representation for numbers from one to nine. So LaTeX assigns a symbol for the numbers from one to nine when you try to print their values using this FN footnote symbol command over here. And it has for number seven, it has the double asterisks. And it does that, of course, to the adjacent tokens that are shown in the figure.

So other than that, we've got a useful package that offers more shapes and formats to typeset the counter values. And it's called FMT count. Let's create a new subsection here inside the methods of printing the counter value to check this new package over here. So it says using the FMT count package. Okay, let's load this package first.

Do not forget to do that.

Here it is, fmt and then count. Now this package provides numerous macros that give a wide variety of representation to print the counter value. And it does that even with multilingual support. So if you're typesetting documents in languages other than English. So okay here for this new subsection, we'll create a new counter that is called four, and we set it to four again.

And here let's see three shapes only. And the rest is in the attached documentation. now note that most of the pages in the pdf of the package are for the code to implement the package itself and the use pages are limited but i left it anyways so those three shapes from this package will be presented in a description environment one more time okay the first format is called ordinal this is the one for st for first and d for second RD for third and so on. So it's called ordinal. So we have this ordinal shape.

And it has the ordinal command takes the name of the format itself. And we give it, of course, the name of the counter. And here it is. So we have this fourth, starting from four, of course, if this is one, you will have Yeah, first, this is two, you will have second, two, and ND raised to the two and so on. Three, you've got third RD.

Yes, here it is. And from four, we start with the TH convention, fourth, fifth, and so on. So yeah, this is the basic shape, which is the ordinal by the FMT count package. And now after that, we've got the number string. This is essentially writing the counter value in text.

So we have here item that says number string. For that we use again the number string command and we give it the value of the counter, the name of it, of course. And here it is. So it says four. So it just typesets this four and four.

If this is eight, it will type eight in text. Yeah. And here it is. So let's restore four. So this is the number string, the second shape.

And for this number string, we can play because we have multiple variations of this number string. So we can capitalize the first the the first n letter over here in the name of the command itself. So this is a this is a second macro, of course. So that has the name number capitalized to end up with text of the counter itself that reads in its argument to be capitalized. So this is an explicit, this is a standalone second number string command that capitalizes the first word of this counter.

So let's say that this was 24.

So yeah, it says 24. So it capitalizes the words that represent the value of the counter in text. And there is another version of the number string that capitalizes the rest of the number word in the name of the macro. And you can imagine that this one over here, capitalizes all the name. So yeah, here we are 24, all capitalized by using number in capital and then string concatenated.

So this is a third variation of the number string, which is kind of this is just the number string is a format. So So we have the number completely in the word case, the number word in its first letter capitalized. So that gave us the first word here for the composed two words for 24 capitalized. And last one is to have the number itself all capitalized. So those are the variations for the number string format.

Lastly, we have the ordinal string. Here is an item for that. And you can see that we have three variations from this itself. We have ordinal string and lowercase. We have a macro that capitalizes the first one and we have a one that is all capitalized, which gives three shapes of the ordinal, but in text.

So we have 24th, it spells this out 24th. And we can capitalize the first capital, which is the second macro over here, capitalize the first letter of the two words. So 24th, and we can capitalize it all of it using 24th over here with this ordinal, all in capital letters. So yeah, the FMT count is a useful package. Those are just three shapes and you can search and try the rest.

You have the ordinal, you have the number string in its variations, you have the ordinal string, which spells this out in text. So yeah,

Okay, so eventually, we have the value command. So this is a new insight over here. So we have a command to work with counters that is called value, which actually prints the value as the name states of the counter. So I actually have pointed to the difference between printing the value of some counter using that counter macro and value of the counter. So command value of the counter before, of course.

So basically you can say that the counter is only for printing. And if you try to use it with the intention of accessing the numeric value of the counter, say, kind of to perform calculations, as we'll see later in the series, it won't work. So that won't work. You can use, you cannot use that and then the name of the counter. This convention over here, this macro, you cannot use it as a numeric value to apply some calculations on.

So that's why we use the value command applied on the counter name. This gives us an access to the numerical value of the counters. Again, to do some arithmetic operations on the counters, as we'll see later in this section. So let's write the value command. So for that, we will create a new counter that is called one and step it to be the value of one because you know, a new counter is zero, call it one.

And then we step that counter to be actually one and check for its value, the one,

ok it says 1 and let's say that you're in a situation in which you need to process the value of some counter as an argument of a new command and this is to use its numerical value to set a length unit let's say so For this, we will create a new command this time, we will call it counter role. And this command will have one argument, this one, this one argument will be the value of the counter. And we will use the value of the counter to set the width of the rule. So inside that, we will make a horizontal row like that have two arguments, the second one, which is the height or the thickness will be fixed to two points. And we want to process the value of our one counter as the width or the horizontal span of this role inside a new command over here.

For this, we use the value command with the argument hashtag one of our counter role new command to determine the horizontal width. So inside the first argument of the rule, we say value of hashtag one centimeters. So the thing here is that we're trying to access the value of our counter one over here, when we use the counter rule, we'll input the value that the name of this counter inside here, and it will be shipped to the value command and will access its numerical value. And we have attached or concatenated the length unit after using the value command all inside the first argument of the rule. And now when we use the counter rule command as this, it takes only one argument, this one argument will be the name of the counter.

And that's it. So we have the name of the counter one, this counter one is shipped over here. So value of one acts on counters, it will extract the numerical value, which is one. And we have here centimeters. So one centimeter will be the total horizontal length, or width of this new rule.

Yep, here it is. Okay, so great. Let's actually refine the look of this use and print over here. So we say no indent, the value of one is the one which will give one and then we break and then we use the command. So yeah, just to eliminate this indentation over here.

And let's actually, yeah, let's remove this one over here, this one. Let's remove it. Yeah, great. The value of one is one and then we use it. So, and now we can double the one counter value.

So say that we add to counter one the value of one backslash value of one. So we'll make it two.

Okay, nothing happens because we didn't print anything yet. So let's actually do that. Let's check for the value of the one, which will be two. And then we use it one more time over here to see the difference between the two stages. So yeah, here it is.

Okay, so here is a kind of a small paragraph that states what is the value command. Again, this will come handy later on when we deal with calculations. And I must let you know that when you use that one version of printing the counter value, it'll actually work without any problems. So you will still be just fine, but just for convenience and for the scope of this, second subsection over here, I'll leave it to value. And this, this will come handy later on.

So yeah, that's enough for today's video. I hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one.

Okay, so we're still playing with counters. And in this video, we will look at some examples as stated for the practical use cases of custom counters. So let's actually break this page over here and create a new section. and run. So here we are the third section.

So let's begin by the most generic use case, which is to embed a numbering scheme in a new user defined structure. So subsection, here we are, For that, we're going to create a new environment that takes the shape of theorems. And it'll be like this one in the figure. You can see that mainly we have the fixed word theorem. After that comes our counter that we're going to increment each time we use this new environment.

And then between the print of the counter value and the beginning of the environment body inserted by the user, we will have an optional bold face title. And the rest of the environment content is italicized. So this is the general layout or theme of this new environment that we're going to create. So let's actually do that and define a new counter as a first step, since we're going to embed a counting sequence for the instances that we're going to make from this new. So let's create a new counter, and call it my theorem counter cnt just to make it short and then we define the my theorem new environment so over here we say new environment we call it my theorem it'll take one argument which will be optional one, of course.

So the first part of the definition body here inside this, the first thing that we're going to do typically in these cases is to step the counter value. So as each time we use this environment, we have an ascended number marking each instance. So that's what we do typically in such an implementation. Each time we use this my new theorem, the very first thing that gets Executed is a step for the my theorem counter over here. So stepping in the counter, the first time we'll use this MyTheorem environment, it'll be stepped from zero, which is its initial state over here.

And then the second time, it'll be two from, so it's stepped from one to two and so on. So this is the very first thing that we do typically inside an implementation for a new structure like this. Great. And after that, we work on the first portion of this environment content. So for that we say no indent, we don't want indentation.

And then we can say text bf. So for that, yes, here it is. And we break this like that. And inside this bull font, we say that we want the text, this text over here theorem of Roman as capital like that. Yes, this time, and we give it my theorem counter.

So this is the title head of the environment. And then we put a dot over here. And then we place the dummy argument, hashtag one. So this is the very, the very first thing that we see is a bold phase from the word theorem as static, and then the print of Roman capital of our counter, which is the current counter. So the first one of course, will be this is the action that we take on the counter, and we print the current value.

So theorem at the first one will be one in capital Roman theorem two, and so on. And then we place this optional argument over here. This optional argument actually will be an optional headline. So it's kind of the similar shape for theorems. You can omit it if you want.

I just leave it here as an extra feature. So yeah, this is the first part. And then for the rest of the environment body, which actually will be the theorem statement by the user, we have an italic shape switch. So here after this noindent.xpf, we switch the font to italic shape.

And that's it. So this is the first part of the definition of the environment, we step each time we step the counter by one to mark the current number of the running instance of this environment. And we make our design for how we want this environment to look. So this is the entire first part of the environment. And then in the second part for this second mandir argument in this definition, which is of course, if your call is executed at the end or after ending this environment, we can put a line break with a small space.

So something like this, just to give some spacing after ending the environment. Okay, great. And now we're ready to use this. So let's copy its name. It's this new environment over here.

And we say begin my theorem, and my theorem, we will not put the optional headline this time. And here is the content. So it's our gravity text. And let's look at this. Yeah, here it is.

Nice and clean as planned. So yeah, what happens is that again, the first value of the counter was zero. So we can make sure of that. So then my theorem counter, it was zero. So let's see it.

Great. Here it is. And it got stepped inside the environment, which is has been done by the effect of using this. So when we check again for this, my theorem counter, counter, we will see that it's one. And the reason is that we have stepped that inside the usage of this environment.

And we've got the rest as we planned for. So yeah, this is the very first thing that we get to use counters in. We do actions on them and we print them inside new structures. So let's eliminate this and this, restore to the default, the original state. Okay, great.

And we can make another instance of this. So copy this and paste, we can actually change this text over here. And this time, of course, we will use the optional headline. So let's make that optional headline. Yeah, And here is the second gravitational text we used to.

So yeah, here it is. And the difference here is that we have this optional headline, which has a bold face by the effect of this implementation. And most importantly, this time, this is the second instance, the second time that we use this new theorem, which steps our counter from one to two, and it keeps going. So yeah, here we have it. Lots of things you can do actually with this use case.

You can imagine that this is kind of a nicely formatted example environment or even a numbered list of related equations that take a consistent presentation look and so on. So, so many use cases for implementing a counter inside a new structure. Okay, great. That was for the generic idea of adding a numbering sequence to user defined macro. Now, next is another common application.

And this is building new ordered lists. So let's make a subsection for that.

Creating a new ordered list or a number rated list. Okay, so now for that and as an example, we will make another new environment like this one in the figure. So as usual, there are multiple ways of doing that achieving this goal with LaTeX. So my approach for this new list environment is one possible way among those. And it is as follows.

This environment will be made from a redefinition of the LaTeX item command for listing. Specifically, we will create a new counter and use Stig's to format its shape. So let's see how we can do this. We start by making a new counter as usual, specific one for this new list, and let's say RM Roman counter. copy that, and then we create our new constructor, new environment constructor.

Let's call it RM list for kind of Roman list. So, okay, the entire first part here will be the renew command for the item. So this is our main workforce over here, redefining the item command. So we say renew command, we say backslash item, we will have one optional command, one optional argument, sorry. And this optional argument will be a descriptive head for each item.

So kind of making the item command just like the item inside the description environment. we actually have to do that because if you recall from defining macros, the Renew command overrides the default implementation. So by default, we know that we can use this item inside the description environment, for example, as we did frequently with an optional argument, which is kind of a bull face head. So if we redefined this item command inside this new environment, and we didn't specify explicitly that we want a first optional argument, it won't be there. And if you tried to insert an optional argument for this item, when using instance of this environment, you will get an error.

So yeah, the usual drawback of using the renew command to renew or redefine some commands. So you have to be specific about this one more time. So as we did before, the very first thing that we do inside here inside the first part, which is redefining the item command is to step the counter, we always need need to do that inside a new implementation to be the very first thing that the environment does. So And just a quick note, because this is quite different from before, stepping of this counter when redefining the item command should be here, inside the redefinition of the item command. So you cannot propose this over here outside this redefinition.

Because if we do so and place this step counter over here, so outside the renew command of the item, the counter value won't be changed for each item. So we insert in the environment. So we have to be specific where we want to change the counter that we're using. So our case here, the counter is for the item command. So yeah, we have to be specific about that.

The counter is to change the item, not the environment itself. So just wanted to state this clear. So after that comes the tig's picture. And we'll use this, of course, to format our counter print command, to be this black circle that you see over here. So we will begin.

He takes his picture. And here is its body. So we have a fill draw for the circle with 10 points as a radius. And then we have a node that is called C the text is white, and the content of the node is what, well, the print of the counter. So small bf, that all doesn't matter.

And then we have the print of the counter in Roman. So this is the construction of the format for what for this print of the counter. And that's it. So we step it, and then we shape its new value after changing it. So this is the redefinition of the item command.

And actually, the last part for renewing this item command is to format the optional argument. So we come here after the ticks, of course outside the ticks, and then we say text bf of large, let's say, and then we say, hashtag, hashtag, one. The reason is that if you forgot, this is a new construction, if you would like say that is nested in another one. So this redefinition is nested inside the definition of the new environment over here. So that's why this dummy argument of the new item would have two hashtags.

Okay, great. Let's use this now at this stage without inputting anything in to be kind of executed after ending the environment. To make it quick, I will paste the first instance over here. So RM list, the first item and the rest of the items. So it's an enumerated list.

So let's run to see the shape at this stage. Okay, it appears that we're missing some sort of line breaking between the items. And you may be wondering why item command isn't breaking automatically as usual. Well, the reason is simply that we have just altered its definition again, and didn't force it to do so. We didn't implement any line breaking inside this redefinition of the item command.

So let's actually do that. To choose a place, I will say after stepping the counter, So let's try this out. Double backslashes and some space. And let's try to see what will happen.

Okay, we have a problem over here. Let it says there is no line here to end. So it's complaining with this strange red message. So it complains about this line over here and it says there is no line here to end. So what's the matter?

Now you typically get this stupid error when you try to break a line when you don't have a content. So say text before it. So this dummy error over here happens when you try to insert double backslashes on their own on a dedicated line when there is no line here to end from text perspective or from latex perspective. They say in such case Leitech doesn't expect to receive a line break, because, well, simply there is no line. So the OG solution that will allow you to break a line anywhere you want is to put the leaveVMode macro before the double backslashes.

So to solve this, we come here before the double backslashes, and we insert leave v mode. this is leaving vertical mode v is for vertical and entering a horizontal mode, which means that latex will accept breaking a line and a line is in a horizontal mode. So what you're saying is that we want to leave the vertical mode and enter the horizontal mode in order to be able to break a line, which a line of course is laid out horizontally. So to make this short, Live View Mode is a tech macro that helps arranging portions of content in the page. If you're interested about learning more about it, I left a text change question link plus a tech FAQ page of course, in the third slide of the presentation found in the resources of the previous video.

So I have a slides that is one PowerPoint, it'll be attached in the first video that will serve the first video, this one and the upcoming link video. So in the third presentation and the third slide in this presentation, you'll find a tech FAQ question and stack exchange question that talks about this leave vmode tech helpful macro over here. So yeah, just take it for granted. This is a tech macro that is saying leave vertical mode and enter horizontal mode. This one when it's placed before a double backslashes that happen in a dedicated line that have no text, then this time we can actually have a line break without any problems.

Yep, here it is. So now LaTeX is no longer complaining about having no line here to end. So this leave view mode is the magical solution for that. Great. Now it's quite obvious that the baseline of the text is not aligned properly to the circle.

So it's kind of down over here. So one possible fix for this is to add a baseline option to the digs environment and tie that to the base of the node C. So here we can add a base line option that says, well, we want C dot base.

Try to run and this will be fixed.

And now there is a missing final piece in this implementation. But it won't be obvious until we make another list using this environment. So let's actually make another instance. Okay, here it is. So nice and simple.

We have only two items over here. And let's see it. Okay, here we have it. Do you see what is happening? The counter keeps incrementing from its last value in the previous instance, which was 1.35.

So the last stepping happened to the item here was the value of five. And then, so yeah, if we would check for that, so we say that our encounter we would see V is for five, of course.

Okay, here it is. So there is no line break, but you can see it. So five, and then when we use it again, it keeps going for the item command. So it's not for the environment, as stated before, it's for the item itself. Okay, so what we're expecting is that it'll reset after each instance of the environment.

Isn't it? But when you look at the redefinition of the item environment, did we tell it to do so? Well, no, we didn't. Here inside the definition of the environment, what we do as the first thing and the first argument is to redefine the item command. So stepping and changing this counter again one more time is about the item command itself.

And what we do is that we step our counter each time we use the item command. So we use the item command five times here and two times here. So it keeps going each time latex sees the item command inside this RM list. So I have to be specific about that. It's the item command that has been redefined in a closed scope, which is the RM list.

And we used, we used it five times and then we used it two times. So it keeps going. So in the back of our minds, we expect that it'll reset at the beginning of each environment. But again, we didn't say that explicitly to the redefinition of the new command. of course, you're smart enough to not to think to put the new counter definition inside the new environment.

Because this time we you will be asking to define a new counter in the second call, you will be asking to define a new counter that does exist So yeah, this will be a complete disaster, analytic will complain to the next morning about it. So yeah, here it is. So you can do that. Counters are kind of global. So yeah, be careful about that.

The definition, the declaration of the new counter must be outside anything like a new environment. So yeah, solve our problem here, we need to reset again, the counter to zero after ending the environment. So we set we reset it to zero because it'll be stepped the first time we use it in the second call. So yeah, it'll be stepped from zero to one. So we won't reset it to one, we reset it to zero.

So first of all, let's take this five over here. So not forget about it.

And what we do is that after ending the environment over here, so at the very end of the environment, so token globally, this change will be setting the counter this RM counter over here to zero.

And also we can add some V space to make them distant. So what will happen is that this last value is five, when it reaches to this part to be executed after ending the environment, you will see that the counter is reset to zero. And when we use this for the second time, now our counter is zero. So it is set to one. And it continues from that on.

And yep, here it is. Now it's fixed. So we have one and two. And the reason is that we set the counter to zero. And when we used the environment one more time, the very first item steps this zero here to one, which is this one over here, and then two and so on.

And as stated at the beginning, this stepping of the counter is related to the redefinition of this new command of this item. Sorry. So if you try to put this at the beginning over here, so to be the very first thing to execute at the beginning of the environment itself. So now inside this renewing of the item command, we no longer play with the value of the counter. So the question here is that, do you imagine what will happen?

One, two, three, and run to see.

Well, we have one, one, one, one, one, and one for all of the items of each environment. And the reason why is that when you try to inspect this code, we step the counter at the beginning of the environment, We don't play with the value of the counter so that when we print its value, each time we use the item environment inside this new, we are only seeing the current value of the counter that we have made, which is just stepping the counter one time for the whole environment, for each and every item of this environment. at the end, we set it to zero. When we use the environment one more time, we step it only once as a whole for all the items of the environment. So one and one and it'll keep going like that.

So be careful about the steps and the semantics of laying out your code. So you won't get an error for doing this. But of course, the output is not desired. This is this is not what we want. So yeah, be careful about this.

When you think and try and see where do you place your instructions, So the question is, do I want to change the value of the counter for the item, then yes. So that's why I would like to change its value inside the redefinition of the item. And that's it. So yeah, that's why I was tricked about putting this change for the counter inside the redefinition. And resetting the counter is laid outside normally So we ask ourselves, we want to reset its value at the end so that when we use the new environment one more time, it starts at zero and steps at one for each environment.

So for each item, so that's why we set this reset action at ending the environment itself. Okay, great. Now, just to give you an intuition about the possible workflows, Let's see another approach for implementing this list. So redefining again, the item command is one possible implementation. Let's make this space over here.

Okay, so subsection. And we say for that different approach for our new list,

Okay, here it is. So when I was preparing for this video, I thought that it'll be a better approach to walk away from redefining the item command, because we saw the pitfalls of doing that. We have to explicitly break after each item, we have to adjust the kind of the baseline and we have to play with the counter value in certain locations. So yeah, we know beforehand that this isn't quite this isn't the best approach to play with the default implementation of an essential command like the item environment. So So I asked myself, what do I see here for this structure?

Well, easily we can see that we have an item entries, consisting of individual lines, each one has a text formatted counter and a text body, and all of them are inserted in one environment grouping them all. So I thought why not make this more modular, meaning to cut the code that form the structure into multiple individual pieces that use each other. So interrelation here. So I came up with this quite more intuitive variant to implement this structure. So to work with this, again, we will have a new counter,

Let's call it ball counter. Okay, referring to the takes black ball over here. And we will have this time a new separate command that is called entry. So I'm trying to mimic the item environment without touching it and redefining it. So that's what I'm trying to do here.

So instead of item, we'll have this new command that is called entry, and it's laid outside the new environment actually. And before implementing this, the last step here is a new, the new environment itself, which is called this time digs ball list.

So those are the three pieces that we have in this implementation, the new counter, a new command mimicking the item that is called entry and the new environment over here standing alone. So coming to the entry command, its first argument will be the optional head for each line. And the second mandatory one will be the content. And besides type setting its arguments, this command will do two things. one step the counter.

So this is the same thing that we did for the item. But we are now defining our new so called entry command outside the definition. So the very first thing that we do is stepping the counter again, because this change for the value of the counter is related to the state of the entry command, say here, And after changing the value of the counter, we will take this format its shape.

Here is the text picture. So again, we have the baseline, the same thing. At this time, the text picture is consisting of the node only. So kind of to make it more compact than using the fill draw and then using the node, we can use one node for that. So fill, we want to draw a circle, the text will be white, we will have an inner separation of zero points, and then we'll have a minimum size of 20 points to make it all of the same size, let's say.

And then the node is named C again, and we have inside its content, bold font of the alphabetical capital or uppercase representation of the counter. And what is left is that we don't actually want to forget about typesetting the arguments as stated at the beginning. Because if you look at this entry over here, it's now it's only stepping the this counter and printing and formatting its value. But where are the mandatory and optional arguments, the head and the body of the environment. So I'm making this entry to be all of this structure over here, which is stepping in the counter formatting its shape through tigs.

And lastly, printing the optional head and the mandatory content. So this entry is a whole line whole item or entry at this vision over here. So we have text bf of the first optional argument. And then we just put the demo argument of the second mandatory argument, which is the body text of the entry, hang in free. So just allowing the user to input it as the one mandatory argument of this entry, when they use that inside an instance of the states poll, so we just type set it.

like that without any formatting. So don't forget about that. So that's the thing here with designing this entry, we play with the counter to increment its value, we take shape it, and then we produce an optional head of bold font. And then we type after that, kind of in order, the text, the body text of the content itself. Yeah.

And now for the environment, the essential rule that it plays here is kind of to act as a container for the entry command instances. So you can see that this time all the play goes inside the this new entry. And you can imagine that this the implementation for the new environment this time, this enumerated list will be much more easier. So again, it'll act as a container for multiple uses of the entry command. And of course, we're going to reset the counter here.

So let's actually do that. We can say set counter as we did over here. This is the ball counter. And then we have this V space, same amount of half of centimeter. So yeah, we play with its value in the instances when we use this environment later on.

And at the end, after terminating each instance, we reset its value. And in the next subsequent call for this one, as usual, it will be zero counter, and it'll be stepped to one and start all over again, just like as before. you can actually leave the first part this time the first part of this environment definition you can leave it empty but i chose to add a formatted optional title for the whole list entirely as this so i will actually for that I'll have a first optional argument. And then I will format its shape like that. So just as a optional argument for the entire environment.

And the reason why you can leave this empty is that when we use this takes poll, again, it'll act as a container for the standalone entry command. So we don't actually have in this implementation, we don't have to put anything in the first argument over here. First mandator argument of the txpol list new environment. And the reason why is that we handle all things and all things inside this entry over here. So the thing is, as a container, we put multiple entry use cases inside this this takes police and the implementation all goes inside this, I unified the printing and text formatting of the counter and the body of the item inside this entry.

So this will act as a container. But yeah, again, I would like to have an optional headline for the entire environment. And the essential role of this environment over here, besides being a cow, besides being a container is that it resets the value of the global ball counter each time when it ends. So yeah, here is the content for this one. So three entry commands.

So ABC, alphabetical this time. And yeah, here it is. So we kind of have this in all in one line. And we can easily fix this here inside the definition of our new entry can easily and simply insert a line break after what after the text content of each instance here over here, this mandatory second argument. After that, after we type set the body content of the entry, we can simply break the line without any kind of problems.

So yeah, here it is. So you can see A, B, and C, we used the optional head of the entry over here, which is the first argument over here. Yeah, this one. So sometimes we use it. And sometimes we don't.

And we can insert a second textbook list to this code. Yep, here it is. And this time, of course, we use the optional where it is, yes, this environment, we use the optional title for this environment in its first argument. And that's it. So to make sure that in the counter, of course, we reset a B.

So after C, we reset zero, and then we step it inside the definition of the entry, which is made by this one stepping. So from zero over here to one, which is A and B, and so on. So yeah, and this is of course, the optional or the optional head over here. So yeah, you have both of them, you have this implementation with the Roman by redefining the item environment. And you have to be careful about all things that have been mentioned, and or you can we can mimic the item with all of the necessary instructions and unifying the print of the text formatted counter with its body inside one command and then make a container for that which is an environment, reset that and you can make anything that you want over here to be executed at the beginning of the environment.

And yeah, here it is. So some ideas to give you inspiration. Okay, by the way, in the resources for this video, I left you a PDF document titled customizing latex lists. It talks about lists in some good detail. And it's actually the chapter for lists from the companion book, although it's quite old, but it gets the job done perfectly.

So yeah, if you have some time and you feel interested, check it out.

Okay, so let's wrap this video by looking at the last use case we have today, kind of after having this enumerated lists and creating new structures as whole, which is the while loops or the while statement. The while loop is one way that we get to execute some routine repeatedly to specific number of times that is controlled by some condition. So, the if-then package offers the command whiledo. It takes two arguments. The first one is a test, as usual.

Like those we saw, the tests we saw in the decision-making topic. And as long this test is true, the command keep repeating the actions in the second argument. So let's imagine that this actions or routines is just the LaTeX logo, LaTeX word. As long this test is true, the wildo will keep type setting the LaTeX logo. And it won't ever stop until this test turns false.

So this is the logic of the while statement, or the while do command of the event package. So it repeats what's in the second mandator argument, as long as the test that is in the first is true. Once it gets false, then the while loop stops. So yeah, the actions are executed routinely until test becomes false. And for such statement, counters are essential.

So they help us form the test to determine the number of times that we want to repeat the actions in a second argument. So this is the nature of this test is being controlled by some value of a counter. We measure this value of the counter when it reaches the desired value, let's say five or six, we tell Leite that this test is now false, and it forces the loop to stop. So this is the third use case of counters to form or to set the condition that will make a while loop stop. So to better understand this, let's see an example.

So going back here to this same tech file, we have the last section for today's video. So we have looping. And specifically, this is the while state.

Let's load the F then package first. So I actually don't have it just yet. So yeah, yeah, it doesn't here. So let's load it.

Going back here. Okay, so let's say that you want to draw some number of solid takes balls like this. You want to automate this process, especially that they feature the same parameters. So there is no need to repeat the path or insert multiple tick specters, of course, that'll be a kill. So one way to do that is to tell LaTeX the following.

While some conditions remain true, draw this path in the output. And through the aid of counters, the condition is formed to determine how many times LaTeX must repeat the TeX path. So that's the logic over here. So here is one way to do that. We begin by defining a new counter and set its value to the desired number of repeating times, say five.

So here we have new counter, Let's say ball cnt for count, and then we set that counter to five. And then we open a while-do command or we open a while statement through the while-do command of if-dim package. So a common approach to form the condition test, so that this condition test will be here in this first argument. So a common approach to form this condition test is to tell Leydig while the value of the counter is not zero, please repeat what's in the second argument. So this is written like that.

We have not and then the value the ball CNT the value of the command is not zero. So this part over here is a usual event test. So we compare two integers together through the equal sign. So this is the ball can the ball can the value of our counter equals zero. And we flip its logical state by the not operation.

So this is read like that while the ball counter value is not zero. Do this, which is just a text picture with a field draw path. Now let's think for a moment about what will happen if we leave the loop like that. Now the condition says while the value is not zero, do this. Okay.

And we didn't make any changes to the value of the counter. So it's current, it's running its last value is five. which is not zero, which means our condition at this stage will hold forever, because we didn't change the value of the counter inside the loop to stop it. So if you run at this stage, which I won't do, it will take some time and it will break when it reaches the tech maximum capacity because this loop will run forever because it didn't finish the setup for this condition which is changing the value of the counter inside the body of the while loop. So as each time it decreases until it reaches minus one.

So what we do typically here is that we decrease the counter value by one at each iteration till it reaches zero to stop the loop. And that's so what we do actually is that we add to counter

we add to the boll count counter minus one to decrease its value each time. So now we begin the very first iteration by latex asking while the value of the counter is not zero, which is the very first iteration is not zero. So yes, this condition is true. So latex repeats this And the very last piece is that it decreases the value of the counter by one. So the next iteration, it's four.

Yes, it's not zero. One more time, three, two, one, zero, and it breaks after five iterations. Here we have it, one, two, three, four, and five, which is our limit over here. And to make sure of that, we can optionally kind of check for the current value of the counter before doing anything. So yep, here it is.

So you can see that at the very first iteration, it's five, it's done its job, and then reduced the counter value to four. next iteration, it asks for Yes, not zero, we print that which is four, and then we type set this second ball over here and the iterations go one after another. So it actually stops at zero. So we have from five, four, three, two, and one. So this is the typical layout of how we can make a while loop, you make a condition, that is based on the value of the counter not being zero, you do the required job inside the second mandator argument of the yado command.

And then to stop this loop, you actually have to decrease the value of the counter by one at the end of each iteration. so that at some point this condition will be false. So the loop breaks and you get to go. If you didn't put this, you will get a tech capacity error because the loop will be running forever because the condition is not holding, is holding to true, is not turning false. So yeah, here it is.

Okay, great. And eventually, we can abstract such a routine in a new macro that kind of for better dynamics. So let's say after that, we have this whole implementation over here. So this is wrapping inside a new structure. Okay, so we create yet another one more new counter, we make this new command that is called C balls, which take three arguments.

And then we step the counter, we set the counter at the beginning, when we use the C balls to the first argument that the user chooses, develop the counter to determine how many times we run this while loop and then we initiate the while loop, the very first condition that we use Now this time we use value instead of that, which is pretty the same thing. And no indent, the same things picture, the same effect of decreasing the value of the counter by one, and then we use it. So we have three Mandator arguments. The first one is the value of the counter. So this is set counter, this is value of counter, which is chosen by the user.

So essentially, again, this is telling you how many times we're going to run this while loop is chosen by the user in the first argument, which is set to be the value of the counter that we made outside this new command over here. which we use in the condition to manage this whole thing. And we have here color to design choice. And eventually we can allow the user to choose the size of the circle. So those are the three mandatory arguments over here.

The first one for the value of the counter, which will control the number of file loop iterations. And then second and third are for the shape and color of the digs pole circle. So here we have it, we can, yeah, the first one is blue 60. And then read 60 with some kind of spaces. So we can say that we want some space over here.

If we get an error, we can use the live view mode,

Okay, we don't have, so here it is. So using the while loop with the counters can help you again create new structures. So yeah, as a recap, those are the examples that you can use the new counters to mark the environments and the new structure commander environment doesn't matter as whole. And we can create new enumerated lists. And we did that with redefining the item command.

And we also did it with this new entry. So to make us safe away from redefining the item, and then we can use the counters to form the condition stop a while loop. And this whole thing can be implemented inside a new use case structure. So yeah, hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching.

Now see you in the next video. Okay, so this is the time for lengths. So continuing in the same tech file, let's create this page and new section. So we say latech lengths.

We are familiar by LaTeX built-in lengths, which are indeed some macros that hold an amount or number of some dimension unit, like points and centimeters, et cetera. And now on top of that, LaTeX allows its users to create their own length variables. Those are adjacent macros that carry a length value. like the predefined text width, line width, and so on. So this user capability can come handy in some situations, like for example, building custom structures as always.

And that's what we're going to look at today. So, let's begin by creating and setting length macros. So here, we can make a new subsection. So this first one will be dedicated to creating, setting and using new length variables. Okay, here we are.

And so for that, we use the new length command. So as for new counter, we have new length. This is a latex standard feature, so no packages are needed, just like the new counter. And we put the name desired for the new length macro inside the one and only mandator argument of this new command. So sorry about this typo length.

So let's call it span. And notice that this is a macro name. So we have to put a backslash over here. So unlike the new counter, when we just inserted a text for the name of the counter, the new length creates a new macro. So you put the name and before that you put a backslash.

So be aware of that. So now having done that, we have this span length variable over here. And the next thing is to set that length, as always. So we know, we know by now, of course, the set length command, just like the set counter. And we put the name of the length variable in the first argument and the value in the second.

let's say that we will have this as initial value of two centimeters. Okay, so this is how we set it. And to change that we have the command add to length, again, just like add to counter command. Of course, this takes two arguments. The first one is the span name, the length variable, And the second one takes the amount of constant length unit that we want to add to the current value of the target length variable.

We have this three added to two, which gives five. Okay, perfect. Now, before using this length, let's see how can we print its value in the output. So now we create it, we set it, we add it to it. So now we're ready to print its value.

For that we'll use the package xprintlin. This is a one macro simple utility. Its documentation is attached and it defines the printlin command. Let's load it first. So going up here, after if then say use package, and we have X print len for length.

So install if you don't have it. And let's get back over here. By the way, before I forget this package, the X print len requires the FP package to be installed. So there is a small package for calculations called FP. Install it first and then install xprintln.

Okay, great. So at this stage to print the length, we use the println. So we called it span. My span is print the length. And of course, it takes one argument, which is the variable that we're targeting.

So yep, here it is. And as you can see, this displayed the value of the span variable with the full formatting of two digits after the decimal point and in millimeters. Although that we have supposedly we would have five centimeters, but by default the package, the print link command have this conventional floating point, let's say format in the output and default of two millimeters. So these default settings can be customized, of course, by the two optional arguments that the println command can accept. So the println takes woman data argument, but to tweak this default settings, we can use the two optional arguments that it can set.

So let's see, let's say which is, and then one more time, print len. And we will have this time two optional arguments. Let's put the name here before we forget to do it. And here, the first one is to set the number of digits. So let's make it zero.

So let's say that we want to make it a kind of integer. And the second one takes the specification for the length unit that we want to present. So supposedly here, we'd like to have centimeters, so five. So when a package prints, it'll choose this unit and this number of digits after the decimal point, which is zero. So we'll end up at this stage with five centimeters.

Yep. And here it is. So the xprintln defines the println only command, you can use it directly with its default settings, which is two point to two numbers after the decimal point with millimeters by default, or you can use its two optional arguments. The first one defines how many numbers you want after the decimal point. If you specify zero, then you're telling the package that you're trying print an integer-like format, and then the second optional argument takes the preferred unit for display.

Now, you have to be careful about using the optional arguments, meaning that since we have two of them here for the printlm command, In order to set the second only, which is kind of the alter only the feature of the unit. So let's say that we want 50.00 centimeters. So changing the length unit in display only without playing with the number of digits. So setting this second argument only, we need also to set the first one.

Because if you try to leave this empty, That won't work. Yeah, it'll cause an error. So it told it told us that missing number three as zero. And by now, from the first macro creation topic in this section, you may expect this result. So you cannot use you cannot leave the first optional argument empty like that.

And I bet that you know what will happen if we deleted it at all. Meaning that ended up with only one optional argument. Then Leitech will take this as the first optional argument, not the second. which again will cause another problem. Because the first argument for this the first option argument for this command is actually a numerical value.

So if you said three over here, this three will be assigned to the first optional argument, which controls the number of digits after the decimal point. So this will make all of them Yep, like that. So we have altered this. And second phase, we have three by now. So to restore, what I meant is that in order for you to set only the second argument, you have to specify the first argument.

So for this matter, there is an alternative workflow to change these settings without doing them on the fly for each printlin. So those are some two macros specifically that can be redefined to change this couple of default settings separately. So, and that, of course, will exhibit a global effect. So you can leave it like that in its default settings and restore this 50 millimeters. And before that, come here and redefine those two macros that the package provide.

So the first one is called default significant.

This one is for the number of digits. So the default significant macro over here controls the default number of digits separately. So this is the first optional argument as we saw. We can, for example, make it four and look now at the second value over here. It will exhibit yes, one, two, three, and four.

And after that, we have the Renew command of default unit, which of course controls the unit. So let's say centimeters and then

Yes, here we are centimeters. So you can use the optional arguments to change those default settings on the fly for a specific printlin display, or you can make them globally like that. And you can redefine them later and later frequently. So we have the default significant for digits, and you have the default unit. Okay.

Great, our new span, new length by now can be used inside any element that accepts a length unit value. So just as an example, let's use it inside a tix picture. And we'll do that to draw a circle. So let's say fill, draw. And we start at zero and zero, of course, we want to draw a circle.

And we close this path. So the radius will be a fraction multiple of the span. So we can say that 0.3. And we say of span.

And that's it. So now this is a new length that an element like ATIG spectra can accept. So I see it. Yep, here it is. So ATIG accepts that, that new length that we have created.

And that's great. So you can easily imagine that you may have, for example, a text shape that gets repeated frequently in your document. So it actually makes sense and it's a good idea to abstract or store its measure defining dimensions in some macros. that you can recognize, and use those to draw this specific recognizable shape again and again. So that results, of course, in a bit of readability, as usual, and this will add to the meaning of the code for easier inspection later on.

Okay, now there is another way we can set the value of new lengths. And this one is quite implicit, meaning that we don't input a hard explicit number as the value, but rather we make the width and height of our new length macro equal to something. Let's create a new subsection to see what is this. would say certain length dimensions to some value. Let's say that we want to create a rule that takes the exact horizontal width of the text, some width.

As you can see in the figure, the thin rule takes the exact width of the text, some width beneath it. So the question is, how can we create a new length macro that takes the same value as some type set object? Here the width that the text some width takes in the output, meaning that of course, we want to set our new length variable to the same exact width that some text take in the output. And then, of course, we can't measure, we can't know for sure the explicit number of width units that this text width string takes in the output. So what we're trying to do is to make latex work for us.

So in the background, it'll measure the dimensions of some object and assign that exact value without seeing it for us without without proposing that to us and assign that to our length new length variable. So let's see it. Let's say that we have a new length that is called rule width. Since we're talking about rules, And the way we do that is through the command set to width. So we have set to width.

The first one, of course, is the width that we're going to set some value to. And in the second argument, we put the object that we want LaTeX to measure in the background and assign its resulting dimension to our new length over here. That being the sum text width, the sum text string out here. So let it type sets this in the output, measure its width and type sets that or assigns it to our new length over here. So I think that this is called some width.

So forgive me about that. this is the text. And then when we use that, we say that we want to print a rule, a rule takes a width, which is this macro over here. And as stated, this is the exact sum width as it types it in the output. And to make sure we print that in a standalone line.

So let's run to see what will happen. And here we are, we zoom a little bit, we can see that the width of the rule that we give to it through our new length command over here, matches the exact width that this string some width takes in the output. So again, set to width measures the dimensions of its second argument and sets that to the length variable in its first argument. The background, this is my type setting over here. So yeah, this is just for clarity.

But in the background, latex sees or measures how in width. So again, this is set to width. So the dimension that latex measures here is actually a width. So because there is set to height that we're going to see in a bit. So set to width in the background latex measures how the object in the second argument will take in the output and sets that to that width to the width of the length variable in its first argument.

And this is the result, as you can see, when we use that and fact check it with the same sum width with one only blank space as this. So you have to be careful about that. We end up with the exact same dimensions. So we created a new length and set its width to some dynamic thing, let's say, or some dynamic value that we don't know for sure explicitly. So that's why I said that this is kind of a method to set the width or the dimensions of a length variable without implicitly without putting a an explicit numeric value.

So yeah, here it is. And of course, up until now, we don't actually know what is the exact dimension of this. So we can make sure of that by the println command. So we can print some statement over here. So we say in some sense, the width of the sum width string is equal to and we use println of our new variable because by now it's equal to the width of this sum width string.

So let's see it just to see how how is this worth in centimeters. So yeah, 1.92333. And you can change this kind of to make it to default three, whatever you want. This is the default significant again.

So we can make it more compact. So yeah, three is good. So we have set our new length, rule width, using the set to width to set this length to this amount of width over here. And we can check that by the print length as stated. Okay, perfect.

The set to width is a great macro for setting the width of a length variable. So as stated, similarly, we have the set to height command. Here it is. Okay. And let's say that you decided to create another rule, but this time you wanted to take the exact height of this compound power.

Again, of course, we don't know how many points, for example, does it take to print this stack power from the very bottom of two to the tip of six. So in that case, since we want the height of our new rule to be a length variable that takes the height of this compound power over here, we can store this using the set to height. So let's say that we will have again a new length This time let's call it power roll. Here it is. And we say set to height.

What do we want to set? The power roll new length variable to the height of this compound power roll over here. So we have two that has the power of combined four that is raised to six. and that's it. So litig will assign a height dimension to this new variable by the amount that this object or element or typeset takes over here.

And we can directly use that and check for its value at the same time. So we say that the compound power, we use it. Now this time we fix the width So the horizontal span and the height will be the exact height that this math mode content takes in the output. And then we change and then we check for value in the output. So let's look at this.

Okay, says undefined control sequence. I'm sorry about that. This is capital B. This is capital P letter. So sorry about that.

And let's run. Yep, here it is, we can zoom in a little bit. So we can make sure that yes, it's exactly taken the height from the bottom of two to the tip of six. and this is assigned to the height of force, the second command of this new rule over here. So again, this is quite powerful.

We made latex to measure the height of this object over here from top to bottom, and then store that height in a new length dimension. And we use that length, say for to create a new rule just as an example. So yeah, this is a very a useful concept in working with links, you can put whatever you want here inside the second argument of this set to width and set to height. Now Leitech will measure the respective dimension and puts that exact value and assigns that to our target length in the first argument over here. And you can use it after that.

So this is quite useful in uncertain use cases.

Okay, so Leafs can embed them as a feature for custom structure you're creating. So take the structure shown in the figure as an arbitrary example. This is a simple new environment that we will call it illustrate. It features a title that is wrapped within roles. And of course, those roles are of dynamic width that is equal to the inserted title by the user.

And then we have the environment body content. And at the bottom, there is a rule. And this one we're going to insert at the end part of the environment definition in the second argument. So let's create a subsection for this small arbitrary exercise.

Here it is.

Okay. And so my approach to set this up was as follows. First, I defined two new links, one for the title width.

I call it title width for convenience. And the other one is for the lower rule thickness. So this is new length. I call it lower rule thickness like that. And do not forget to put the backslash because this is again a macro.

I'll tell you why we create this thickness length, the little one, although it appears that we might not need it at first glance. So we initiate the environment, which will take three total arguments. So new environment, let's call it as stated illustrate, like that. That will take three mandator arguments, the first part of the definition and the second part. So first of all, here, we set the width of the title that the user inputs, which will be the first argument to the length macro title width that we have created.

So we use the set to width, which width and which value the width is the title width over here. And we will set it to the value of the first argument that the user inputs, which we will direct the user to put the desired title as the first argument, mandatory argument of the environment, and will ship its width dynamically to our new title width length. So now we have our links are ready to be used in the title block. which is this one, the sandwich effect. So we have this rule, the rule takes a width of our title that the user chooses, which is embedded in this title width length by the set width.

So this now will be stretched dynamically. And the second one will be actually the second mandator argument that the user has to input, which is the height of our role. And then we have the title in text bf. And then we have the lower role for the block. So this is upper and then title and lower role.

And we begin again by setting the width of the title width length variable by utilizing the title that the user inputs. to make this sandwich shape dynamic talking about the rules of course. So now the last part in the first portion here is the set length variable of the lower rule to the third argument. So we come after that and we say let's say that we make some space for here and we set our length. The length is this lower thickness.

and we set it to the third argument okay so in the last part we have this the lower row that comes after the whole content of the environment and again the reason why i created this lower row thickness is that i designed this in in a way that i wanted to make this lower row in the second part over here And if you recall, you cannot use a dumber argument inside the second part of an environment definition. So I had to make this setting or assignment over here, the user have to input the value that they choose as a thickness for the last row. And we abstract that in the lower row thickness value in order to be able to put it here in this last row. And of course, you can see that the width of this last row is the line width. So this is the usual latex line width length variable.

So yeah, this is just a design choice, I chose to put this role in the second argument. And we want to have a dynamic, we can't put a demo argument inside here. So we can abstract this inside a linked variable and then use it. it's this is exactly like saying rule width of language and hashtag three. But of course, if you try to put hashtag three over here, you will get an error.

So small trick, we can put it in a length that we have created over here using the set length command. And now we can use it directly over here. So yeah, and now we're going to use this illustrate environment.

So we have the first mandator argument to being the title. The second one is the thickness for the sandwich rules. And the third one is the thickness for the last rule. And the body of the environment holds its content, which is kind of a cant paragraph. Let's see that.

Yep, here it is. Okay, it appears that there is a small fault that I did inside this recording this implementation. So you can see that the the rules are not of the equal length of the title itself, or vice versa. Because what happened is as follows. Again, this is the first argument, this one first argument over here.

is taken its width by latex in the background assigned to this title width length. And we use that to make the sandwich rows. So supposedly, this some illustration example should have ended at this exact location. But if you if you look close at what has happened is that we have printed the title, which is this this displayed some illustration examples string, we have printed that in bold font. And that's why we have it stretched beyond its normal, non bold boundary over here, if you will.

So to fix this, we can either make this non bold. So just have it like that. So hashtag one, this will work.

Yeah, exactly. Here it is. So this matches the semantics. which is the user inputs that in a free without any formatting. So we have its width over here.

And when we print it, we have to print it just like the user entered it. And alternatively, we can leave it in bold font and take its width in bold font. So we make here to the set width, we make the width that we are measuring and assigning to our title width to set the rules with, we make it a bold font. Look at this. And here we are, they both stretch without any problems.

So yeah, it's good that that I made this fault. So you can be aware about that. Be aware about what exactly you're measuring and assigning to your length variable, and what's your printing to make them synchronized with each other. So there was no error at the beginning. It's just the semantics.

The user inputs this and we make it of bold font and take it to it because we want to display it here in bold font. So all of them can play in harmony with each other. And at the beginning or at the end, we have this lower rule thickness over here. So actually be careful about those tiny little details in the choices you make for implementation. And of course, because they get reflected in the user experience and in the output, of course.

So yeah, that was it for length. This is a quick video. I hope you found it beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. So hello, and welcome you guys to this video.

So this is using loops. Now, we've seen the for each statement, of course, when we used the for each command to repeat takes pictures. But looping is a general programmatic concept, of course, and we can use it to repeat any element in our document. And that is to typeset some content multiple times, of course, without having to code it explicitly, so some kind of the heart of automation. Okay, so as stated before, LaTeX itself doesn't have the functionality for looping or decision making, because it's a markup language.

But TeX is what features such functions. But of course, there are packages that provide this capability for LaTeX. The very first recognized one for looping is the package for loop. This package defines only one command that takes the same name, for loop. The for loop command requires four mandatory arguments.

The first one is the name of a predefined counter. counters are essential for loops so we use their values to determine the number of iterations of the loop just like we did the last video with while statements but the matter here is quite different because for while loops we used the counter value to form a condition But here we use the value is implicitly so we tell latex, well, we want five times six times or seven times depending on the current value of the counter that we have set. So that was the first mandator argument. And then the second argument is the initial value of the counter. So now as you will see we only define the counter with a new counter command and the for loop command features an internal step counter behavior Meaning that is it increments itself that the for loop command it increments the initial value that we choose for by one at the end of each iteration.

So what we do specifically is that we provide a name of a counter as the first mandatory argument. And then we provide an initial value that we want to start looping at in the second mandatory argument. And the for loop command itself at the end of each iteration, it steps. So in the background, it applies step counter of this name over here. So we don't have to put this explicitly, we just tell it that we want to utilize this x counter.

And this is the initial value to start at. And the for loop again steps the counter in the background by one at the end of each iteration. So you can say that this this second argument is the set counter command to give the counter variable some value. So we can see it like that. So this is the initial value.

This is like set counter. So you choose an initial value to start at. So now this value is called initial, because it changes frequently to a specified end value. So of course, we stop at some value, which is the end value. This end station at which the loop terminates is specified by the condition in the third argument.

So here we have this condition over here. The loop will run while this condition is true. Once it turns false, the loop stops. This is like the tests of the decision making, so to speak. And for loops here, this condition is typically like this.

You have the value of the counter lower than some number. And of course, the last fourth argument contains the content to repeat. So this for loop takes four mandator arguments. The first one is the name of the counter that we'll use. The second one is the initial value that we want to start looping at.

And this is typically kind of starting at one. So you can say that this is in the background, this set counter function. So this is pretty obvious. The third value that this argument takes is a condition. And the loop, this for loop command will keep repeating this content over here, while this condition is true.

once it turns false, the loop terminates. So this is how the for loop package constructs this command over here. And a typical condition as stated, you will have the value of the target counter lower than some number. And this some number is the maximum value, this is the end value. So say you start at initial value of one and you end at number of five.

So 123 and unless the value isn't the maximum number or as long this value is lower than the chosen maximum number of iterations, the condition is true. And the loops keeps going until it reaches the maximum value. So we'll see that. So just as an example, if the value we choose here for this number is 10, the loop will start at the initial value over here in the second argument, which is typically one, and will repeat the content in the last argument, while the value of our counter is less than 10, the maximum chosen in the condition here. so it does it from 1 to 9 and since the counter increments each loop once it hits 10 the condition turns false and the loop terminates so you can say that the number we put is exclusive this number via the maximum value.

If we say that while the value of the counter is less than 10, so we repeat from one the initial value, if we choose it to be one, we repeat things from one to nine. And this maximum value when we choose less than is exclusive. So we'll see that. And of course, the fourth argument is the content. This content can be text, repeat, some word, numbers, equations, tables, even figures and graphs.

You can put whatever later content you desire in this fourth Mandator argument of this for loop command. So yeah, this is how we structure a for loop using this package. So let's see some examples. Okay here I have an article with the tags of then and titling and if you recall this titling we use the drop title with a minus length using the set length so as to reduce the head space above this title over here. So yeah this is to serve some space in the page.

So we can start by actually using the for loop package. So I didn't load it. So let's do so. Here it is. And this is the for loop section.

Okay, zoom in a little bit. Here we are. Now we begin by defining a new counter, of course, to use it for our loops. So we say new counter, let's call it just num. We will use this one quite frequently today.

So we then initialize as usual a description environment. For the first item, we will make it to repeat some text. So we say repeating text. Let's repeat the LaTeX logo four times. So we use the for loop command 123 and for four mandator arguments.

Now the first argument is the name of the counter that we will utilize its value. The second argument is the initial value that we would like to start the loop at. So this is typically one. And the third argument is the condition. So how many times how do we would like to control the number of times of iterations of this formula.

So again, typically this is done like value of the not the counter that we're choosing, unless it's less than some number. So I state I said that we want to repeat the content here, which will be the Leitec logo four times. So the condition will be formed as follows unless the value of our counter over here is less than five. So we'll start at one, the second iteration, this value of num will be two, because at the end of each iteration, it steps the for loop steps the initial value or steps the current value of counter over here. So it's two, and then three, yes, it's less than.

So we have that, then four, it's less than. So we have one, two, three, and four, they desired four times that we want to repeat the latex logo. And at the last iteration, it steps this for loop command steps the previous value of the num counter, which was four, if you recall, it steps to five. And then when it checks the value of five is less than five, then no value of the number is five. So this condition turns to false and the loop terminates.

So again, this upper maximum Number is x exclusive value of num less than five means that we will stop at four. Let's run to see this Here it is. And we can add some space over here to see them clearly. Yep, here it is. Oh, zoom again.

And we have one, two, three, and four. And of course, we can kind of for readability, we can print the num at the end to check for that so we can see it clearly.

let's make this this tilde over here. So this tick each number to its typeset. So yeah, the first the first one we start at one. So again, this second argument, the initial value of the counter that we choose, this is essentially set counter. because of course, if you observe, we have just created the num counter with a new counter command.

And that's it, we provide its name in the first argument. And in the second argument, we choose an initial value, again, typically one. So this is exactly the set counter function. And then we form the condition that will control the behavior of the loop as while the value of our counter is less than some desired maximum value, we choose it to be five. So at the first iteration, the number is one, latex typesets this and checks for its value, which is one.

So it's this part over here. At the end of this iteration, in the background, we have a step counter. So our counter now is two. So we have value of num, which is two less than five. Yes.

So do that, repeat this. So we have here latex and two. And after two, it steps it again to be three, three is less than five. So repeat again, and it check which is this part over here. And at the end of the third iteration, it steps again to be four, four is less than five, of course.

So we repeat and check for its value one more time, which is this one over here. And at the end of the fourth iteration, it steps again. So to be five, this time, when latex checks for the condition, it says value of num, which is after the fourth iteration is five is five less than five, then no, they're equal. This time, the loop breaks. And we no longer see the repeated content that lies in the fourth argument over here.

So this is how the for loop command works. This number is exclusive if we choose to put the value of the counter list, then some number counter name, the initial value using the set counter and the content to repeat. And in the background at the end of each iteration, a step counter behavior is applied on our number. And this condition over here again checks whether to repeat or typeset the content in the upcoming argument over here or not based on the value of the counter. Okay, great.

Now next we use a for loop to print numbers in ascending order. So not just text as stated, you can repeat numbers. So let's add an item for that. We say printing, let's say numbers. So we'll have a for loop four times, we put the name of the num counter again.

So let's print the numbers from one to seven in Arabic format. So we start at one. And we say why the value of our number counter is less than eight. So we want to print from one to seven. So we have to stop at eight in order to be able to print seven, seven must be less than some value.

So this eight again is exclusive over here. And then at the end, we just say Arabic of num, we can we can actually break this Yes, let's bring it over here. So our book of num, and we can have some space between the repetitions. And let's check for this. And here we are without any problems.

So we choose the same number, we start at one, we say, while the value of number is less than five, then this condition will be true. So the loop keeps repeating its last argument over here, when it reaches seven, it maximizes the eight, and then it stops. So yeah, here it is for month to seven. Okay, now equate sign over here, which is, we can also start the counter at any value we desire. Not just one, of course.

So as an example, let's start at two to print a range of numbers. Let's make a new item for that for distinction. And we say printing range of numbers. So this time we will start at a later value. So let's say two, so we have four loop, and we choose the same num, we start at two.

And let's say we want to print from two to five. So we say value of num, let's close this. Yes, over here. And from two to five, then we have less than six. And the last one, again, will be Arabic of num over here.

So yeah, this is just to let you know that this is quite flexible. You can start at two and end at any desired value. So this will make a different printing numbers over here. So we'll have from two, yes, from two, the initial value to five, the last step before the maximum value that we choose to stop the loop.

Now we typically start at one for all applications that do not feature a number printing, let's say. So meaning that for example, if you're repeating some tick circles, it won't actually matter where you start at one, two, three, doesn't matter. So as a value as an initial value for the counter. Because at the end, you get a number of iteration as the difference between your start and end value. So what I mean here is that in this last item over here, we started at two, and we ended at five.

So how many number of iterations is that? Well, it's four, first iteration, second iteration, third, and fourth. So we run this, we type set what's ever in this last argument by using this for loop four times, this is exactly like doing this. So what I mean here is that let's say that again, we use the num. And then let's say that this time we started at one and we ended at five, so four, and then we have tech over here.

So run to see what I mean. We can undefine control sequence. So which one is that? So yeah, I'm sorry about that. This is must be capitalized, the tech logo.

Yep, here it is. So we can just break the line to see what I mean. Okay, so yeah, how many iterations for this for loop, we have 123 and four. And here, when we started at two, not one, just like this, and ended at sex, we have four iterations also 123 and four.

So essentially, what I meant is that you get a number of iterations to repeat the typeset content in the last argument for this command as the difference between the maximum value over here exclusively and the initial value that you start. So when we started at two at ended at six, we had four iterations. And when we started at one and ended at five or four before five, we had also four iterations. So in the applications like this one, when you don't have to print the value of the number, or print any kind of number in the output, it doesn't matter where you start, you just have to focus at the difference between the end value and the initial value. And this is will be your number of iterations that you will you will utilize over here.

So I hope you get it. It's quite obvious over here. So if you have an application like this, which incorporates printing the number, so you would have to focus at which initial value start. But if you have any kind of application like this, and just as I said, if you have a kind of a tics picture, some ball that you're repeating, it doesn't matter. If you start at two, you will get an end at six, you will get four balls.

If you start at one and end at five, you will get also four balls. So it doesn't matter. So now speaking of the values that the counter takes, the for loop command takes a step optional argument. Now as we saw by default, the counter gets incremented by one only at the end of each iteration. But we can slightly change that with this optional argument.

So I will kind of get rid of this. And let's say this optional argument that enables us to kind of to skip from one to three to five to seven, and we'll see that. So let's make an item for that. This item says stepping printing odd numbers. So this is essentially like this.

And of course, we don't forget that this time we will choose, we will use the optional argument of this for look command to act as a step. So we have here the number, we start again at one, and we print the Arabic at the last value over here of num, and we give some space. we have left this tab and the condition to stop this loop. So let's say that we want to print the odd numbers from one to seven. So one, three, five, and seven only.

So this, of course, if we used the original version of the for loop command as we did here in the second printing numbers item, so meaning that we start at one at the end of each iteration, we step only by one, we'll get at the output one, two, three, and up to seven. But this time we want to have a step of two. So we start at one. And at the end of each at the end of the first iteration, this for loops, say adds to the counter this time. So this is not stepping, this is a step.

And in the background, it's like adding to the number. So it starts at one. And at the end of the first iteration, the num become three. And then at the end of the second iteration, it became five, and seven, and so on. So yeah, this, this is essentially increasing the value of our counter by two at the end of each iteration.

And that's So over here, we can put our condition as usual. So there is there is no new stuff over here. So we print from one to seven. So we stop before eight, less than before eight. Let's run to see the output.

So yeah, here it is one, three, five, and seven. So again, what happens essentially is that we start at one, it checks for it, which is one. And then at the end, we add two, we add to the counter, the value of two to have three checks for that three is less than eight. So it prints the three, the second iteration over here. At the end of that, it adds two to be five, five is less than eight.

So it prints it. at the end of the third iteration, it increases again 2 to be 7. 7 is less than 8. We print that. And at the end of this, so we print that 7 at the end of the fourth iteration.

And then we increase 2. to have a number of 99 is of course not less than eight, the loop terminates because this condition turns false. So yeah, the for loop command again takes a step value, which is of course, originally is one. So if you say one over here, you will get one to three up to seven, just like yes, over here, just like the second item. So this this step is is originally or by default one, you can make it two, three, whatever you'd like.

And to imagine this again, you can see it as an adding to a number by the package or this is is called a step optional argument. Great. So other than text and numbers, kind of the content to repeat using this for loop, we can actually repeat math equations without any kind of problems. So let's say that repeating math content can certainly do that. So initialize a for loop with that.

So again, we use the number, we start at one, And then let's repeat the inline equation of E equals MC squared, the famous equation four times. So four times, as we know by now, we stop before five to have four iterations. And then here we initialize the math mode by dollar signs. And inside that we put our content without any problems. And we can increase some space over here.

And that's it. So different type of content. So first, math mode or text mode, it doesn't matter. You'll get it. Yep, here it is.

One, two, three, and four iterations. So certainly you can repeat math mode. And next, let's look at repeating graphs. Let's make five instances of a text node shown in this figure. This is a node that has its content being the alphabetical representation of the loop counter.

So for that we use for loop, we choose the number counter, and then we start at one, we want to repeat it five times. So we stop at six or before six. then in the content over here, we can put this time just for to have some space, not to occupy so many space, I'll use the tigs command. And then we'll use the note command. And

do not forget to put a semicolon at the end of the tigs command. So this is a tigs command. So you have to end it with a simple. So the content of the node will be again the alphabetical representation. So this is alpha of what of num.

And that's it. So and for the shape of the node, we have this setup over here. So we tell it to draw, and then we fill it with black. And we say that the text is white. So let's eliminate these extra spaces.

you can read it of course by now. So yeah, text is white. And lastly, we will actually have to break over here. So sorry about this rounded corners. So this is the entire body that we want to repeat.

This is the last argument of the of the for loop command, we have the tigs command over here, we have the node, some setup for the node, the content of the node inside this mandator argument over here, and we end the tigs command by semicolon can actually make this quite compact, save some space. So let's eliminate this. Yes. Yeah, so here is the brackets for the setup, the optional arguments of the node command. And here is the content inside them and data arguments.

And all of this this tigs is the thing that will be repeated five times. Let's see it. And of course, this is a dynamic content, because this takes path incorporates the alphabetical printing of the counter, the counter value. And this counter value is changing. So at the very first iteration, we have one, the initial value that we chose, the alphabetical one is a, and then it became two, so B, C, and D, and E, and so on.

So yeah, certainly you can put the tics pictures or tics commands inside the last argument of this for loop command over here. And then as always, this feature can serve in defining custom structures. So commands or environments, you can put the for loop in any place you want. So let's make an item with that. So we say embedding in a new macro.

For that, let's create a new command called print AR. So we begin this time by a new command print AR this one will take two arguments and It'll use a for loop to print the Arabic and Roman style format for the counter So that's the convention of AR Arabic Roman the two arguments over here will be for the user to determine the range of values for the counter and So inside the body of the implementation, let's put the for loop. So we can use a global counter if we if we would like, and that's okay. So we are inside a new customization, a new macro, so we can easily use the num because it's it's been defined fairly in the document. And then you can, of course, design this in so many ways.

But I chose to make the first argument of our print our command over here to be the initial value that the user chooses to set the counter that uses the loop for. So this is the initial value that will be supplied by the user. And the second argument, the second hashtag to dummy argument will serve as the end value. So definitely the user will control the range if you will. So the user will provide the initial value we choose for the counter.

And they will also will have to embed or provide as the second argument, maximum number to stop before. Yeah. And here we have the content that we want to repeat, we can make it like this. So inside these dollar signs, we can make some parentheses, and we use the Arabic of our num, like that comma and some space, and then Roman of our number like that. So about this, so yeah, here we are.

And that's it, actually. So this print r takes two and that our arguments, the first one is the initial value of a an internal for loop, the second one is the value to stop before, and we're ready to use this. So we can say, Let's say that we want to repeat numbers from three to seven and check for their Arabic and Roman formatting in this paired print over here. So we'll have from three, the three and the three eyes and so on. So from three to seven.

Yeah, here are three of the three eyes IVV and VI, which is six before before seven, because again, this is the initial value shift here. So we start from three, this is the second value less than seven. So we end at six. And you have it over here. So yeah, the for loop can be freely be a part of a new command over here.

And moreover, you can even repeat items inside such a description environment over here. So let's make an item that says repeating items, which is may seem quite odd, the for loop. we use the num, we start at one, and we want to repeat some item two times. So value of num is less than three. And this item will be here inside this third, this inside this fourth argument over here.

So this will be an item. So backslash item, this one says child. And then as a content for this item, we say repeated item, and we check for the value of the current, the counter of here. So yeah, this is a normal for loop inside this for this time, we just put an item command. So we're still inside this description environment, over here.

And at the end of each repeated item, we check for the current value. So we start at one, so it'll say repeated item one, and then two less than three repeated item number two, and then three, it'll stop. So we'll have two nested, two repeated childs over here. So yeah, this may seem dumb, but yeah, you can do it. Here it is.

So this item that says repeating items, it's over here. And this for loop repeated the content of an item command. Of course, you can have it outside or whatever. So yeah, you can just use it to repeat the item if that makes sense for you in some situations. we can actually kind of readability just for this case, cut this for loop as all and embedded inside a description environment.

So nested description environment. Here it is the entire for loop that repeats this item over here. Yeah, so let's see. Okay, so it looks like we have to kind of break after repeating items over here. So we can actually do that.

So leave the mode and then break. So leave V, sorry about that.

Yeah, here it is. And can actually decrease this amount over here. Yeah, so just in order for you to be able to catch this on the fly. So we have here inside this item that says repeating items, big parent description environment, we have this description environment that contains a for loop that repeats some item. Yeah, and that's so Lastly, you can repeat a table.

So we say here repeating tables. So a for loop. So number again, and start at one and end at five. So

sorry value of num is less than five so we have four tables and inside here we have a small tabular environment here it is so tabular two columns and two rows that says one row actually sorry about that one row in B. And that's it. So yeah, any kind of tabular environment, just showcase that this is possible. We have it over here, two columns and one row, first iteration, second, third, and fourth. We repeated this tabular environment four times using this for loop command.

just for clarity. In the condition here, we can actually use the num and the version for checking the value and yeah, it'll work without any problems. So of course, you have spotted that we have been using the same counter again and again. So we have defined this new counter num at the very beginning of this section. And then inside this entire description, long description environment over here, we have used it so many times for the four loops inside each item.

So you can see easily in each item, we have a different range of values for the same counter. So we started this counter without setting its value and each loop sets, again, as stated sets the value of that counter. So here, here we have from one to five, and then here we have again from one to eight, and so on. And it's working without any conflicts. So although supposedly, each for loop changes the value of the counter to the end value, So we start at some initial value.

And we set the counter we add or we step the counter at the end of each iteration to end that some at some value at the end. So supposedly, the value of this num counter is changing. So let me show what I mean. Let's say that we have a new counter that is called test. This test this time is set

to five. And then we check for its value. So that test, this will give five. Okay, over here, this test will be used inside a for loop. So the counters test, let's start at one.

And at

let's say six, and then repeat the tech again.

So let's run this to execute the change. And now this time, let's check for the test again, and see what we will get.

We will get six over here. that six is the last value that the test counter took in this for loop, which ended or made this condition to be false and ended the for loop. So what I mean is that the for loop is changing constantly the value of the test. So this is kind of an open scope. the test counter is used.

And throughout this loop, its value is changing. So if you were thinking that when we check for the value of the test, we will get five, then no, we will get the last value that this counter took in this for loop. So the change the effect of for loop on the value of its counter is global. And the thing is, when we use this test counter over here one more time, and let's say that we will start this time at three and check for the value of this test inside the typeset content. So let's see what we will get.

So we will start at three, sorry for this. But we will start at three. So the point here is that the for loop resets or sets the value of its counter to the initial value that the user chooses in the second argument. And it doesn't matter what was the last value of that counter outside this for loop. So again, we have created a new test counter set it to five, which is this stage over here, we use this test inside first for loop ended at six, we checked for that.

Yes, it's six. And directly we use it again one more time. inside a second for loop. This time, we say that we want to start at three, and end at six, we check for that at each at the end of each iteration. So yeah, the first the very first value that this test takes in this for loop is the initial value.

So the for loop sets the initial value or sets the value of the counter that it uses the initial value that the user chooses in the second argument, regardless of its last value. So this is how we've been able to use this number counter over and over again. we change it from one to five. And then we tell it it's the for loop to make it again one and in that eight. So supposedly at this stage, it's eight.

And it's eight, but we add the third item over here tells it to be two, and so on. So this second argument over here, the initial value of the counter for the loop sets the value of the counter to the chosen value by the user, regardless of its last value. So yeah, hope you get it. Let's clean this up. So again, the effect of the the influence of the for loop on the value of the counter is global.

So be aware of that this effect is global. So we can actually let's say that we want to check for the value of the num at this very last change that we make to it in the last item. we will get five.

Yes, over here, this is eight, we will get eight, this will be repeated seven times. So yeah, quite messy. But you get the idea. The change of the for loop on the item is on the counter in its second

argument over here is global. We can observe out that one more time we can leave it for you to be able to recognize this. Yeah, here it is.

So next, let's look at using loops with if statements. Yeah, let's make a new subsection looping and decision making. So essentially, what we're going to do is that we will create a loop for loop. And within that loop, we will have a bunch of if statements that will actually determine the format of the loop output. So take for example, let's say that we want to create a new command called print numbers.

So one new command over here that says print numbers, this command will take two mandatory arguments, the body of this new command will be a for loop. So let's actually do that. We lose again the num. And then we have one. So we'll start at one.

And we say the num is less than the first argument. So this time we fix the start, and we give the user the ability to pick the end point of this for loop. So the body of the content that we're going to repeat. The goal here is to allow the user to print some numbers up to the limit specified by the first argument. And the second argument actually will be used by test conditions of if then else commands inside this loop over here.

So those if then else commands will determine the style format for printing the counter at each iteration. So let's say that if we want Roman, here we say if then else here we check for the equality between the second argument and the lowercase word Roman. So here we have a condition equal of the second argument that the user provides and the word Roman. So essentially, the first argument will be the endpoint, which marks the maximum number of iterations minus one. So controlling the number of repeatings that we want.

And the second argument over here will be utilized inside multiple if then else commands. to check for what is actually the format that the user wants. So let's say that in this case, the user provided a second argument of word Roman. So when we check for its equality here in the first argument as the test of the if then else, then we repeat a Roman type set of our number. So that's exactly what we do in this second argument over here.

and so if this if the user chooses roman number then we print the roman for for them and if not so else we leave it empty just like that and that's because we will account for other cases by other if then else statements so we do the same thing for the case of the uppercase roman So if capital Roman, so here it is. So let's actually break this to see it clearly, like the one that we've just printed. Yes, to have some consistency. So yeah, we have again, one more if then else. If the user chooses this time from the beginning, if the user chooses the Roman.

So of course, the first if statement is false. So nothing in the else clause. So if the second argument that the user provided was capital Roman word like this, then it's like this if the nails doesn't exist. And we pass to check that for the Roman command that we have here, the Roman word. And if that's true, meaning that the user chooses to put this exact same text, we give it back the capital Roman representation of the number counter for this for loop.

and if not so meaning that the user didn't choose small roman or capital roman you get the idea we can check for the arabic

the very same thing. We check for the equality between the second argument provided by the user and the Arbic word. And if so, we give them the representation for that. And then here after the for loop, so after this for loop inside the command over here, we can just break the line. Now, before using this, this arrangement between for loops and if statements is only one possible way that these elements Playtec or tech can work together to format some output.

So you can easily imagine other situations in which the logic you have might have a for loop that is actually inside the then or else clause of some decision making. So vice versa. of course, yeah, this time, we have the if the nails inside the for loop. So you can in some situations, the logic you implement will have a for loop that is inside a conditional statement. So you pass some test.

And if it's true, you can repeat something over here. If it's false, you can repeat something over here. So yeah, this is just one way that you can combine looping and decision making, it depends on the situation you're in and the thing that you're trying to achieve. So, yeah, let's use this and inspect the code one more time. So let's use it for the three cases.

Let's give a maximum number of eight to start to stop at seven. So over here, the the num is less than the first argument. So seven times, and the body over here will again, check the second argument to some word that we have. And that's it. So in this case, the evidence the decision making is the body of the for loop.

And it'll control the format of the output through some tests to check for the equality between the second argument provided by the user and some static text over here. Let's run to see the results. Yep, here we have it. So in the first case, we said eight, stop at seven, and we said that we want Arabic. what happened is that exactly latex enters this for loop, it finds this very same, I'm talking about this Arabic first use case over here, which printed this line from one to seven, what happened is that latex tries to implement execute this if the nails statement, it sees if the second argument for it by the user is equal to the Roman, the Roman text over here, and it's not So it skips to the empty third argument of the else close.

So there is nothing in there. So it's as like if this whole thing over here doesn't exist, because this condition is false, and the else close is empty. And the very same thing happened with the Roman. it starts with this if then else they are not equal go to else nothing and then it passes to the last if then else yes it's Arabic give it the Arabic and now it repeats itself So it goes all over again. So you can imagine that this story that I've said is for the first iteration, the number one.

And at the end of this for loop over here, it steps because we don't have a step the optional argument if you recall, so the number now become two, and it kind of does that the same the very same thing all over again. So it checks for this Arabic to be this and this and this. Yes, it is give it the upper representation of the current value, which is two, two over here, and so on. The same thing happens for the Roman and the Roman over here. So it's kind of a simple, straightforward implementation over here.

And you can easily imagine is that kind of if we provided some Yeah, if we have if we provided some second argument that doesn't exist in our list of provided checks, we get nothing in the output. So this OMN, this doesn't exist in our list of if then else check conditions. So we don't have anything. So empty else statements for all of them. And there is nothing other than those F then else commands inside the for loop.

So that's why for this third use case, when we didn't provide any one of the expected second arguments to be fact checked with this static text over here, we have empty output. So yeah, let's restore the capital Roman. Yeah. Okay. So that was quite straightforward approach to achieve this goal.

And as usual, there are dozens of ways to do the same thing with LaTeX. And for our case here, mixing loops and conditions, there is a slightly better approach for this example of how we can form the logical order of instructions. So using the fdnls commands to check for the format and choose it of how we can print the value of the number iteratively. This better approach or method will make the chose of style optional. And this is with default of Arabic printing, which quite for me makes more sense.

So we can make a sub subsection that says better approach. And here is the implementation besides the three use cases. Let's run first to make sure. As you can see here, this time we have two arguments. The first one is being optional.

And as you can see, the difference between the using is that this time the choosing for the desired style for printing from the user is optional. So the Mandela argument is now the first one, the second one. Sorry about that. The Mandela argument is the second one, of course, which marks the end of our loop. So let's just first print this out to make sure that it's working.

So yeah, it is. So let's see what is happening over here. So this time, we are using the renew command for the print numbers. And previously, we had two mandatory arguments, one for the upper boundary and one for the style, which was mandatory. But this time, we have yes to arguments, the first one is being optional, without default value.

So that means that the second argument is the mandator run. And this is of course left for the upper boundary. So this time for the for loop, we use value of number less than second argument, which is this one over here. Great. And now coming to the body of the for loop.

Now this body in this implementation features only one if then else father or great statement. So the logic here is that at first, we check for whether the user inputs a optional value or not, optional argument, the first one. So at this first stage, let's say that the user didn't put any optional argument. So when light tech tries to check for its equality to the locus Roman, well, it doesn't exist. So this condition is false.

So it's quite empty string at this first use case over here, there is no first optional argument. And its default value is empty, which means that this condition is false. So we skip that then, and we go to the else close over here. the else clause of the first if then else is itself an if then else logic which checks for the value of our optional argument again and again this time we don't even have an optional argument so for this if then else we check the then clause and finally go to the else clause which made this Arabic. So it's quite abstracted, and more complicated than the first implementation.

So we forced by logic to have a default Arabic printing, if we don't use the optional argument. And you can follow through this process again. And by checking if the user inputs the Roman lowercase in the optional argument. So LaTeX checks for that in the condition of the greater f than else. Yes, we have it.

It's actually Roman. So we completely directly go to the then close, which is Roman of num. And that's it. we skip the else close at this time over here because we have applied the then close. This is pretty straightforward.

But for the case of the uppercase, the capitalized word Roman, we check for that yes, their user have provided a an optional argument. It's not the Roman. So they are not equal capital R and lower r. This is the difference over here in this third use case, which means that in this case, we skip the then close and go to the else close. And again, this else close features and if then else, which checks if the optional argument that the user provided is equal to the capital Roman.

Well, this time it is. So we execute its then close and give back the representation of the number in capital Roman numerals. So yeah, here you have it. This time this implementation, we have only one if then else. And it's else close has an if then else.

And by this combination over here, we have first the design of this new print numbers to print the Arabic when it fails when you don't have even an optional argument. So your last step is to print the Arabic numbers. And yeah, you can walk through it again and again, if you don't get it at the first time, it's completely okay. So yeah, just this is a different approach of implementing this hypothetical new command over here of incorporating for loops and if they nil statements, just to give you some ideas.

Okay, and so the last concept that we have today is nesting for loops. So let's make a subsection for that. We've seen this before in graphics, but I want to present it here for this package also. So nested loops have different counters, one for the outer. So let's create a new counter for the outer for loop.

Let's call it loop. And we will use the num counter that we have been using in the first description environment for the inner. So we don't need here. So we will define only this loop for the outer loop counter for the outer loop. And both of them will be inside a new command.

so not just hanging free we'll make a special command for these name it print counter this command will take one argument and it'll print the arrangement in the figure this matrix if you will has three rows those represent the iterations of the outer loop So let's form the outer loop here to represent the rows. So again, as I've said, we use the loop new counter for the outer parent loop, we start at one, and we say the loop, we continue up to the first argument provided by the user, one and only argument. And yeah, here inside, of course, the content for this for loop will be another for loop with a different counter, which is the num counter that we have defined at the beginning of this video. So before setting this, we can at this level, just break the line. So, okay, here inside this body, we'll have this for loop.

This is the inner for loop, which features the num counter starts at one ends at the same upper boundary chosen by the user. And for that we print this combination over here. So we have the alphabetical representation of loop, the outer counter for the parent for loop, and we have the Roman representation of the inner loop. And of course, you know, by now that the way that for loops work is that we have an outer iteration which fixes for each one. So at the first iteration, let's say that this is five.

So the first iteration over here will have alphabetical representation of one. And this one will hold for all the iterations of the inner loop. so we have one and one one and two one and three one and four one and five and so on and when the number of iterations of the inner loop terminates when it's uh reaches its end then we break this loop and go to the outer loop one more time increase by one this time we will have loop of two roman of one loop of two two two three two four, and so on. So yeah, this is how the missus for loops work. So let's print some counters up to three iterations.

So four over here. Let's check for this. See if it holds. Yep, here it is. And again, just as stated, we have three rows, those rows, each row kind of represents an outer iteration.

So we have three iterations. At the first iteration, we have three iterations for the for the inner loop. At the very first time, we have a loop counter of one over here. So alpha of one is a, it's this a over here. And we start again in our loop at one.

So we have Roman of one, it's I, and we are still inside the first iteration of the outer loop, which is the first row. And what happens is that the counter of the inner loop is what's changing. So we have a still the first iteration of the outer loop, but two of the num inner counter and three. And when we reach the maximum number of iterations for the inner loop, we break from that, step the counter of the outer loop to reach two. So two is B over here.

And again, two and one for the inner two and two, two and three break, step the outer and so on. And just for clarity, we can mark the outer iteration by some notation. So for that, we can put this before the inner loop.

over here. So this is some note. Let's print this here first. Yep, here it is. So it's just at the beginning of each outer loop.

is this part over here before the inner loop, we just print some statement that says outer loop number. And we check for the value of the outer loop. At the beginning, it's one of a this is a row over here. And we fix so as you can see that what we have put inside the beginning of the outer parent loop printed only one time. And then we enter the inner loop to print these three columns over here.

And after that, we return one more time, we now have a loop of two, we have so this be over here, printed this statement entered the second time for the inner loop to print this row, and so on. So yeah, this is just marking some notation for the outer loop. So yeah, eventually we can see this more formally like that. So we have here two new counters. Let's just print to see what will happen.

So yeah, so this is kind of a formal representation or presentation of the nesting of the loops. We have outer loop and inner loop. Those are new counters. And we use that over here. So we print the word outer, and then we check for the value of the outer, put some arrow over here.

And inside that, we print the word inner and the arrow book of inner. So the outer first loop features the inner first and second iterations. So we have a maximum of three over here. And we break the line after the inner loop and step one more time to have outer of two, the second one here features two iterations. So yeah, each outer iteration features the full set of inner iterations.

So yeah, hope you found this beneficial. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video about loops. Okay, so this will be a quick demo on another package that provides a looping function, which is the forArray package. This one offers some commands to work with lists and arrays also, but we will be more concerned with what it has to offer for processing lists. So you can consider this as one more way to create lists, and this time with looping semantics.

And I find this approach, we're going to see a bit intuitive in terms of syntax structure and how it works. So yeah, just wanted to let you know about it. So the main feature of this package has for looping is a command called forEach. The for and each are capitalized. So to differentiate that from the forEach command of the pgf4-tigs library.

So this man takes three arguments. The first one is for a delimiter separator. this one highlighted in green you put here typically a comma or a semicolon and the job of this separator is internal meaning that it doesn't appear in the output rather it's used inside the code to separate the content of the items as we'll see so it's just an indication for latex engine to mark the end of some items So we have here a separator that you chose. And the third argument, we put the items that we want to repeat for the list. And those items are delimited by the separator you chose in the first and third argument.

So third argument got the content. And for the second argument, this is a template for how each item will be typeset in the output. Usually this argument is composed of two parts, a fixed part, which can be anything like a fixed text or a piece of text graphics. So generally this fixed part appears in the output before the content of each item that is put in the third argument. we have here a template.

This template has a fixed part. This fixed part can be let's say a text, the word latex. So this word latex text that is fixed will appear in the output before each item content that we have in the third argument. So this is the first part of the template that we chose to lay out here in the second argument. And then we have the placeholder as the second part.

This is just a macro that reserves a space for each item. so mainly setting the location of each item content in the template so just as an example if we have this code we will end up with this result in the output so this is a new list that we have created this output on the right over here this one is produced by using the for each of the for array package we chose an internal delimiter to separate the content of the items a comma. And the third argument as stated, we have the changing items of the list. They are separated by the delimiter that we chose in the first argument. And again, the second argument that takes a template.

So this template is again composed of a fixed part. So this fixed part over here is this fixed part text with a colon. And as stated, it appears before the content of the item. So the first item here is fixed part, and then item one, and then first part, and item two.

And you can see that the second part is this placeholder over here. Again, this is at each iteration, latex takes by in order the items, put them in this placeholder over here and type says the output. So we have the first iteration, we have fixed part, this level item, this is the placeholder command, this is a macro that they for array package defines. And it's quite intuitive in its naming. So this level item, the first level, the first iteration doesn't matter.

It's the item one. So fixed part text plus item one, we get this first item in the list. then the second iteration fixed part again as it is and then the placeholder now will hold the item to the second content that came after the delimiter that we chose so yeah it's just a different way to work with lists so let's see it in action

Let's first load the package. So here we say use package for array. So install it if you don't have it. And then we don't actually have to break this page, it'll break. And let's create a section for this package.

And we're using the for each command because this package has different other utilities. Okay. I will begin by defining a new command I call tigs item.

This command will be used to format the counter value at each item with this shape in the figure.

So this will be a takes picture that has three paths. So beginning the takes picture inside the definition over here. The first one is for a fill path for the solid rectangle.

Okay. And the second one is for drawing the path for the outer rectangle. So this is a draw path that is quite extended beyond the dimensions of the inner one, as you can see here. And the third one is a node to hold the counter print. So we say node text equals white content and end the node.

Let's call this C and the content will be bold font of this level count.

Instead of defining and using a new counter, we can make use of the macro thisLevelCount that holds the number of the current item in the list.

This is a macro that the for array package prepares for us. And it stores a numeric value that points at the count for the level or the iteration that we're in. So we can make use of that. And note that there is no need to increment this. The thing is that we will put this takes item command in the template of each item in the for each command and For each item in the output the package will assign the appropriate number for an item So what I'm saying is that this level count is maintained by the package The package assigns the appropriate number for the order of each item inside the for each command as you will see And of course, it starts from one.

So this is a numbering or counting schemes for the items that a for each command exhibits. And it's maintained automatically by the package. So lastly, for this takes picture, we have this couple of options. So the environment will have some options. They're just the baseline and the rounded corners.

Great. And now let's use this.

So using this freely. So I say using the for each command freely, meaning outside any environment or custom command, just hanging free in the stream of text in our tech input document over here. So let's make this so we have four and then each three arguments. The first one is the limiter. Let's say a comma.

The second one will be a template for how each item will look like in the output. And the third one will contain the items themselves. So this is the list of delimited let's say items to type set and of course type set according to the template that is specified in the second argument okay great so for the template in this second argument we'll have this arrangement you see in the figure So from left, we have first the square format of the item number, which we have now embedded in the command things item. So let's start by this. So we have tags item ready to use.

Again, this takes item is just a set of formatting. And the dynamic object here is the this level count command that points at the order of each item. So one, two, three, and so on. So this is just a counter. And after this square representation of the level counter, we have the optional fixed head text.

So we lay it out like that. Fixed head and colon. You can omit this fixed part, of course, if you want. And lastly, for the template that we're seeing comes the body content of the item. So for that, we will insert the macro this level item to serve as a placeholder as we saw in the presentation.

So we have this level item. And at each iteration, this template is applied. So each time we will have this part. So this is the text item, a call for this command that has only the counter dynamic. And then for each item will have this fixed type set, which is now just text.

And the important thing is the placeholder that will take in order for each level or iteration, the items to be typeset in the last mandator argument over here. Just before listing the items, we can have some line breaking and some space after each item. So this is a template. So we have to break the line and give some space after each item just for readability, of course. So now we're ready to list the typeset items for the list that we want in this third argument.

So we begin by TextBoldFont. It's this bold first item content text. And after that, we put our delimiter, which is the comma over here, to tell LaTeX that the this first item has ended. And what happened in the output executes this, fixed head, and then the command or the macro this level item takes at the first iteration, this value over here. So we have this item executed fixed head, and then we have bold first item content.

break, the second item, second iteration, and so on. So again, this level item is a placeholder that takes the value in order from this list of items typeset here. And what comes before it is kind of static. And if it has some dynamic content like this, it will be applied, of course. So either way, that was the first item we break by the chosen delimiter.

And then we'll have the second item in italic format. Okay. And the delimiter, do not forget that. And then we have an underlined text. And that's it.

So let's check this at this stage. Great. Here we are. So as you can see, let's focus on this 4H. We chose the delimiter to serve as a separator for our list of items in the third argument of the 4H command.

And the template for how we would like to typeset this list of items, we put that in a second mandator argument. We did that through the tigs item new command over here, which has only this one dynamic feature, which is the level count. Again, this level count is a counter maintained by the package. So at each level or iteration inside the for each command, this is directing to one, two, and three. So this is a built in counter in the package.

And then we have fixed head features here. And then this level item as a placeholder. first iteration, it takes the first item in the list. bold font over here. Next iteration, it takes the second argument, italic.

And third time takes the third item in the list, as you can see over here.

Okay, great. Now, another way you can work with the for each command of this package is to have it inside an itemize environment. Let's try this out. So as stated using it freely like that to type set anything one time one shot. So this is what one list will embedded and put it in an itemize environment.

Okay, here we are using within itemize. Okay, so essentially, it'll be the body of the environment as whole. So if we have an itemize environment like this, the for each will be the entire body of this itemize. So essentially, we're setting the items of the itemize iteratively, if you will, can make it like that. So yeah, it doesn't matter.

So this time, actually, for the separator, in the first argument, we can use any kind of symbol that we want. So let's say that for no obvious reason, we want to use the tilde, it'll work without any problems. And next we play with a template. This time the template of the item structure will be just as before. But of course, since we are inside an itemized environment, so the item command is the very first thing to insert.

Meaning that when we use, let's bring this back over here, when we use the for each inside the itemize, as I have said in just a moment before, we're setting the items of the itemize environment iteratively through this for each command. So that means the template must start with item command as normal. So this is just because of we are inside an itemize environment. And then we have the same parts, which means that we can take this and paste it over here, can retract this. So yeah, it doesn't matter on a new line, hoping that it won't create any problems.

So again, this template is like the very same first one. But the thing is that since we are now inside an itemized environment, so this each each item in a list inside an itemize must start with the item command. That's the increase at the very beginning over here. And that's And as usual, in the first and the last argument, we list the items that we want to print using this method. And let's paste the same three items.

And this time the separator is the tilde that is chosen over here. And that's it. We're ready to use this. Let's see it.

It appears that we have some defects to get rid of. You can see clearly that we have, since we have inserted the item command, we have its symbol, this bullet over here. And of course, we have some extra quite unwanted left margin, let's say. So let's see how can we get rid of these two kind of to end up with this same format and look over here. So getting rid of the label of the item command is pretty straightforward.

And of course, we know it. we renew the label item I command and leave it empty. This bullet over here is the label of the item at the first I level, meaning that force we don't have nested environments over here. So this is the parent level item command inside an itemized environment. So the bullet is the label for that the label for that.

And we renew its macro and leave it empty. And all of a sudden, this is removed. Okay, great. And the other issue we have here is the this lift indentation or margin over here. If you don't like it, of course, you can leave it like that doesn't matter.

But let's see how can we get rid of it, of course. So for this, we're going to make use of a package called enum item. So let's load this package. So we have num item. This is an extremely useful package for handling different types of lists.

You'll find this documentation attached and I might present a treatment for this package after ending the essential training. But for now, let's just use the set list command. So, Let's put this setlist before our problematic environment over here. So set and list. This is a macro that is defined by the enum item package.

This one will be used to eliminate the left margin excess unwanted space over here. So, this argument takes one mandator argument and it might have an optional one. So inside the optional argument, we specify that we're playing with the itemize environment, just to make it limited for this scope over here and not touch any other list environment. And in the mandator argument over here, we use the option that is called left margin. left margin.

And we say that is equal to zero points. And that's it. So the space to the left of each item is called the left margin. And we set that zero of the itemize environment. Let's run.

And here it is, we have it gone. So yeah, we have removed the label that the dot that we had here by renewing the level item command and set it an empty set. And then we use the set list with the itemize option from of course, the enum item package. And we said that we don't want a left margin. Of course, you can get rid of this, let's say fixed head thing over here.

to end up with a normal list over here. So yeah, it doesn't matter. Actually, you can put whatever you want as a part of the general template that for each command will apply on the list of items to typeset in this third argument.

And lastly, if you like this quite limited approach of working with lists on an iterative basis, and you're thinking about expanding this workflow kind of to incorporate nested items, then the following will be one way to achieve this task.

we are nesting for each list. I will present the thought process of creating this nested structure in the figure using the for each command and LaTeX base lists. I'm not going to stress this and build it step by step. Rather, I will paste the three portions of the code that made this possible and walk you through the code. So it's pretty straightforward.

So yeah, here it is.

So here the first part is a new command called take some item, a new command called nest for each that takes two arguments, we'll come to that and the print inside this itemize. Let's run first and then we'll inspect the code. Okay, here we are a parent item, nested items, second parent item and other nested items. So how is this made possible? So first of all, we have this new command that is called takes sub item, it features a Tiggs environment.

with this baseline for this node. And this node has, again, the this level count. So this will act as the counter of the sub level. So that's why I call this take sub item. And then I have this the new command called nest for each.

This takes two mandatory arguments. This nest for each has an enumerate list. Inside this enumerate list, I have this for each command over here, separator being a comma here inside the third argument. And this comma separates the first and second argument provided by the user. over here.

And here is the template for this repeating item inside the enumerate list of this list for each command, this template over here, since we are inside an a an enumerative list, or latex list, so we must have the item command. And then I have here the tag sub item we have just created over here. so which is kind of the circle. Again, this will be the format of the first part of the nested items. So it's exactly like the parent one, but it's has some circles as you can see.

And again, it features this level count because it's used inside a for each command. So that's why this will work because this level count is a for array counter. So we have, so we have it inside this thing sub item, which is inside a for each command over here, acting as a part of the template. And again, we have this level item, as usual, so usual for each command. And this one type sets the first and second mandator arguments provided by the user inside an enumerative list.

And as you can see, I have here an optional argument that says we don't have, we don't want to have a label. So we're essentially eliminating the base numbering of the lists or the items inside this enumerate list. Okay, great. So this is the main workhorse over here, this nest for each command. The reason for that is that we use it inside the last portion, which is an itemized environment.

So again, we renew the command to eliminate the bullets. And then we make our parent for each. This parent for each features an item that takes item, which is this rounded corner rectangle over here, the original one, and this level item placeholder. Now, that macro with this level item at this stage is referring to the parent items, if you will, the first parent item and the second parent item, this one, and this one. And just beneath that without any separator, actually, we put the command nest for each this one over here, which takes two mandatory arguments, the first and second nested items.

And for this, for each inside this itemize, which is this whole nested list over here, we have chosen the similar colon. So we end the first item over here by this similar colon. So you can say that the first parent item and the two nested items are actually the first item for this for each list. So this is the main structure over here. This is one way that you can list lists using the for array using for each if you would like to do that.

So that is, you have the first parent item and it's listed items as actually the first part or the first item in the list of this greater for each. So as you can see, we have only one separator, which means that in this for each, we have two iterations. This is the first one. And this is the exact second one. It's composed of the second parent item, this one over here, then following that we have a call second call for this for each, which features this first nested and this second nested items over here.

And by its turn, the nest for each features a text sub item, which is a formatting circular formatting of the this level count. And And it makes a use of the two arguments that we give it inside the for each. So this is actually the nesting that is happening over here. If you notice that this for each is inside this nest, and this nest is inside this for each. So it's kind of an indirect nesting of for each commands.

So yeah, here we have it. So this is just a formatting, the circular run over here. This command is used to put the nested items, this one and this one, this one and this one under or beneath the item in this greater list. So yeah, this is just one way to do it. It's not quite flexible.

It's quite fuzzy. And this is quite complicated to make a nested list. But yes, anyways, this is just one way you can achieve this limited scope, just if you thought about it. And yeah, that brings us to the end of this video. Thanks for watching.

And I'll see you in the next video. So hello and welcome you guys to this video. Now it's the time to look at how we can make use of LaTeX humble but yet helpful computational power. We'll start to take a look at using LaTeX to perform some mathematical operations and function evaluation, all by the underlying programming capabilities of TeX. So for that and as a start, we'll utilize a package called Calculator.

This package defines lots of macros that can perform multiple tasks. As an example, we can make simple arithmetic operations like addition, subtraction, offering numbers and integers, of course multiplication and division and so on. And we can also compute powers, square roots, and exponentials. We have also the logarithms, trigonometric functions, and hyperbolic ones. And our package even extends to work with vectors and square matrices.

So overall, lots of things to do with the package. If you type hit math documents. This can be really helpful if you're in a situation where you need to perform some simple calculations on the fly, so you can stay within your input file and have your results typeset in the output. The package deals with the process of computing in a very intuitive way, and this will add a meaning for the input tech file. Okay, so the working methodology of the package is simply as follows.

it performs simultaneous calculation and storing of the results in a new variable so take the addition as an example the add command which takes three mandatory arguments sums the first two and stores the result in a variable or macro in the third argument here we name it result And then just by calling this new result macro, you get the stored result it carries in the output. So add, multiply, divide, and so on. We put the respective numbers that were working on the first two arguments, and we put our new macro. This can be a new command, as you will see, or a result even that is stored from a previous operation. or it can be a new name that you choose specifically to create as a result variable to carry the output of this operation.

And again, as any new command that we've been making so far, you can just call it and when you run the input tech file, it'll print the value that it stores. So I think this is an intuitive workflow, especially for large calculations. That is, we get to carry results of operations that we've performed to see them later. So either by display or, of course, embed them in another calculation, as we'll see. Okay, by the way, almost all of the commands provided by the package take uppercase letters for the names.

And besides the creation of new macro to hold the result by the computing command, you can also have the results stored in a predefined user macro, as stated. So we will create a new command or a new macro by using the new command constructor. And we can as an empty one, as you will see, and we can use it inside the third argument over here, for example, to store the result of the adding of the addition of the first two. Now this video will maybe quite long. I will explore most of the features that the package has to offer, some of them live in the import file, and we will return here in the slides for others.

I just want you to get familiar with using the package, and of course, you're encouraged to experience in hand the presented material. And besides that, I want you to sense the full potential of the package. Just one last note, in the resources you will find two PDF documents. The first one is called Calculator and Calculus. This is the combined documentation for the current package that we're going to explore in this video and the calculus package of the next video.

It's quite long document so if you don't have time I left other document which is kind of a short article from the tugboat journal and this one talks about the same topic briefly. So now let's begin. I have here an article document class as usual, the package calculator is loaded. I have also set of packages, the mth math and the if then, the scholar and the titling one more time for the drop title to kind of be close to the upper edge of the page. And here is a section prepared to start working with the calculator package.

So we'll start by basic arithmetic. As usual, let's do it in the description environment. The very first command we have is copy. This one takes two arguments only. And it simply copies the value in the first argument to the variable or the macro in the second one.

So as a first item, let's say store numbers. So let's copy the value of 0.5 to a variable called half. So we say we copy 0.52.

so the command copy as stated its uppercase takes two arguments the first one is the value 0.5 and then the second one is a new macro name that we choose let's say half and then we can view this so let's say so half is and we can expect to get 0.5 in the output

Yep, and here it is. So this is the calling of the half, which is this one over here. So this is the very first command that this package offers. It's kind of helpful if you want to abstract certain special constant in your document. So you can put it in the first argument and choose a name for its macro and the second one.

And of course, this is ready to use in any of the following computations that we're going to perform. So, and you can even transfer the value of this new macro to another one using the same copy command, meaning that both of the mandator arguments of this command can accept macros. So you're not kind of tied to input a number in the first one. So what I'm saying is that you can say copy of, let's transfer the value of half, which is 0.5.

to a new command, maybe new half. So what I'm saying here is that you can, of course, use commands for both of the arguments of the copy command. And this will work without any problems. So you can say now new half,

is and you put new half over here and you will get 0.5. Again, yes, here it is can break after this one.

So yeah, you can work without any problems with either an explicit value or a command or a macro that contains a value from a previous operation. Yeah, just wanted to state that. Now after that, you've got the add for addition that we just saw. And here's an item for that. So we add eight to seven, we use the add command, three arguments this time, the first operand, the second one, and then a new command that we chose.

And we call it to see the value. we'll get 15, of course. Yes, here it is. Great. And after that, we have subtraction.

And this is done through the subtract command. This one. So we subtracted that first argument from the second one, and store the value in a third. And then we call it we'll get two. Yes, it is great.

And then we have multiplication. So this one works the same way using the multiply command. Here's an item for that.

Okay, here it is, great. And then we have divide for division. Here's an item for that. The divide command, the numerator, the denominator, the result.

Yep, here we are. So there are other simple features like picking the maximum and minimum between two values. So for that we have the max and min commands. The Max command takes three arguments, just like the others. So it chooses the maximum value between the first two ones and stores that in a third one.

Okay, kind of this may be useful when you have here commands that you don't actually know by far what is the result between them. So yeah, you may have a situation for this. And here is min. Here it is, min. And again, chooses the minimum between the first two and stores that in the third macro.

Here we are. So says three, of course, and also among basic operations, we can simplify a fraction. So the package is actually capable of this mission. So let's make an item for that. This one says simplifying fractions.

So we use the fraction simplify command for this all in uppercase fraction.

simplify. So be careful about spelling. Okay, this one takes four arguments.

We put the values of numerator and denominator in the first two arguments. So let's say that we're simplifying 10 by 60. And the rest two arguments, third and fourth, take names of variables to hold the simplified values. So we put the value that is simplified for the numerator in the first argument. Let's call it number for simplifying this.

And here is the denominator. Let's call it denominator. So this command will simplify the fraction 10 by 16 and stores the resulting simplified fraction in these two arguments over here. So that's why we have four arguments now. So now we can print this.

those are the simplified parts of the fraction. And here we are. So this basically just divided the fraction by two. So you have 10 by 25, and you have the numerator 16 by two, you have eight. And the result is, again, stored in these variables over here.

So lastly, for this environment, as stated before, the macro to hold a result of a computation can be a normal user defined macro. So let's just document this out.

Let's call it results as a new macro. So let's create a new empty command called value added. So new command, value.

added like that, and we'll leave it empty. And then let's use it to store the result of addition. So let's say we add eight maybe to itself, and then sir about this. And then we kind of use this command over here to store the result of this addition. And this will work without any kind of problems.

So let's print that. So we say my new macro now holds 16. So yeah, indeed, this is a possibility. So yeah, you either create a new macro variable while doing the computation to store the result, or you can easily use an existing macro for the job. It's up to you.

Okay, now let's get back to the slides to explore some other features.

First of all the package defines some variables that hold values of common constants. All of the macro names for these start with the word number in lower case and attached to it comes the name of the constant in upper case so for pi which is 3.14159 we have

the ready to use macro defined predefined by the package called number pi and so on. So all of those are the available variables for the current version of the package with their numeric and algebraic multiple of pi values. So here is the numeric value and this is the multiple of pi for most of them. So make use of them if you need any one of these. So there are several other processes that you can perform on integers and real numbers.

Those include taking the square of a number, the square command raises its first argument to two, and of course stores the result in the second argument. So as you can see, we have square, we raise this 2.2 to two, which is taking the square of that and store that in the second argument and we can view its value easily. There is a similar version for cube. So this acts the same way.

The cube command raises 3.23 and stores that in the second argument and we can view it easily. And generally you have the power command. The first argument here is the base, which is 3. And the second argument is the exponent, which is 5.

So 3 to the power of 5 using the power command. And we store that in the third argument and then print it like that. Now note that the exponent here, which is the second argument for the power command, this must be an integer. In other words, a whole number. The power command does not accept float or decimal exponents.

So you can't use, for example, 5.2 as an exponent to the base 3 of the first argument. You'll get an error trying to do that using the power command. We'll see later another function for this matter, which is raising a base to a float, let's say, exponent. So moving on.

Now additionally, you can take the absolute value of a number using the apps value command. And of course, this gives back the number without the negative sign. The package defines that and flooring a number is yet one more feature. Okay, in addition, we can truncate a number to a specified number of decimal places. The truncate command does that to the number or value macro in its first mandatory argument, and by default, it cuts to two decimal places.

So this is the value that we're going to truncate here in the first mandatory argument. And of course, the result is stored in the second. As you can see, we have an optional argument for this truncate command, which first marks the number of digits that we want after the decimal point. As stated by default, you get two. Here I choose three.

And this is how you can shrink the number of digits you've got from a previous operation, let's say. So this square, of course, is from the previous slide. So previously, I think we had four or five arguments of the decimal point. So you can make that truncate step after that if you don't like to have so many digits after the decimal point in the output. so this can come handy in some situations.

So yeah, we had kind of five digits after the decimal point for the SQ macro from the previous slide. Okay, another cleaning or refining action is to round some number. Here the same behavior persists, which is you get to choose the number of decimal places to round to in the optional argument. So, here is the thing that we're going to round. This is the number of digits you want of the decimal point.

And the round around this to this decimal places you specify in the optional argument. And besides that, you can ask for the modulus, the remainder after integer division of two numbers. And lastly for this section, you can obtain the greatest common divisor and the least common multiple across two numbers using these abbreviated commands. The greatest common divisor and the least common multiple between two integers over here. And you sort the results in the third of course.

Okay, so now let's jump again to the tech file to check on some concepts. Great. Now let's quickly pass the fact that you can make use of such package like the calculator in making new macros. So we've been doing this so far in this last section of the course. So let's create a subsection for that just for the sake of documentation.

So using in new commands. take as an example, this arbitrary decision command.

This decision command takes three mandatory arguments. The first one just is the base. And the second one is the exponent of some power operation. And we store its result in the res new command. And then we copy the third argument that the user provided to the threshold.

And we just say, if the result is lower than the threshold, the result of the power it if it's lower than the threshold marked by the third mandator argument provided by the user, then we say you're still in bound or so we're marking that. Yeah, the result is lower than the threshold. And if it's greater, so we say you're free. So just we take the two arguments that the user provide, power them, store the third as a threshold, and check if we have crossed the threshold or not. So yeah, just for the sake of clarity, you can indeed use any kind of operations inside a new command.

and here is two examples to use it the first argument again the base the power the threshold see

here it is so 1 raised to the power of 3 is less than 50 so we're still inbound and 3 cubed is 27 27 is greater than the threshold for this second one which is 25 so we say you're free so yeah here we have it okay so what is the scope of result variables

I mean by the result variables, of course, those that the commands, the computing commands of the package use to store outcome result of the computations, normally the last mandatory argument of each computing command. So they are, of course, normal macros. That means they preserve usual scope rules. So take this eight variable as an example.

we copy 8 to 8, and then we check for its value. We'll use it to see how this is going to perform. So if we change this variable value in a closed scope, like a group, then the change is kept local in that group and does not reflect outside. So let's say that we have this group over here, we check for the value of eight at first. And then we make the color of the running text red just for marking.

And then we change the value of eight by adding one. So we add one to eight and store the result in the eight itself. So that's why that's adding one to the variable eight. And then after adding one, we check for eight. So we will see nine, of course.

Yes, here it is. So we had before the group before this limiting group, we had eight equal to eight, which is this one over here. And then at the beginning of the group, we check for the value of eight, which is still eight, we change that by adding one, and we get nine after that. So of course, after going out of this group, when we check for eight again, we will have eight in the output.

So let's do that.

and here we are again 8 is 8 which is the previous value that it had before the closed scope of the group so yeah pretty convenient and of course if a variable is itself has been for the first time defined in a closed scope then it won't be recognized outside so here is an example of that Let's say that we have this limiting group. We perform the power operation on this power35 new command. We check for its value inside the scope. So let's actually see it because if we run this we will get an error. So let's make sure of this first.

Yep, here it is, you can say 243. And just when we try to call it outside its limiting group. So again, this is for the first time has been defined inside this group. So calling this outside will cause an error, of course. because the package does not recognize that relating the engine doesn't recognize it because it's been defined in a closed scope.

So be careful about this. I'll just comment this out for you. Not to forget that. So great. So you can work with length macros.

Let's create a subsection for that. Here we are. Okay, you can actually perform three basic operations of addition, subtraction and division only. So let's begin by defining a new length.

Let's call it height.

For addition and subtraction, we need to have a predefined length variable. So that's why I created this height new length command over here. And it's actually command. So we need a backslash. This is a new length.

Let's see these operations inside a description environment. So length add is used to sum up two length values, even in different units. Here's an item that marks this. So length addition, use the length add. Just like the rest, this one takes three mandatory arguments.

The first two are the two length units to add them. And in order to store the results as stated, you must have for this last mandatory argument of an addition of two lengths, you need to have a predefined length variable. Okay, and then we kind of check for its result. So we have here an inch and point and the result of course is presented in points. Let's just to make sure that let's comment this out and try to store a result of a length addition to a command that is just being created simultaneously here.

you'll get an error, you get undefined control sequence. So the kind of the synchronization between computing and storing isn't feasible when working with links. You have to have a new link that is predefined in order to store the result of an operation made with links. So keep that in mind. And then we have subtraction, of course, For that, we use the length subtract.

Here we are. Be careful about spelling these. So we subtract 20 points from two centimeters. And we use the same predefined height length. And then we check for the result.

Here we are. Again, the result is printed in points.

Okay, and division is done with length divide command. And this process can store its result in the traditional way, meaning the result variable is created by the computing command. This is kind of an exception here. So to divide to length, we use the length. divide command, the things to divide.

And then we store the result in Lin res command over here. This is we just have created this for the first time. And then we check for the result. See that

Okay, and just to make this clear, let's kind of remove this centimeter over here. And you can see that the result is fairly a number, just a number. So this is not a length value. So that's why actually, I said that this is an exception, which is you can store the result of a linked division inside a new macro that is being created for the first time simultaneously while computing the division because you can say that the units cancel And the result is kind of a number. So it's not a length value.

So that's why you don't have to have a predefined length here. This is not a length value. This is just a normal number.

Now before moving on to the vector metric space, I want to point out some elementary functions as the package calls them. You can find details about macros for this kind of functions in section 3.4 in the documentation. We're talking about square root, exponential and logarithm trigonometric functions with multiple actions to manipulate their values between degrees and radians. And you've got also computing the hyperbolic functions, shine and go shine, on some numbers.

And lastly, the inverse arc version of both. So you've got some good amount of functions elementary as the package calls them again. So make sure to check that out in section 3.4 in the documentation.

Okay this time we are in the slides again. So now let's see what this package has to offer for vectors and matrices. Now there are some limitations for vectors. The package only works for two or three dimensional vectors, meaning column vectors that has two or three elements. So as an example, to assign vectors that are two-dimensional, we use the vector copy command.

This command and the rest ones for this job take pair of parentheses to set the values. So we don't have here the usual curly brackets of LaTeX commands. Rather, we have here for the arguments pair of parentheses. Here the first pair A and B are for values that compose the vector. Of course, these can be explicit numerics or macros that store numbers as before.

And as you can see, there is a comma that separates the two elements of the vector. So you can see that these are three and four for a two-dimensional vector of values three and four. And you can easily imagine that the second pair of parentheses take the respective command to store the values chosen for the vector. So we copy the values in the first pair of parentheses to the variables or the macros in a second. And you have the vector copy also can work with three-dimensional vectors.

So A, B, and C, you can imagine one, two, and three for a three-dimensional vector. And you choose the names for the commands. Each command will be storing its respective value over here from the first pair. Now for matrices the package can only handle operations for square matrices of size 2x2 and 3x3 only. And to assign a matrix we use the matrix copy command.

So for this case of the 2x2 version of the matrix copy again we use parentheses to work and here we have a two by two square matrix this is the first row a and b let's say one and two and to mark the end of a row we use a semicolon this is the convention of MATLAB if you use it and after marking the end of the first row we have the second row c and a let's say three and four and the second pair works the same way so to store to copy a two by two matrix which has four total elements you create four new arguments in the second pair of parentheses over here they also have a comma that separates the values of one row, and then you mark its end by a semicolon and so on. And of course, copying a three by three matrix, which has nine elements. So the first row has three elements, and you kind of end it by the semicolon. And then you have the three rows, the three values for the second row, another semicolon and the third row. And you can imagine that this will be a long list of nine new commands to store the respective values in the first pair.

So this is just how the package is designed. So let's see these in action. Going back to the tech file, So let's create a new subsection to work first with vectors.

Yep, here we are. So we can kind of break this page.

Let's begin a description environment. Here is an assign for a 2D vector. So the first element or item over here, so assigning a 2D vector, we use the vector copy, we choose the values in the first pair of parentheses, this can again explicit numerics or, or kind of macros that came from a previous operation or new macros doesn't matter. And then the vector copy copies these elements in the second parentheses commands. And we can check for this.

Let's see it. Okay, here it is. Great. And we can also work with a three dimensional vector. Here's an item for that.

So works the same way. Vect A, B, and C, no macros. And then we're ready to print these. So three, four, and two. So kind of making it 3D by adding the third argument.

So commas, of course, over here and commas over here. Great. And we can easily add two vectors of the same dimension. Here's an item for that the Victor add command is used for this. Sorry about this.

So we have the Victor add command. The vector add takes three pairs of the parentheses. The first one takes the first vector to be added, second one takes the second vector, and of course the last pair of parentheses take the new two macros to be used as a result. So that's what we're going to check. Now these three pairs of parentheses must be in the same line where the declaration is.

So just because I don't have enough space here, I had to break the line and put the result parentheses in the in the second line over here. So in order for this to work, we need to put a percent sign at the end of the line that holds the declaration of the command. And this is informant latex that we're breaking the line over here. For those of you who use MATLAB, this is kind of the three dots that you use to break a line. So anyways, kind of without this, let's actually remove it and try to run this, you will get an extreme error.

that says paragraph ended before vector add was complete. And that's because LaTeX says here that we have the vector add, the first pair of parentheses, the first vector. Well, great. The second vector, which is actually, again, great, and it expects the final pair of parentheses just to be here. So because of the limited space, we have to break the line.

And in order for this to pass, we have to tell latex that we're going to break the line. So the rest of the command is in your new line. And this is what tells latex. So

So running this will come without any problems. So just be careful about this. For this command, if you're going to break a line, and you will have to, as you'll see when we come to matrices, you have to tell Leighton that you're breaking the line, unless you will get an error. I hope that this is clear.

Okay, and subtraction is provided with the vector sub command. So we can say that let's change this over here to SUV for subtraction. And remember that this is the same vector over here. This is the three and four, we added this to get six and eight. And when we subtract it from itself, we will get zero and zero.

And yes, here it is. So you have a vector addition or subtraction.

Great. And the last item for this environment is for multiplication, mainly multiplying a vector by a scalar, which is in other words, the scalar vector product. So for that, you use the scalar vector product command. This one here takes a kind of a mandatory argument. All of them are mandatory actually, but the first argument it takes, which is the scalar comes in the old fashioned curly brackets.

And then we have the vector in parentheses and the results are in parentheses because the result is a vector. as you can see, so we can check for that to get six and eight. Again, so multiplying the vector three and four by the scalar two, and store this result over here. All that using the scalar vector product command. So other commands again for operations to perform on vectors can be found in section 5.1 in a documentation.

Things like dot and cross products, Euclidean norm and others. So check them out if you need them. They all work in the same way so there is no need to present this here. And now just to make this more clear, if you try to work with vectors of four dimensions and above, the package will crash. So let's just document this in a new subsection.

So let's try to work with more than three elements. It won't give an error if you tried actually. So instead, it'll give an odd result. So let's say that we try to vector add the first four dimensional vector over here to itself, and try to store that in new commands. And we check for the result.

And let's run

So you will have only as a result, if we zoom in, this is only three elements for the vector over here for the result. And that's of course not correct, because we've tried to add two four dimensional vectors. And as a result, again, you get three elements only one comma, two comma, three total elements. So the package will crash. I meant it won't behave correctly.

This is just a limitation. And just for the record, it's like that we're expecting the result of something like this new command over here. to achieve this four dimensional addition, you can create this add for dumb vector command for arguments, and you add the first argument to itself, and print the result and so on. So this is just adding some four numbers in the shape of a vector to itself.

So yeah, this is just what we've been expecting to get back from this operation over here, the 2, 4, 6, and 8 as a result of adding 1, 2, 3, 4 vector to itself. But of course, that's not the result because this is a limitation for the package. Now if you're trying to kind of extend such a command to work in an automated dynamic way for higher dimensions, then I don't think that it's possible to achieve that with LaTeX. It's a markup language after all, so you have to get your hands dirty with TeX to do the job. So we're quite limited as far as this package is concerned.

Okay now moving to the matrix side let's create a new subsection for that so we say operations on matrices again inside a description environment we assign a two by two square matrix like this for this if you remember we use the matrix copy command so here it is the first pair of parentheses take the square two by two square matrix the first row and then the comma the semicolon sorry to break the first row or end it and then the second row the same thing goes for the four Nuke men's that we're going to store these variables or these units in. So it's a matrix copying and then we can tick for these values arranging them in a math mode in the matrix shape using the B matrix environment. First row, if you recall, amber sand ending the first row and then the second one. So let's see it. Great.

That'd be metrics for bracket metrics. And here is how we do this for a square matrix of size three by three. This is using the same matrix copy. It'll be quite long. So, yeah, nine elements again.

So, matrix copy, the first row, the semicolon, second row, the third row, and the percent sign. Still, I take that the continuation of the matrix copy command will be on the second line starting from this one over here. And you can see that the semicolon acts as a line break. So this inside one pair of parentheses, we don't have to put percent signs. It's just between the pair of parentheses kind of as an argument for the command.

So be careful again about this. It may cause some problems for you and you won't be able to kind of detect where is the fault in the code. So yeah, you have to have a percent sign between the parentheses either for matrices and vectors. And again, we can use these nine new commands in the shape of a B matrix inside math mode to print the output. Yep, here we are three by three.

Now as usual, this assignment behavior can really come handy kind of if you have a long matrix that show up frequently in your document, kind of the rotation matrix in robotics or so. So, you can store its components like that and abstract both the assignment and copy processes plus the display in a new macro. That way, of course, will ease up the calling action of this recognizable matrix at later stages, and it'll be much more approachable to read in this kind of command base shape away from the numerical values. Okay, so you can do a lot of things with the square matrices here. So this includes transposing the matrix.

Let's make an item for that. we'll be using the transpose metrics command for that. So here we are transpose and then metrics. It takes, of course, two pairs of parentheses. The first one is the metrics that you're going to transpose Again, as you can see the percent sign and the second pair of parentheses take the result that is the A transpose B transpose and so on.

So the transpose matrix goes in this second argument and you can print it like that. So

Let's say that we transposed this two by two metrics over here. So the rows of course become columns. So one, two as a row get one, two as a column. So it flips it. So this is again using the transpose metrics command.

So quite great. And then you can add and subtract matrices. So easy using the metrics add command, three pairs, the first metrics, second metrics to be added percent sign if we'd like to complete in the upcoming line and the result and the printing. So pretty straightforward. We add the same 1234 metrics to itself.

So we get double two, four, six, and eight. Of course you can perform all of these things for three by three matrix. So and of course this can be matrix sub. If you recall this will get us two by two zero square matrix. Yeah.

Okay. And lastly we can multiply by a scalar. Here's an item for that using the scalar matrix product command. Quite big, so this is multiplying a matrix by a scalar. Again, as we did for vectors, the scalar to use goes inside a pair of square brackets.

And then we've got the matrix that we're going to multiply this matrix by the percent sign and then the output and the printing. Let's see it. So again, this is multiplying the very same first matrix, which is stored in these 1, 2, 3, and 4. So yeah, we have the numerical values over here. And then we multiply this by 2, just like adding to itself so we get the same result.

And again, you can do this indeed for 3 by 3 square matrix.

Okay, there are things to do with matrices other than that. So the rest of the commands can be found in section 5.2 in the documentation. The other offered computations include macros to multiply vector by a matrix and macros to compute product of two matrices. You can also take the determinant and inverse a matrix and even solving a system of linear equations.

So yeah, pretty powerful stuff. Go and check them out in 5.2. If you need to work with them, they all work again with the same way. So yeah, hope you found this beneficial.

Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next video when we work with the calculus package.

Okay, so still in topic of using LaTeX to do some scientific calculations. Now in this video, we will take a look at the calculus package. So the documentation for this one is in the same PDF provided in the resources of the previous video. So, like the calculator package, this one provides built-in functions to use and some operations to perform. The main difference is that the calculus package, as the name implies, provides a derivative solution to evaluate the number at.

So this comes as an integral feature in the macros of the package. So take as an example the square function. First of all, all the built in macro names for the elementary functions that this package provide come like this, which is the function name in uppercase letters concatenated with the word function in lowercase. So the square function we have square and then the word function in lowercase. And they all take three mandatory arguments.

The first one is the input number. This is either an explicit numeric or as usual, a macro name call. So this number will be used to evaluate both the function solution at which comes in the second Mandator argument and the derivative which comes in the third so this is essentially that our first Mandator argument is the input number this is the variable of the function this is the x so if the square function is f of x equal x square this number is x this is the input and what the square function as an example as a macro example for the package is doing is that it evaluates a certain function here the square function in the background using this input and the result is now two things the function solution the output if of x, if of num, and the derivative of the solution to x as an example here. So the calculus package not only prints the solution of some things, some operations, some function that is applied on the input in the first argument, no, it additionally provides a evaluated derivative of the solution. So 2x, so it multiplies two by the input number, 2x is the derivative of x square.

So if num is two, then this d sol contains two by two, which is four, we're going to see all that. So let's see, again, as an example, if we have t, This is the convention in the package to refer to the variable of the function as t. So if we have t equal to three and the square function is f of t equal t square. And of course, the derivative of t square is two multiplied by t. Then, we can use the square function macro, put the t, the input in the first argument, and then choose two names for the argument to store the result, the two results of this square function calculus package utility.

The three solution is f of three, mainly the square function evaluated at the input three, which is nine. And the second new argument for the derivative solution is actually if dash of t, if dash of three is two by three, which is six. So this is the convention of the calculus package, you give an input, and the package gives you pack the function evaluated at that input, and its derivative evaluated at the same input. And the square function here is just one exam. So those are the built-in functions the package pre-defines, and they all work the same way.

So we have lots of functions over here. We've looked at the square function, the zero, the identity, which gives back the same input number, sine and sine, and so on. So all of these work the same way. They take three mandator arguments. The first one is the input T over here, The second one is the function evaluated at the input t, and the third argument is the derivative of the function evaluated at the input requested.

Okay, great. Let's see these in action. We're still in the same input file of the previous video. Let's break this page and create a section that says the calculus package. But first of all, let's load the calculus package.

So don't forget to do so. Yes, here we are.

Great.

So again, let's make a subsection for the built in functions. use that in a description environment. Okay, so first of all, let's see the square function. So here is a pretty big item documenting this. So we have the square function, if we have an input t of four, and if t, the definition of the function is t square is derivative is to multiply by t, then using the square function, choosing an input of four, and choosing two results, two macro results.

The first one is the function and then the derivative. And those are ready to be used. So we say f of four, just as display is f of soul, the new macro result that holds the square function evaluated at four. So we can use that in math mode. And same thing for the derivative.

f dash of four, which is two by t is being held in this second new result macro. This is essentially f dash of four. Yeah, here we are. So we can take a step back and we say t is four, then f of four is 16, a square function and f of four is eight. So two by four is eight.

Yeah, this is the convention of the package one more time. So as we know by far, the input can be just a new command. So let's just create a new command called to. that holds sore about this backslash that holds the number two. And let's use that in the cube function.

Here is the item for that. So if we have t is two, the cube function is t raised to three, of course, the derivative here is the exponent is laid down and minus one, so three to the t square. So we use the cube function, same thing, cube and the word function. And the first argument here this time we use our new macro that is called two, of course, it holds the number two. And in the background, the package calculus evaluates this t cubed to the input and prints the result in this new macro.

And the derivative solution three times t to the power of two is evaluated at the input in this new macro over here. And again, we can look for this formula like this. So yeah, here we are can check from the numbers, of course, t cube of these two equals eight, and then you have three by two square is 12. So the input can be also the result of a previous computation. So let's say that we multiply to solve this command over here to solution.

which is eight, if of two, this, this one over here, let's multiply this by two.

We'll use the multiply command from the calculator package. They work seamlessly with each other. So without any problems. So let's say that we multiply this two solution by two, of course,

then we store the 16 result in a macro to use as an input in the square root function. So the thing is that we're creating a new macro that holds the result of some computation. And we will use that new macro as an input to the square root function. The square root function command is one of the predefined functions by the calculus package. So this is just showing that you can work step by step between the calculator and the calculus.

The input of the functions of the calculus can be the output of some operations either from calculator or calculus. So this is multiplying one just random command over here that came from a previous computation by two using the multiply command. Store that in a new command that is called square root input. And the reason again is that we'll use this square root input as an input variable for the square root function by the calculus package. And here is an item for this.

we are square root, if we have an input t of square n, which came from this multiply operation, and f of t is squared square root of t. And its derivative is the fraction of one over two multiplied by the square root of t. So Yeah, the differentiation of square root of t is this one over two multiplied by the square roots of the function itself. And then we have the squared function is QRT in capital and then the word function in lowercase The first argument, which is the whole point here is a macro that came from a previous operation, and then a new macro to hold the evaluation of the square root function on this input, and its derivative solution again, one more time. And this is the printing of those respective results.

So yeah, here it is, can check for these numbers, and they're quite right. So, let's go back to slides to check on the next concept.

Now, all of these predefined functions can be used together to construct a function formula, and that is by applying symbol operations like adding, subtracting, or multiplying them, among others. So, we apply some basic operations on the built-in functions. and then store the result in a new macro, which is considered by the package to be a new function, and that is essentially meaning that we are composing a new function formula by combining set of built-in ones. So, take for example the sum function. This is a command offered by the calculus package that allows you to create a new function.

Again, we will recognize what it means to create a new function. Mainly, you're creating a new function command over here that you can use in the same way as the predefined functions. this is essentially creating a custom function if you will so the third argument of the macros that are considered as operations on functions this third macro over here will be recognized by the package as a new function which means you can use it with three arguments and the package will give you the solution and the derivative Okay, and how you do that, you combine multiple built in functions. So here, the sum function, as the name implies, sums two functions together, function one and function two. And the result, let's say if s if of the result is defined mathematically as the summation of the first function and the second function.

And what is these first function and second function? Well, they are predefined built in ones like square root of t and sine of t, for example. So again, this is the operations on functions, these macros is creating a new function for yourself, a customized function. You do that by applying some basic operations to combine built in functions. And this resulting macro, you can use it as a normal function, give it an input, expecting a result evaluated at the input and a derivative for that result also.

So we can for example, some as stated the square root and the sine function like that. So, we use the sum function macro. We just type this squared function, which is a macro predefined by the package. In the background, this is recognized mathematically as square root of variable, let's say t, as we saw. And then in the second macro, this is summing two functions, so we have square root of t plus sine of t.

And this is now a no function which takes this macro name that we chose in the third Mandatory argument. So we have in the background this is defined mathematically as this. f of t, which is our new func name command, if you will, is the square root of t plus sine t. This is now a new function, which means that the package now again will recognize this just like its predefined ones it'll see it as a new function. And this implies that we can use it like any other built in function as stated.

So our new func name command over here can take an input and produce two outputs. So we have this if solution is square root is this func name of the input of four. So if solution is the f of t over here, f of four, the input, so the square root of four plus sine four. and the solution is the differentiation of this one over two multiplied by the square root and derivative of sine is of course cosine. This is evaluated at the input.

So yeah, you have some operations on functions macros. These essentially combine multiple built-in functions to create a new function formula, a new function macro. This function macro is recognized as the normal predefined ones, which means you can give it an input and expect two results. The solution of the function, this special new formula that you've just created, evaluated at the given input and its derivative. So this is quite powerful, you guys.

So let's actually see it in action.

So let's create a new subsection for this. Let's name it define new functions via operations. And we do that one more time using our beloved description environment. So we're looking at summing two functions. This is the first item.

over here. And here is a preparation to sum two functions together. So we can define our new function f of t as the square root of t and sine t using the sum function macro. This is by the package semantically considered as an operation done on functions. So we sum function, the first one built in square root function, built in sine function, and the desired name for the f of t no formula that you chose, let's say backslash capital F.

Again, this capital F can be used just like any other function built in one that we used before. So let's say that we want to evaluate that for expect the results. So this is just preparation. And then we can come to the printing. So now we have ready to display two macros, the f of four and if dash of four.

So let's lay down this in an itemize environment. So quite big item over here. So we have the f of four, this is just a math display, which is equal to the first f solution over here. And if dash of four, laying this down by mathematics equal to the second macro over here, which is resulted from our function. this function is created by summing two built in functions together.

Let's see this Okay, here we are. So we have f of t equals the square root of t plus sine t. And we use the sum function with an input of four, f of four is that and if dash of four is this. So quite powerful. One more time doing some operation on some built in functions to create a new macro.

This is recognized as a built in function. just like the built-in functions, you can use an input for that and expect a result. And in the background, this computation is done. So you put an input and then you expect the result as this. Okay, so the rest work always the same way.

Now I saw that it's a good idea to list a couple of them here as a documentation reminder. But there is actually no enough space here to accommodate for kind of other nested itemized environments.

So instead, we can list them in a preamble and call for them here. Let's actually do that. So what I'm going is that I want just to document some other operations that you can do on matrices for just for the sake of our presentation, let you know about them. So there is no space down there. It's quite messy.

So we can list these here and we'll know how we can invoke that call it down there to print the result. So here is how I would like to list this. If I was to document this, I would use this itemize environment. So we have a couple operations here, the subtract function subtracts two functions, f of one, f one and f two, two built in functions, our new function formula. So this is mathematically like this, this is just laying down the macro name of that.

And then we have the product function multiplies two functions to produce a new one. this is the math of it pretty simple. And we have a scale function, among others. So operations of functions are plenty of them. So yeah, we can scale a function, the number to multiply is given in the first in the first argument.

And then we have the function itself. So and our new function. So this is f of t, this is highlighted last command is FFT, our null function. And this is the result of multiplying num by func, the built in predefined function over here. So now because of the verb command, as we know by now, if you recall, we cannot put this environment inside a new structure, let's say command or environment.

So instead, we can make use of a very handy environment. And this is called file contents. Let's take all of this ItemsAsEnvironment, cut, and then begin file contents. And we end it.

so here it is put this back so the file contents environment is used to write the content within its body here our itemize environment as whole it writes this body to an external file And you specify the name and extension of that file in the mandatory argument. Actually, the file contents take a mandatory argument, which is the name of the external file to be created in the directory in which this import tech file is in. So let's say that we will name this other operations. dot tech, let's make it a tech file. So what the file contents environment is doing, and this is a built in feature of light tech, I forgot to say that this package typesets or prints or writes, it writes this body over here to this external file.

So mainly it creates it, it creates this new file and writes its body to it. So kind of a quick way to write an external file from the inside of an input tech file. And this can be a text file or any other desired extension. So let's generate this by hitting run can say some delay. And now when we go to the file explorer that our input tech file here calculator that tech is in,

Okay, here we can see that this other ops dot tech has been created after running the input tech file that contains the file contents. And when we open this, we can see that we have this new Optech files. So it says related to a file, a sum generated by the file contents environment from the source calculator input file. And here is a date. So this is a preprint comment that says that.

So we have here our body itemized environment. So going back to our input tech file, the file contents, wrote this body over here to the file that we chose the name and the extension, it creates it and it writes it. And when we go back to our last subsection, and this item over here, we can say that input of other underscore ops dot tech. So the input imports the contents or type sets the contents of this file over here. And when running, we will get the result over here.

Yeah. here we are. So that's what I meant. So instead of putting this entire itemized environment down here, which will be quite messy, I preferred and for the sake of saving some space and to let you know actually about this useful file contents package, I prefer to put it in the preamble write that on the fly, and then input that down here to type set its input, which is just a normal itemized environment with those three further more operations, if you remember. So note that one drawback of this environment is that it doesn't synchronize with the external file.

Meaning that if you're thinking that you can add some, any kind of thing here in its content, in the body of this file contents environment, if you're thinking that you can add to this or remove from the contents over here, and you can think that this will be reflected on the fly to this file that we created over here, then this is not the case. So let's say that you tried to add this text. When we run, you won't find this, this text increased piece of content over here in the output, meaning that it won't be written to this file over here. Let's run the third page. Here we are.

We still have the original first three dots for the items and this text does not exist. So if we open this other operations one more time, you can see that there is no this text over here. which we have just added. And there is nothing in the output. And the same thing happens when you take from the content.

So the file contents environment writes, creates this file, writes the content for the first time, and that's it. If you want to update, unfortunately, you will have to delete this file, do the necessary changes to the content, and then run again to create it one more time. So let's actually do that just for clarity. But first, let's close it from here.

And here in the directory, let's highlight this and hit Delete. Here we are. And now we can run to create this file again. When you go to the third page, you can see that the increased piece, this text exists. And when we open it, we can find that this text exists.

So yeah, this file contents does not synchronize with its file. So I'll delete it and run again to get rid of this text over here. Okay, here we are. So yeah, we were talking about if you forgot about that, we're talking about the operations that we can do on functions. And this is just one presentation for this.

And the rest in is in this other operations function. And of course, you can find all of those in the documentation.

Okay, so I would like to point out one important operation that you can perform on functions using the calculus package, of course, which is the linear combination. So let's make a dedicated subsection for this operation.

So if you have worked with linear algebra before, then you're probably familiar with this term. Now a linear combination of two functions is simply multiplying each function by a constant coefficient and then add both of them. So it's defined formally like that. So the linear combination of two functions, let's say that we have f of x and g of x. So we can say that the linear combination of f of x and g of x is h of x, which is a which is a coefficient multiplying by f of x plus b plus or minus b multiplied by g of x, let's just print this Okay, here we are.

So this is the linear combination of two functions f of x and g of x. It's just summing the two functions, each one being multiplied by a constant coefficient, a and b over here. So let's say that we want to create a new function macro for this formula.

So we can say that we compose and evaluate The job is that we want to create a new function macro using the calculus package for this formula over here. And we want to do that in the semantics of a linear combination. Let's just see this. Okay, here, we want to create a new macro again for FFT defined as two multiplied to the e of power cosine t minus e to the power of minus t sine t, we want to define this as in terms of a linear combination. So this can be achieved with multiple ways, but I chose to present it with the linear combination method.

So for that, we will use the linear combination function macro. This command takes five mandatory arguments. The last one, as usual, is for the macro to represent the new function being composed. And the first four arguments are for the constant coefficient and function macro name for the two functions being combined. So this linear combination function, the last one takes the name of this function over here.

And the four mandator arguments before that are distributed for the coefficient of the first function, the first mandator argument, the first function itself, f of x, which is the second mandator argument, and then the coefficient of the second argument, the third mandator argument of the command, And lastly, the fourth argument is the second function in the linear combination. So you have one mandator argument, two, three, and four. And the fifth one is the function name that we chose for this custom one. So in our case here, the first mandator argument a will be two, the function, the first one will be e to the power of cosine t. And then we have here the coefficient of the second function is minus one.

So the second function as all is e to the power of minus t sine t, this whole thing, this is of course, two functions multiplied together. All of this is considered as g of x, the second function. and b the coefficient of the second function is minus one the invisible one here of course so yeah this is the distribution of the mandatory arguments So we'll prepare this, plug them all in the linear combination function command to come up with this to be able to use it as a normal function, meaning give it an input t and have the solution evaluated at glance. And then the differentiation of all this, it'll be maintained by the package in the background, plug t and give you back the result. So, my thought process for composing this will be as follows.

First of all, we need to define a function macro for the first part. By first part here I mean e to the power of cosine t. Because of course, two isn't a problem. When we come to the linear combination function command, we will just put two in the first Mandator argument. So the first part here, I mean, the first function, let's say e to the power of cosine t, we will need to define a function for this.

Because as you can see that this is the E function, this is actually a composition of two functions. This is the exponential function and the cosine function. So this one is quite interesting. because raising a power to the exponential function that is not a number. So typically, you would have e to the power of number.

But here, the power the exponent of e, the exponent function is a function itself. So doing this is quite tricky without the composition function operation or command. And this is actually the only possible way to do that. So let's see this composition and then function.

This is one of the operations that you can do on function. So essentially, we're composing two functions. first one, second one, and the macro. So composing here meaning that we want to give the E a power that is a function, not just a scalar. You won't be able to do this without the composition function operation.

So inside here, we say the exponential function, which is a built in one, so e, x, p, and then function, this is referring to e. And then in the second argument, we have cosine function.

So again, this is essentially composing two function, meaning that in the background, LaTeX will approach this as follows. It'll understand it like that. Well, you're telling me that you want to fuse those two functions together. That is you want to raise the second to the first, because this is what can be done actually in the background. kind of latex senses that this is the first thing, this is the main function, let's say, which is the exponential.

And what we can do with exponential? Well, we can give it a power. And what is the power that you want? Well, the cosine function. And that is essentially composing two functions together.

And here we choose any other name that we want. Let's say fun one, if you will. So quite funky name, but this is just referring to function number one, which is all of this composed. So again, you cannot raise the exponential function to a power that is not a number. So to fuse those together, we'll use the composition function operation, put the main function in the first argument, the second one analytic will do is magic in the background, it'll understand that you want to raise this to that and give it a desired macro.

And now this is our first function. which is the second mandatory argument of the linear combination function command first one is its constant coefficient great and after that we have the second part which is indeed the second function So e to the power of minus t multiplied by the function cosine t. So this will abstract this multiplied two functions inside a one macro just like we did with the composition of e to the power of cosine t. Now, the first function to be multiplied, which is e raised to the power of minus t is actually the negated form of the exponential function. The exponential function is e to the power of t.

So this is the base definition of the exponential function by this package, e to the power of t, t being a normal number. So we faced a problem in the first step with being not a number but a function. And here we have actually a problem, because this is not the default form of the exponential definition by the package. This problem over here is the minus so negating the input of the exponential function is like scaling that input by minus one and there is an operation one of the so many operations to do with functions using this package is called scale variable which is scaling the variable the input variable of a function So again, here we have a minus t as a powerful e, this minus t means that we are scaling the default input t of the exponential package by minus one. And to do this, which is actually just the first part, the first function of our second part over here with this linear combination, To do that, we are negating the input scaling the variable of the exponential function.

The calculus package offers a command called scale variable.

All in uppercase because this is the name of the operation or the function. And then we have the function word, three arguments, we put the scalar that we want to scale our variable of our function in the first argument. So we want to scale by minus one. So minus one, what's that we want to scale this variable, what is the function? Well, the exponential function, exp function over here.

So this is scaling the variable of the exponential function by minus one. And as usual, we put any kind of scale that we multiply before even in the calculator package from vectors and matrices, they all come in the first argument. So we're scaling the variable which is t of the exponential function by one, this is e to the power of minus t. Quite fuzzy, I know. And of course, the last one is the name of our new composition over here, if you will.

Let's call it fexp. Great. And this is the first portion of our second function as well. And sine t comes without any problems, we can use the sine function directly without any problems. So that means that we're ready to abstract our second part over here, which is actually our second function inside a new macro by using the product function operation.

So this is coming next. So let's say product function So multiplying two functions, the first part is called f exp, which is e to the power of minus t. And then the second one is sine function.

a built-in function. SIN and then function. Okay? And this is stored in a new variable that we chose its name, new macro. And this is what?

This is fun2. This is the second function over here. and we're ready. So we had the first function, the composition of E and the power of cosine t, we have the second function as whole, which is itself a two functions multiplied together, e to the power of minus t, which we had a small slight problem, which is negating its power, which is we know that it's scaling the variable multiplying its variable by minus one, we have it right here, we multiply by side function, we obtain finally the second part. And now we're ready to plug in those inside the linear combination function macro.

So this is actually step number three.

Okay, in some sense, we have three stages over here. So composing, which is just using the linear combination function command. So here it is. So the coefficient a, which is two in our equation, the first function, which is e to the power of t resulted from the composition of function of e with cosine t and then minus one, which is the coefficient of the second function, which is two functions multiplied together. And we've composed that through two steps over here, scaling the variable of t and then multiply it by sine t. And yeah,

And after that, the fourth mandator argument of this linear combination command is the second function. And lastly, the name which shows as whole for f of t over here. So this is composing kind of creating this function over here. And after that, we have quite a second step, which is using this one. So can do that easily because this is now a function this this macro is recognized by the package as a function to give it an input and record and expect an output.

So let it takes this as t, plug it in here, give you the affluent solution takes the derivative of all of this in the background, apply or evaluate at the same input and gives you back the solution as a numerical variable in this macro over here so and the third part is to display or print the results so this will be done inside an itemized environment here. So f of four, and check for its solution, f dash of four, here it is, the entire differentiation of this function. And here it's solution evaluated. So yeah, those are the respective numbers. So yeah, this is just a one example for a powerful feature by the package, which is taking the linear combination of two functions.

this is how you do it with this command, distribute its four numbers on the coefficients and the two functions you're taking the combination of. And you can define whatever function you want, just think of it, see how we can do it in the most easy way. And yeah, you can abstract all of this inside a macro if this is kind of an equation formula that is, again, just showing up again and again in your document. So yeah, I'll stop here for now. And I'll see you in the next video when we continue working with this calculus package.

So yeah, see you there. Okay, so we're still with a calculus package. And in this video, we will take a look at a couple of more features that the package offers. And the concepts to be discussed will add up to your toolkit regarding the topic. So let's actually break this page.

and create a new subsection and this is to define new polynomials.

Now, as the package states, and as you may expect, polynomials are not that actually so hard to be created with features discussed in the last video. They actually can be considered as a linear combination. So lots of ways we can work with polynomials here. But the authors of the package somewhat saw that it will be a benefit to separate the polynomial function features by send-along commands. I think they've done that just for the sake of semantics.

And of course, EasyFuse. So yeah, anyways, so let's begin a description environment. So the package offers three macros for three degrees of polynomials. The linear polynomials

the first degree is a linear function and it's defined as p of t a plus bt so here we have p of t equals a constant plus b another constant multiplied by t the input variable so Yep, as you can see, besides the variable t, you have got two coefficients a and b. And for this matter, the package provides a command called new l polynomial. So let's break this line. And then we say new l poly poly like that. So for no linear polynomial, this is the name of the dedicated function that can create a polynomial of the first degree like this one.

Now for polynomial macros, and unlike the rest of the commands of this package, The name of the polynomial function, which is kind of storing the result of some operation, comes in the first Mandatory argument over here. So we put our new macro over here to represent the polynomial that we're going to create. So let's say just linpoly for linear polynomial. And then in the second and third Mandator arguments, we have the coefficients a and b respectively. those are numerics or of course macros that have numbers doesn't matter so new alpoly new linear polynomial of the first degree we have total of three things here the variable t which is taken care of by this macro over here or in other words when we create this new function can pass an input to it, which is this t over here.

And other than that, we have the two coefficients, the free coefficient, a and then the one that is multiplied by the input t, which is B in the second and third argument. And that's after running this, we'll have this function now ready to use. So that means that we can pass an input and expect a result and a derivative solution for that. Actually, let's add a comment here to say that A is four, and B is three, of course. Now let's use this Linpoly over here, pass an input t,

So let's say that t is 2 and the solution will be kind of flinpoly, just a new macro, and fdlinear polynomial. And then we can print the results of this here in this item as follows. So at t equals two, it evaluates to p of two, which is if-lin-poly over here, this one, and if-d-lin-poly, which is the derivative solution over here. So let's see them. Okay, here we are.

So p of two, 10, p dash of two is three. Okay, so that's how we do it using a new linear polynomial for the first degree. Again, the macros by the calculus package that create the polynomial functions take the macro for the new function in the first argument, and then we have the coefficients. After that, we can use it easily and expect the result. so the second degree is the quadratic polynomial we use for that the new q poly macro here's an entire artyom for that the quadratic polynomial is a plus b t plus c t square we use for that the new q poly small q letter over here, and works the same thing except that of course, the new quadratic polynomial macro takes an extra fourth mandatory argument.

And that's it. This is the coefficient C. So A, B, and C, and this is the name of the quadratic polynomial. Having done that, we can use it with t, expect the results and print them. So as see it, and here we are.

So yeah, four mandatory arguments for the quadratic polynomial, the name and the three coefficients a, b and c. And in the background, this formal definition is carried out to be evaluated at this input, give the result and derivative solution for the result. And the last third degree is the cubic polynomial. For that the package offers the new C poly command, the new cubic polynomial command. And of course you can see that we have here five mandatory arguments, the name and the four coefficients.

a, b, c, and d for this increased term in the third degree, d times t to the power of 3. And using the new C poly, we can create this. And we have here the cube poly. This is our new function. We use it with our input and the results.

So let's see it. And here it is. So those are the three degrees of polynomials that the package offers macros for. You have new linear polynomial, three mandatory arguments. Here it is.

New quadratic polynomial, the second degree. Again, here, four mandatory arguments and new cubic polynomial for the third degree. Five mandatory arguments over here. Yeah. And so as usual, you can make use of such features to create a new command.

And here is an entire presentation for that.

So we have here the quad poly. This is a new command that takes four mandator arguments. So we're abstracting the three stages of defining a new polynomial, computing it, meaning using our new polynomial function, and then printing the results in this so-called quad poly new command. So for mandatory arguments. Again, we define here a new quadratic polynomial, new Q poly of the second degree.

So this takes four mandatory arguments, we create a name for the new function. And the first three mandatory dummy arguments, we put them here, those are the coefficients of the second polynomial, a, b, and c. which is this one over here, the new cube poly. And then we use this, we use our ev quad poly. And the fourth argument provided by the user is actually the input of the polynomial function.

So pretty straightforward, we expect the results in new macros, and then we print them. And when we use this quad poly, we say 123, the first three mandatory arguments are being taken for the coefficients for defining the polynomial and the last mandatory argument, the fourth one is taken as an input to use that new polynomial. So this will give us the results and do not forget that we have done the printing work inside the new command. So yeah, here it is. Quite straightforward and helpful, of course.

So next are the vector valued functions.

A vector function like this one, let's see it first.

Okay, zoom in. So here we have just f of t is a vector of functions. This is essentially a function that takes the shape of a vector that is combining multiple functions in dimensional functions. And what we do essentially is that we pass an input for this function that we're going to create. Essentially, in LaTeX language, this will be a macro, which takes an input.

And the thing that is this vector valued function is mathematically defined as a vector that has its elements being a functions. So, if we say that f of t is equal to a vector, the first element is two, two square and the second element is two cubed, then if we say f of two, then this is evaluated as a two raised to two and two raised to three. So mainly you obtain a vector by applying the input of this function. So yeah, again, as you can see here is the definition of a vector valued function. It's a function that is defined as a vector of functions.

They all have the same input variable t. So to create a function like that, we use the vector function command. So let's say vector define, we use the vector function command. So this F of t is created as this. We have here two functions.

So three arguments. The first function is the first t square over here, the square function. The second argument takes the second element or function inside this vector over here, the cubed one. And lastly, as usual, the third mandatory argument of this vector function command is the name that we choose for the function. here kind of VF for convenience.

So Victor function. And that's it. Again, as usual, this last newly created macro latex macro is a new function that is recognized as that by the by the calculus package. So the second thing that we're going to do is that we're going to evaluate some t input at the at this macro over here. So let's actually do that.

So we say v and f, and then we have five arguments.

2, 3, 4, and 5. The first argument is for parameter t, which is the general variable that we all have. So let's say 2. The second and third arguments are for the first function in the vector, which is t square. So remember that this new vf is now a function.

So that means again, as I said that you can use it, use an input for that and expect the result as we did previously multiple times before. But note that this time, this function has kind of two formulas, if you will, it's a composed vector of functions. So that means that we have two functions to evaluate at two solutions and two derivatives. So that's why we have five arguments over here. The first one is the general input t, no problems.

But then we have four mandatory arguments. Those four are for the first function and its derivative to be evaluated at the t input. And the second two are for the second function in this vector, the t cubed. So its solution being evaluated at the input t and its derivative So let's write the name these, we can say for the cube, let's say f square, so function square, and then fd square. So this is the t square evaluated at two.

And this is the numerical value of two times t, the derivative of t square with t equals two, of course, because we're using that. And same thing for the t cubed, the second function. the second set of correlated Mandator arguments, if you will. So let's name this f cube and fd for derivative of the cubic function. So just for as a naming convention over here.

So yeah, again, one more time. this is a new function that we have defined using the vector function as a function that is a vector of functions, the first one, the second one. And then when we try to use this, we put the input variable t inside the first argument, And then we have since we have two functions over here, and the calculus package outputs for each function, a solution and a derivative evaluated at the input. So that's why we have four total Mormon data arguments, the solution and the derivative of the first one, and the solution and the derivative of the second one. And that's now we can print the results.

So this will be actually quite long. because we have here if parameter variable t is two, that's what we did actually. So we print the first one, or we can print it in multiple ways, of course, because kind of have four now new macros, each one has a number. So I choose here to put the solutions for the functions, meaning t square and t cube in one B matrix. So this is the fsq, the t square, and f cube, the t cubed, the normal solution of the two functions evaluated at the input two.

And then I display in another math mode another B matrix that has f dash of t for both t square and t cube. That is the f d square, the third Mandator argument. And if d cube, the derivative of the cube t square, the last Mandator argument. So yeah, this is just displaying f of two. This f of t evaluated at two, so two square and two cubed.

then I and here is an annotation for that marking this and we have a dash of two. So we let the package make the derivative of these elements in this function in this vector, if you will, and then evaluate that at the input too. So yeah, let's see it.

And yes, here it is. So f of two is two to the power of two, which is four, and so on. And if dash of t is two multiplied by t, two by two is four, and three multiplied by t squared, t squared is four, and three multiplied by four is 12. Yeah, and that's it. This is how we create this form of functions, the vector valued functions, a function that had that is defined as a vector of functions.

Yeah. So now we can combine various types of functions using this feature, the vector function feature over here. So let's say that you want to do this for polynomials, meaning combining two polynomial functions in one vector and treat that as a vector valued function. So for that, let's create a new command that defines and computes the following Victor valued polynomial function. This one over here, let's see it.

So the thing is that we want to create this P of t that is a vector of two polynomial functions, a first degree and second degree, a linear and quadratic polynomials. So we can use the vector function using this same convention, but this time I will make it in a new command. So here is the approach and its use. We will print the results in a minute. But first of all, we can name it whatever we want.

I have here Paulvectfunc, so polynomial vector function. Of course, this will take four arguments. Those four arguments are a, b, and c, the coefficients. So you can say that the coefficients are shared between the two functions over here inside this vector. And of course, the t.

the a and b are shared, but the c is for the quadratic force and the variable is common. So first of all, we have the linear polynomial, newilpoly. We name it whatever we want. Remember that this comes in the first argument. And for that, we use a and b, the first and the second dummy arguments that the user provide.

So a plus bt. Of course, this t over here will be managed in the background by the fact that this is a polynomial function. So we only need to worry about the a and b. those, we take it from the user, the first and second arguments. And then we, we actually use this.

So we just don't make it and leave it, we use it. And the T is the fourth argument over here that is provided by the user. So we use that to evaluate this first linear polynomial over here. And we give some names for its solution and the derivative. And we do the same thing for the quadratic polynomial, the new q poly, we give it a name.

And this time we use the three coefficients a, b, and c, one, two, and three, as we expect that the user knows that he or she must do that, meaning provide a, b, and c as the first three mandatory arguments. Yes. And after that, we use our new quadratic polynomial function using the fourth Mandator argument, the t provided by the user, the common variable. And then we finally create the function, the p of t combining both of them using the vector function, the vlim poly, our linear polynomial, the vquad poly, the quadratic polynomial, and we give it a name, this p of t over here. I call it vector function.

This is just an internal matter, so don't worry about it. And this vector function itself is ready to be used using the same shared t variable, last one provided by the user. And again, one more time using such a vector valid function, you must account for the fact that each function in the row, or in this vector has has to have two macros, its solution and its derivative, and so on. So five total mandatory arguments for using this vector valid function. All of that, we can use it and provide the three coefficients a, b, and c, and the input shared t for all of that in the last argument.

And that's it. So we can just run this to do the computations. And now we can print the results of this new command as follows.

Here we are, so we say evaluating at one, two, and three, and four gives, again, the convention here is to print p of four, so the function itself using the newly created FVLIM poly and the quad of that. Those are the second and fourth mandator arguments over here. So you can see that this usage of the vector function, we can use the commands that we create for that outside. So this VLIMPOLY is the solution of the linear polynomial. And the FV qualpoly is the solution of the quadratic polynomial.

So this is essentially the combined p of four, we can access those from outside. And we do the same thing for p dash of four, which is the derivative over here. I have this naming convention of putting the d for derivative for ease of accessing. So I have here the if-d-limb-poly, the differentiation of the first linear polynomial, if-d-quad-poly, the differentiation of the second quadratic polynomial. And we put that in a p-metrics, both of them.

So p of 4 and p dash of 4. Again, we can access the new commands that we chose for the solutions of our vector function elements of the vector function using the vector function that we've just created this one over here, just walk through it, try to create it, try to change those functions and create your own. It's just that we create the function themselves using the the macros provided by the package, and then we use it in order to create those things over here. And we do the same thing. And those solutions are used to compose the vector function.

then we use it and lastly we print the results you can of course print can embed this printing of the results inside so yeah let's let's kind of do that actually because it's quite consistent to do it so

So I think this is much more better right now. We can change this, say 10 and 12, 35 and 14, whatever. And package does its work. And yeah, it gives you the results. So yeah, it's kind of quite a template to combine polynomials using this new command over here.

Okay, great.

Okay, now let's conclude this vector function topic by looking at how to define new custom vector functions. You can certainly do that.

Let's run this. Okay. By custom, I mean that we will make that using low level instructions. both the definition and derivative of each function. So mathematically, of course.

So,

Let's say that we want to give the instructions of creating this V of t, the victor valid function. So what I mean by custom now, again, is that in the background, LaTeX knows that this is a t square, because we have provided the square function built in one and knows that this is the t cube by the cube function macro over here. So it has already the definition, the mathematical definition of t square and t cube and their derivatives. So by custom, I mean is that now we will give the mathematical definition in basic operations like power and multiply and add and so on. we will tell LaTeX what is the exact mathematical definition of the function t square and t cube.

And what is the mathematical definition of the derivative, which is 2t and three times t square. So essentially defining the mathematics behind the function and its derivative. So this is the low level instruction, if you will. And through that, we're defining x of t and y of t as a function is a vector function for v of t. So for this, we can use the command new vector function.

over here. So let's say new vector function.

This command takes two arguments. The first one is the name desired for the new vector function. Conveniently, we can name it new vf. And the second one takes the definition.

So here we say we would like to define x and dx, the first function and its derivative y and dy, the second function and its derivative those ones over here from backslash t or for t for the variable t or in terms of the variable t. So for the function x, which is for our case here t squared. So we're defining this exactly specifically the t square and the t cube that we did at the beginning. So for this function x, it's defined as the square of t that is square

We square what? We square t. and store that in x. So again, we are creating x and dx, y and dy from t, or in terms of t. So t square, x of t is t square, is just squaring t. And we name that x.

So this is our first function over here. Now, the derivative of the square function is two multiplied by t. So this is the base arithmetic operation of multiply. Again, those are the calculator package commands, of course. So here is the third argument.

If you recall, we multiply two by t, and we store that in the dx. new command over here. This is the mathematical definition of the derivative of the x function, that is t squared, of course, t multiplied by two, and we give that for dx. So we can say that this is x dash, which is two multiplied by t. And this, of course, is x, let's make it over here.

Yes, this is the function x itself, which is t squared. Yeah. So this is what I mean by defining the mathematics of each function. This is the first function. And then we do the same thing for y, the cube function.

So here it is. So y equals t cubed is the cube of the variable t, which we name y, the name of the function. And then the differentiation of t squared is three multiplied by x, because what x is t squared, if you recall, so x is t squared. So we multiply three by t squared x, this gives us dy. And this completes the def the mathematical definition of both of our vector functions.

This is now abstracted in this new vector function, if you will. So, now, this feature can be handy if you want to define such a structure, the vector function, I mean. And so happens that your vector components have functions that you don't find in a predefined list. So that's why we typically go for customization, of course. So you get the chance to lay that down in detailed math.

But there is a couple of things here to be aware of. First of all, you're bound to the limit of two functions or components for the vector. So you can only compose a vector function that has two vectors, two elements in its body. So if you want more, you can combine multiple definitions of these in a new macro, for example. and print the results tagged in a P matrix.

So what I mean is that if you want kind of a vector that has, as a result, four numerics, so let's imagine that we combine these four numerics in one, and those four are resulted from four different functions, you can just put this in one new vector function body definition. So you can combine both in the printing, let's say, if you imagine. So yeah, you will you're bound to only two functions over here. And of course, in such case, you can easily imagine that kind of you will have many macro names for the results. So kind of be careful naming and using them.

So keep that in mind. Okay, perfect. Now the second thing to be aware of to keep in mind that the naming of the function macros and their derivatives and the variable t here, I mean here inside the body of the new vector function is a must. That's why at the beginning, I have this comment, defined t. And actually, this is quite the reason why I presented this over here.

So if you walked through the documentation, it won't the documentation don't tell you this fact. so again you're bound to two functions these two functions to be recognized inside this and i know that you may asked about this t at the beginning the back of your mind you said that why this man is putting this backslash t well it's recognizable by the package. The package tells us that the variable the shared variable in this vector function is called backslash t. So this name of backslash small x, backslash D, capital D, focus in this this capital D and small x as the name of the derivative function of the first one x of t and again the name backslash y and the name dy with capital D and the name backslash t as stated all of this is a must this is predefined by the package you have two functions only. Its name is backslash small y, a small x backslash small y dx with capital D, dy with capital D. And the shared variable here is backslash small t. So let's just run this to make sure that we have no problems.

Then yes, we don't have any problems. Okay, so yeah, keep that in mind. You have these names as a must. Okay, now we're ready to use this new vf with five arguments, of course, as before, it's a vector function.

So here we are. So we say new vf, the variable t comes at the beginning, which is quite two. And then we have the first function is derivative solutions, the second function is derivative. And that's it, just like the any other vector function that we have seen before. So after that, we can instantiate a center environment to print these results.

So here are some kind of B matrices to print V of two, our new vector function evaluated at two. the first or the second and fourth arguments over here, the function themselves. And then we have V dash of two, this, this and this again with the convention of D in naming to make this much more easier to access. So here we are, we get the same results indeed. four and eight as V of two and four and 12 as V dash of two, just like the beginning here, four and eight and four and 12.

So yeah, we have defined this correctly. So now the namings of these again, one more time are a must. So let's say that you mistakenly defined this dx as small d of x, look what happens. well you get an error that defines or that says undefined control sequence so the package don't recognize this backslash small d and x as the function that laid down the mathematical derivative of the first function so yeah this is a must let's try other thing like putting capital T for the variable you will get an error it won't pass because what the package knows as a variable is backslash small t so one more time be careful about this that's actually why I again presented this over here

And lastly, let's look at the generalized new function macro. Let's bring the page and make a subsection for that. Okay, here we are. So, now as stated in the documentation, all of the predefined functions by the package are made up using the new function command.

let's run this. Okay, so we're going to use the new function command to define this f of t equals t squared plus t cubed, which has this derivative over here. So here's how we can define this f of t using the general new function macro. Here it is. And again, following the same convention of naming that we had for the new vector function, which is quite a customized version of the new function command.

So this is the general boy over here. So to create our FFT, let's call it my new funk over here, any name, And again, you define the t square over here, t and a and then you define the b t cubed, and then you add them to define f of t as y, combining A and B. And then you have multiplied two by t to get a dash. And then we have three by a to get b dash, a, of course, is t square, if you recall from the first step. And then lastly, we add that to get f dash of t. So we create the two functions

add them to get f of t. And then you create the other two derivatives, add them to get f dash of t. So yeah, this is how the new function commands works. So you can see that this feature is like creating a new math oriented macro. And with the aid of this package, this new function macro is defined to accept kind of an input parameter and being evaluated with his derivative, of course, as usual, at the given input to print the results.

So let's actually do that. And here is kind of a user for this. So this is a new function of us, we can give it an input and then store the results. And in the background, LaTeX will do its job with a package, take this input, plug in it here, giving it our solution f of t, plug it here, give it our solution plug it here inside if dash of t to give us the second solution over here, the derivative solution, and we can print that to make sure. Yeah, so this is how we create a new function.

If you need to do so, define your functions in terms of arithmetic operations, if you need to add, subtract, multiply, it doesn't matter to define your FFT. And then you can do the same thing to mathematically lay down in detail, the f dash of t, just if you need to do so. And when you do that, you are ready to use it just like any other function that we know by far. So yeah, this brings us to the end of this coverage of the calculator and calculus package. I hope you found it beneficial.

Go through the documentation, try other things. And yeah, I'll catch you in the next video.

Hello and welcome guys to this last video about calculating stuff. So as the title shows, we're going to look at enhancing the way we work with counters and length variables. So specifically, we're going to extend the input space, meaning diversify the way we set and modify those inputs. For that we will use the calc package. Now this package redefines these four commands for setting and changing counter values and length dimensions.

So we have the set and add for the counter and set and add for the length. So the calc package redefines those four commands over here. So for example for the set counter input we use the explicit numeric values like six here. So this is kind of considered as a simple values direct number. But after loading the package, now we can express this input as a multiple of two numbers.

So the core feature of this package is that it allows you to work with inputs of counters and lengths as an arithmetic operation. So instead of a simple value, explicit numeric number, we can set the counter or the length or change its value using an arithmetic operation. So we have multiplication, division, addition and subtraction, of course. And that's it, actually. So it's a simple package.

And you can find the documentation attached, of course. So you can walk through it for more formal information about the functionality here. So now let's check this package out.

Okay, so here I have an article as always, and I have the calc package loaded. So let's begin by the counters.

So we can set a counter by addition like this.

So here, this is the first item. I have this new counter called at count. And now we can set this at count using two plus three instead of kind of five. So we can check for its value. Okay, here it is.

It says five. And this operational process over here of assigning a value for counter or length, as we'll see again, it's only feasible through loading this count package. So if we would like to comment this out, and see what we'll get. So I will get this plus three and two. So it's a strange behavior, of course.

So yeah, be careful about this. This is the main feature of the package.

Okay, so we can make it also by multiplication, as we saw. So here is an item for that. So we have here a new counter called multi count. And we set its value through a multiplication operation. And we check for its value, the C six.

Okay, here it is. And it works. We have division, of course. So you had a new counter called lift count and we say 10 over 2 and we check for its value and it says 5 again. Of course we have here next addition we can say subtraction this will okay it says minus one that doesn't make sense for counter but yeah it's it's feasible so you can say for for minus two you will get two so of course you have addition and and subtraction so yeah Okay.

And now these same methods can be applied to add to a counter, of course. So here is an item for that. So came here and paste. So it works the same way. So here we have, we will add to an existing counter, of course, let's add to the first add count counter.

And the value to add to this counter will be two times the value of the div count, this last counter over here, which has a value of five. So two plus five, we have 10. When we add that to the add count, which has a value now of six, so we will get 16 when we try to print that number. So yeah, here is the add count, this last printing statement over here, say 60. So yeah, you can add to a counter.

And of course, inside this assignment operation, you can use a value of another counter. So it's a normal arithmetic operation as we did before. And of course, adding for a counter can be by addition. So 13 and this time by subtraction, it works also, we get three and by division. So here it is.

So yeah, it works for all of the basic arithmetic operations. So again, having loaded this package, we can now set and change the value of a counter by an arithmetic operation. So now coming to lengths. So let's create a new section, say for lengths. and again, a description environment as usual.

Sorry about that. Okay. So here we have addition and subtraction work seamlessly for links. So here is the first item for that. So we have a new length.

Don't forget that the length is a command of course, it's a macro so it needs a backslash. So here we have this new add length and we set that length here by the set length by adding two length unit values and we check for its value to see 30. So yeah, here it is and we can make this

a subtraction operation and it works 20 minus 10 is 10 of course. So yeah, it works for links, the addition and subtraction works without any problems. And now for multiplication, meaning to set a length by multiplying a length unit value by an integer. So say two times the value of another, maybe a value of another length or by an explicit unit length. Let's see an item for that.

Here it is. So setting by multiplication, and we have a note here, we'll come to this in a second, we have this new length. And we try to set this length by multiplying the add length value, which is now 10 points this first length over here by three. So say three by 10, we should see 30. Let's check this out.

Yes, here we are. And we have this note over here, which is it's laid down by the package. It says length value must come first in the operation. So whenever you try to set a length value by an assignment operation, which is a multiplication, the length must come first. So let's say that you're setting this new multiplication length by five points to get three times five points to get 15 points.

Yes, over here, if you flipped this around, meaning that you put the integer before the length. So here we have three times five point you won't get an error. So the reason for that is it's kind of a technical reason, which is what how LaTeX is structured. So when it sees this assignment operation made as a multiplication, it assigns the first value, the first operand for this multiplication process to the so called tech call it a length register, A length register is actually a the pronunciation for the length macro in the tech language. So in latex, we call a length variable or length macro.

In tech, they call these a length register. So this operation over here, just because we use the calc package, which uses tech as a base language, we must put the value that contains a point or centimeter the length value at the beginning. because in the background, the package and take behind it will take the first operand and assignment to a length value. So it should have a length unit. So it's kind of a technical reason due to the nature of design of the package and it's used for tech in the background.

So yeah, don't forget this whenever you're trying to set a length or add to a length by a multiplication process, you have to put the length value you're trying to scaling or maximizing at the beginning to be the first operand. So yeah, don't forget about this unless you will get an error. So that's why I left this note over here. So yeah, this is setting by multiplication. So as stated, the addition subtraction works seamlessly, but the multiplication needs the first operand in the operation being the length value that is being scaled.

And of course, you can make this as as we saw at the beginning, you can make this an explicit as usual, or another length variable. So it doesn't matter. So if you have the generally the first operand must be a length unit, either explicit unit like this or another length variable. So yeah, you have over here. And what's left is division.

So let's make an item for that. That says setting by division. Unfortunately, this is not supported directly. So let's say that we have this new length called devlin. And we tried to set this devlin by dividing 20 points by 10 points and printing its value.

Let's see what will happen.

we have an error. Now you cannot directly set a length or add to a length by division using this simple assignment operation over here because you can say that when you divide 20 points by 10 points, kind of the points get canceled in the background And the output of this setting, a macro over here is no longer a length variable. So it's kind of obsolete to do this. You cannot divide a length by a length in this simple way, if you will. So yeah, I said it, you can imagine it as these points over here, this unit length get canceled and the output of this operation is no longer again, a length value.

So you cannot assign 20, for example, it's like having set length div, lean to 20, 20 integer, and that's it without any unit length. So yeah, you can now do this. So it says package calc error p invalid at this point. So yeah, you can now assign a division process like this to a length. So for this to work, we use a command provided especially by the package called ratio.

So let's state that this is not supported by default. And so for that, we use the ratio.

Let's just remove, let's comment out the above lines for now. And setting by division with this ratio command works like this. So here we have our new length div line again, we said this div line by ratio, this ratio takes two arguments, of course, the first one is the numerator and the second one is the denominator. So this is pretty obvious, we have ratio 20 points by 10 points. So this is kind of telling the package that we want to divide two length units.

But one step left is to make the first operand a point. So again, this ratio is like this assignment over here. So you can say that the output of this ratio, again, is not a length value. So you can say that ratio 2520 points by 10 points, you get two, and that's it. So you will end up by an error or a strange output if you try to do this.

So yeah, again, one, one error because it says missing number treated as zero. And the reason again, for that is the ratio command needs a unit, let's say a length unit to be given to its output. Because again, at this stage, you can say that ratio 20 pi 10 by 10 is like this simple operation over here. And assign a length value for that we multiply by one point so ratio 20 pi 10 you get two and you multiply this two by one point to get two points this will work

Yes, here we are. And it says two points. So yeah, setting by division using this package is quite complicated, not so complicated. So again, you cannot do it with this straightforward division process because you end up with two, for example, without having in unit for that. So in order for setting a length unit, a length variable by a division process, we have to use the ratio command and put the numerator and denominator in their respective places.

And then we put this one point times the ratio to give the ratio a length unit. And of course, it must be kind of a corresponding unit for them. So yeah, those are the basic processes for setting a length by an arithmetic operation. Addition and subtraction works without any problems. Multiplication has this one note of the first operand being a length unit, either an explicit value like this or an implicit one like a length value.

So it has to be the first one. And for division, we have to use the ratio multiplied by the corresponding length unit. Of course, you can make this centimeters, for example, and the package will calculate and assign everything. So yeah, it's quite we have an output, this won't produce an error. So multiply 20 points, kind of in the background package converts those 20 centimeters to the corresponding point value and divides them and multiplies by point.

So yeah, you have to be careful about this just for you for the semantics. It'll work because the package is flexible, of course, as always, but for you to be able to navigate the semantics of the input file, again, easily. So yeah, this is the basic stuff. And now as before before leaving this description environment, these techniques work for adding to a length in the same way. So let's add one more item over here and say, adding to a length.

So we can change the length value by addition and subtraction. And here is an example for that. So we add to a length, we choose, for example, the add length, the first new length in this environment over here. And we add to it the value of two point plus three points. And we check for that.

It was previously 10 points. So we will now have 15. And here it is. So yeah, this again works seamlessly. So this is changing by addition or subtraction.

And we can change by multiplication, of course. So we're in the same item. So let's add an arrow and say add to a link. So I have this this space over here and this right arrow inside the dollar signs of the math mode. So we add to a length, the same length over here.

And we add by multiplication this time. And again, don't forget to put the length unit to be the first operand. And we check for that. So two points plus two, three times two points, we get six points. So we have 25 to 21 points over here.

So yeah, here it is. So you can see that this arrow over here, and those spaces and we add it to the add length by a multiplication. So it works with the same convention of the length unit being the first upper end. And eventually, of course, we can add to a length by dividing to length values using this same convention over here. And here's an example.

So here it is, we can remove this one over here. So we add to our length, add length again, we want to define to divide eight points by two points. So we use the ratio to get eight by two, we get four, and then we multiply this four by one point to get four points, and then add this to the 21 points to get 25 points. And here it is. So let's give some comments here.

So this is changing by add slash sub and then we have here changing by this is multiplication and this is changing by division. So again, the same conventions, this works without problems, this has to be the first operand to be the length unit that we're scaling. And for division, we use the ratio, we put the two length units that we're dividing, and we multiply that by one point to get a length output so that we can add this to the target length. And we end up with these results over here. Now, it may be obvious, but I should let you know that you can easily compose arithmetic operations in one assignment.

So you can say two points times three plus two integers and so on. So you can compose multiple arithmetic operations in one assignment. And here's an example. So the last item composing expressions, so we add to a length, we add to the very same first length. And this time, we say two points times one, and plus three points.

So it's just an example for using a multiplication and an addition. in the same assignment to the add length or set length, it doesn't matter. So I choose add here. And this will work without any problem. So yeah, 30 points over here.

So you can compose this. So we have 25 and we have three points plus two points, five points plus 25, we get 30. So we can compose expressions and they obey the same precedence, mathematical precedence as usual. So we have two points times one, first and this and then this is added to the second or the last operand over here. Okay, so far, we've been working with integers, but we can also work with real numbers.

So let's make a section for that and say using real numbers. So if you want to work with numbers that have the similar parts, then you should wrap these inside a command provided by the package called real. So let's say that we defined these new counters, this new counter and length. So we have real count and real length to work with them in this set new section. So incorporating floats in the game is only for multiplication and division.

So let's begin a description. So in order to work with floats to add or set floats, you can only do them with multiplication and division. So let's say that we want to set our new real count counter over here to 10. And we want to do that by multiplying four times 2.5.

So we can make it like that. here is the first item that says multiplication for counters. So we set our new counter over here by an operation of course, which says four times 2.5. This is the main point over here.

So if you want to use floats in the operations to set or add to a length or a counter, you have to wrap the float value in this real command provided by this package over here. So, let's say that you didn't do that. And you try to say four times 2.5. Let's see what will happen, you'll end up with an error.

So package calc error invalid invalid at this point. So it says you that this float value floating free over here is not valid. So you have to wrap it inside the real command provided specially by the package. And this will do the job. So yeah, here it is.

So here in this new section, this real account, four times the real number 2.5 is 10, of course. So yeah, this is the base of working with real numbers. And again, you can do that only by multiplication and division. So the the the arithmetic operations that are allowed to work with floats, multiplication and division.

And of course, you can do that for setting and adding to a counter or length. Okay, and continuing. So same thing goes for dividing. So that was multiplication by multiplying by a float. And we can do the same thing for division.

And here is an item. So dividing for counters. Now, remember that we're working with counters. So dividing by dividing two integers or this time an integer by a real number, the division itself for this assignment here over here is allowed at its simple look over here without any special ratio command that ratio is for links only. So yeah, we divide 50 by the real number 2.5.

And we add this time we add to the real count over here. So let's say yeah, we have 29 so now 50 by 20 by 2.5 gives 20 so supposedly this the the output of this this operation over here is 20 and we add to the counter real count 20 which was 10 so supposedly we'll end up with 30 but that's not the case and So this is not quite accurate from the package. You can say that this is a drawback of this utility. It's not quite that so accurate with this operation due to say some flaws in the work of action in the background.

So just if you want to nail this, then we can make use of a small handy package called float point. So, this one offers basic commands to work with arithmetic when dealing with floating points. So when we use it, we will end up with an accurate results than the plane division by the calc package itself. So let's do that. So we use this package called flt point.

So for float point, again, it offers some commands to work with basic operations and it produces a an accurate result. So do install it if you don't have it. And again, we can reset the value of the counter over here to produce the desired 30 output. But before that, again, the full point, of course, the documentation will be attached. So walk through it.

For division, we're only going to make use of one command from this float point package, which is if p div. So inside under this dividing for counters, let's make an itemize environment. So kind of nested over here. So here is the body of this itemize environment, we will have an item that says for accuracy, we use the flow point package. So as stated, we can reset we can start by reset the set counter or the reset of the real counter to 10.

So restore the base the base value over here, which was 10. So before adding to this, or we can, we can simply comment this out, doesn't matter. I'll leave it like that for you to remember the difference in, in accuracy of using division for plain, just plain division like this in this package. So yeah, we start by dividing, by resetting the value of the counter to 10, which is the previous points. And for that we use the FB div.

So we have float point and the name over here has a capital D. So be careful about that. So the flow point package offers this FB div command and this one takes three mandatory arguments, one, two, and three. The first one, unlike the convention for the calc package, or the rest of the calculator and calculus, the macro to set the output of the arithmetic operation in comes in the first argument. So instead of the last argument, so this is a new macro that we can create, especially for this operation called dev val for division value.

And then the second and third arguments of the FP div for division from the flow point package takes the numerator and the denominator. And this package has a special convention, which is you have to put the numerator and denominator in in this form, which is to provide them with a decimal point And this time, it's not a point, it's a comma. So be careful about that we want to divide 50 by 2.5, two and a half. So we have to set 50, and then comma and then zero.

So this 50, although it's originally an integer value, we have to make it float in order for this command by the flow package to work correctly. And then 2.5, this time again, is not a decimal small point over here, it's a comma. So two comma five, two point five, the output of this is 20, of course, and this 20 is assigned as a value to this macro. And eventually we add to the counter using this 20 and we print the result end up with 30.

Here it is. So we have it over here. So again, the calc package itself have some inaccuracies. So supposedly we must have ended up with 30 at this first step. But just if you want some accuracy, you can load the flow point package, you can walk towards documentation as some good stuff.

From that we only used the FB div. So again, you have to provide the numerator and the denominator and the second and third Mandator arguments in this form, the decimal point that remarks that this value is a float is now a comma, not a simple usual decimal point over here. So be careful about this, both of the values should be in float format. And you put, you store the output and the macro that you choose in the first argument over here. And this is, so you can say that we're assigning to a counter or a length in an indirect way.

So we do with this float division in the first place, and we store that and then we put that in the second argument of the add counter. So it's not a direct arithmetic operation assignment. So instead, we put for the add to counter command to add to this counter, we put a macro instead of an explicit arithmetic operation. Instead, it's done actually as a standalone step. So yeah, this is it.

So we have these multiplication for counters, it works without any problems. We have this real. So do not forget if you want to work with floats or decimal numbers, real numbers, whatever, you have to wrap the value with a real command. So multiplication works without any problems. And still for counters, we can divide we can divide, of course, but this has some inaccuracies.

So again, you can use the float point commands for that. Yeah, this is it. So that was for multiplying for counters and dividing for counters, we're talking about real numbers. And for links, eventually, we can multiply by a real value like this. So here it is.

So we say multiplication for links. So we set the real length that we made over here, don't forget. And we multiply just five points by real of 2.5. And again, do not forget to put the length unit to be the first upper end.

And since we wanted to multiply by a float, then we have to use the real command. And here it is. So yeah, to 12.5. This is the result.

And lastly, we can divide by a float using the ratio command with a one point multiplication trick, of course. So here's an item for that. So, so we say dividing for length, we want to assign the set length or add to length of a length variable by using a division operation and divide by a real number. So this is the thing here. So we have a note here that says the ratio is a real number feature.

And actually, I've presented the ratio of course, at the beginning, but in the in the documentation, you will find that the ratio command is a feature for working with real numbers. So you can combine both of them here, we don't need the real command at this point. So we can easily add to our real length by dividing 20 by 2.5.

So at this stage, previously when we worked for multiplication, for counters and length, so we used the real command to wrap the float value. But this time the ratio again is actually a real number feature by the package. So yeah, the ratio command can handle a floating point length value like 2.5 value over here. So we don't have to put a real number around this, the ratio takes care of this.

And again, we multiply this one by one point to get a length output, which is 20.5. Of course, we were adding to this real length. So yeah, we've had some so many things at this stage. So let's wrap up.

We can by loading the calc package, we can work with assigning and setting and adding the counters by using arithmetic operations. So this is the very basic thing. It works without any restrictions or any nodes for counters, of course. And we can add of course, and then we have this for the length, the addition and subtraction for the links work without any problems, the multiplication, you have to put the first operand to be the length unit. And for division, you have to use the ratio command.

Do not forget about that. And to make the output of the ratio command to be a length unit, you have to multiply by one points, just as a small trick. And then we added to that length. So the same stuff, so addition, subtraction, multiplication, and then division, we use the ratio and multiply by one point. And you can compose as stated, so you can make this quite sophisticated.

And of course, following the mathematical conventions, and then the package also allows you to work with real numbers. So you can set an add to a length or a counter by using a floating point number. But this is only allowed for the multiplication and division operations. And for counters, as usual, things are simple. So whenever you want to multiply an integer by a floating point to change or set a counter, you wrap the value inside the real command.

And we did the same thing for dividing for the counter. But since we ended up with quite inaccurate result, we used the float point up the package and use this FP div to divide 50 by 2.5. And do not forget about the comma instead of the decimal point. And then we store that and added its value to this counter and it worked.

And eventually we used real numbers to set and add to a length by using multiplication and division multiplication works, you have to wrap again the floating point number that you want to multiply the length value by inside the real command. But for division, if you want to use if you want to divide by a floating point, the ratio command that we learned at the beginning, it takes care of that. So it handles this. So here, we don't want to use the real command. So remember that.

So multiplying, or sorry, dividing two links, one of them is a decimal point, the ratio command is is again a real number feature. So we don't have to use the real command. So it works directly as before. So yeah, and we multiply by one and we'll get that result over here. So yeah, that was it.

Take a look at the documentation of the calc package and the flow point package is quite useful. Both of them are compact. So yeah, thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. So this is the last topic of the essential training before the projects.

And this is how to manage large multi-file projects. Now, when you're building a quite big project like a book or a large article that kind of has so many sections, most probably it'll be a good idea to modularize the structure of your project. And essentially, this is to separate, for example, the chapters of a book in the different tech files, and then import these external files in order in the main tech file. So this way, we can keep kind of the main tech file nice and clean. Mainly, it'll act as a calling stage or gathering for the files that resemble the chapters.

And at the same time, we will be able to work on each part individually, which is of course better for efficiency and compiling time. And at the end of the day, we will focus only on each part, kind of without distraction. Okay, so this is actually what we're going to do in these videos. And we're going to look at both LaTeX based features and also some useful packages that offer helpful functionality for this topic. So let's start in this video with the standard LaTeX commands for importing external files.

Let's jump directly to the tech file. Okay, here, as usual, I have an article, I've loaded one package to count Lipsum. So consider this article to be the main tech file. Now to import an external file, LaTeX offers two commands, the input and include. They work generally in the same manner, but there are some slight differences that were going to address.

So let's start with the input method. Let's create a section for that. And let's create a description environment. So let's actually go to the folder directory of this tech file and create another one to import it here. Here we are have this multi file, this article will act as the main tech file.

And here in the same level, let's create another tech file called stream. So we can create a just start with a text document and say stream dot tech. Yes, change and then open. and here let's just put some characters a line of text and that's it so let's go back to the main tech file okay here we are and for the first item let's input that tech file the stream one so Let's say inputting a dot tech file. And this is the input method.

So use the input command. And of course, in this one argument, we put the name of the file that we're going to import, we can do it with or without the extension, the dot tech extension. And that's actually so the content of this tech file will be yes will be typeset in this exact location under this item over here. So this is the of course, again, we can remove this it's optional. But you should know that the default is dot tech.

So if this stream as we'll see in a moment is a text file, so extension dot txt, if you removed it and try to run, you will get an error because by default, this is looking for a dot tech extension. So it's only optional to kind of remove it if it's a tech file. Let's pull it back. So here in this file that we're going to import using the input or actually the include command, we must not put any preamble code in the file here. So for example, we can't have a standalone document class declaration or begin and end document.

These files here in the standard features of inputting an external file, which is again using the input or the include as you'll see, they are considered to be just a part of the main tech file content. So the primary requirement here is just these files should contain a valid LaTeX code that can be typeset by the LaTeX engine. And that's it. Later on, actually, in a separate video, we'll look at how to create separate files that can run that can be compiled on their own. But this is this isn't the topic of today's video.

Okay, so going back again to the multi file, that was the first item which is using the input. And additionally, the input command, of course, can accept a text file as stated. So let's actually do that and say, inputting a dot text file, if this is a just a part of your project. So let's say input. And let's actually go to the directory one more time to create a text file called text tree.

So here we are again, and let's create this time as a text file, leave the extension and let's say just text, and that's it, or text stream doesn't matter. So we put here some text again, to be embedded, that's what so many dots kind of to differentiate that from the tech file, we have only three back then. So yeah, save, close this and go back to the article. Okay, and inside here, we can put the name of the text file with the extension. Let's run to see the result.

So yep, here we are. So the input command can actually import a text file. And then as stated, if you remove this and try to run, you will get an error. Yes, it says that the error file text dot tech not found. So by default, as stated, they take the input command will assign or search for a file that is called text dot tech.

So the default is dot tech. So that's why we have this error over here. So be careful about that. If you want to remove the extension, this is only allowed for a tech file. If this is a text file, you must leave explicitly the extension over here in order to have an output.

So now mainly people use this input command to import external files as a part of the main document body. But it's also possible that you can put it in the preamble to call a tech file kind of that has a package loading. So most often, you will be using this input inside here inside the document body. But of course, the preamble can accept an input file. That input file again, can feature just one call for a package, a use package command over here, or actually some styling customization commands.

So let's create another tech file called digs. So so actually put it in here before going to the directory. Take this copy, save. And then here we are one more time. Let's create that file.

Yes, open it. Okay, here it is. So what we're going to do here is that we will use package and tigs. So this tigs.tech will feature a one command that is loading the tigs package.

And then going back to the main file, over here. So by running this by importing the tags dot tech, that is loading the package tags, we can use actually takes inside the document here without any problems because importing this file that calls the tags will do the job for us and it'll be feasible to use text graphics inside the document of this article document over here. So let's actually do that. And here, let's make a third item, say, using tags loaded with tags dot tech. And here we can say tags.

And then Let's draw from zero and zero, a small circle of 15 point radius. And let's see the output now.

So yeah, sorry about this. And this semicolon is to close the path. And of course, we have it right here. So now we were allowed to use this tigs command, although that we don't have an explicit use package tigs in this article document class. But of course, by the effect of inputting that tigs dot tech file that has actually the calling for tigs, now we can use it inside that document without any problems.

So yeah, again, this is a possibility. Input can be put inside the document here, the document body, and we can put it in the preamble kind of to have some styling customization commands, all that stuff that we've used to put in the preamble. We will actually look at the end of this video at a much better method to do it to perform this job. So imagine that you're creating a large document. So you have so many package calls, doesn't make sense to put them all here inside this main article document class.

Since of course, you've made the decision of modularizing your whole project by separating some sections or subsections and external files. So it'll be useful also to have these package calls in a separate document and all of the styling customization commands that you need to put in a preamble. We'll learn how to put all of these inside an external style file, call it here like any other package, and it'll do the job for us. So this will be the last part of this video. So you can easily imagine that you can put any normal later code in this text file over here.

So because we load this in a preamble, so the only preamble code is allowed inside this text doc tech. So any later code that is expected inside the document body cannot be put inside here, because of course, we're loading this in a preamble. That was the first method. And now let's come to the second one, which is the include command. Okay.

This is the input. Sorry about this in out. Okay. So yeah, this is the include method. Okay.

Let's fix this. Okay. First of all, the include command typesets only a tech file. So unlike the input, we cannot have a include text dot text. You won't have an error if you try to do so, but you won't get anything in the output.

So the include command only accepts a dot tech file. So let's directly try to include some file over here. So let's say that we have a sub input folder will create it in a moment. And inside that we have sub underscore input tech file. So here optionally, you can put this extension for the include command, or you can remove it.

But you know, just as a best practice, people used to remove it for the include command over here. So let's actually create this folder. Of course, if you have the imported file inside another folder in a different directory than the main running tech file, you can put easily the relative or absolute path that leads to that imported file over here. So the stream and the text was in the same level, the same directory with the multi-file.tech.

So that's why we didn't have any path. But now let's create this new folder and put this sub input dot tech inside that one and open it to put some content. So here we are. So let's create a new folder, call it sub input with the same name. And then inside that, let's say sub underscore input dot tech.

Yes.

Okay, let's open that. Okay, here we are. And here, let's actually put one can't paragraph. So of course, when we include or import or input, actually, any file inside here, all of the preamble code of the main file can act on all of these. So this where it is, this is the sub input.

So we don't have any primal code here, of course, but we have loaded this in the main tech file. So when we include that sub input file that uses the cantlypsum, of course, we won't have any problems. So yeah, this is it. And let's see the last difference between that and the input. So immediately you can see that we have a second page when we scroll down, you can see that the can paragraph, which is the content of this sub input tech file is in in a new page.

So here we are. This is the section and the effect of the include command, it forcibly includes a new page over here. So this is one difference again between the input and the include. Include commands starts a new page. And after that type sets the content of the included tech file.

So this is an essential feature of how this is implemented in a standard distribution. So, actually, the context of using this include command is actually more suitable for larger pieces of content to be invoked. So, like complete chapters of a big book. So, yeah, if this is a book and the file to be included is a complete chapter, this is just a convention of using the include standard feature. This is why it's designed that way to start a new page and then type set the content of the included file.

So the input is much more suitable for small projects, small pieces of content that can just act as a part of the running stream of text. And the include command is much more suitable for larger pieces of content like complete chapters in a big book. And that's why it starts a new page over here. So next, let's take a look at nesting imported files. Let's break the page after this paragraph and sort a new section for that.

Okay, So essentially, this is importing an external tech file here in the main one, and that imported file itself inputs another one in its content. So calling a file that is calling another file. first of all be careful with this and don't go so far with that mechanism of nesting and calling files from each other as specially with the standard input and include commands this is kind of prone to errors in some situations So LaTeX allows that only to happen with the input command. That is, if you have an external TeX file called X, for example, That X tech file inputs another Y tech file. The only way to import the top level X here inside the main document is by using the input command.

So let's see what that is. We'll go to the stream dot tech. recall that the stream dot tech is in the same level with a multi file main dot tech. So let's go to the stream dot tech over here. And then let's include from the sub input

folder, the sub input tech file, let's save. Okay. And then go back to the multi file, the main article under this new section over here in the third page, let's include the stream.tech. We have it actually here, the very first call, but using the input.

So let's say that we want to include it now.

include stream.tech. Again, recall that now the stream.tech has actually an include call for the sub input that has this paragraph over here. So what we're going to do actually here when we run is that we will include a file that includes another one.

And this is prohibited. Let's make sure of that and run.

you will get an error that says include cannot be nested. So this is essentially we have included a tech file

that includes another one. And again, this is prohibited. Latex don't allow that to happen. So if we have this, the input command instead, and save, and we go back to the multi file and run, we won't get an error. Yes, here it is actually type set.

And we have included the stream has this one line that is called this is the stream now this one line and then we have the sub input in inputted actually this time so include won't work here. And yeah, that's it we have the we have a can paragraph over here. And this works without any problems.

me. So here actually, we can use the input again, so we can use the input to input that stream. And that stream again has an input call to another file. Of course, this work, this will work without any problems.

So yeah, here we are. So yeah, be careful about nesting include files. You cannot include a file that includes another one. You can include a file that has an input inside it. Or you can do it vice versa.

You can input a file and that file can feature an include. But nested includes won't work. input and include, include and input, it doesn't matter. But include and include will feature an error. So yeah, be careful about that.

So now if you're using the include command to split up your book, for example, then the include only command can be useful for you in some certain situations. The include only is a preamble macro that LaTeX offers, in which you can specify one or more of the imported external files to ptypset in the output. To illustrate the effect of this command, I have set up another main tech file in a separate directory. And also we will have some child files in there. So let's actually see it.

Okay, here we are inside a new directory. We have here four tech files. The include only, this is the main tech file, and three tiles, first, second, and third. Let's open them all.

So the include only main tech file here in this new folder features a bug document class and it loads the cantlipsum and the x color packages. And inside the document we call for the three tech files first, second and third using the include command. So First is a chapter that has this colored blue colored cant paragraph. Same thing for the second. It's a chapter also that has a green cant paragraph.

And the third is another chapter with a reddish cant paragraph. So here, we have all of them. And yes, when we run, go to the upper so we have chapter one, the first content, chapter two, content of the second chapter, and so on. Okay so now first of all, if I told you that we want to skip typesetting the second chapter, which is included in this second.tech over here, from typesetting, we want just to skip it for once.

Say to speed up the compiling process after making some modifications to the other chapters, first and three. What would you do? Well, I guess at first glance, you will say, let's comment it's include call in the code of the input file. And this will be a reasonable answer. So let's actually do it and run to see what will happen in the output.

Okay, we have chapter one content, the first chapter, this first include over here, scroll down, we've skipped the include of the second dot tech that had the second chapter and the include of the third chapter, which has this red can paragraph says chapter two content of the third chapter. So supposedly by the counter of the chapters inside the latex engine, we have this chapter two, this is the second chapter. So now latex is first chapter, skips this of course, and this is the second one. But in our semantics, this third is a third chapter. So there is something missing over here.

this isn't working well. We want to have first chapter type set correctly, which it is, but the third one, we want to have it chapter three content of the third chapter to preserve the location. So in order to skip type setting, certain include call, but at the same time, preserve its order and location. So then we can use the include only command that we've been talking about. This is a preamble declaration.

here we get to specify the included files in the body of the document that we want to see in the output only. So include only. So since we want to skip the second part, we provide first comma separated list and then third. So this means include only the first

And third, tech documents, this is the file names, first attack and third attack. And since we omitted the second attack, and of course, we have it included over here. By the effect of the include only, this will be skipped in the output, but its location will be preserved. So first, include first chapter one content of the first chapter. So this is right, scroll down.

Now, this second is emitted from the included only list over here. So we don't have it and include third is type set lastly. So we have now chapter three content of the third chapter. So the counter of the chapters now is working correctly with our semantics, with the location of that red count paragraph being in the third chapter. So the use case of this command is actually quite temporary.

That is, if you want to focus on some parts of your large document, so let's say that you're making some modifications to the first and third chapters, and you didn't touch that second dot tech file, the second chapter. And say that you want to make sure that you have everything set correctly inside the first and third. So you want to compile that skipping the inclusion of the second dot tech file, again, to speed up the compilation time for once only actually. So here's how you can do it. You use the include only, we can actually provide one.

So it's not only a list. Yeah, here we are. So we have include only we're telling latex to only type set the first included this first dot tech included file specifically, and skip the others. So here we have it. Now let's go back to our main article to explain the last concept of this video.

Now do you recall when I said earlier that there is a better way to abstract the calls of packages and silent commands? So this is actually the last concept here. Let's break the page. So this concept is extremely useful and quite essential actually when it comes to building large documents. Now instead of putting all the use package commands to load the utilities that you use inside the preamble of the main document over here, again, which may expand to several lines as you grow with the project, you can instead create a separate external file to hold them with other customization and styling decisions that you want to apply and use throughout your project.

And this file this time won't be a tech file. It'll be actually a style file, a file with an extension dot st y, which of course we call it a package. So let's go to the directory of this multifile dot tech and create a new style file.

So here we are.

Let's call it my style.

dot st y. Yes, open that.

Let's open it.

So here at first, we must put the provides package declaration at the beginning.

Note that each word in this name, the provide and the package, they have their first letter, the P actually capitalized. So this macro takes the name of the package that we will use in any tech file. So in its argument, we say my style, the name of the package that we're creating. So this is essentially what defines a style file or a package. You can read this as provide a package that is called my style.

And this command is actually what will enable us to put the name of the style file in the use package command in other input.tech files. So now this is a package. And the provides package is an essential declaration to tell Leighton that this is a style file with this name. And based on that, we can use letter and other dot tech input files, the command use package, my style.

And that will load all the use packages, all the commands and the declarations that we will put inside here. So let's actually put some calls for some packages. So here we are. So put some arbitrary packages, MS, the fancy header, and the graphics. So this is actually one of the things that a style file can have, which is a call for some packages.

And generally, this style file can hold any type of style and macros that we have used to put in a preamble in every document or topic we've discussed so far. So you have use packages, you have title formats, fancy header commands, theorem declarations, anything. So, this of course includes page and title formatting, header styles, bibliography style, actually, tags and pgf plot set commands. So any kind of primble code for graphics and plotting. And of course, lastly, new commands and environments.

So custom, new commands, environments, anything. You can abstract all of these types of primble code inside a style package. that is started with this declaration. And then you can use it like any other normal package that we've been dealing with. So let's actually put one example of a new command to make sure that we can use it.

Here it is, can call it red tech, takes one argument, and it colors its argument actually, while using the D tokenize. So yeah, this is it. And let's save this. Take this copy, go to our main document. And now we can use it inside the primal here.

So use package my style. And that's it. This of course, loads all the features that we have inside here.

to make sure this after breaking this page, let's create a new section and say using features of my style package. And this will be just a call for the red tech using the red tech on latex.

And let's run. And of course we have it right here. So using my style package that defines this new command that is called red tech, we've been able to use the red tech inside the main document over here. So this is so powerful. This is actually the base idea of creating or writing packages.

But of course, this topic goes beyond this foundational later course. So This is so powerful, so essential when you're creating a large project, you can put all of the things that you can dream of inside a style file, call that once using a use package. And that's it, you load all the features, you have all the styles applied, you have all the new commands and environments that you've created so far. And yeah, this is great. And that was actually it for today's video.

Hope you found it beneficial. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one. Hello and welcome you guys to this quick video. So in the last one, we've explored basic standard features to import external files.

And as usual, there are multiple packages to achieve the same goal besides of course the standard distribution. Among those for our topic here, I want to let you know about a small package called import. you will find this two page documentation in the resources. This package features a main command that has the same name import. So let's actually start with that.

The import command takes two arguments, we put the path to the file that we want to import in the first argument, and the name of the file goes solely separately in the second argument. So this is how the import command is designed. So let's try to import a tech file that is in the same level with this main dot tech for our article over here. So for that, let's go to the directory. So here we are, we have this main dot tech.

Let's create another one that is called same level dot tech. Yes. So we are in the same level. Let's open

And here, let's put some content. So we'll have some text that is colored, and save that, go back to our main. And now, you may think at first that since we are in the same level as the main dot tech, so there is no actually path to put inside here. But as you can see, the first argument, which is the path to the file that we're going to import is even better argument, so we can't leave it empty. So if the file that you're trying to input or import is in the same folder directory as the file, the whole file that is importing, so you must use a dot and a forward slash just as a placeholder for the path.

And the name for the file goes inside here.

when we run, we will get that one line of Yes, color text over here. So this is the main feature of the import package, the import command, you put the path in the first argument, and you put the name of the file that you're going to input in the second one. If it's in the same level, you put a placeholder kind of quite a placeholder dot and a forward slash. So let's try another import. But this time with a section dot tech.

This file we're going to create in a moment that is inside a separate folder that is called section, or let's say sections. So let's go again to the directory. So here we have Yes, we have this folder that is called sections. So we go inside that we see this photo over here.

And here we create our section dot tech.

That's it. Open that. And let's add some code over here. So we'll have a section, some colored paragraph, and a call for the latex logo photo. Save that, go back to the main dot tech.

And I actually forgot to put the forward slash to enter this folder. So again, this section dot tech with its photo are in a separate directory that is called sections one step away from the main dot tag. So when we use the import, it's actually m sorry for that, we put the name of the folder forward slash to enter that and the name of the file that we're going to import. So yes, here we have it, this reddish paragraph and the photo. So this package's main advantage is said to be its capability for nesting without being prone to errors, kind of like the standard features in some excessive stages.

So definitely we can go deeper here and import or even input a file in an imported one. So for this, let's create a new directory called subsections inside the sections one. So one more time go to the directory. Here inside the sections, we create a new folder that is called subsections.

And inside that, we can make another tech file that is called subsection,

dot tech. Okay, open that, put some content over here. So let's say subsection content of the sub imported file, and another bluish can paragraph over here. So let's save this. So now this subsection dot tech will be called inside the section here.

So

again, we are here in this subsection inside that subsections folder that is inside the sections. So hierarchical structure, so we will be importing this subsection dot tech inside the section over here. So what we're going to do is that we can use the input the import and a command called sub import. providing the path that leads to this, which is just the name of the folder subsections, enter that and specify the name of the file. So if we are here inside this section, tech, we can list the subsection the tech file as follows.

again, we have three ways or more can even include doesn't matter. It's kind of pretty flexible. So we have input, the subsections name, the folder, enter that, and then use the name. So we have here the input, you have the import I would the same convention, this is the first argument, name of the folder, the path for slash to enter the name of the file. And there is actually a command called sub import actually that works the same way as the import.

Let's save this. And now this section, which previously had this only read can paragraph and the include graphics will now call the subsection three times. So when you go to the main file now, and run this. So of course, before running, we are actually importing the section file, we just increased a call for the subsection inside that section. So let's run.

And yeah, here it is. So one, so this is

This is the input, the first one over here. 1.2. This is the import. And 1.3, the last one of the sub import.

So yeah, you have a pretty flexible workspace over here. And that's it actually. So hope you found it beneficial. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next one. Okay, so continuing with the topic of modularizing a LaTeX project.

Now, so far, we've seen how to import external files and nest them. But all the methods presented were for an external file that is considered to be a part of the input main file. but in an external file. So there was no chance to work independently on each file by compiling it separately. So this is actually what we're going to do in this video.

Today, we're using an extremely useful package called sub files.

It performs the same job of importing an external file into the main input one. But additionally, it gives us the ability to compile the imported file on its own, meaning that the external files, the sections, say in the subsections, chapters or whatever, they will have a normal document structure. throughout a preamble code. That is, each external file will feature a document class and begin and end document. And this what will allow us to compile that file on its own.

So now the class that the external file will take, as you will see, is actually called sub files. Because the sub files is actually a package and a document class. We'll get to that in a moment. So we have here this sub files dot tech, which is the main tech file for today's video. And we have a folder called sections.

Inside that, we can find a section dot tech, which is another file one step away, and a subsections, which has a subsection dot tech and the latex logo. So let's open this.

Here you can see the account lipsim, xcolor, graphics and the subfiles package.

The main working command for this package is called subfile. it takes the same name as the package and the document class. So the one argument of this command takes the file to import, of course, with the path that leads to it, if any. So let's import the section from sections can put .tech or not, doesn't matter.

So the sub file here command imports the tech file here using the standard input command in the background. So put this in mind, this sub file command uses input by default. And now let's go to the section .tech file to fill it out.

Okay now as stated these files now can feature a preamble code. So we will have a document class begin and end documents. So the main function of the sub files package lies here in the document class declaration of the imported files. The class that these subfiles take as stated is called subfiles, which is the name of the package.

And the option here is actually mandatory. And that is for the name and location of the main tech input file that these sub files, of course, will be used. So now, the reason why we have to specify the name of the main tech file is that the sub files package allows us to compile the external files here this section dot tech by using the preamble of the main input file. So our main input file here is called sub files dot tech. The sub files package allows us to compile the external sub files using the preamble of the main document.

this one. So we'll use all of those packages over here or mainly these. So this is why we have to specify here in the options of the sub files document class for that external file. So again, to recall the section dot tech, which is this one is one step away from the main file. So For that, here inside this, we'll have dot dot, and then we go back one step, and then we provide the main dot tech file name.

So it's called for us here, sub files dot tech. So again, when you use the sub files package for the files that you're going to call here, which is for our case here, the section dot tech, which again, uses this input, For that it's document class declaration must have the sub files class. This is what will enable us to run this section dot tech on its own, which is the main feature of the package itself. And for that we have to specify a main tech input. And the reason for that is that we're going to import its preamble here.

So if we have a content for this section dot tech like that.

Although we don't have any packages loaded here, we can still use the color for the x color and the can lipson packages. And the reason for that is that we have the sub files dot tech. So here we have it. Can see that this sub file now, we can work on this file separately. And the reason for that is that we have this sub files document class, we have specified a main dot tech to import its preamble over here.

So this sub files dot tech, the main one loads the cant ellipsum and the x color. And by that effect by the effect of the sub files document class and the specification of the location and name of the main document, we import its preamble over here. And that what allowed us to use the color and the cant ellipsum, although we don't have them explicitly loaded over here. So again, this is the main feature, the sub files that you import inside the main.tech using the sub file command can now be compiled on their own separately away from the main.tech.

And this is by using the class that the package or the utility provides and by pointing at the main.tech. So now let's go back to the main dot tech and run this actually. And here we are. So you have this title by the effect of course of the title here.

And in the body, we have a call for a section dot tech, which has a section title and some camp paragraph. and it works seamlessly. So now the workflow is much more flexible, we can work on the main dot tech importing external files. And at the same time, for those external files, we can have a preamble code over here, a normal document structure, importing the prim below the main document class, and work on those separately, run them, modify them. And at the end, run the main.tech to kind of typeset the changes.

So we used the sub file that uses the input. So you may be asking, what if we want to import that sub file in the include fashion? Say that we're working on a big book again, in which the include will be much more suitable. And in this case, of course, the sub file that we're going to include resembles a chapter. So for this job, the package, the sub files package provides a command called sub file include.

And that's it. This sub file include takes the same input type so you have a path and a file name and the effect of this is that it pulls this section content in the include fashion. which is creating a new page, and then type setting the content. So here we have it, of course, although you have enough space over here, but this is sub file include, not input, which is the main one. So you have both of them.

So when working with the sub files, you can use this file or sub file include, it's up to you.

So, now let's go back to the section.txtopfile to clarify some fact.

Now let's say that in the development of this sub file content, you loaded and use the package that is not present in the main tech input. So we're going to load and use a package over here in that section dot tech that is not loaded in the main dot tech file. So Let's do that with tigs. Say that we want to kind of apply some graphics or make some graphics in this first section over here. So we load tigs here.

Of course, as you can see that tigs isn't loaded at first place in our main.tech. So let's try filling a small circle, close the path. So fill

Of course, we can run without any problems. So here, the primble of the main.tech is imported. We typeset these. And now we have this use-package takes to make this small circle over here.

And it works seamlessly. But as stated, we don't have the tigs loaded in our main document. And at the same time, of course, we import the section dot tech that does load the package. Let's see what will happen when we run here.

Well, you get an error that is undefined control sequence tigs. Now, what is happening in the background that caused this error is that When you use the sub file or sub file include to import an external file, you only get the body of that external file. The entire document class and the preamble begin document and end document are ignored. All of this is ignored, but or except the body of this document. you only get this when you include or input using the sub file.

So that's why we have this undefined tigs command over here. Because when the engine tries to include or input that section dot tech over here, it pulls its content only. So since we have the color x color, and can't leave some loaded over here in the main, we don't have any problems with the first two lines. But when latex tries to put this tigs command over here, by importing the section. And we don't have the ticks loaded over here.

That's what caused this problem. So again, when you use the sub file or sub file include to import an external file, you pull only the body of that file, just as usual, when we did with the input, considering this as a part of the content. and the preamble of this external sub file is ignored. That's why we had this problem. So, of course, we can easily fix this by increasing the tags over here.

So be careful about that. We have it over here. So now we have the ball increased to the content of the first section. And again, of course, we include it one more time. So yeah, be careful about this.

When you use the sub files package, any external file that you make shouldn't have any preamble code that is not present in the main.tack. Because, again, when you import it with a sub file or a sub file include, latex pulls only the body. And note that, of course, you can easily synchronize the development of the main file and the sub files by building a style file as we did for the first video. And this style file will of course gather all the packages and style customization commands that you use throughout your whole project.

And for that, for once, you can import that style here in the sub files and in the main dot tech. So this will be a good solution for that. In order just not to worry much about what you have in the preamble of the sub files, that is not present in the main file, you gather all of these and call your style file here and in the sub files. But again, be careful about this, don't put any preamble code here that doesn't exist in the main dot tech. Because when you import, you're only getting the body of the external files.

Okay, so let's quickly state the fact that we can seamlessly nest sub files. In other words, using the sub file command to import a file that imports another sub file. Let's do that here with a subsection dot tag, this one. Again, where is this in the directory? Well, it's inside sections, subsections, here it is.

So, two step away from the main.tech. So, that means for its document class, we go back two times, and then we specify the name of the main.tech, which is subfiles.tech.

And again, what is the document class for these sub files? Well, sub files, we give this a begin and end document and some content. Here we are. So a subsection a red can paragraph and include graphics for the photo that we have. So yeah, we go back two times according to the path, the main dot tech name, the sub files document class, and this declaration pulls the primble of the main dot tech.

So now we're ready to use this. Okay, great. We have here this subsection now, we can go to this section and actually import this can use input include, you can use sub file, it doesn't matter. Let's actually use sub file. So we are in the section dot tech.

So we're using sub file to import the subsection.

Let's make sure of its name. Okay, sub underscore section. And don't worry, I didn't forget about the name of the folder. So we import that. Now we have this document, it's only the section, the first section, its content, and a call for the subsection, which has this red paragraph and the latex logo over here.

Go back in the levels to the main.tech and Now, when we run, since we are actually importing using the sub file and sub file include, we will have this whole thing, but inside the article. Yes, here we are. So we've been going back. So we started with a sub section, run that you work on this on its own inside the top level for that we imported.

So

modularizing again. And lastly, we have the main.tack. So yeah, this is how you can nest ASAP file include. So yeah, that was actually for it for today's video.

Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Hello and welcome you guys to this video. So we're still with the topic of importing external files to manage large projects. So today we're going to take a look at an extremely useful package for this topic that is quite different from the ones that we've experienced so far, which is the PDF pages package. This one allows us to import external PDF files into our input tech file over here.

So this isn't about getting the code from some external tech file and typeset in the document. No, we will be actually getting some pages from an existing PDF file and typeset that into our main project over here. And of course, the need for inserting external PDF pages in this context of developing and managing large projects is that sometimes you would like to reduce the clutter of the code in the input file, and by providing a ready to use cover, for example, so if you're designing a book, the cover may be laid out using a tool like Canva for rapid development. And then you can export this cover as a PDF file and then insert that here at the very beginning of the book, using this PDF pages without having to deal with it kind of with digs or any package that makes a cover. So this is one use case for this PDF pages package is that you have a ready to use cover that is resembled in a file that is PDF and you use this package to import this file over here.

Other situation is like say that you might want to insert some typeset pages from actually another tech project and you don't want to insert a code for them here or actually any external tech file for the running project. So maybe because you don't need to change any of their content, so maybe you're kind of importing an entire chapter from another book. So you don't want to put a code for this in the main document or in any external tech file for this new project over here. So you may want to extract some pages from that chapter and inject them here. So yeah, it's it's quite useful.

So let's go to the directory and see what we have here.

So here we have this PDF pages dot tech, which is our main tech file that we we've been in. And then I have here two PDF files was called doc. This is the documentation actually of the PDF package, which of course you'll find attached in the video. But I have here inside the directory for the project because we will be using it to extract some pages and print them. And this is a kind of a cover that I made on the fly when preparing for this video.

So let's open them.

So this is the doc dot PDF, which is again, the documentation of the PDF package itself, it's 12 pages, so quite long, we'll be playing with this one. And the latex dot PDF is like this. Okay, and here is the latest top PDF. It's kind of kind of a cover if you will. So let's go back to the tech file and run to start working with this package.

Okay, so the main working command of the PDF pages package is called include PDF.

Yes, but increase here PDF. So yeah, include PDF. For that, of course, it takes only one mandatory argument, which will be the PDF file name. So let's import the cover latex dot PDF. Now there is one note about the name of the PDF file to put inside the argument of the include PDF command, which is you must not put any blank spaces.

So if this is kind of a latex or X or whatever, So if your file name is consisting of more than one word, so you actually don't want to leave any blank spaces, put underscore or something. So yeah, this is just one note from the package. Do not put any blank spaces in the finally. So let's run to see the output. Okay, you can see that there is another page inserted.

And here we are in the second page, we have this latex PDF file completely spanning the second page of our document over here. And of course, the first one is skipped because we have some content. So there is not enough space to put it in inside here, the title page. So this is quite powerful, you guys, it's magnificent, this package. So we can add some options here the package is full of options for styling and some for the layout and other miscellaneous options.

But one of them is the landscape option. This landscape option plays with the orientation or the size of the sheet itself. So our page here in the project not the file that we're importing. So let's actually see it. Yeah, here it is.

So this landscape converted the second page of our output file, the second page of the project PDF pages dot tech the input file itself converted that into a landscape. So of course, this package is designed in a way for its options is that you can have this landscape, its default equals false. Okay, so if you run this, you will get, yeah, you will restore the default settings because landscape false is the default for the orientation of the page, meaning that kind of portrait. So landscape equals true. is equal to landscape only, which will convert the orientation to landscape.

So the options of this package, you will find this more often. When you go through the documentation, when you want to change an option, you can just insert its name, or if it's a logical value, you can say equals true or actually Yeah, leave it like that. If it defaults to false. So yeah, here it is. So now let's try this include PDF command with the doc PDF.

If you recall the doc dot PDF file that we have in the same directory with our input tech file, it consists of 12 pages, which is the documentation of the PDF pages package. Let's run to see what will happen.

Okay, so here in the third page, we have only the first page of this long 12 page 12 pages PDF file. And this is the default actually. So if the file that you're importing is more than one page, you will get by default only one page in the output. This default value is actually for a for an option called pages. So the pages option accepts a comma separated list of number of pages that we want to insert or a range as we'll see.

So let's say that we want to insert the first, say second and then fifth pages of this long 12 pages list. document. So we can make this. So yeah, here we are. So one, scroll down to if you see it, and five.

So this is the essential feature or option of the include PDF command, which is to set the number of pages explicitly in a comma separated list inside these curly braces, or you can have a range. So let's actually try this out.

So let's say that we want to start from two, and up to six, we do it like that. Inside these races, we put the starting number a dash for the range and then the end location that we want to stop at and run. So from page number six, yes, here we are. So we have starting from two, here are sort of form two, three, four, five, and six. So this is the first form of the pages option, which is a comma separated list.

This is the second form, which is to provide a range. And of course, you can imagine that if you emit the first, the starting number as this, then the package will start from beginning from one, So yeah, this six page, which is the first page of this line over here, we are starting from one up to six. And if you do vice versa, so let's say from 10 and emit the end location, you will end at the last page. So here we start from two up to 12, which is the last page. So this range is flexible, you can specify the start and the end.

And you can emit both of them. If you emit the beginning, you will start from the first page. If you emit the last the end location, you will have pages typeset till the last page of this monthly page document PDF. And of course, if you omit both of them, then this is how you get all the pages of this multi page file. you do this, you will be typesetting the entire document, starting from one up to 12, the last page.

So this is how you do it. If you want to print all the pages that this PDF file have, you will have to define pages equal to dash. and you can even remove those phrases in this case. So you can just say equal and then kind of dash or minus. This dash as a value for the pages option gives you all the pages that you have inside the target imported PDF file.

So this is extremely important. Don't forget about this. you can start at some location you can end up some location can combine both of them or you can emit both to print all the page from this PDF file. So let's return say again from two to six, just to reduce the number of pages that we have here. And okay, so what's magnificent about this pages option is that it's flexible actually, so you can inside a comma separated list, have one value, one element of this list, a range itself.

So you can combine these two forms, the the list and the range. So let's say that let's put a braces here first, sorry about that. So let's say that we want to print the first page, comma, and then we want to print from three to let's say seven. And then we want to skip eight and typeset or print nine and 10. And that's it.

So let's see what will happen. We'll start at 11. Okay, here we are. So this is starting from this page 11. This is the typeset output of this line over here.

So we have one, okay, this is the first page, scroll down, And now we jump to three, which is the range over here. This is what we're talking about, you can inject a page range as an element for that comma separated list that the pages option can have. So it's pretty flexible you have from three scrolling down up to seven over here, let's zoom in, So here we are, this is this element. And from seven, we jumped to nine. So yeah, here we are at nine, and then 10.

And that's it. So yeah, the pages option is pretty flexible, we can have a comma separated list, we saw how we can deal with range, you can emit these to print all the pages, and you can combine the comma separated list with a page range. So it's pretty flexible.

Okay, so let's see how we can print multiple pages per sheet. So that is, if we have a multi page file PDF file like this, how can we print in one sheet sheet here means the page in our project. So how we can print multiple pages of an external file inside one page or sheet in our project over here. So, this is achieved by an option called NUP or NUP. Let's see what this is.

So we're still with this 12 page doc file. And let's say that we want to type say pages, let's say one and two. And we want to have these two pages one and two inside a one page in the output over here. So this is achieved through the option NUP. This option takes two numbers that are separated by a small letter x.

So it's like multiplying by. So the first number on the left resembles the number of pages that you want to print horizontally. So in the x axis, and on the right comes the number of pages that you want to print on the y axis or vertically. So let's say that we want to have these two pages in a row. So a two pages in the same horizontal line or row over here.

So we say two by one. Again, this is the NUP, this is a small letter x, and this is read two by one, two in the x and one in y, this will result in a one row that has two columns. Yeah, here it is. So you can see that the first two pages, we can zoom in a little bit to make sure that this is the first page. And this is the second page.

And through the option in UP, and by defining how many pages that we want, horizontally in the x axis, we say two, here we get it one and two in the x axis horizontally, and by one, so we want to have only one page vertically, as you can see, this resulted in a row vector, if you will. And of course, when you flip this the way around, we will have them stacked vertically. So in this stage, we want one page on the horizontal axis and two pages on the vertical axis. So this will actually flip the state of this. Yeah, here we are.

We have them stacked vertically. So this means one in the X. So when you walk in X, you will find only one page and then we want two in Y. So here we have it.

Okay so let's see one more option of this package which is the angle option. Let's put another

command over here. So again, doc dot PDF, not tech. So again, let's say that we want pages one and two can make this more compact. And then we want to have them two by one. So the other way around, and then the angle.

This angle, of course, accepts a number and numerical value to rotate the pages inserted counterclockwise. And that's it. So let's say that we want to have them four to five degrees. Let's run and see the output page number 20. Yes, here we are.

So this is the first page, second page, and they are rotated counterclockwise. So this is said to be the rotation of the logical pages. In the documentation, you will find this convention of naming the pages that you insert in the output most often. So the package documentation refers to the pages one and two as the logical pages, and it calls the page of the tech file that you're working in your project, it calls it a sheet. So as whole, this is a sheet and those are two logical pages.

And the angle is to rotate those logical pages.

Okay, so the package has so many options. There are plenty of them. And to save some time here and to make this video quite short, somewhat to our standards, I will present two of the layout options only. And you can explore the documentation for the breast. So to better illustrate this, the package has a figure in page number nine, that illustrates those layout dimensions, how they work.

So let's just include this page over here to have a better overview. So say pages equal nine, and of this, doc dot PDF. Let's run to see what I'm talking about. 21. Okay, so let's zoom in.

So here we have two options for the layout. We have the delta and the offset. The delta takes two length values separated by a blank space. And also the offset does the same takes two length value separated by a blank space. And of course, this is as whole this is a key value pair.

So this is one entry only in your optional arguments here or optional set. So The delta controls the space between pages inserted. If you have so many pages like this, acting quite as a matrix. So the first value, the first length of the delta controls the horizontal space. So del x, delta x, this delta x controls the space between the horizontal space in the x axis between the successive pages like this if you have plenty of them and they kind of again resemble a matrix.

And of course, the second length is del y, which is controlling the vertical length between the pages in the y axis. and the offset, which is again takes two length values, it moves the entire matrix, it offsets the entire matrix by the given values by the user from the lower left end. So these dashed boxes over here shows the original location of the pages that you're inserting. And as you can see here from this lower left end for the entire matrix, when you provide an x offset and y offset, it relocates the entire pages by these amounts you have inserted. So let's see some examples of this.

So again, we have pages one and two and this orientation. Okay. And one option here is the frame equals true, kind of to have a frame for the pages that we're going to insert. And now let's try the Delta option. So again, it's a part of the option set for the command itself.

So we say delta equals, and then we provide the x delta that will separate the pages horizontally, let's say, five points, drag this down over here. Okay, so five points, space, and then the y delta. let's say 10 points. And we can of course, scale these pages a little bit. So let's say 95%.

Let's run to see it.

Yep, here we are. So we have here two pages, they have that frame on they have scaled. And we have this delta. So doesn't actually matter how much of vertical space that we have here, because we have only two pages in a row. So let's say that you said 50 in x, they will be extremely separated.

Yeah, here we are. So this is how we can control the distances between the pages that you're inserting through this delta. Again, it resembles the delta and x, the horizontal space over here, which is this first value, and then a blank space, this one, and then the delta and y separating the pages and the y axis. And next, let's insert another include PDF with kind of so many pages that resemble a matrix and we'll try the offset command. Okay, so let's separate with a percent sign.

And here is that example. So we're still with the same file, we have pages from one to last. This is an alias for end, which is actually you can ignore it, you can remove it like that and you will end at the last page. But yeah, just the package defines an alias for the end location that is called last. And this is only feasible within a range.

So we have this option that is called double pages. The double pages prints each page of the file twice. So pretty straightforward. And then we have this offset over here. So we offset the entire matrix of 24 pages.

as you can see, so we have here pages from one to last, which is actually just this dash over here, if you will. So this will print the entire 12 pages of this document PDF file. But since we have this double pages, we'll have 24, because each page will be typeset or printed twice. So we'll have total of 24. Those 24 are arranged in four in the x and six in the y.

So four by sex by the nup or nup option. And lastly, we put frame around those. And that's let's run. So here we are, let's zoom out a little bit so that you can see. So yeah, here we have if we removed this offset to see their effect, look at the bottom over here.

and you can see that the stick, the lower end of this entire metrics is now pretty tight to the border of the sheet or the page of our project. So this is when this offset comes into play to give some space perimeter around the metrics of pages that you have and your sheet for the project. And of course, we have 15. So in the x as like this, to the right and 15 points up, so we end at this location over here by the effect of this offset. And of course, you can increase the delta.

So let's say that we say five, five and five, actually, to put some delta. and comma. And again, as you can see, the offset and the delta again are part of the option set. So they are key equals value. And that value is two lengths that are separated by a blank space.

And you put your comma just like any other format to separate these options. So just separate those pages from each other,

Okay, here we are. So yeah.

Okay, one useful feature of the PDF pages package is that you can merge PDF documents, or in other words, insert pages from several external PDF documents in one shot, if you will. And this is achieved by a command that the package offers that is called include PDF merge. This command takes a syntax as follows. you have include PDF merge. Of course, we can have some options.

Here we can put all the options that the include PDF command can accept. But with one exception, as the package says, which is the pages option. because now you will have so many PDF documents inside the mandator argument. So this include PDF merge, it's mandator argument now accepts multiple PDF external PDF files. So the way that we deal with these multiple external PDF documents is that we insert the first one, its name, and then we have a comma, and then we have the page specifier.

This is actually the pages option. But previously with the include PDF, we've been dealing with only one external document. So that's why we had this pages to specify which pages we have to print in the output. But now with the include PDF merge, we deal with multiple external files. So you can put all the options that you wish from the list of options that the package offer except the pages.

Because now after each file name and a comma, we will have a page specifier, which is actually the pages option for that specific PDF file. And after that, we have a comma, and then comes the second. After the second, we put the specifier for it, let's say the first and the second pages, and the list goes like that. So this is the syntax of the include PDF merge, you have the options, except the pages. And in the body of the mandator argument, you have the name of each external PDF file, followed by a page specifier to tell the engine which pages from that specific PDF file that you want to type set in the output.

So let's see one example. Let's say that we will use this include PDF merge with an arrangement of three by one,

for three pages that we will extract from the latech, which is the cover, if you recall latech.pdf, which is only one page document. So this one has no specifier. So it's only one page. So by laying out its name, you will have its one page in the output.

So we are skipping this page specifier for the first PDF file. So what comes after that is the name of the second PDF file, which is doc. After that, we have the page specifier of the second PDF file over here. So this is one dash two. a range.

So this is exactly the pages equal one dash two, but we are inserting this after a comma after putting the PDF file name itself. This is how the mandatory argument of the include PDF merge is laid out. So this will result in three pages, one page, and two pages from that file in this arrangement over here, say row, row arrangement or line. So 24. Yeah, here we are.

So we have merged two external PDF files with some pages. So this is actually one page only. Here we are discover. And the document we have extracted the first and second pages only. And actually, this can be a list.

This is actually just like the first comma separated list over here, but without any extra curly braces. So this this highlighted one comma two is the pages comma separated list, which is now called the page specifier over here for this document. So this will have the same effect without any problems. Yeah, here it is. So we can easily after this pot a comma, and then provide another external PDF file.

Let's say that we'll repeat this cover over here. This will run without any problems. And when we run, we will get this cover again over here. But of course, we want to increase. Don't forget about that increase the the knob over here for the x axis.

So yeah, here we are. So the include PDF merge is quite flexible. Again, you lay down the name of the file, and then a page specifier, which is the exact formula of the pages option. And when you're done, you put a comma, insert the second name, and so on. I just wanted to let you know that this is quite flexible.

So this document of PDF, we have a comma over here and one comma two, which is the page specifier of this option over here. So we can insert a comma and easily put another name. So we don't have to surround this range or comma separated list by any delimiters. And generally, you can have an arrangement like this.

Again, it's quite flexible. So here, in an imaginary situation, when we have three PDF documents, document one, two, and three, we arrange them in this orientation landscape. And then the page specifier for the document one, the PDF is pages from one to three. just after that, we put a comma, insert the second file name. And after a comma, we put its page specifier, which is actually a free floating comma separated list.

And when we're done, we put a comma. And when actually the PDF later, when it encounters a PDF file name, after a comma, it knows that the page specifier list for the previous PDF document has ended. So if you're asking about that, so then the last one is like the first two. And here again, we can actually combine a page range and individual page in a free floating list like this as a page specifier for the last argument. So we have both of them.

you have a range, you have a comma separated list, and you can combine both all of this as a specifier for the PDF documents that we are merging. So we're selecting some pages from multiple external documents and to print them in some order in the output. So again, this is quite flexible and powerful.

Okay, and last thing about this package. And this video is that instead of repeating some options throughout the calls for the include PDF, or actually the include PDF merge, you can apply a global customized options inside a command called include PDF set. This is just like any other global option styling command that we've been using so far. So this include PDF set will allow you to insert some options over here from the list of options that the package offers. And these options will apply to all the include PDF calls that you do throughout the body.

So to serve you some space over here and of course not to repeat any kind of option again and again without any need for that And of course, the local options for certain call overrides the global ones. So if you have here kind of angle 30, and we have here angle 45, this 45 will win, of course. So normal scoping or precedence, if you will, rules. And that's actually it. So I hope you found this video beneficial.

Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next section for projects.