---
video_title: "Agentic AI – Complete Course for Beginners"
video_id: Zy7EXDONlTY
channel_name: "freeCodeCamp.org"
channel_id: UC8butISFwT-Wl7EV0hUK0BQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zy7EXDONlTY
video_date: 2026-07-30T14:04:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn how to build production-ready multi-agent systems and automate workflows using LangChain and LangGraph. You'll master everything from core agentic fundamentals and Pydantic validation to advanced sequential, parallel, and conditional LangGraph workflows. Along the way, you'll implement chat memory, RAG, and human-in-the-loop controls, and finish by deploying your applications to AWS and Render through real-world projects like a custom ChatGPT, trip planner, and auto content agent. 
  
  Code: https://github.com/entbappy/Complete-Agentic-AI-Course
  
  Bappy's YouTube Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@dswithbappy
  Bappy's LinkedIn profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/boktiarahmed73/
  Bappy's Udemy: https://www.udemy.com/user/boktiar-ahmed-bappy/
  
  ❤️ Support for this channel comes from our friends at Scrimba – the coding platform that's reinvented interactive learning: https://scrimba.com/freecodecamp
  
  ⭐️ Chapters ⭐️
  - 00:00:00 Introduction & Planning
  - 00:08:33 Evolution from LLMs to Agentic AI
  - 00:41:26 Agentic AI: Core Characteristics & Components
  - 01:33:18 Asynchronous Programming for AI Agents
  - 02:06:23 Pydantic for AI Agents - Pydantic Data Validation
  - 03:27:08 Building End-to-End Single AI Agent System using LangChain
  - 04:49:37 Building End-to-End Multi-Agent AI System with LangChain
  - 06:30:27 What is LangGraph & Why It’s Required? | LangChain vs LangGraph
  - 07:44:43 Understanding LangGraph Core Components
  - 08:29:07 Build Sequential Workflows in LangGraph
  - 09:19:04 Implement Parallel Workflows in LangGraph
  - 10:15:27 Master Conditional Workflows in LangGraph
  - 11:06:05 LangGraph Iterative Workflows Explained
  - 11:35:51 Build Your First Agentic Chatbot with LangGraph
  - 12:43:49 Why Persistence is Required in LangGraph
  - 13:51:00 Streaming Responses in Agentic Chatbot with LangGraph
  - 14:10:02 How to Add Chat Threading in Agentic Chatbot using LangGraph
  - 14:42:02 Build Permanent Chat Persistence Memory with LangGraph and Database
  - 15:16:31 Monitor Your Agentic Chatbot with LangSmith & LangGraph
  - 15:40:24 How to Integrate Tools in Agentic Chatbot with LangGraph
  - 16:54:17 Implement RAG in Agentic Chatbot with LangGraph
  - 17:50:27 Implement Human-in-the-Loop (HITL) in Agentic Chatbot using LangGraph
  - 18:48:09 Agentic Chatbot CI/CD Deployment on AWS with Docker & GitHub Actions
  - 19:52:05 Deploy Agentic AI Chatbot on Render for FREE with Docker
  - 20:06:27 Project: Build Your Own ChatGPT Agent with LLMs, LangGraph, FastAPI, LangSmith, ChromaDB, SQLAlchemy & AWS
  - 22:21:17 Project: Build TripMate AI End-to-End: Multi-Agent Travel Planner with Groq, LangGraph, PostgreSQL & FastAPI
  
  🎉 Thanks to our Champion and Sponsor supporters:
  👾 @omerhattapoglu1158
  👾 @goddardtan
  👾 @akihayashi6629
  👾 @kikilogsin
  👾 @anthonycampbell2148
  👾 @tobymiller7790
  👾 @rajibdassharma497
  👾 @CloudVirtualizationEnthusiast
  👾 @adilsoncarlosvianacarlos
  👾 @martinmacchia1564
  👾 @ulisesmoralez4160
  👾 @_Oscar_
  👾 @jedi-or-sith2728
  👾 @justinhual1290
  
  --
  
  Learn to code for free and get a developer job: https://www.freecodecamp.org
  
  Read hundreds of articles on programming: https://freecodecamp.org/news
---
Learn how to build productionready multi- aent systems and automate workflows using lang chain and langraph. You'll master everything from core agentic fundamentals and pideantic validation to advanced sequential parallel and conditional langraph workflows. Along the way, you'll implement chat memory, rag, and human in the loop controls and finish by deploying your applications to AWS and render through real world projects like a custom chat GPT trip planner and auto content agent. Papy created this course. Hi guys, my name is BPI and you are welcome to my course.

In this course you'll try to master the complete agentic AI with the help of Lang graph. If you have seen over the internet and everywhere nowadays people are moving towards agentic AI system. Previously we used to work on the LLM based application rag based application but right now agent is getting very much important and crucial for the application development. Nowadays AI agents are becoming very much powerful because of its automated workflows. So right now you only need to provide a prompt and from your prompt itself your agents can understand your goals and these goals would be divided into multiple tasks and all of the task would be completed by using some kinds of tools.

Your AI agents can decide which tool to use to perform what kinds of task. So these kinds of automated workflows your AI agents is having and with the help of that it can perform any kinds of task you'll be providing to your AI agents. So that's why this is far better than our traditional geni application development because right now with the help of agents we can automated the workflows. So in this course guys I'm going to teach you each and everything you need to master the agentic AI with the help of langraph. Uh but before that first of all we'll try to understand my course plan.

This course I have divided into multiple phases. So as you can see this is my entire plan for this course uh agentic using langraph. So first of all uh in the phase one we'll try to complete the introduction to uh agentic AI. First of all we'll try to understand what is agentic AI. Okay how AI agent works.

We'll try to see the difference between LLA maps and AI agents application. We'll try to see the agentic behaviors like reasoning planning memory tool. Okay decision making. Then we'll try to see some real world use case of agentic AI traditional AI versus generative AI versus agent AI system. Okay.

Then uh we'll try to see the evaluation from chat bots to automated agents. Okay. We'll try to see each and everything. Then uh some other stuff we'll try to cover as you can see like limitations uh why agent why agents need memory tools workflows control logic then agent architecture prompt and system instruction tools memory planning reflection environment interaction and human feedback okay then in phase two I'll try to start with asynchronous programming and pentic because uh if you are uh if you are already working with AI agents I think you know that uh you need these kinds to asynchronous programming because all of the agents are using especially all of the agents framework are using this kinds of asynchronous programming in the back end. Okay.

So in this course I'm going to focus on the langraph. So langraph internally uses asynchronous programming that means you can run your agents in parallel. Okay. We'll try to understand this asynchronous programming. Okay.

Why it is required for AI agents? How we can code inside Python. Okay. Then we'll also try to see about the pyic. So, pyic is a python library and uh we use this pentic for the uh data validation okay model validation uh and uh these things you need whenever you are implementing the agents okay I'm going to tell you why it is required and why you have to learn this pidentic as well okay so each and everything we'll try to cover in the phase two then in phase three guys I will start with our first uh orchestration framework which is langen now you can ask me why we'll be learning the langin Because if you know lang graph is a product of langchen okay langchen team has developed lang graph right.

So that's why to master this lang lang graph we need some knowledge on langchen first of all we have to understand uh whenever we do didn't have this kinds of langraph framework so how people used to create the agents with the help of langchen so that's why we'll try to use langen to build this kinds of agents and multi- aents workflows okay and uh still if you are using lang graph you need to use langen because from the langen uh you will be loading the large language model you will be loading the prom templates okay all of the utility related ated code you will be writing with the help of langchen and lang graph you'll be using for building your agent workflows okay that's why langchen understanding is little bit required that's why I'm going to complete this langchen inside this particular course then we'll start with the phase four which is uh lang graph so here we'll try to understand each and every component of lang graph as you can see what is lang graph why lang graph is required langchen versus lang graph then graph based aent workflows state management node and ages okay state nodes edges then conditional edges. Okay. Start and end nodes, graph compilation, state graph, checkpointer, masses state, sequential workflows, parallel workflows, conditional workflows, iterative workflows. Okay. Then um we'll try to see basic chatbot architecture, masses handling, state management, user input and we'll try to see how we can implement agentic chatbot with the help of langraph.

So after that we'll start with phase five. So here we'll try to learn about the memory planning, monitoring and autonomous system. So here we'll just try to learn um why what is persistence memory, why it is required, agent memory, short-term memory, chat history, how we can stream the responses, okay, chat trading, conversation management, permanent chat persistence memory with database, okay, tool integr uh integration in Langraph, okay, inside the uh um aentki application. Then we'll try to see different different tools. Okay.

Then we'll also try to learn like how we can integrate RG that means rag features inside our AI agents. Then vector database integration. Okay. Then uh we'll be learning another important concept which is human in the loop. Uh that means HITL.

This is required nowadays all the agentic application are having this kinds of human in the loop integration. Then we'll try to see the monitoring our agent monitoring agent tracing with the help of Langmith. Then we'll also see how we can debug um the agent behavior. Then uh phase six guys we'll try to start with the deployment and production grade engineering. So here we'll try to dockerize the entire agents.

Okay. Then we'll try to add the fast API back end database setup GitHub action CI/CD AWS deployment render deployment. Okay. Environment variable then production folder structure logging monitoring each and everything we'll try to cover. Then uh the final phase uh phase seven we'll try to start with some uh end to end real world AI agents uh project implementation.

So we'll be implementing basically three major project here in this course. The first project I'll be implementing one end to end agentic chatbot with the help of lang graph database langismith tools rag htl AWS and render. And second project we'll be implementing uh uh our own chat GP agent with the help of LLM langraph fast API lang chroma uh SQL alchemy database and AWS. And third project uh project we'll be implementing uh called tripmate AI. This should be end to end multi-agent, table, planner agent with grock, langraph, postgrql and fast API.

Okay. So these are the three major project we'll be implementing in this course. Then uh you can ask me what would be the course requirement uh to start this code course. What are the things I need to know? I'm expecting you are familiar with uh advanced Python programming because all of the coding I'll be doing I'll be coding in advanced Python.

Then basics of generative AI knowledge is required if you're understanding about agent AI agents especially. So you need some understanding about uh generate EBI at least about the large language model. Okay, these are the thing. Then software requirement wise you should have anagon installed in your system VS code G and GitHub and docker desktop and postman. Okay, so these are the tools if you have you can start with this course.

But don't worry, I will take care each and everything. If you are not familiar with this concept, I'll take care I'll try to teach in a such a way so that you will be getting all of the concept in a clear way. Okay. So yes guys uh this is the plan entire plan and throughout the entire course we'll be completing all of this concept and trust me the way I'm going to complete all of the concept you will be loving a lot and after this you won't be having any kinds of doubt okay so if you're already familiar with agenti uh I will still tell you just try to go through the entire course I think you will be learning u some new concept here some some new implementation here okay so definitely you will be enjoying the entire course okay so yes guys this is the entire plan now let's start with the course concept. First of all, I'll uh give you the idea about the evolution of uh agentic AI how agentic AI came okay from the traditional large language model then we'll try to start with the other concept as well.

So in this video first of all we'll try to understand and see the complete evolution of this agentic like how agentic came and uh what we used to do in our traditional generative application. uh first of all I will give you the entire understanding how agentic AI came what are the things they have introduced then uh I'm going to discuss about uh the detailed understanding of agentic AI uh the characteristic of agentic AI different component of agentic AI we'll try to understand with a good example so guys you can see on my screen here I have already written the definition like what is agentic AI so if you see here uh agent is nothing but uh it's a type of artificial intelligence that can take up a task or goal from a user and uh then work towards completing it on its own with minimal uh human guidance. Okay. And it plans, takes actions, adapts to change and seeks helps only when necessary. So by this definition itself I think uh you are getting little bit of understanding what I'm trying to say.

Um those who are already familiar with uh chart GPT or any other uh agentic AI system uh if you have already used like u um VS code then anti-gravity cursor AI cloudy desktop right so this kinds of application if you have already used so there you will see that whenever user uh gives any kinds of uh prompt right based on the prompt uh that application decides what to you let's say if you are asking a very simple questions let's say you are asking tell me about Python so most of the large language model um have been trained with lots of data okay um especially whatever data we are having on the internet so they have used those data and they have trained those are the model and every model is having a knowledge cutoff okay every model is having a knowledge cutoff knowledge cutff means a specific date uh till they have trained the model. Let's say if I'm talking about uh chart GPT or let's say GPT uh 3.5 tour let's say GPT4 you will see that those model uh probably they have trained u uh on the year 2022 or 2023 around okay uh till the date they have taken all of the data from the internet and they have trained those are the model so uh whenever I'm asking about the python so definitely uh in 2020 22 or 2023 this information was available on the internet and definitely our large language having this kinds of knowledge right so it will be able to give you the answer in short or directly but whenever I'm asking anything which is latest say I'm asking um I'm asking a latest information I'm asking like tell me about uh like uh the latest news of Iran and USA okay over in 2026 six. So that time definitely uh if you are using a single large language model okay uh this kinds of large language model won't be able to give you the response okay it will tell I don't have enough context okay uh after 2022 or 2003 so I I can't um answer your questions okay this kinds of I think you will uh get the answer if you have used the older chart GPT I think you are getting what I'm trying to say so but if I'm talking about uh nowadays uh whatever application we are using like clouded desktop then anti-gravity cursor id if I'm giving any kinds of uh prompt let's say I'm telling um just try to uh implement a application for me let's say implement a python game for me so what it it will do it will try to take that prompt as a command and it will automatically let's say plan for a task like what to do okay how uh it can implement the entire game for you. So to implement a game first of all it has to uh create the environment.

It has to uh add the requirements. It has to uh create the user interface. It has to make the character. Okay. So one by one all of the plan would be sorted then once all the plan is ready.

Okay. It will execute the plan one by one and it will complete the entire system and definitely in between it will try to test that particular let's say application. Okay. If uh it uh doesn't get any kinds of bugs, it will continue and it will complete that particular uh work for you. Okay.

So that means everything is happening automatically and sometimes you will see that in between it will ask a human interaction. It will ask for a human input. Let's say whenever it will try to implement a game that time it might ask you what kinds of color you want for this particular environment. How many character you want in this particular game? what would be the let's say car color what would be the car speed okay so sometimes it will ask some kinds of questions to the human okay for the guidance and once uh we'll try to provide the feedback or let's say our input it will take that input again it will try to continue the workflow okay so that's why here you can see it is telling with minimal human guidance okay not not complete human guidance we give like very minimal human guidance here and it try to uh plans takes action okay adapt to changes let's say it has let's say it has to do one particular changes in the environment or let's say color or let's say any character it will automatically do that okay and it seeks help only when necessary so guys before I uh give you the entire discussion on this agentic AI first of all I want to walk you through the fundamental concept of generative application like so far whatever application uh we usually uh Great.

Okay. And how this agentic uh AI or let's say AI agents came in the market. Then we'll try to understand uh this agent concept. So for this guys I'm going to take you on my whiteboard and then we'll try to discuss each and everything. So guys I'm inside my board.

So here I'm going to write down each and everything. So see whenever I'm talking about uh AI agents right AI agent so this is the application of generative AI okay this falls into generative AI domain and uh those who are already working with generative AI so I am having a dedicated course on my channel the complete generative BI course. So there I have already discussed the foundation of generative BI. So in that course I have already taught you um all the concept regarding generative AI large language model. Okay uh retrieval augmented generations.

Uh so each and everything I have already covered there. So if you are not familiar with generative AI first of all try to complete that particular course then it would be easy for you to understand. Okay. So in generative AI uh the main component we usually work with large language model. Okay large language model.

So there are different different large language model nowadays. I think you know um there are some organization there are some company they have launched different different models. If I'm talking about meta okay meta AI so they have launched something called llama. Okay. Llama.

Then if I'm talking about OpenAI, they have launched GPT. Okay. Then we are having Mistral. We are having Gemini. Okay.

This is from Google. So that's how we are having different different large language model. Uh nowadays we usually use. So previously whenever we started generative BI that time um we used to uh only use a fine-tune uh fine-tune based or let's say uh pretend based large lang based model. Let's say here I'm having a large lang based model.

So we used to provide a prompt okay prompt and it used to give a response. Okay. Response. So basically we used to use this large lang based model for text generation. Okay.

For very uh good quality text generation or uh for some other task also we used to use like for language translation. Okay. Then for text summarization then definitely for chat operation how we used to ask different kinds of question and we used to get the response then definitely for like uh some other NLP task like any and so on. Okay. So initially those who have already used this chart GPT I think you are trying to relate the concept what I'm trying to say it was like a very basic application okay we used to use for this kinds of text generation task but slowly what they did uh they actually introduced uh also image generation okay image generation so image generation happens whenever they introduce something called multimodel system.

So in the multimodel uh you not only generate the text there you can also generate the image. Okay but what was the problem with this kinds of application as I already told you let's say if I'm talking about any kinds of large language model it is having a knowledge cutff okay this is having a knowledge cutff so what is knowledge cutff let's try to understand. So for this let's go to the Google and here if I am searching for any kinds of model. Let's say I'm searching for open AI models. Let's open up the models.

Now let's pick any kinds of model from this openi. So let's say if I'm talking about the GPT4 uh 5.4 mini or let's see if I'm taking any older model. Older model. Yeah.

So I think here some models are available. Let's say if I'm talking about this um the view wall. Let's say if I'm talking about this GPT4.1. So if I click on this model, you will see that this model having a configuration.

Configuration means the context window like uh how much context it can take then maximum output tokens how how much token it can generates and there is a section called knowledge cutoff. Okay. So here the knowledge cutoff you can see January 1, 2024 that means this model uh has been trained uh till January 1, 2024 uh internet data. Okay. So if you're asking anything after that let's say you're asking February 1, 2024 definitely um this model is not going to give you the response because this model doesn't have uh the knowledge after uh January 1, 2024.

Okay, whatever let's say uh recent uh update uh we are having on the internet this this model doesn't know about that. So the main problem I think you can understand let's say if my prompt is uh before okay before this particular knowledge cutff the information I'm looking for on from my large language model definitely this model uh can give you the response but if it is after the knowledge cutff that time it will not able to give you the response okay it will tell I don't have the um context I don't have the informations okay after this particular knowledge cutff so I'm extremely sorry for that so that that is the uh things actually uh uh happened uh whenever charg came okay uh initially in the market and I think you remember okay uh charg used to give this kinds of response then uh what uh they have introduced they have introduced a concept called rag okay why they have introduced the concept called rag because now let's say if I want to add some other information let's say this is 2026 so now I have to I want to add some more informations okay inside my large bank model. So what I have to do I have to finetune this model right I have to fine tune this model and finetuning means we are taking the pre-ten model okay and on top of that we are adding some new data adding new latest data and we are training few parameters here okay and whenever I'm talking about the LLM parameters it will count like from million right million to billion Okay, this is the issue. So fine-tuning is not an easy task. For this you need a good resources then um good budget.

Okay, then you you should have also time. If you're having these kinds of things then you can easily fine-tune one large language model. Okay, there is no issue with that. So for the company this fine-tuning task was easy because they're having a good resources. They're having uh like very uh heavy investment.

Okay, they're having lots of time. So they can do that. But what about for the developers? Let's say if I'm creating a application, okay, for my client and if any new data is coming and I want my application to be aware on top of this new data. So for me for for me as a developer, this is this is going to be like very hectic task like for fine-tuning a model because I don't have this kinds of supercomput with me.

I don't have this much of budget okay so that I can purchase a good cloud for the training. I don't have that much of time time so that my client will wait for me because they has to also do the business right if I'm running my business also this should be continuously running and I should have handled all of the client with the latest informations and everything okay so that time researcher introduced something called rag concept okay this is called retrieval okay retrieval augmented generation. Okay. Reg rack component. In the rack component uh concept what we used to do let's say we are having a large language model.

This is completely fine. Let's say we are having a large language model. Okay. So it will be connected to a knowledge base. So knowledge base is basically a database.

Okay, it's a vector database. So this is called knowledge base. So it is having all the latest information, latest data I can say. Okay. So this data you have to store in the knowledge base and you have to connect with your large language model.

Okay. And for this kind uh connection we use the orchestration framework. Some orchestration framework uh I think you know inside generate we are having lang chain we are having llama index. Okay. So this is called orchestration framework.

So we use this kinds of orchestration framework uh to make the connection with our LLM. Okay. Now if user is asking anything okay let's say user is giving uh input. Okay. First of all, this input would be verified in the uh pre-ten model that means the large language model itself.

First of all, it will try to check whether this information he's asking or what kinds of uh question they're asking. It is available in the LLM itself or not. It is available in this knowledge cutff or not. If it is having okay in this knowledge cutff, this will give you the response directly. This will give you the response.

Okay, this will give you the response directly. But what about this information is not available that time. It will go to the knowledge base. It will go to the knowledge base. Okay, it will do something called semantic search, similarity search.

This will get the relevant uh result about the questions user is asking. Then this particular relevant answer again your large language model will take it will try to analyze it will try to um it will try to clean up it will try to rearrange the uh response then it will try to send it to the user again. Okay that's how the entire R system works. Okay system works. So basically the major component we have added this knowledge base and adding data in the knowledge base.

It is super easy because only you just need to uh fetch the latest informations and add in the knowledge base and uh your LM is already connected to the knowledge base. So anytime if you're asking any kinds of question it will uh bring that particular latest informations and uh it will do the refining operation then it will pass to the human. Okay. So this will work like that. Okay.

And this was the like uh very famous technique uh that time even nowadays also we use the same technique we we create the rag application and this actually helps us uh from this finetuning operation because here we are not doing the finetuning okay on our LLM only we're just working on the knowledge base we are adding the data in our vector database this is the things right but there are some problem with this vector database or this RG system what is the problem. Whenever I'm talking about the real time data, realtime data means the data is continuously changing. Let's say if I'm talking about weather informations, if I'm talking about temperature, if I'm talking about uh the latest news, okay, it is continuously changing. That time it is not possible for me to sit down whole day and take all of the latest informations and like add in my knowledge base. Okay, that that kinds of things we can't ever do that.

So that that is why this rack system fails. Let's see if we're asking questions to the rack system. Let's say tell me about latest news. Okay, right now in the morning. So definitely this information is not available in the knowledge base.

Okay, let's say morning news you have added but what about the afternoon news? What about after 1 hour news? Okay, so these kinds of things you don't have. Okay, so that time your application won't be able to give you the response. So what you have to do that time you have to uh you have to think about a different approach.

So that's why researcher thought why not we can create a agent. Okay why not we can create a agent. So that agent will be connected with some tool. Okay tool means we can use different different tool here. Uh let's say uh we can use any kinds of search tool.

We can use any kinds of uh storage tool. We can use any kinds of calendar tool, Google drive tool. whatever we can use but there should be some kinds of tool. So with the help of that particular tool my AI agents will try to fetch the informations and it will give to the user. Okay.

So what they introduce that time they introduce a agent system. Let's say this is your agent. Okay. Agent uh internally it is using a large language model only. Okay.

Whenever user is giving any kinds of input it is connected with some kinds of tool. Okay. So let's say if I'm asking for uh any latest informations that time it is connected with a search tool okay internet search tool. So mostly this will search on the Google and Google is continuously updating okay with latest informations. So if you're asking any realtime question first of all what it will do it will um use this search tool.

It will search over the internet it will get the informations okay latest informations and your agent LLM is trying to refining that and it is giving you the response again. Okay. And why I'm calling this particular system as a agent? Because your application is smart enough to understand what it needs to call this call this tool where when it doesn't need to call this tool. Okay.

This kinds of uh reasoning capacity your application will be having. Okay. That's why we call it as a agentic agentic system. Okay. Here we are not deciding when to call this particular tool.

You just give the prompt okay to the application. applicant uh application will decide whether I has I have to call this tool to get uh uh give the response or I have this information with me so I can give you the response okay so this kinds of capacity it was having so this was the first agent they have introduced with some realtime tool so if I uh take you to the chart GPT so let me give you the example so I'll open the chart GPT and uh here let's say I'm asking a question. Let's say I'm asking tell me about okay Python. Now see what will happen. Uh this is directly giving you the answer.

Okay. It is not referring any kinds of tool search tools. It is not searching on the internet. Okay. Instead of that what it is doing?

It is giving you the direct answer. Okay. because this information is already available in the knowledge bed itself. Okay, knowledge uh knowledge uh LLM knowledge itself. Okay, because it is already uh having uh before the knowledge cutoff.

Get it? But whenever I'm searching for any other question, let's say I'm telling tell me the latest news News of India election. Now if I search that now see it is searching for web. Okay it is searching for web. It is using a internal search tool and with the help of that it is searching over the internet and it is referring some trusted uh let's say sources like Alajira ABC news.

Okay, that's how it is searching on different different website. Okay, now if I open this website, you can see that this is a website. This is another website. Okay, and this website has already this kinds of latest news. It is bringing that particular informations.

It is passing it to the LLM. LM is trying to refining LM is trying to summarizing all of these let's say uh all of this content of these kinds of sources and this is refining and giving you the answer okay refined version of answer okay so this is called actually um agent system okay it is utilizing some kinds of uh tools in the back end and this application is automatically deciding when it needs to call that tool tool when it doesn't need to call that tool. Okay, not only that, this is a simple example I have shown if you have already used uh like uh anti-gravity. Let's say if I open up my anti-gravity. So this is my anti-gravity.

So here I can uh give the prompt to the agent. So let's say here I am telling um create a car racing game using Python. Okay, Python. Now here you can um select different different model because internally I told you agent uses a large language model. Okay, because this is the brain.

Okay, it is having the reasoning power and it decides actually when to use the tool when uh it doesn't need to use the tool. Okay, so here you can select different different model. So anticip supports these are the model you can select any of them. Now if you give this prompt you will see that automatically first of all it will try to make the plan. Okay, what to do?

Now see it is telling generating. Let's wait. Now see it is thinking. Okay, it is thinking. Now it is trying to making the entire plan for you.

Okay. How it is going to uh create that particular uh racing game with the help of Python. What are the resources it need? What are the tools it needs? It will try to make the entire plan.

See this is the plan. You can see this is the plan. Okay. Proposed plan. Now what it will do in the plan?

First of all, it will do the initialization. Set up the pygram display front and clock. Then player card, obstacle, uh collision stone detection, score system, give over screen. Okay. Then what are the requirement?

It needs verification plan. So this is the agent plan guys. That's how one agent works. First of all, it has to make a plan and based on the plan, it will start working on that. Okay.

Now I told you in the definition itself uh it will seek for help when it necessary. That means little bit of human interaction is also needed. Now this plan is proposed to me. Now I can review the plan. Okay.

I can make some changes. Okay. So let's say if you want to change anything. Let's say you don't need this particular step. You can change anything.

Okay. You can change anything. You can edit anything. Okay. Then you can review it.

You can like tell okay this plan is completely fine for me. You can continue. Now let's say if I do uh uh the plan is fine. Go ahead. Okay.

Now if I give the prompt I think prompt uh you can't see because this is uh just uh beside my image but I think you can see okay uh the prompt I have given. Now see now it has started working on the plan okay one by one it will work on all of the plan okay and it will try to implement the entire game for you okay so this is called AI agents nowadays so AI agents is like uh this is not uh I mean um I mean uh restricted to the tools only okay now it can automate the workflow this is called automation right here I'm not writing the code. See my agent is writing all of the code and it is asking for the approved. Okay, if I show you, if I let's say show you, so here you can see it is telling do you want to run this pip install command. So it is asking for human interaction.

Now if I give the human interaction if I give if I tell yes do it. If I tell okay I accept the code now the rest of the task it will automatically do that for me. Okay. So this is called AI agents. Now I think you have understood this particular definition.

Now let me show you the definition once more time. So this is the definition guys. Okay. So here you can see agentic is a type of AI that can take up a task or goal from a user. So the here the task and goal I have given just create a car racing game with the help of Python.

So then what it will do it will work towards completing uh this particular task is own with minimal human guidance. First of all it will try to plan. Okay. Then it will take action, adapt the changes. Okay, let's say whenever it requires any kinds of changes, it will automatically do that and seek help when it necessary.

That means it will uh ask for my help. Okay, if I want to change anything uh so it will ask for that particular help for me, it will ask for ask uh for my feedback. Okay, if I give the feedback, it will start working on that. Okay. So I think guys you have understood uh the entire uh evaluation of this uh agentic AI how this agentic AI came okay right now in the market.

Now in the next video guys what I'm going to do I'm going to uh discuss this agentic AI in detail. Okay the application working mechanism. Okay, I'm going to show you one example like how uh one aentk application works. Whenever we give any kinds of uh command, okay, we give any kinds of prompt. I think you have seen although in anti-gravity we given a prompt and it creates the plan.

After creating the plan, what it will do, okay, each and everything I'm going to give you. I'm going to uh tell you the characteristic of this agent. What are the characteristic it follows? What are the component it is having? Okay.

So with a good example, we'll try to understand the entire concept in the next video. So yeah, this was uh uh this was only the understanding uh like about this agenti evaluation like how this aenti came in the market and whatever traditional application we used to create in the geni. Uh nowadays people are uh actually um uh people are moving to the agentic protocol. People are moving moving to the workflow automation instead of creating the simple uh actually take generation based application because right now uh everything can be automated all the workflow can be automated. Okay.

Uh instead of working on manually uh we can create a agents and that that agents will try to complete that particular task for me. That's how you can also scale up your business. You can uh you can actually uh uh create some agents for your business. So it will run automatically. It's a customer support agents you can create okay automatically uh email center agents you can create.

So that's how you can minimize the uh employee in your company and you can uh save your budgets okay but let's say if you don't have this kinds of agent system that time what you have to do you have to hire someone to do that particular task. Okay, that's why companies are uh adopting this AI agents in their uh application development in their workflow automations. Okay, they're replacing some low-level employee uh which uh they feel like okay I don't need this kinds of employee and I can do this kinds of work uh automated way. Okay, people are uh thinking in that way. Okay, you have to also be smarter.

Now people ask like uh whether we'll have the job or not. Okay, definitely you will have this job but you have to learn these kinds of technology. If you know these kinds of technology then tell me who will replace you. But if you don't know this technology let's say still you do the Excel uh uh let's say uh data collection autom uh data collection let's say uh strategy. Now tell me I can easily create a agents and I can do the Excel data collection.

Okay. I can um easily handle the customer automation. I don't need someone to handle my customer. Let's say whatever customer uh are coming to my website. Okay, I don't need to like uh hire someone to sit and reply for that.

So what I will do, I'll just create a agents. I'll give all of the informations about my website, all of my services. My agents will take care everything. Okay, this is the things uh nowadays people are moving. Okay, so yeah, trust me guys, this uh particular skill is having high demand in the market.

So if you can master this one definitely you can um you can get lots of opportunity. Okay and I will try to complete this agentic in such a way so that uh after completing it you can create any kinds of agentic applications. So in this video I'm going to discuss about the detailed discussion about agentic AI. How uh one AI agent works how one agentic AI application works. we'll try to understand uh each and everything with a good example.

Apart from that, I'm going to also discuss about the key characteristics and key component of agenti system. So this is going to be one amazing discussion guys. Make sure you watch uh till the end and if you have any kinds of doubt feel free to comments in the comment section. So instead of talking too much guys let's start with our discussion. So guys on my screen I think you have seen the definition of agentic AI.

So this definition is already familiar with you. Uh in my previous video I have already given you the walk through. Let me uh again give you the walkthrough of the definition. As you can see, agentic AI is a type of AI that can take up a task or goal from a user and then work towards completing it on its own with minimal human guidance. It plans, takes action, adapt to changes and seeks helps when uh necessary.

So in my previous uh video guys, I have given you the demo of a AI agents application. And I think I showed you the anti-gravity example. So there what happens? Let's say whenever I used to give a prompt. Uh there I given a prompt like just uh create a game for me, color racing game for me with the help of Python.

So what it was doing? It was creating a complete plan. Okay, I think you remember it was creating a complete plan like what to do, what are the environment it should use, what are the package it should use. Okay, then uh what should be the color, what should be the uh let's say involvement. So it each and everything it was uh like making the plan.

Okay. After making the plan guys what uh it started it was looking for my confirmation whether if everything is fine or not. So it was looking for a minimal human interaction. Okay minimal human guidance. uh so whenever I approved everything it started uh taking the actions that means one by one all of the plan it was starting executing right and it was uh creating that particular games for me okay so that's why uh this definition is uh I think pretty clear like how one agentic system works but if I'm talking about a simple chatbot okay uh uh so in simple chatbot what happens you just try to do some question answer okay it will give you the answer with respect to that But it doesn't have any kinds of let's say tool integration.

It doesn't have any kinds of let's say reasoning capacity. So that it can automatically think like okay now I have to use the tool and now I don't have to use the tool. Okay but in aenti application it has the cap capabilities for selecting uh any kinds of tools it's required. Okay. Let's say you are uh you are uh doing some automatic coding or let's say you are creating a game right that time what kinds of tools it is required it will automatically call that tool and it will start creating that particular application for you.

So let me give you one example guys uh how this agentic system works. So as you can see guys uh this is the example I have taken. So let's say uh this is our agentic uh agentic system. Okay, this is a aentic AI application. So let's say DSP with BPI uh wants to hire some backend engineer or let's say some other kinds of engineer.

So what I have done I have created this agent system okay for my platform. Now uh let's say if I'm not using this kinds of platform so what I have to do maybe I have to hire someone okay so he will try to or she will try to prepare everything okay for this particular job role that means the job description then once job description is ready uh he or she will be posting over different different job platform then uh they will continuously monitoring that how many applications are coming once uh application are getting submitted Again they will try to review that if application is coming very less again they will try to update that particular job description with a different job role again try to upload that okay that's how they will be continuously monitoring and once application got submitted we'll try to review that and once reviewed everything is fine okay let's say we got some amazing candidate we'll start uhuling the interview we'll take the interview after uh taking the interview what I have to do I have to uh I have to actually prepare a offer letter for him. Then we'll be sending the offer letter and once offer letter is approved then we'll try to u u do the onboarding operation. So this is a like very long and time-taking process and here I have to definitely uh pay for that particular work right uh let's say the person I'm hiring for this one so definitely I have to pay for uh that right but let's say I don't want to pay because nowadays people are using agenti system so what I'm going to do let's say I have created this agent for me so what this agent does so this agent is already connected with my platform DS with BP so it is having all the data okay about my uh about my let's say platform and I have already told uh this particular agents like what kinds of candidate I want what kinds of job requirement they are having what is the salary okay each and everything I have given uh uh okay uh uh to this particular agent now here what I'm going to do I'm going to simply give a prompt I want to hire a backend engineer and uh they should have two to four years of experience okay let's say this is my prompt so first of all I think you remember what a agent will do, right? A agent will first of all try to make a plan.

Okay, a agent will try to make a plan. But how it is going to make the plan? First of all, the command the prompt you are giving this command and prompt would be taken as a goal. So as you can see uh my agent goal is hire a remote backend engineer. Okay.

Uh uh their experience should be two to four years of experience and this is the plan actually it has automatically created. Now just try to see the plan. Okay. The way actually a manual human will do that. It has done the same thing.

Okay, but with a revised version. Now you can see it is giving me a plan. First of all, it will try to make a draft job description and post on best platform. Okay, let's say LinkedIn it can post. No, it can post.

Okay, then some other job uh platforms are also available. Okay. So there it will try to post that particular job description. So once posted it will continuously monitor the pipeline. Okay.

Monitor the pipeline means let's say I have posted a job description. It it uh it doesn't mean that I will just try to disappear right automatically application will come. It's it's not like that. You have to continuously monitor that particular applica job description like how many applications are coming uh what are the candidates are applying for? Is there any issue or not?

Right? we have to continuously monitor that particular pipeline. So what we are going to do guys, we'll be continuously monitoring that pipeline. So agent is also telling will monitor the pipeline and adjust strategy if needed. Okay, so it will automatically adjust.

Okay, this particular strategy if needed. Let's say you are getting very less application. Let's say your expectation is let's say 50 application but you are receiving four to five application that time definitely this is not uh meets your expectation right definitely there should be some problem with the job description that's why candidate are not preferring that uh uh preferring your job description so what agent will do maybe agent will try to change the job description let's say instead of backend engineer maybe uh it will tell like fully stack engineer or let's say fully stack AI engineer okay or let's say web developer. These kinds of uh job ro again it will try to set and again it will prepare the job description. Again it will post on the platform.

Okay. Then again it will continuously monitor that particular pipeline. Then let's say now this particular pipeline is working fine. Uh so people are applying for that particular job role. We are getting lots of candidate.

So from the all of the candidate guys we'll try to filter out like what would be the best fit for this job. for this particular job role we'll try to select that particular candidate. So agent will try to select that candidate and maybe let's say it will take two to three candidate and it will schedule interviews for them. Right? So once interviews is scheduled then uh it will uh we'll be taking the interview then after that uh let's say we selected a candidate agent will try to draft the offer letter.

So offer letter would be created and it will be sending to the candidate. Once candidate is approved then uh it will start the onboarding process. Okay. So this is the entire plan it has proposed. Okay.

It has the entire plan it is proposed. Okay. Now after preparing this particular plan I think you remember it will first of all okay it will first of all ask me should I continue with that? So definitely you have to give a permission. Yes continue.

Okay. Then what it will do? It will first of all see what was the first plan. First one is drafting the job job description. Okay.

So it will tell now I will first start with the drafting the job description taking help from the company documents like let's say I have already given my platform access okay DS with buppy platform access. So it is having all the documents all the data okay what are the things I am having the requirement it will try to take all of the data and it will try to prepare a job description for that and now it is telling do you want me to make some changes I'll try to review the entire let's say job description if completely fine with me so I'll just try to tell no this is absolutely fine you can continue with that now let's say my agent has prepared one job description for the backend engineer let's say we are looking for a remote backend engineer with two to four years of experience in backend development ment blah blah blah. Okay. So once this particular job description is ready, now the second plant was posting the job description in a different platform. Okay.

Now it will tell all right shall I go ahead and post this job description on the following platforms like LinkedIn, no etc. Uh so I will try to review again and again I'll tell the yes you can do that. Then what it will do? It will try to post that particular job description. uh uh then uh it will tell I will continuously monitor the application and keep you posted and for uh posting this particular job description on a different platform we have to connect with the API of the platform okay so this particular API we can call it as a tool okay so LinkedIn having a tool no is having a tool okay that's how there are uh thousands of like u uh I mean job posting platform they're having the tool so you just need to give the tool access to the agent.

So agent will try to decide when to call what kinds of tool. Okay, maybe you can't see now I think it is visible. So just right hand side you can see uh it is calling the API okay as a tool and it is trying to access over the LinkedIn and no and it is posting that particular job description in that particular platform. Okay so that's how this kinds of agent works. Now what should be the next plan?

Let me show you what should be the next plan. Next plan would be revising the job description. Okay, let's say it was continuously monitoring. Okay, it was continuously monitoring the pipeline. Then it just received uh you can see the job posting uh posting has received only two applications so far much below our expectation.

Let's say my expectation was 20 application but I'm getting only two applications. So definitely there would be some problem with my job description. So my agent has suggested me some kinds of feedback. Okay, you can see it is suggested some action. So it is telling uh broaden job description to include fully stack that uh that means instead of giving the backend engineer maybe we can make it to fully stack engineer because fully stack engineer uh might have demand in the market and people are looking for this kinds of job and promote job on LinkedIn or let's say no okay so what it is trying to say it is trying to say like why not we can promote that particular job on the LinkedIn by doing the advertisement.

Okay, maybe by doing the advertisement uh it will go to that particular candidate and he or she might be interested and they can apply. Now it is telling shall I proceed with that? So if I'm fine with this particular suggestion I'll do yes please. Okay, you just continue. So this is called actually what I think you can see the definition.

Let me show you see adapt to changes. Okay, adapt to changes and seeks helps when necessary. Okay, my agent itself is trying to planning, taking action and it is doing the changes if it's required and it is also seeking the helps when it necessary. It is trying to wait for my confirmation and it is doing all of the work for me. Okay.

Now what it will do again it will try to uh change that particular job description. Revised version of job description would be posted and also promotion marketing would be activated. Then again it will start monitoring the entire process. Okay. So here now um what it will do guys it will try to continuously monitor.

Now let's say uh here we are getting our expectation right now let's say u revive job description posted promotion activated and it is continuously monitoring. Now let's say eight application received. Okay this is uh completely fine. Uh so what I can do uh I can screen them using our checklist strong candidate partial matches and weak matches. Okay that means it will try to divide all of the candidate in three category.

The first category would be strong candidate let's say from eight application two are strong three are partial matches and three weak matches. Okay. So what it will do it will try to only select the strong candidate. Okay. with respect to my um let's say u company's requirement.

Now it is telling shall I schedule the interviews with the top two. So if everything is goes fine I'll tell okay you can continue with that. Okay. So what it will do it will try to uh schedule the interview. But beforeuling what it will tell it will first of all try to check my availability.

So for the availability what I can do maybe I can give my calendar access to my agent. Okay, I think you know that we can integrate any kinds of tool. Okay, any kinds of applications to the agents nowadays. You can connect uh connect your Slack, you can connect your calendar, you can connect your Google drive, anything you can give the access even if you have used already uh clouded desktop you will see that clouded desktop you can also provide your computer access entire computer access okay and you can control your entire computer this is also possible right so what I will do I will [clears throat] give my calendar access so my agent will try to check my availability okay now it is telling let's say sure let me check your availability for this week you are free on Friday. Let's say I'm free on Friday.

Uh do you want me to schedule the interview on Friday? So here I will tell yes go ahead. Okay. I don't have any kinds of issue. I'm completely free on Friday.

Now what it will do? It will try to draft an uh invitation email for the candidate. Let's say this is the inter uh email it has prepared. Hi candidate we would like to schedule a 45 minutes of interview for the back end role. Please share your availability.

Okay. So this email would be sended. Now sixth step it will try to do the interview process. Okay. So fifth step it was doing theuling.

Then fourth step it was doing the short listing. Okay. And third step I think you know it is doing the re revision of the job description. Step by step it is running the plan. Okay.

Not randomly. Now once let's say candidate accepted the invitation uh of this interviewing. So what will happen? It will try to remind me. Uh so it will tell quick reminder you have two interviews lined up for Friday.

So I'll tell okay uh thanks for reminding. Now it will tell I have mailed you a doc documents containing a list of interview question asked in previous interview for the same role. Now it is not only schedule the interview for me. It is al also preparing the interview questions okay for that particular job role and it is giving to me. Okay.

So I'll tell okay I'll check that now let's say these are my interview question it has prepared okay now what I'm going to do I'm going to take the interview of the candidate okay manually I'm going to take the interview for the candidate let's say 30 to 35 minutes I'll take the interview I will ask all of the question my agent has suggested and if uh he or she is completely fine with that questions he is he is able to give me all of the answer so definitely I'm going to select okay one of the candidate now let's say I told I have uh finalized one candidate. Can you draft an offer letter? My agent will tell sure here is the offer letter. Please review. I will tell okay yes uh it works.

Then offer letter would be sended and cracking the acceptance. Okay. That means this let's this is my offer letter. Okay. My agent has prepared.

It will send to the candidate. Okay. Let's say we are pleased to offer you the position of backend engineer. Please let us know. Um let uh please let us know if you accept.

Okay. So once the candidate has accepted now what it will do it will do the onboarding process. Okay, after sending the offer later it will do the onboarding process. So here candidate has accepted the offer. I have initiated the onboarding.

Welcome email sent. It access requested submitted. Laptop has been pro uh pro uh pro provisioned. Okay. Shall I schedule a introduction meeting with him?

I'll tell yes. So the introduction meeting would be scheduled. Okay. So that's how guys a agent system works with a very minimal human interaction here. So you just only give to uh you just only need to give a task.

You just only need to give a prompt. Let's say I want that or you have to do that particular work. It will automatically make the plan, take the actions and it will ask for the help when it necessary. Okay. So this is not possible with a simple chatbot or the simple RGB based application whatever we used to create previously.

This is only possible in the agentic AI system. Okay. And this is called actually AI agents and every AI agents works in that way. Okay. First of all, it will try to make a plan and step by step all of the plan would be executed.

This is called take actions. Then adapt the changes. That means whenever it necessary, it will do the changes. And whenever let's say uh it feels like okay, it needs to ask to the human for the confirmation, it will do that because I can't give full access to my agents to do everything because definitely there should be some uh manual human observation. Okay, otherwise uh some other things might be happen, right?

That's why some minimal human interaction is required. If you take any kinds of agenti application whether it's clouded desktop, whether it's uh your anti-gravity cursor AI, it works in that way. Okay, I think I showed you the example of anti-gravity. Uh there I was doing the automatic coding, right? I was implementing a game.

So there I gave the prompt. It was taking that particular prompt as a goal. After that, it was creating the plan. Okay? uh in the plan itself step by step all of the things it has suggested me then I approved everything it was creating step by step it was also executing in between if any changes required it was doing that and it is asking for my confirmation and once I confirm it is doing each and everything for me okay so I think now the agentic system is clear what this aentic system is how it works okay now we'll try to understand the key characteristic of a aentki application.

So for this let's go to the next uh actually diagram. As you can see these are some key characteristic of AI uh AI agents or agenti applications. So the first characteristic you can see it should be autonomous. So definitely the example I have showed you this is completely autonomous agent. So there I already told I u I need to hire a backend engineer with two to four years of experience.

So what it started it was started creating the plan taking the actions okay everything was auto auto automatically doing there right it was posting the job description it was continuously monitoring that it was u asking the help u uh to me if I confirm that it will again reconte the work so it was completely autonomous okay then it should be goal oriented so definitely the task you are giving it should be taking that particular task as a goal. Okay. Without goal, how it will achieve that particular work, right? So in in our life also whenever we get any kinds of work, whenever we get any kinds of task, definitely we have to take it as a goal. Okay.

If we take it as a goal, then we can complete that particular goal by planning something, right? We'll do the different different planning. We'll execute those those plan and we'll try to achieve that particular goal. Okay? That's why the next characteristics the planning.

So to achieve this goal we have to make the plan. That means for this particular example you saw that it was creating the plan like first of all job description would be created posting in the different platform continuously monitoring after that uh it will change if it is required then uhuling the interview sending the offer letter it was complete plan right then reasoning. So this is the most important characteristic of a AI agent the reasoning and here your LLM comes right because LLM is the only brain your agentic AI system is having with the help of this particular LLM it performs the reasoning operation and it automatically decides uh whether it needs to call any kinds of tool or not because your agents will have connected with different different tools right different different application sources and it will automatically decide when it needs to call what kinds of tool let's say whenever it was posting the job description it needs to call the LinkedIn or no API right this is the tool definitely it will not call the calendar API right so it is automatically thinking in that way this is called reasoning right then adaptability okay adaptability it should have it it it will automatically decide uh when to change something okay what should be the suggestion for that Okay. Then the context awareness. Context awareness means it should remember the previous context.

Let's say I given um let's say I want to hire a backend engineer. Let's say today I have given this particular prompt and for some reason uh I just I I went out. Okay. Let's say for 2 days I went out. Then again I came to my agents and I told just tell me the progress about the back end engineer.

Now it is if it doesn't have the context awareness that means the memory integration that time your agent will tell what kinds of back end engineering you are uh telling me right uh what is the task you are telling me I don't know about that but if it is having the context awareness that means the memory it can tell okay so this is the progress I have already posted the job description continuously monitoring and let's say 8 to nine application I got so far so this is called context awareness and every aentk application should have this particular context awareness. Okay. So guys, now let's try to see the detailed discussion of each and uh every characteristic. Uh so here I have already listed down each and everything. So first of all, let's try to understand this autonomy.

Okay, this autonomy means the autonomous the first characteristic. So as you can see autonomy refers uh to the AI systems ability to make decisions and take actions on its own to achieve a given goal without needing step-by-step human interaction. That means if you have already seen the example of our AI recruiter so there it was kinds of autonomous okay it was uh it was autonomous agent and it it doesn't need any kinds of stepby-step human interaction so there I was not giving step-by-step human interaction I was not giving step-by-step prompt what to do right so the things is that I have only given my uh requirement my goal so it took that particular prompt as a goal It was creating the plan. It was executing step by step. That's why you can see it is uh proactive.

That means continuously it is working on that particular goal. Then autonomy in multiple facts like execution. It was executing the plan step by step. It was doing the decision making. Okay.

Uh by the decision itself it was uh thinking like what to do when it needs to post it on different different platform when it needs to make the changes. Then tool uses. Okay. Let's say when to use what kinds of tool let's say whenever I want to post the job description what kinds of tool I need to call definitely to call the LinkedIn and no right so this kinds of ability my autonomous agents will be having that's why the first characteristic the autonomy we can also call it as a autonomous right now the uh thing is that autonomy can be controlled permission scopes that means you can limit what uh what tools or actions the agents can perform independent uh independently can screen candidate but needs approval before rejecting anyone okay that means it's not like that I am given the full autonomous permission to my agents so definitely you can set the limit you can set the permission so let's say once uh one interviewer uh having the screening round uh so before approval or rejecting so definitely I I have to see that manually then I will approve that then my agents will do that for me. Then human in loop we can also call it as a HITL.

So insert checkpoints where human input is required before continuing. That means in this case let's say my agent was telling can I post this particular job description or not. Okay, this is called human in loop and every agents are having this kinds of functionality. Okay, going forward we'll be implementing the agents right with different different uh framework. So there also you are having this kinds of functionality with the help of that you can um you can actually create this kinds of system whenever uh your agent is uh needed your human approval it will ask for that then you can continue and it will start working on that.

Then override controls allow users to stop, pause or change the agents behavior at any time. Pause screening command to halt resume process. Okay. So what happens? Let's say in my agents, okay, whatever I'm doing, it's completely fine.

But it should have uh it should have my control. Okay, my control means let's say I can stop this particular agents anytime. I can pause anytime. Let's say my um screening route is going on in between if I feel like okay I have to stop the screening route I if I give the command it should stop that okay it should stop the process that time okay so this is called actually override controls then guardrails and policies so definitely your agent should have guardrails and policies nowadays you will see that agent integrates different different guardrails okay and for this one framework came in the market called guardrails AI with the help On top of that you can define hard rules or ethical boundaries to the agent must follow. That means let's say if I give you one example it will tell never schedule interview on weekends.

Let's say weekends I'm completely occupied. I'm not available. So I can give the restriction. I can give the rules. Never schedule interviews on weekends.

So my agent will never do that. And if you see nowadays all the agenti application is having this kinds of guidels and policies. Let's say if you're asking any kinds of violating content, if you're asking any kinds of sexual content, if you're asking any kinds of let's say adult content, definitely it will not give you the response with respect to that because it has a guardrails and policies restriction in the agent itself. Okay. And for this we are having some library, we having some framework definitely will also see in our playlist itself.

Okay. Then uh autonomy can be dangerous. The application autonomously send uh sends out job offers with incorrect salaries or terms. So if you completely make it automated, so what we'll do uh there is a possibility your agents will send a job uh job letter with incorrect salaries. Let's say your budget is one lakh but your agent is sending the expected salary 10 lakhs, right?

So there definitely this is this is going to be an issue. So that time the applications shortlisted candidate by age or nationality violating anti- discrimination laws. Okay, this is another uh terms then the application uh spending extra on LinkedIn ads. Let's say sometimes what will happen if it is running autonomously although you are getting a good uh let's say application uh from your job description but still your agent will feel like okay I need more and it is spending more money on LinkedIn ads. Okay.

So these kinds of things definitely you have to uh overcome. Okay. By uh actually doing the human in loop hit okay functionality inside your agent. Now the next uh things we are having which is uh this goal oriented. Okay goal oriented.

Now you can see what is goal oriented. Being a goal oriented means that the AI system operates with a persistent objective in mind and continuously directs its actions to achieve that object rather than just responding to the isolated prompts. Okay, that means if you read here you'll see that goal acts as a com compass for a autonomy. Okay. So to make your agent autonomous definitely there should be a goal.

In this case our goal was hire a backend engineer. Okay. This was the goal and will act as a compass for the autonomy. That means your autonomous agent should follow this particular goal and to achieve this goal it needs to execute different different plan. Okay.

Now goal can be goal can comes with constraint. Definitely you can set some constraint. In this case, let's say my constraint was four to two to four years of experience candidate I only want. Okay. Then goals are stored in the core memory.

That means goal should be stored in the core memory. That means in the context awareness memory otherwise your agent will forget that. What to do? Right? Let's say if I give you a basic actually template the common template for all the agents it stores the data in the memory.

So this is a JSON format. Let's say you can store any kinds of database here. Uh internally agent uses a specific database or storage services and it stores this kinds of meta data so that it can remember. So in this case let's say the goal was hire a backend engineer. The constraint was 2 to four years of experience.

Remote is true. Stack Python Django cloud. Okay. These are the skills I'm looking for. Start is active.

My agent is always active. when I posted the job description. This particular date would be also saved. Progress job uh description is created. True.

If not created, it should be false. Okay. Posted on different platform like LinkedIn and angel list or no. Yeah, it has posted. And this is the list.

How many application received so far? Only eight applications. Interview schedules with two applications. Okay. So this is the storing uh I mean strategy for every agents.

So let's say each and every framework is having different way they stores the data but this is the common if I tell uh one common let's say structure. So this is the common structure that's how the goal should be stored in the core memory. Okay. All the uh running instance metadata would be saved in the core memory. That's how it usually saves and it will take that particular data from the memory itself to continue the plan to continue the goal.

Okay, that's how one agent remembers each and everything. Now I think you are getting now goals can be altered as well. Let's say once you have set one goal, you can also change that particular goal to another one. This is also possible here. Okay.

Now the next characteristic it is the planning. Okay, planning. So you can see planning is is the agent's ability to break down a highle goal into structured sequence of actions or sub goals and decide the best path to achieve the desired outcome. Okay, that means let's say I have given a prompt I have to hire a backend engineer. Now to achieve this particular goal, what uh this agent has to do?

Agent has to create a different different Okay, agent has to create a different different uh plan. I think you saw that what was the plan. So for that particular example, it was uh preparing the job description, posting on different different platform. Okay, then it was uh continuously monitoring that this was the plan. Now whenever it is planning, you'll see that generating multiple candidate plans.

It will only not let's say proposed one plan. It might give you multiple plan. Okay, let's say plan A post a job description on LinkedIn, GitHub, jobs or angel list. Okay, plan B is that use internal referrals. Okay, and hiring agencies.

So, it has suggested you two plans. Now, it is asking for your feedback. Okay, now based on your choice, you can select which plan you want to go ahead with. So whenever your agent uh agents are working it has the reasoning capacity that means uh it should also minimize my cost right and if it is suggesting me to plan so definitely if I'm taking the plan A so there I will I will let's say spend less less amount because here I directly post on LinkedIn GitHub jobs and handle list okay but if I'm taking the plan B I if I'm taking some hiring agency so definitely I have to take their subscription plan right so there I have to pay more money so get it so that's why it is giving you different different plan okay then evaluate each plan as I told you agents will itself evaluate the plan let's say plan A is perfect or plan B is perfect for this particular work based on that it will give you the suggestion then the efficiency which is faster so if I'm going with plan A or plan B which is faster so definitely plan um uh A is little bit faster because I can directly post the jobs on the platform itself and get the applications. Okay.

Then which one is having less cost? Definitely plan A is having less cost. Then risk will it fail if we get no applications? Okay. Then alignment with constraints remote jobs only budget.

Okay. So these are my uh steps inside the plan. So based on this particular evaluation steps it will select the plan. Okay. Now third step select the best plan with the help of human in loop.

That means it will definitely ask to the human for the best plan which one you would like to go ahead. So which of these option do you prefer a pre-programming policy uh favor low cost channel first? Okay. So definitely whenever I will take any kinds of plan I'll try to check this particular low cost okay uh option in my mind. So yes uh this was the u I mean characteristic which is planning.

Now the next characteristic the reasoning. Now let's try to understand this reasoning guys. So what is reasoning? First of all let's try to understand. As you can see reasoning is the uh cognitive process through which an agentic system interprets informations draws conclusion and makes decisions both while planning ahead and while executing the actions in real time.

Reasoning uh during planning goals decompositions break down abstract goals into cons uh concrete steps tool selection decide which tool will be needed uh for which step resource uh estimation estimated time dependencies and risk. Okay, as I already told you, whenever a aentic system is working, uh it will be working with respect to the reasoning because behind the reasoning one LLM works, right? And LLM has the u actually intelligence um capacity so that it can understand uh and it can automatically make the decision. It can automatically let's say break down the goals. Okay, it can automatically tell you what kinds of tools should be selected.

You can also uh like work on the resources estimations like estimated time, dependencies and risk. Okay. So with the help of this reasoning guys, these agents would be more powerful, more efficient. Why? Because I told you if one agent is one agent doesn't have the reasoning capacity that means this should be the simple chatbot only.

Okay, this should be the simple chatbot only. Why a chatbot is different from a AI agent? Okay. Why AI agent is powerful? Because of this reasoning.

Okay. Let's say if I'm having a agent, if I'm giving any kinds of input and it is connected with different different tools, right? Some kinds of tools it is connected. Now, whenever I'm giving a input, now this will perform this reasoning operation. It will decide the question human is asking whether I have to directly give the answer.

I have to refer the tool for that. Okay. So, this is called actually reasoning. So, reasoning is super important here. Okay.

Now here you can see reasoning, duration, execution, decision making, choosing between option uh three candidate matches, schedule uh for two uh two uh best candidate and reject one. So this kinds of decision making is taking your uh agent okay with the help of this reasoning with the help of this LLM. Now, HITL handling knowing when to pause and ask for help. Uh unsure about the salary range. Okay, for an example, let's say with the help of this reasoning, it is automatically decide when it should ask for the help to the human when it needs to ask for the confirmation from the human.

Okay, in this case, let's say uh my uh my recruiter agent is asking what should be the salary range just try to tell me. Then error handling, interpreting tools, API failure and re re uh re uh recovering. Okay, let's say sometimes some of the tool might be down right that time uh how this particular agent will handle that particular error. Let's say if my tool to tool A is not working so definitely it will try to move to tool B. Okay.

So this kinds of ability this reasoning will be having. Now the next one adaptability. So what is adaptability? You can see adaptability is the agent's ability to modify its plan, strategies or action responses to unexpected conditions all while staying aligned with the goal. Okay.

So that means I told you let's say in that particular case I think you remember uh we got very less application right and my agent was automatically give you the suggestion and it was it was telling like I need to change the job description to backend engineering to full stack engineer. So this is called adaptability. Your agent is automatically modifying the plans, modifying the strategy. Then again it is working with respect to that. Okay.

You can see failures in uh then external feedbacks and changing the goals. Okay. Now what is the next next uh characteristic is the context awareness. I already told you what is context awareness. Context awareness is the agent's ability to understand, retain and utilize relevant information from uh from the ongoing task, past interaction, user preferences and environmental uh cues to make better decisions through the multiple steps.

Okay. And if I'm talking about context awareness, this is nothing but it's a memory. Okay. You can see context awareness is implemented through memory. Here we create two kinds of memory.

one is short memory, one is long me long-term memory, short-term memory and long-term memory. So as you can see uh if my uh agent doesn't have the context of my previous let's say uh goals or plan so then how it will progress the current one. So definitely to run the current progress it should have the previous context right. So let's say in this case I have given I want to hire a backend engineer with two to four years of experience. So it should have these kinds of informations in the context memory based on that it will make the decision.

Okay, this is what actually it is explaining and what are the tool responses it is getting definitely it will also try to uh store that particular responses to the context memory so that it can give you the better response with respect to that. Now at the end this context awareness implemented through memory. So here we create short-term memory and long-term memory. Short-term memory we create for the current state. Let's say if one current state is running if it is creating some metadata we will be storing in the short-term memory and long-term memory means the whole conversation the whole uh user interaction it is doing it should have the u u present in the long-term memory.

Okay. So this is the idea. So yes guys these are some characteristic uh we usually have inside any kinds of AI agents and how you will understand this particular application is a AI agents application or authentic application. If this application is having this kinds of characteristic definitely you can uh think about this is a aenti application. Okay.

Definitely in the architecture itself these kinds of character uh characteristic should be mentioned. So guys uh now we'll try to see the components of agenti application what are the component one AI agent is having uh using uh you can see the first component is the brain. Okay whenever I'm talking about the brain so here LLM would be utilized. You can use any kinds of LLM here. So LLM has the reasoning capacity with the help of that it will make the decisions.

It will try to do the HITL operation. It will do the uh tool selections. Okay. All the operations be happening with respect to this particular brain. And the second is the orchestrator.

So what is orchestrator? To build a entire aenti system, okay, we need some orchestrator. Orchestrator means this is the framework. Okay, framework let's say it will do the connection with the LLM that means brain it will make the connection with tool then whenever it is uh required for the tool calling it will perform the tool calling operation whenever it is required let's say it will uh call the uh h ITL that means human in loop right it will ask for the uh approval from the human so these kinds of things if I want to create a complete aent application I need to use some framework I can't create with the help of simple python or I can't with the help of simple tensorflow right or langen this is not possible so I have to use some end to-end framework for that okay so in the market there are some famous framework like we are having crew AI okay we are having langraph we are having autogen some some no code platform is also available like n okay so a apart from that some other like framework are also available but these are framework actually very uh common and very popular and very powerful in the market nowadays and people use that developer use that to create agenti applications. Okay.

So throughout the entire um this uh course guys we'll try to master these are the framework we'll see the entire crew AI framework we'll try to develop a AI agent with help of crew AI okay end to end multi- aent system we'll try to create then lang graph we'll try to explore we'll try to create end to end application with lang graph we'll try to see the autogen we'll try to understand the entire autogen autogen component we'll create the AI agents with autogen we'll try to see some no code platform as well like n we'll see how we can uh create the AI agents without writing any kinds of code by doing some drag and drop operation each and everything we'll be learning. Okay. So that's why orchestrator is also required and this is one other component of a AI agent and orchestrator means I AI agent building framework. Okay. Always remember langen can be also utilized with the help of lang also you can create some of the simple agents but uh later on [clears throat] langen published actually langraph so people are moving to the langraph for building these kinds of AI agents.

Okay. Now [clears throat] the next one is the tool. So definitely tool should be available as a component. Here we can utilize any kinds of tool whether it's any kinds of search tool, whether it is any kinds of calendar tool or any kinds of application tool. Okay.

If you just open the internet and if you search like agentic AI tools list, okay, you'll see that there are thousands of tool listers available. Okay, whether it is search, whether it is uh any kinds of application with your Google drive, with your calendar. So, let me show you some of the list. So guys, as you can see there is a GitHub called AINE tools catalog and there are some other website as well you will be getting over the internet. So if you open it uh open this up.

So this uh this is having all kinds of uh tool uh tools and toolkit as you can see. Uh so we are having archives. So tools to read archive papers. So I think you know if we read any kinds of research paper we go to the archive website. Okay archive.org.

So this is also a tool. Uh this tool is available in the framework itself. You can use this tool for reading any kinds of research paper. You can connect your AI aens with the research paper uh actually world. Okay.

Then uh by search is there. Bing search is there. B search is there. These are my search tool. Okay.

Then code doc search is there. CSV search is there. That's how you can see Google search is there. We are having different different tool. Okay.

So this is for the code interpreter. Okay. These are the code interpreter. If you want to interpret any kinds of code, these tools you can use. If you want to do a productivity, these tools you can use.

Okay. You can connect with your calendar, email, zoom. Okay. This is for regular automation. Now this is for web browsing.

If you want to browse the web, these tool you can use. If you want to connect with the database, these are the database tools are available. If you want to do the file operation, these are the tools are available. Okay. So that's how whatever tool you want everything is available okay in the orchestrator framework in the AI agents you can connect with anyone okay now next we are having the memory memory is another component so I told you context uh awareness is required so here we use something called memory okay so memory should be also integrated and for memory development uh we use orchestrator framework in the orchestrator framework Mark itself we are having different different memory function either you can also use different different database for the memory you can do anything here then the supervisor so this is the hittl that means human in loop okay human in the loop so with the help of the supervisor what it does it try uh it try to interact with the human when any helps is uh required it will try to uh ask for the help it will ask for the human guidance or feedback and it will continue agents.

Okay. So these six actually components uh sorry five components are available in any kinds of AI agents and this is the highle actually diagram I have shown you. Some other component might be available as a lowle but this is the main one. Okay. So if you find these are the components are available inside AI agents.

uh yeah you can I mean select that particular application as aka application and whenever you are creating you have to um take care these are the component okay inside your application now uh let me show you the component explanation as I already told you the brain wise here what we do we use a large language model and what is the use of large language model the goal interpretation planning reasoning tool selections okay everything is uh everything we do with the help of this particular brain or large language model. The orchestrator orchestrator is a framework uh AI agents implementation framework with the help of uh we can do task sequencing conditional routing, ret logic, looping, iterations and delegations. Okay. Then tools we are having so tools with the help of tools we can uh connect our AI agents with external sources. Okay.

uh and to knowledge base as well. That's if you're creating a ragbased agents that time our uh knowledge base should be external sources. Okay, this is this would be perform as a tool that time. Now the next component I told you the memory. So what memory does?

So memory actually basically uh stores all of the context of the conversation and uh we create actually two kinds of memory short-term memory and long-term memory and it will uh do the state uh tracking. Okay. um research tracking is required. I already told you I already showed you previously, right? Uh it was uh storing the data in a JSON format.

So this is also required. Then the supervisor so approval uh requested for HITL that means human in the loop. Then guardrails uh enforcement then age case uh escalation. Okay. So let's say if you want to block some unsafe or non uh complaint behavior, you can use the guardrails evaluation.

I will also show you how to perform the guard's evaluation and uh age uh case uh escalation that means alert human when uncertainity conflict arises. Okay. And you already understood about this uh htil okay human in loop uh human in the loop format. So yes guys these are some components are available of AI agents and whenever we are developing our own AI agents we have to take care these are the part and every AI agents are having this kinds of component uh nowadays. Okay.

So apart from that I think uh uh there is nothing uh inside a if you feel like okay if there is any new things you can just do let me know in the comment section definitely I'll try to cover that as well. Okay but so far my understanding I think these are some uh we have to follow whenever we are creating or whenever we are working on aentki system. So yes guys uh this is all about from this video. Uh I hope you have understood and this was helpful for you. I think I already told you uh in my previous uh video uh like there are uh some components are available especially whenever I'm talking about uh the agentic AI uh one of the component is the orchestrator right orchestrator means there we use some kinds of framework okay with the help of these are the framework we create we implement the AI agents whether it's a single agents whether it's a multi multiAI uh agent system uh we try to create these kinds of things right so there is a concept guys uh you have to understand before I start with this kinds of orchestrator framework the concept name is asynchronous programming okay so why this asynchronous programming is required uh because if you see u going forward we'll be creating the multi- aent system and to create the multi- aent system guys we'll be using this kinds of orchestrator framework and internally This orchestrator framework uses asynchronous programming.

Okay, that means it will run your agents in parallel. Let's say you have created uh 20 agents. So what it will do instead of running u agents as a sequentially, it will run all of the agents in parallel so that your execution would be more fast. So this concept I'm going to discuss in detail guys. No need to worry.

Uh first of all, let me show you one thing. actually uh I have just figured out let's say if I go to the Google so here if I search like is lang graph uses asynchronous in the back end for multi- aents so I think you know lang graph is one of the orchestrator framework with the help of lang graph we create agentic AI applications right and we'll be also mastering this langraph inside our codes so as you can see the response was yes lang graph is uh designed with first class asynchronous supports in the back end for multi- aent system that means uh it is utilizing the asynchronous programming asynchronous concept in the back end okay now if I just go below let's say I have asked for about the autogen because autogen also will be covering inside our course so as you can see autogen also utilizes asynchronous programming at it core but it is uh architecture fundamentally different from the langraph state uh langraph's state machine approach approach but internally it is uses asynchronous programming concept. Now again I asked like uh what about crew AI? Okay so you can see crewi also supports asynchronous execution but it approaches orchestration differently than langraph and autogen while uh langraph uses uh a state machine and autogen uses a actor model. Crew AI is built around role-based collaboration and processdriven execution model.

Okay. But the main fun is that all of the orchestrator framework we are using for developing these kinds of multi- aents application internally it is uses asynchronous okay as synchronous programming. Now before I start with these are the orchestrator framework first of all I want to clarify what is asynchronous programming why it is required how asynchronous works okay what is parallelism what is uh let's say sequential execution each and everything I'm going to clarify then we'll start with the uh orchestrator framework understanding but after that there is one more topic uh we have to cover which is nothing but pentic pyntic validation this is also important because you will see that Whatever large language model we are having it will generate the unstructured output and to make it a structured even whenever we are giving any kinds of prompt to make our prompt uh more structured we use this pentic validation okay so this pentic validation will be understanding in the next video but in this video I will only focus on the asynchronous understanding okay so here I'm going to give you the detailed understanding of asynchronous with a theoretical understanding as well as the practical understanding as well. So let me show you guys what is this asynchronous. After that your understanding would be more clear and you can easily understand these are the framework whenever you will be doing the coding.

So let me give you the definition of the asynchronous programming. So here is the definition. Um here is a simple definition you can see asynchronous programming in Python. Okay, you can see asynchronous programming in Python is a programming paradigm that allows code to handle okay multiple task uh concurrently without blocking the program's execution. It is primary used to IO bound task example network uh request file input and output operation database queries.

Okay, allowing the program to perform other operations while waiting for slow external events to complete. That means this as asynchronous programming will help you. Okay, asynchronous programming will help you. Okay, asynchronous programming will help you to run your task in parallel. Okay, so you are not supposed to wait for the uh execution.

Let's say we know that we use synchron synchronous programming so far. Yes or no guys, we use synchronous programming so far. In synchronous programming, what happens? Let's say if I execute a code block, first of all, it will complete that. Okay, after the execution is complete, okay, then it will execute the second part of that particular code.

Okay, but in between, let's say if you are waiting for the execution, okay, if you're using asynchronous programming, it can run another task in parallel. Okay, so these are the like say functionality we'll be getting here. Now you can ask me why this is required. Okay, why this asynchronous programming is required inside AI agents implementation. Agentic AI, you can create two kinds of agent.

One is the simple agent. Okay. One is the simple agent. So basically simple agents you create only one block. Okay.

It can only handle one particular task. Okay. But whenever let's say you have complex problem you have to divide the task in smaller chunks. And what you will do? You will be creating multiple agents.

Okay. Multiple agents you will be creating. Let's say this is agent one. This is agent two. This is agent three.

Okay. And what will happen? You will assign the task for all the agents. And these agents will be executing either independently, independently or dependently. Okay.

Dependently. So it's your design philosophy. If you are making it as a independently that time it will run as an independently. If you are making it to dependent okay it will run as a dependently. So basically what happens let's say if you run these are the agents okay these are the agents in a synchronous programming okay in a synchronous programming what will happen first of all these agents need to be completed these agents execution need to be completed once this agent uh when this agents will be executed then it will move to the next agents okay next code block then this agents will be executed okay once it is completed then it will go to this particular agents okay then it will try to run this particular agent.

So let's say this agents is taking 3 minute to run. Sorry, let's say here I can just tell you let's say this agency is taking 1 minute to run. This agency is also taking let's say 1.5 minute to run. Okay.

This agency is also taking let's say 1 minute to run. So what is happening? You have to wait for 1 minute. Again you have to wait for 1.5 minute.

Again you have to wait for 1 minute. Okay. So if you like uh add all of the time you will see that at the end you are having okay 3.5 minutes 3.5 minutes you have to wait for the execution but if you run this task in parallel okay if you run this task in parallel let's say this particular agents will do the online search operation so basically if you're doing the online search operation you'll be hitting some URL like right URL and to get the response this will take some time let's say sometimes this web server might be slow that time it will be giving you flow response.

So instead of waiting for that you can execute your other agents. So let's say these agents will try to collect the uh images. These agents will try to collect the let's say any other file okay from the internet. So don't wait to execute any other agents. Just try to run them in a synchronous way.

Okay, in a parallel way. So each of the agents will be running in a parallel way. So let's say this if this agent is also taking 1 minutes. Okay. So simultaneously you are running something okay in the back end.

So you are not supposed to wait for 3.5 minutes. Get it? So that is the things I just wanted to tell you. So let's say whenever you are creating multi- aent system and whenever you are creating let's say independent connection okay independent let's say policy that time you should use this asynchronous programming inside um inside let's say Python or let's say whatever programming you're using you have to follow that.

And if you see any kinds of agents code you will be uh seeing people are using this as okay uh essence this particular syntax people are using that okay so what is this essence as means asynchronous okay as synchronous functionality so in python there is a library called asense IO so we'll be following that particular library to implement this particular code okay so let me give you one example of asynchronous and synchronous programming so let's say here I can write synchronous Synchronous programming and this side we have asynchronous programming. So in synchronous programming what happens? Let's say what I can do I can give you one example. Uh let's say here um let's say you are you are having a you are having a gas stove. Okay.

Gas stove. Uh in this gas stove you only have one uh one fire section. Okay. one fire section. So let's say you are having uh three dishes.

Okay, you are having three dishes to cook. So what you will do? First of all, you will take the first dish and you will cook that. Once first dish is complete, then you will take the second dish. Then you have to complete then you will be taking the third dish.

Then you will be completing. Okay, that's how you can see it is taking T1, it is taking T2, it is taking T3 time. Okay. So basically you have to wait for u you have to wait for the previous execution or let's say previous task to be completed then you can start the remaining task. But in asynchronous programming what happens let's say you are having same gas stove but here you are having let's say three fired section.

You are having three fire section and you are having three dishes. Okay, let's say dish one, dish two and dish three. So what you have to do? You just need to run all of them simultaneously. Basically you are giving three dish to the three fire section.

Okay. Now at the T1 time, okay, your all of the dishes should be completed. So you are not supposed to wait for the T1, T2 and T3 to be completed. Okay. So this is the difference between synchronous programming and asynchronous programming.

I hope you get it guys. So in Python we usually follow this synchronous programming. That means if you're running a function first of all that function would be completed then the remaining code would be executed. Now in programming we we call it as a sub routine. Let me just write here sub routine and we also call it as cool routine.

I'll be discussing about what is this okay cool routine. So what is sub routine? So let me write a program to explain. Let's say here I can write a function. So I'll just write a function.

Let's say def. Okay. Diff. So let's say I will um I'll give the function name fetch. Okay.

Fetch let's say data. This is the function name. So it is having some code inside that. Okay. Now here I'm creating another function.

Let's say def main. Okay. Now what I'm doing I'm calling this particular function. Okay, this function inside this particular main function fetch data. Okay, I'm calling inside that I'm calling inside that sorry yeah now after calling let's say in this main function also there are some code line.

So what is happening here? Let's say if you're uh if you're using sub routine so that time uh whenever you are executing your code first of all your code will uh come here okay your code will come here and it will see you are calling a function inside that which function you are calling this particular function okay now what it will what will happen first of all it will go to this function and it will execute all of the code it will execute all of the code now let's say you are running fetch data that means let's say you are trying to fetch some kinds of data from the internet, you are using some kinds of API, some kinds of URL. Okay? And whenever it is hitting that particular API or URL, it is taking some kinds of time, right? So you have to wait for this particular time.

So see once this time is over, that means this execution is over then you will be able to execute your remaining code. Okay? Till then you have to wait for this execution. Okay? So this is the idea of serve routine.

That means you are waiting for a task to be completed. Then your remaining code would be executed. Then your remaining code would be executed. Although you are waiting here, although you are waiting here, you don't have any kinds of other task. You just need to wait for the execution.

Okay? And once execution is completed, then you will be able to execute. You'll be able to see the other execution of the program. But in code routine, what happens? So let's say here I'm having a function here I'm having a function and uh we use something called asynchronous okay asynchronous syntax.

So for this we use something called asins uh essence. Okay this is the keyword as so we'll write the function as def let's say fetch data this is the function let's say inside that you are having some kinds of code. Okay now again you are having a main function here. So I'll just write diff main. So what you are doing you are calling this particular um okay you are calling this particular function div sorry uh fetch okay fetch data you are calling that and inside main you are having some other code okay you are having some other code as well.

Now what is happening? Just try to see whenever your Python will come here it will see that you are executing a function which function this function you are executing and it will see this particular keyword called essence. Okay, that that time Python will automatically understand that this code you have written it will run in a asynchronous way. That means let's say here you are doing a API call and it is taking some time t1 okay instead of waiting for this particular time again it will come here okay and execute the remaining code you have okay after this function that means at the t time itself this code would be executed and this code would be also executed so you are not supposed to wait for the previous execution so this is called co routine and if you're using this asins these are the things so it internally uses this concept and now we'll go for the practical. We'll uh try to see like practically everything how it works.

Uh then I think your understanding would be more clear. Okay. First of all, I'm going to explain the synchronous programming. Okay. Now here I'm going to write two function.

Let's say for the first function I'm going to write uh fetch DC fetch weather. Okay, fetch weather. Um and the second function I'm going to create def fetch news. P news. Okay.

Now what I'm going to do, I'm going to import the time module as well just to see the execution time. So import time import time. Okay. Now inside that as of now I'm not going to write any logic. Simply I'm going to write just a print statement.

I'm going to give let's say fetching weather data. Then here I'm going to just mention a time uh let's say to fetch the weather data you have to wait for some time. Okay. So this time I'm going to assign with the help of this time module. So here I'm going to give let's say I will be waiting for 4 seconds.

Okay 4 seconds. So it it is for the simulate a network delay. Let's say if you are hitting any kinds of API so definitely to get the response you have to wait for some time. So let's say this time I have set 4 seconds here. Okay.

Now once uh we stop for four 4 seconds. Now simply I'm going to just print let's say weather data fetched. Okay. So this message I'm going to write. Now similar wise here also I'm going to write uh I'm going to write facing facing news data and uh again I'll give some time.

Let's say here I have given 2 seconds and uh once my data uh news fetching is done so I'll tell news data fetched. Okay. So as of now just try to consider this is a function. This will fetch the weather information and this will fetch the news. Okay.

Now if you see this function and this function doesn't have any uh dependency. These two functions are independent. Okay. These two functions are independent. That means if you want to fetch the weather, you don't need the news.

If you want to fetch the news, you don't need the weather. So these are independent function. Okay. But once I will execute this code, okay, let's say if if I write another function here, I'll just write another function def main. Okay, in the main function, I'm going to call uh I'm going to call these two function.

See first of all I'm starting the time just to see the time like how much time it takes to execute the two function. So that's why I starting the start I'm taking the start time then I'm calling these two function together fetch weather and fetch news. You can see fetch weather and fetch news I'm calling then I'm taking the end time then I'm doing the substract operation from end time to start time and this will be uh this will be my execution time of my program. But if you see here these two functions are independent. This these two functions is not dependent.

Although it's independent okay it's not dependent. So what whenever you will call the function you have to wait for the you have to wait for the previous function to be completed to run the next function. This is the issue. Okay. So I can see these two functions are completely independent.

But whenever I'm calling this function, first of all, this function will execute. So let's say whenever you will execute the program. So your interpreter will come here. Okay, your interpreter will come here. Then it will go inside this particular function.

Then it will execute all of the code. And here it will wait for the 4 seconds. Okay, 4 seconds it will try to wait. But see in the four 4 seconds it doesn't have any work to do. So it will be waiting.

Then once 4 secondond is over this code would be executed then your program will come here. Okay then it will be executed. That means first of all the previous function would be executed then the next function would be executed. So you can also check. So let's say if I want to show you.

So I'll call this particular main function here. Okay. I'll call this main function. Now if I execute see facing weather it is waiting for 4 seconds. Now weather fetch.

Now see facing news. Now it wait for 2 seconds. then news face and total time taken you can see 6 uh point something seconds. Okay. Now you can also take this code uh in one of the amazing website called python tutor.

Python tutor.com. Here also you can visualize this code. Let me open the python tutor. Now I'll select the python programming.

I'll paste my code here. Visualize the execution. Okay. Now it has started. Okay.

It has started. Now simply time is not defined. Okay. So the basically I need to import the time here. Right.

So let's edit the code. So here I'll import the time module for time. Now I'll visualize the execution import time. It's giving you an error. Time f not found or supported.

Only these modules can be imported. Okay. Because this is a like a website. Okay. Python tutor website.

So here you can you can't import any uh let's say these are the library you can't you can import but some other library you can't import. So for this what I can do I can remove the time as of now I just wanted to only just let you know that how it is executing. Let's say I will also remove the time part. Uh here also I'll remove the time part here also and here also. Uh let's say this is my message.

Okay this is my simple message. Let's say executed. Now simply do the visualization. Okay. Now see um here I have the control.

The first of all Python interpreter will come here. Uh it has seen like here I am having a function called fetch weather. Then it will go to the next line that is next function. then it will go to the next function which is main and in the main function you can see uh I'm calling here this particular main function so it will go into into the main function and it will see like I'm calling fetch weather function okay so it will go inside fetch weather and it will do all of the operation okay see it is doing all of the operation now let's say this function is taking some time so it will wait okay it will wait for 2 minutes 1 minutes okay how much time it is taking it will try to wait for Right. So once execution is completed then again it will come here.

Okay. Then you can see it will execute another function which is fetch news. Now again it will go inside fetch news and it will do all of the execution and try to come here. That means you have to wait. Okay.

You have to wait for the previous execution to be complete. Then you will be able to run the new code. Okay. That's how you have to wait. Okay.

You have to wait uh for the previous execution. And definitely it is taking lots of time. And now just try to consider if you're running a multiple agents together and if it is running synchronously. So first of all first agent would be completed second agent would be completed. So execution time it will take more that time we run it is an asynchronous way.

So that we are not need to open we don't need to open for uh we don't need to wait for the previous execution. Okay the time it is taking it's completely fine. I will simultaneously run for all of the function and you'll be executing together. Okay. So now we'll try to see that particular example as well how it will work.

Now we'll see this synchronous programming sorry asynchronous programming asynchronous programming. Now here to uh implement asynchronous function you need to import one library called import sorry import. Okay. Assence io okay as io this particular library and I'm going to also import time library let's me import all of them then here I'm going to again write the same function same function I will copy the code and simply I'm going to mention here now instead of giving simply this definition I'm going to write asins keyword okay before that now once I have written as keyword Okay, as since keyword at the first of this particular function now Python will automatically understand I need to run this function in asynchronous mode and here it is taking the time. So maybe I can use another keyword here called ait.

Okay, a so simply I'm going to give it here. Okay, even you can also return something if you want. Okay, you can also return like uh what is the return this function will be returning for you. H now sim uh same uh similar wise I'll also do it for this particular function so essence okay now simply here I'm going to write a okay have it so why you are writing a here because here it is taking the time okay here it is taking the time and uh whenever here it is taking the time your python uh interpreter will come here and whenever it will see the ait so it will tell like you don't need to wait for this particular execution so you can execute your other uh code okay whatever you have so this code would be executing and at the same time you can also execute your other code okay I'll tell you okay how it will execute uh then uh simply in the main function also I'm going to make it as ess as okay essence and uh here uh instead of calling like that I'm going to simply call it as a uh as since io dot gatherthered okay there is a function and inside that you have to give the fetch weather fetch weather uh function and fetch news function both you have to provide okay then you can uh calculate the end time and simply you can print the time taken of this particular function now if you want to execute uh what you can do you You can simply uh you can simply call this main function. How you can use the aid keyword main.

Now see if I execute see what will happen. Okay. Um there is a error. Oh sorry uh whenever you are using this average right you don't need to use the time that time uh you can use essence uh essence io. sleep.

Okay. So you are not supposed to use time that time. Okay. You have to use essence io. Okay.

Now same things I'll be giving it here. Same things I'll give it it here. Uh now I think it is fine. Now let's execute. Now see guys it has taken only 3 seconds and if I show my previous code it has taken 6 seconds.

Okay. So the time reduced by half. Okay. The time reduced by half. Just try to consider.

Now just think like this is a big program. Okay. This is a big program. This is a big agents and it is running so many stuff. Now if you run it run it in a synchronous programming.

Now just try to consider how much time it it should take. Okay. But if you are using asynchronous programming see it will be reducing the time half. Okay. because it is running everything in parallel.

It is running everything in parallel. Okay. So you are not supposed to wait for the previous execution to be complete. Okay. So all of the executions are doing simultaneously.

Okay. So that's why this asynchronous programming okay this asense IO is required whenever you are implementing uh any kinds of AI agents uh with any kinds of framework whether you are using autogen you are using langraph you're using crew AI try to use this particular things in your development okay this is good practice there are two concept you'll be getting which is uh the first is para leism Okay. And the second thing you will be getting qy. So what is parallelism? Running multiple uh tasks simultaneously using multiple trades.

Okay. Or process. And what is uh concurrency? So let me write it here. Um simply here I can write concurrency.

Concurrency means uh managing multiple tasks that can start run and okay finish with over overlapping times. Okay. So, let me uh show you a graph. I think by seeing the graph you will be able to understand what is the exact meaning. So this is the graph.

So this is the concurrency. You can see uh task is running. Okay. Context switching to the task two. Then again task one is running.

Again it is doing the context switching. Okay. But in parallelism you can see it is utilizing okay it is utilizing multi uh multiore. Okay. Let's say uh in the first CPU core it is running task one and in the second CPU core it is running task two but here it is only utilizing the same code only but doing um doing this uh concurrency operation.

Okay. So guys I think you have seen this asynchronous concept. Uh the main thing is that right now all of the orchestrator framework uses this kinds of asynchronous uh functionality in their back end. So we don't need to manually uh use the asynchronous inside our development inside our code but if you want you can also use uh if you want you can also uh design your own pipeline design your own agents that time you can write the code from scratch but whatever u let's say u orchestrator framework we'll be using like langraph then autogen crew ai right so everything uh already having this kinds of things are integrated okay in the back end. So I don't need to take care this part.

But in future whenever I will do some coding maybe these are the terminology will come that time um I want you to don't uh actually uh confuse with the syntax. Okay that's why I have clarified each and everything before I go ahead with the AI agents implementation. So in this video I'm going to discuss another very important topic especially whenever you are creating any kinds of AI agents application. uh the terms is pientic. Okay.

So first of all I will give you the idea why this pientic is required and uh without pentic what would be the problem then we'll try to understand the entire pyic concept. So this is my promise of uh if you complete the entire video guys I think you should not be having any kinds of uh doubt related uh pientic whether you are working in uh AI agents whether you are working with any other let's say uh AI application development because everywhere nowadays we use this particular pentic concept okay for the data validation so I think you already know that uh in python all of the variable is uh dynamic variable. Uh basically we uh use the dynamic concept here that means uh here we don't mention any uh data type okay of a variable. Let's say if I'm creating a variable named um a and inside that if I'm storing uh let's say one integer value which is four you can u actually um remove that four and you can also store any other data type let's say string flo or boolean any kinds of data type in the same variable itself okay without uh actually mentioning the data type okay so that's how python works uh it works actually dynamically everything in short any other programming language uh we use the static approach. So there we uh first of all mention the data type then we uh create the variable and stores the data but in Python actually everything works uh as a dynamically.

So here you don't need to mention the data types or any kinds of let's say uh hints related that right. So guys to make you understand what I'm going to do I'm going to open my computer screen and there I'm going to discuss each and everything related uh to this pientic. So guys uh here you can see um I'm inside my computer screen. So first of all I have mentioned the pyentic uh definition like what exactly the pyic is. So as you can see Pentic is the most widely used data validation and uh settings management library for Python utilizing type hints to ensure data structure integrity.

As you can see it validates parts data at runtime to match specified types making it essential for building robust APIs and handling external data with it uh with its core logic written in Rust for high performance. So this is the definition of pientic. Um basically we use this pientic for the uh data validation. Uh I'm going to u tell you about more uh more about this data validation. What is data validation?

why it is required and u I mean how it actually uh solves one amazing problem actually uh whenever we try to create any kinds of end to end application uh especially whenever you are working inside AI domain if you're working in machine learning deep learning uh generative AI agentic AI anywhere uh whenever you are developing the application uh you have to use this pientic okay now here I have listed down some key features and benefit of the pientic as you can see Here are some key features and benefit. So for data validation and parsing we use this pentic. Uh so here you can see defines how data should be structured using standard Python types automatically enforcing the uh these rules. uh basically see uh inside aentic why it is required because here we'll be working with the large language model and you know that large language model u always will give you the output in unstructured manner and if I want to get a structured output if I want to get the relevant response only that time this pentic data validation is required and whenever we are also passing any kinds of input prompt okay we have to also make it structured so that uh I can get uh the efficient response from my large lang based model. Okay, instead of giving some unstructured data as an input then uh for the type uh hint and integration.

So uses Python uh type annotations to define schemas reducing uh the needs for verbose validation code. Then definitely for the fast performance uh we will be using that uh basically it is written in rust uh actually language that's why it is extremely fast. Then strict and lax mode is available inside this pyic. Okay. Basically uh here you can um uh do the uh enforcing strict type and you can also perform the um you can also performing this uh lax mode.

Okay, for converting let's say uh any other data type to another data type. Okay, this is also possible here. Then uh clear error handling. Okay, provides detail errors when the data validation fails. and JSON schema generation.

Pyntic models can easily generate JSON schema for documentations or validation uh in other languages. Okay. Now it is telling pyentic models. What is this pyentic model? I'm going to tell you.

So this is nothing but a class. Okay. We create a class uh and we inherit with this with this pyic actually base model. Okay. So that's why we call it as a pyic models.

So whenever I'm going to show you the practical that time it would be more clear. Okay. So first of all uh let's try to understand the problem okay problem without this pentic if I'm not using pyntentic so what will happen and what would be the issue actually we'll be having okay then I'll try to use the pidentic and uh I'm going to show you the benefit itself so for this I'm going to turn off my camera window guys so that you can see the entire screen uh you don't miss any kinds of code snippet okay whatever I'm going to write I think that would be good for you so guys whenever we are working with any kinds of application whether it's related MLDDL or aentki it doesn't matter uh we will be working with the data for sure right so let's say here I'm going to uh take one example I'm going to let's say create a function I'm going to name it as u let's say um let's say add or let's say uh add patient data. Okay. So this is my function.

So basically this will take the name of the patient and age of the patient. Okay. Um now what I'm going to do let's say this function uh add this informations to the database that means the hospital database. But as of now uh I'm giving you the demo. So here I don't have any kinds of database.

So simply what I'm going to do I'm going to print uh those uh variable here. Okay. So let's say I'm going to print the name and I'm also going to print the age. Okay. So once it is done maybe I can give you a message called um data addit successfully.

Okay. So let's say this is my message. Okay. Once let's I will call this function. It will add this informations to the database.

And here I will get a message. Let's say database um data added successfully to the database. Okay. Let's say this is my masses. Now let's say if I execute this code uh let me take some cell.

So if I want to let's say um insert the data first of all I have to call this function add patient data. So inside that let's say I'm going to give the patient name. Let's say I'm going to give BP and age is 25. Okay. Now let's say if I just execute the code, you will see that BP and the age has successfully added to the database.

That means it's working fine. Okay. Now let's say this code is written by the senior programmer and uh he has given this code to the junior programmer. He told like okay this is the function and this function you can use for adding any kinds of uh let's say patient informations to the hospital database. Okay.

Now what junior programmer will do definitely you will see the like um uh function definition. So you can see this function definition is that uh this function takes uh two argument. One is the name and another is the age. And the data type is any. That means you can pass any kinds of data type here because here I haven't strictly mentioned you have to pass uh string or you have to pass integer float.

Okay, this kinds of uh let's say type hinting I haven't done. So what he will do he will try to add any kinds of data here. Okay, maybe let's say um he has given BP here patient um let's say name. Now he can also give the age like that. Let's say instead of 25 like that he will write like that 25.

Okay, 25 in string. Now if I execute this code, still see my data is added to the database. But whenever let's say senior programmer is trying to fetch this data. Okay, let's say there is another function. That function fetch the data.

So whenever let's say he's fetching the data, let's say he wants to uh he wants to filter out those patient u the patient age is above 25. Okay. So what he will do? You'll let's say write a condition if uh patient okay if patient age is uh let's say greater than greater than 25 okay 25 then he will try to let's say call those patient okay he has tried to call those patient now just try to see here my junior programmer has added the patient information like that in a string format 25 but again senior program is trying to filter out the patient informations by the integer data type okay definitely this kinds of uh I mean filter I can't ever perform on my database if you're using SQL I think you know that you can't do that because here it is a string type here you are um giving the integer type so definitely this patient will be missed that time okay not only this patient uh I mean similar kinds of if you're doing the same thing instead of giving the integer if you're giving the uh string type that time patient will definitely missed out okay for the filter operation so this is the like problem now you can tell okay then I can easily solve this problem so what I can do maybe uh instead of uh giving it like that so what I will do let's say I'll try to maybe add a condition here so simply here I'll add a condition so If type first of all I'll check the type if type of name is equal equal okay equal equal string str and type of age is integer okay then I'm going to um sorry then I'm going to insert the informations to the database okay otherwise in the else condition I'm going to give a error ES okay so I'm going to raise exception raise let's say type error type error so here I'm going to tell uh invalid data type for the name and age name should be string and s should be in the integer format okay now let's say if I execute this code and now let's say if I am trying to add right now uh these kinds of things. Okay.

So what will happen? Okay. One more thing I have to add which is uh the hinting type hinting. So name variable should be string and age as variable should be integer. Now if I execute now see if junior programmer comes here and he uh if he sees see the uh let's say function definition he will be able to see that okay this function takes two argument.

One is name should be string and s should be integer. Okay. So let's say if I give integer data right now let's say 25 it will work perfectly okay there should not be any kinds of error but if is trying to give like that let's say again 25 so definitely that time one error would be coming here okay now it is working completely fine it's not like that uh you won't be able to do that you will be able to do that now your uh senior programmer will be able to fetch the information very easily because you are following the same data type. Okay, whatever data type your senior programmer expected okay so this is the thing but the problem is that let's say whenever you [clears throat] will be creating a big application it's not like that you will be creating a single function there would be lots of function okay so let's say you want to create another function uh let's say the function name is update information okay update patient information instead of add patients maybe I can add update patient data. Okay, that time again it will take the name and age of the patient.

Again you have to check this condition. Okay, you have to check this condition whether name is a string and age type is integer. Then you will allow to update. Okay, let's see here I can tell um update uh update uh let me accept this uh data updated successfully in the database otherwise what I will do I'll just try to raise the invalid uh let's say array but uh whenever we be creating the real application it's not like that we'll be working with uh two to three input data there would be lots of data and for all the data I have to write this particular condition okay so again this is a manual task we have to do and how many function you'll be creating in every function you have to definitely check that okay you have to definitely check that let's say another condition comes up the condition is uh condition is let's say um yeah definitely let's say you have given your data type it should be name should be string and it should be integer it's completely fine but let's say your junior programmer insert the data like that let's say instead of giving uh positive 25 he will be giving negative - 255 type now age can't cannot be never never negative right age cannot uh uh I mean it should not be negative but if I let's say add this negative number again it will be adding this particular number successfully okay but this is another issue definitely right now you can tell me okay then what I can do maybe I can uh add another condition here so what I will do let's say uh here maybe I will add another condition inside this in uh add patient data. So here I'm going to check another condition.

If the age is uh uh if age is greater than okay um age is greater than equal um zero that time I will allow this condition. Okay, I'll allow this condition otherwise I will raise another exception h cannot be negative. Okay, and this uh um uh this uh already I'm checking this information whether it is a string or integer. Okay, so this is the else block for this particular if and this is the else block for this particular if. Okay, now here I have written the multi- uh conditional statement.

So here also you have to do the same thing. Okay, here also you have to do the same thing. Okay. So, so I'll remove this part. Okay.

Here also you have to add the same thing. Now if I execute this code now see now it will um check that and it will raise the value um value error that means h cannot be negative. But if I'm passing the positive that time it will be working. There should not be any kinds of problem. Okay.

But every time whenever the condition is changing okay uh because it's it is true right whenever you are creating a application your application should handle this kinds of scenario because as a user I can pass anything right um I can pass anything I can pass negative number I can pass string number anything I can pass in your application but your application should uh handle this this kinds of scenario your application should validate the data I'm passing whether it is validated or not. Okay. So either you can do this validation by writing this kinds of manual conditional statement. Either you can use the pientic one. Okay.

Pentic data validator. So how to use pyic? I'm going to tell you but I was just showing you the problem. What would be the problem if you're using this uh like traditional approach traditional conditional approach. So here you have to write this kinds of condition manually every time.

Okay. And again if you're creating any other function again you have to rewrite the code and your code size would be very big that time. Okay. So this is the problem. Now let's try to see how to use this pentic to solve this problem.

Now here I have already written how to use the pyic. So in pentic first of all we'll define a pyntic model that represents the ideal schema of a data. Now what is model? Okay model means model means this is a class. Okay.

Here we'll try to define a class of pentic. Basically we'll try to uh inherit with the pidentic based model. Okay. After that we'll try to uh define the schema here. Okay.

We'll try to define the schema. Now what is schema? I'll tell you. Uh then uh the second thing uh in uh instantiate u model with raw input uh usually a dictionary or JSON like structure. So once my uh let's say pentic models is pentic class is ready.

I will prepare my data. Okay. I'll prepare my input data in uh in a dictionary. It should be uh definitely in a dictionary or JSON like format. Uh then uh we'll try to pass the validated u model object to the functions uh functions.

Um okay here I missed one thing. Uh see here basically what we will do pentic will automatically validate the data uh whether it is correct format or not the data we are passing if does not meets the model requirement pentic raises the validation error okay then once let's say my uh data validation meets it is uh let's say validated successfully that time uh it will try to I will try to pass the validated uh model objects to the function the function we have created okay for any kinds of logic let's say for database insertion or update database insertion we can pass to that particular function and our code will be working. Okay. Now this thing we'll try to see in a practical manner. So for this uh first of all you have to install the pyentic inside your environment.

So how to install pyic maybe in the requirement.txt txt you can mention the pyntic package and definitely you just try to take pyic uh like more than one that means uh it should be pentic two version because in two function there are lots of update came but don't use one version because what one version that was older and there you will be getting lots of issue okay I'll try to suggest you use uh this pyic two or more than two okay you can use this one now once you have added in the requirements so simply you can open up your terminal and just write this command pip install hypena requirement.txt. So it will be installing this pyantic inside your environment. Okay.

So for me it is already satisfied because initially I already installed this pyic in my environment. So once it is done um this is the notebook guys. I'm also going to share you all of the source code in the description section. From there you can download and you can try in your system. Now here you definitely select the kernel the environment you are creating.

Just try to select that. So for me I have created this LLM demo. I'll try to select this. Now here I'll be doing the coding example. Now first of all here you have to import this uh pientic based model from pientic.

So you have to import like that from pientic. So I'm getting the code suggestion because here I'm using uh this Microsoft copilot. Um yeah so maybe I'll take the suggestion. So from pentic pentic import I'm going to import the base model first of all. Okay.

So first of all I'm going to show you the simple example then I'm going to um show you the advanced example of pyic as well. Okay first of all let's start with the simple example. Now once it is imported now what I'm going to do guys I'm going to simply write a pentic class. Okay so let's say the class name is patient okay patient data. So let's say this is my class and definitely you have to inherit this particular class with base model.

Okay. So this is called actually pentic model. So this becomes actually padentic model. Right? Now inside that you have to define the schema.

So schema means like how many data you will be using. Okay. So here I'll be using two data. One is the name other is the age because I'm replicating the same example previously I have given. So here I was considering name and age.

Okay. These two information only. And here I have mentioned the name should be in a string and age should be in integer. Okay. Now what I'm going to do, I'm going to again maybe copy the same uh function I created or or let's write that.

So div add patient data. Okay, add patient data. So this was the function previously I written. Okay, but there I passed this name and uh name and uh directly. But here you don't need to give like that.

So here what you have to do you have to uh you have to give the uh you have to give the pentic object. Okay. But before that uh let me show you what to do. So as of now let's uh just pass it. And now the second step we have to uh in uh instantiate the model with the raw input.

Uh so we have to prepare our raw input. So input should be in a dictionary or JSON like a structure. So let's try to prepare the input. So input is basically my patient information. So patient patient data is equal to um it should be a dictionary.

First of all I will add the name. Okay. Name NH. Okay. So, this is a dictionary format.

Now, what I will do, I'll just try to just try to pass uh this particular data to my uh to my where to my pentic object. So, here what is the pyic object? Pentic object is nothing but my patient data. Okay. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to pass it to the patient data.

So here let's try to create um object of patient okay patient let's say this is the um this is patient is equal to um patient data and we'll be passing the data and here I have given two star because this is a dictionary and we have to unpack the value right key and value so that's why We are given this uh two uh star here. Two star means you are unpacking the data. Okay. Now this will become a pyic object. Okay.

Now we have created a pentic object. Okay. Now this particular object will be passing to the function. All of the function will be creating here. Whether it's a add patient data, update patient data will be um like passing those informations inside the function.

Now right now this function uh can't take the name and a separately. Instead of that it will take what? It will take the patient. Okay, patient object that means the pidentic object. So that means here I can uh make this particular input name is at patient and the type of the patient should be patient data.

That means this particular class and this is your pentic model right? This is your pentic class. Now why I have given patient data? Because inside that I have prepared the schema. That means this add patient data function takes the data.

Okay, take the data and the what is the data format? Data format should be uh definitely there would be a variable called name and name name should be string and there should be another variable called age. Edge should be integer type. Okay. So that's how we are giving the type.

But initially we are giving the data like that. We are giving the name and we are mentioning okay this should be the string. Then we are giving the s this should be the integer. Okay. But here we're doing the manual stuff.

But here right now we just created a identic class and we're passing this particular class object and it will automatically understand okay what to do what should be the format inside that what should be the structure inside that. This is called actually schema. Okay schema means the data and the date type of the data. Okay this is called actually schema. Now once it is done now simply here I can add the present information.

So simply I can print the information. So right now see I don't I can't actually directly print the name right I can't directly print the name here because we are not taking the name as a name variable we are taking as a patient right so we can call like that patient dot name because inside this particular patient data object we'll be having the variable name okay now we'll do for the same we'll do for the age also so print patient edge okay now once it is done I'll tell data inserted successfully to the database So similar wise I'll create for the update. I'll create for the update. So let's make it as update. Okay.

Now it will again take the same patient uh uh patient data object that means the pentic object and once it is done we'll try to tell data updated successfully in the database. Okay. And everything will remain same. Now let's try to see whether it is working or not. Now simply what I will do first of all let's say I will add the patient data okay add the patient data so inside this add patient you have to pass this patient information okay patient because this is my pentic object we already created with the help of this pentic class now we'll try to pass it there now see bp uh 25 data added successfully to the database now let's say I want to update the data simply I'll call the update patient data inside that I will again pass the patient object.

Now see the patient information is already updated. Now let's say in updated okay so what I can do instead of patient uh I can give patient one let's say you can create multiple patient that time uh you can do that okay patient one patient two like that you can do so let's say this is the patient one information okay this is patient one information this is updated okay so whenever you are doing the update operation so make sure you are giving any other name so simply what I can do see before giving to the update function first of all you have to validate with the help of pidentic so let's say now name is equal to Alex uh let's say this is patient two we are um we are giving this particular raw data to the pentic okay pentic object because here I already told you inst uh instantiate the model with the raw input data so we are initiating the model okay the pentic model with the raw data. The raw data we are passing here. Okay, raw data we are passing here and this is uh doing the validation. If everything is fine uh it will tell okay you can continue then we are giving to the function.

Now see this function is working fine. Okay it should be patient two not patient one it should be patient two. Now see now it's become Alex. Okay. Now the things I want to show you the benefit actually uh using this pentic which is that let's say uh by mistake you have given um let's say string 25.

Okay you have given string 25 instead of giving uh 25. So now what we will do let's say if I execute the code see pyic will not give you any kinds of exception. Instead of that what it will do it will try to convert this string 25 to integer. Okay so you don't need to do it manually. So by default uh actually internally this pyantic will handle this kinds of scenario.

So this will try to convert to the um integer type. Okay, you don't need to manually do that. So here also you can do the same thing. Let's say if I give string 25 your data should be updated successfully. Okay.

Now let's say in future you want to add any other information. So you don't need to update these at the code that time. Okay. Manually. So here let's say you want to add the weight uh weight for the patient.

Okay. So let's say weight usually I can mention with the help of float data type because weight should be float. Now simply what I can do I can also print the weight here. Okay. Now here also I can do the same thing.

I can update the weight. And here you can give the weight information right. Let's say weight is uh 70.5 kg. Now if I add the information see still it will be working.

Okay, I'm getting one error because whenever I'm updating the information here, I haven't passed the weight. I have to pass the weight here. Now see, it will work successfully. Okay, so there should not be any kinds of problem. Okay, but in our previous example, you'll see that every time I have to handle this kinds of scenario manually.

But in pyentic, we don't need to handle that. Okay, we'll try to just prepare a pyic class and in this particular class, we'll try to handle each and everything for me. Okay, but you have to make sure whenever you are giving your raw data, try to first of all validate. Okay, try to first of all validate with uh your pyic then try to pass to the main function. Now I think this particular concept will be clear enough the strict and lax mode.

So basically what it do it attempts uh to uh co uh qu cos the data example converting uh this string one to integer one that means automatically try to convert for you. Okay. But if you want to raise the exception, you can also do that. Okay. Everything is possible here.

And one more thing I want to show you. Now, let's say if you want to add um any other type data, let's say instead of giving this uh uh let's say this is this is a number. Okay. Now let's say you are not giving the number, you are giving like that 70. Okay.

Say 70. Okay. 70. Now see if I execute it will throw you the error. Okay, it will tell input should be a valid number.

Unable to parse the string to a number because we can't convert this uh this text to the number, right? This is not a number. This is a other text. This is a like kinds of word we are passing. Okay.

But it should be a number. Whether you are giving as a string or integer doesn't matter. It should be as a number. So if you're giving as a number that time it will be able to convert it to the integer. Okay.

But if you're giving completely text type it will not allow that time. Okay. So yeah that's how the things work. But this is a very uh basic type example I have given. Now we'll try to move to the advance of this pentic.

I will try to see like more depth validation how it can be done. We can add so many parameters so many stuff here. we can add so many let's say um verification and we can uh make it like more powerful. So guys so far we have seen a very easy example uh of the pentic. Now we'll try to make it uh slight complex.

Okay. Uh so what I'm going to do maybe I can copy the same uh same class. So this is the class. So I'll copy this or I can copy the entire code and I will paste it here. Okay.

Now see here what I'm going to do instead of taking name age and weight maybe I'll take some more uh extra variable. Let's say here I'll take um another uh another data called married. Okay. Whether this patient is married or not. married.

So this should be a boolean um data type because either patient should be married if married it should be yes either no. So if yes or no comes into picture so we can consider in boolean type data type then I can take another um data which is allergies. Okay whether patient is having allergies or not. Okay if he or she is having allergies. So what kinds of allergies uh he or she is having?

See allergies is is it's not a single let's say type. Okay, there should be multiple types. Someone got allergies from let's say dust. Someone will be getting allergies from any kinds of food, right? It should be different different let's say type.

So [clears throat] that's why we'll be taking as a list. Now you can ask me why I'm taking this particular things as a list. Okay? Because it should be list of allergies. Okay?

uh let's say uh one patient will have uh might have multiple allergies okay type or let's say one patient would have only single type okay so instead of taking a single type maybe we can take a list of the type uh I mean list type so that if one patient is having multiple allergies so I can easily store them right but if you're taking list so you don't need to directly um I mean write this list okay if you are I mean writing in that way it should it it won't be working so for is what you have to do you have to import this list from the typing module. So you just need to import list from typing module. So there is a module called typing and in this typing we'll we'll be having all kinds of typing okay inside python. So we are importing the list. Okay, we're telling we need a list.

Now it should be a list. Okay, so here we'll be telling this should be a list type. Okay, now I can't actually write list like that because see what will happen if I open up my blackboard. See patient is having allergies. Okay, all allergies is nothing but it's a list.

Okay, it's a list. Now the thing is that inside that we have to write the allergist type. Let's say this is dust type and what is dust? Dust is a string right now let's say food. Okay food is also a string.

Okay so type cannot be any kinds of number. Okay it should be a definitely a string type. That's why I'm telling u the list we are creating of the allergies inside the list will be storing a string type data. Okay. because allergist type should be always a string.

So that's how whenever we are creating any application we have to think about the data type what should be the data type okay uh the data we are getting what should be the type okay you have to think about in that way so allergies should be list and inside list the data we'll be storing it should be string okay that's why we can uh write this particular syntax and this is called schema okay we are creating the schema right now and we are extending this particular pentic model I think you get it right now I'll add another let's say data which is contact okay contact information. So contact information let's say I want to keep it as a dictionary. Uh let's say someone will pass let's say um contact information like that. Uh let's say um he or she will be writing in that way. Let me tell you.

So contact we want to take it in that way. Let's say contact info is equal to it should be a dictionary. So inside that first of all user will pass the email address. Okay. So let's say this is the email address.

Okay. And this is my phone number. Okay. Phone number. Let's say this is my phone number like that.

Okay. I think you are getting and this should be also string type data. Okay. So that's why uh I'll be taking this contact info as a dictionary. Now inside this dictionary uh I'm going to mention okay I'm going to mention what kinds of data I want to take dictionary should be string type okay key should be also string value should be also string okay that's why we're mentioning the data type and this is a dict and again I can't use the python uh default dictionary function I have to import from this typing Okay.

So simply I'm going to import this dict. And now I'll mention it here. Okay. That's it. Now let's try to um execute.

But before executing I think you have to know we have to prepare the raw data. Now let's try to prepare the raw data. So we are already getting the suggestion. We'll accept that. So here you can see we have added uh we have added uh this uh one married.

Yeah. married. So this is we have added this is true. Uh you can also give it as a string. You can also give it as a boolean.

It doesn't matter. It will work. Then uh you can uh see we are giving the allergies. So allergies we are giving as a list. As you can see we are having an um allergies from peanuts and selffish.

Okay. Then uh we are giving the contact info. Let's say this is my email address and this is the phone number. Okay. Now let's try to execute uh whether uh it is able to work or not.

See I'm not going to update uh these are the function. You can if you want you can also update with all of these variable. You can print all of them but uh let's do it quickly. So here I'm going to do I'm going to simply execute. Okay.

Now see uh information is added successfully. That means it's working fine right now. But in some case let's say if I am giving instead of let's say uh this u allergies instead of giving this string if I'm giving any kinds of integer number let's say 23 okay it will give you the error okay it will tell one validation error from this patient data that means the pentic model so allergies it is coming from the allergies okay allergies field input should be a valid string not the integer okay so that's how You can specify this one. So I'll come here again. I'll change it now.

Execute. See it will work perfectly. Okay. So that's how any okay any kinds of type you can mention inside your pentic model. Okay.

Any kinds of speak uh schema you can mention inside your pyic model. Everything is possible here. Okay. So guys uh we have seen um another example. uh now I'm going to talk about uh this required and optional fields.

Okay, what is this required and op optional fields? Let's try to understand. See whenever we are creating this schema right we are creating this pentic model uh that time uh whatever data we are taking right whatever data we are uh let's whatever schema we are um writing we have to give all of this field right we have to give all of this field whenever we are preparing the raw data so if you skip any of them okay so if you skip any of them what will happen so let me show you the example I'll copy this code I'll add it here let's say these are my schema right let's say I I I will let's say um I will let's say um not provide this allergies. So what will happen? So if I remove the allergies from here, let's say I will completely delete this allergy field.

Okay, I'll delete this. Now if I execute it will throw you an error. Okay, it will tell one validation error from uh patient data allergies field required. Okay, but you haven't given this particular data. So this is the issue.

Okay. Now let's say uh I want to make it as optional. Let's say if user is not also giving this allergy, it's completely fine. It should be completely optional. That means my code will still execute.

So for this what I can do? I can make it optional. So to make it optional, simply you have to import optional from typing. Okay, optional from typing. And you have to pass this data type inside the optional.

Okay, inside the optional. And one more thing you have to define which is one default value which is none. Okay. So I'm getting one error. Let me check.

Okay. The error I'm getting it should not be parenthesis. It should be this square bracket. That's why that error was coming. Now it's fine.

Okay. Now this allergies uh field should be optional. If you are also not giving it's completely fine. uh um I mean it will still work and by default this allergies uh field uh will get one value which is none. I can show you by printing that.

So what I can do I can print it. So just for simplicity let let's remove this function. Okay I'll only keep one function. So here I'll just try to print patient dot allergies. Okay.

Now if I see show you my data there uh there I already removed this allergist field. Now if I still execute it will work and you can see this allergies parameter is getting none. Okay, this is getting none because the default uh default value I have set as none. Okay and it is completely optional. If you give also it will work.

Okay, if you skip it, it will also work. Now let's say if I give this value so after married I think I'll copy from my previous example this special data and I will pass it here. Okay. Now here I have given this allergies field. Now if I execute still it will work but now it will take the value because we have given the value itself.

Okay. But if you don't give it still it will work but it will take as a none. Okay. Now one more thing I told you about the default value. See you can also set the default value to any kinds of field.

Let's say in the married one I can set any kind of default value. Okay. Let's say if user is not giving any kinds of value still it will take the default value. Let's say married is equal to by default I will be make it as false. Now if I let's say remove this married field as well still it will work.

So that particular okay I can print and show you here I'll print it patient domarit now see by default it is coming as a false okay that means you can also pass any default value if you want. Okay. And you can also make any kinds of field as optional. Okay. This is also possible here.

So guys, we have seen the optional and required field. Now I'm going to show you another uh example which is related data validation. So in Pentic, I told you uh we can also perform the data validation if you want. Uh see uh data validation means let's say the data you are giving uh you can also validate whether it is in same uh format or same let's say it follows the same uh same structure or not. Okay.

So for an example, I'm going to uh let's say take one example. I'll copy the same code. So this is like becoming big line. So what I can do maybe I can just press an enter just to make it as a little bit shorter. Okay.

So what I'm going to do I'm going to take another variable called email. Okay. As of now let's try to consider um I'm also taking one informations from the patient. Uh that means his email and here I'm going to remove the email. Okay.

So in contact information let's only I'm going to take his phone number. Okay. This is fine for us. So email I'm going to take it as se separately. So what I can do you can tell me okay I can make it maybe string because email usually would be any kinds of string type data yes or no right but if I'm taking as a string type data so what will happen let me show you so let's say I'm taking as a string type data email and now uh after name I have to pass the email so let's say email okay email should be email so this should H.

Okay. So let's say BP at the rate example.com or let's say B at the rate uh gmail.com. Okay.

Let's say this is my email. It's completely fine. Okay. Now let's see if I execute it will work. See it is working fine.

There is no error. Okay. But let's say if I not giving this at the rate sign. Now if I still let's execute my code, it will be working. Okay, although this email format is not good.

Okay, although this email format is not correct but still my uh code is working. Okay, then what is the use of that? So here actually data validation comes into picture. So basically see if I am doing manually with the help of Python. So you can tell me okay I can use regular expression library and I can validate whether this email it is correct or not.

Okay, I think you know with help of regular expression also we can handle this scenario but we are using the pyic. Okay, and definitely we are using it for my benefit. Right. So in pentic instead of giving this email as a string you can also give this particular format um to the email format. Okay.

So inside this pyic we're having another function called email string email str. Okay. So what this email list here does it does the data validation that means it will automatically check whether you are what kinds of email you are giving it is in correct format or not. If it is not correct format that that time it will throw you the error. Okay.

Now instead of giving this uh string maybe I can give this email list here. Now what will happen now? See if I execute this code if I execute this code it will throw you error. The error should be uh this email. Okay value is not valid email address.

Now unless and until I'm not giving the valid email address. Let's say if I give this at the red sign right now now it will work perfectly. Okay, there should not be any kinds of issue. So that's how you can perform the data validation. Before giving the data, we can validate whether data we are passing it is it is um incorrect format or not.

It is validated or not. Okay, I think you get now similar uh um similar things you can do with another let's say data validator. uh the name of the data validator is like any URL. Okay, any URL actually validates any kinds of u um let's say web URL. The web URL you are passing whether it is uh in correct format or not.

So let's say uh I'm also giving the patient uh LinkedIn information. Okay. So let's say this is uh this is a IT uh IT patient hospital. We are only taking the IT IT patients. Okay.

it I it background related patients and we are also taking their LinkedIn profile okay to our database so what I'm going to do maybe I can create another field here I'm going to name it as LinkedIn uh link then okay LinkedIn URL um yeah and the type should be any URL because this should be a URL format right any URL now here what I'm going to do I'm going to pass a URL, LinkedIn URL. So I'm already getting a suggestion. So maybe I can hit another enter. Okay. So here we are taking the URL as you can see w https uh/ww um dot uh or let's say I will copy my LinkedIn profile.

So this is my LinkedIn profile. uh I will add it here. Okay. Now see if I execute this will this thing will work fine. Okay.

There should not be any error. But let's say if I'm not giving this https. Okay. If I'm only giving this ww or let's I'm also removing this ww. Okay.

Now if I execute see it will give you the error. It is telling input should be a valid URL. Okay. Otherwise it should not be working. So this is the work of data validator.

Okay. That's how in ping pyntic there are some default validator um validator uh are present. Uh you can simply see the documentation and you can do the validation. Okay, if you want this is possible here. Now one more thing I will show you which is uh let's say uh here we used uh some of the um I mean already available uh data validator um validator like email uh email string then any URL okay but let's in some cases uh there should be some of the data uh and for those data this kinds of validator won't be available okay that time how you can actually validate those data let's say uh here what I can I can show you one example.

Let's say here the name we are passing um I want to make a restriction and the maximum length of a name should not be more than uh 50 character. Okay. That time how I'm going to do this kinds of validation. Okay. So for this we can use the custom um custom validator and we can write this custom validator with the help of one uh one amazing actually function called field.

So what you can do uh you can simply import this field from pentic. So you have to import this field from pentic. Just a minute. Yeah, you have to import this field from pentic. Now here simply you just need to define this.

Okay, let's say name that should be string. And here I'm going to write the field. Okay, field. inside the field I'm going to tell the maximum length of a name should uh should be only 50 character okay it should not be above 50 character okay now let's say if I execute my code it will work fine completely because right now the name I'm using it is less than 50 character but if you increase it let's say I will add something big okay now if I execute ute you'll see that it will throw an error. The string should be have most um 50 character.

Okay. So that's how you can do the data validation uh in your custom data if you want. So like that I can also let's say set to any another field. Let's say I want to restrict the age uh age field here. I want uh whatever age uh user is passing it should be it should be greater than zero and uh lesser than actually let's say 100.

Okay. So for this what I can do? I can add another field here. Uh I'm going to write is equal to field. So there is a parameter called GT.

Okay. GT means greater than greater than zero. And there is another parameter called uh LT. Okay. LT means lesser than.

So here I'm going to tell let's say 100. Okay. Now if let's say user is giving the age let's say minus 25. So this is definitely lesser than zero. So that time it will give you the error because input should be greater than zero.

But we are giving uh lesser than zero. Okay. Now if you're giving the correct information, it is working fine. Okay. Like that we can also let's say add this kinds of validator inside our allergies.

Okay. Let's say this is the list of the allergies we are taking and all all of the values should be string. Now we can also define the field here. So I'm going to write the field. Okay, field.

Uh so here let's say the allergies uh we are taking uh from the user. So only uh user can pass actually let's say maximum five five allergies. Okay, five allergy list. So that time I can define the max length should be five. Okay.

Now let's say if user is giving more than that okay allergies I make it as a optional so what I can do I can maybe add the data here previously I had the allergist maybe I can copy H so from here I can copy Okay. So here I can add it after married I can add the allergies. Married also removed right previously. Okay. Because this was optional.

So here I can add the allergies. It should be a comma. Now if you're giving more value here, okay, that time it will throw you error. Okay, because it should be five item but we are giving more than five. Okay, so this is another issue.

So let me Yeah, now it's working fine. Okay. So that's how guys we can uh set our custom data uh validator. Okay. We can set with that of this field.

Now this field you can also use for another purpose uh to add some other metadata. Okay. To add some other informations about the schema about the pentic model. Okay. I'm going to show you.

So guys now let's try to understand um apart from this um um data validation uh like custom data validation okay where we can use this field okay so see field we can also use for the metadata information let's say whenever we are creating the schema you can also pass any kinds of metadata here okay other informations like description okay some other example you can provide here so that whenever this code is using any other programmer or let's say other let's say uh other person they can easily understand what this field does okay they can easily understand now see the way we have written right now this is completely fine but it does it doesn't have any kinds of information about the name let's say what name does but if I add some other metadata like description and all by reading the description I think other person will easily understand what to do right so for this here I have uh given another demo I have already written this particular demo So see here if you want to write any kinds of metadata metadata um inside your um schema that time you can use this particular field uh function but with that you have to use another function called annotated. Okay so you have to import this annotated from typing. So now you have to write the syntax like that. Okay previously I was writing like that. Okay, I was directly giving the string field and all but right now if you want to write the metadata first of all you have to give the annotated object then inside that you have to define the data type okay the type int let's say this is a string then you will be giving the field so here my field was like maximum length 50 now here I can pass some other metadata like name or like the title okay so name of the patient so the uh so that means this particular name field is nothing but it's a name of the patient and you can also give the description okay what this does this give the name of the patient in less than 50 character then you can also provide some example okay so that by seeing this particular example your programmer can understand okay this actually works like that so here I have given example like bap and Alex so this is less than 50 characters okay so similar wise you can uh use this for all the field you are having let's say I have given some other example I have added this inside the weight okay the same uh see here we mentioned like this is flot here We have given the field.

Okay. Right now I'm going to remove this trick parameter. I'm going to tell you why this is required. Now here you can also provide the description. Okay.

Uh description and all everything can be done. Okay. So this should be mentioned inside field variable. So here you can mention like description. Okay.

Weight of the patient in kg. Then married also I have given the same thing annotated. Then this is boolean type field. uh I have given the default value. So see if you want to give the default value.

So previously how I was giving I was giving like that let's say I was just giving a equal sign and giving the value but right now you're using this field. So inside field itself you can give the default value. Let's say in default is equal to none. So by default it will take as a none. Let's say if you're giving any other let's say true false it will take as true false.

Okay. Now here I have given the description. Okay. Now for allergies also you can do the same thing. You can mention like okay this is uh optional because previously this allergies was optional and the data type is list uh and inside that we are taking the in uh string type data field is uh default value we are setting as a none you can also give the default value if you want and maximum length should be five okay so for contact details also you can do the same thing but I left this part okay now see if I execute this is giving you an error the error is uh field required contact details.

Okay. So the error is that here I have written contact details but here I have given contact information. So here you have to give the same name same name. Now if I execute it will be working fine. Okay.

Now one more thing I wanted to show you which is this trick parameter. Let's say I told you um in my previous demo I think you remember uh whenever let's say we are giving let's say weight is equal to a string number. Okay. But here what is the type I have mentioned? Weight is equal to it should be a float number.

So by default my pentic is converting this particular string to a float because this is the number. Okay. But always it is not necessary to convert it. Okay automatically convert it. Let's say you are creating an application there you only want to take this kinds of let's say number as a string.

That time you should not be convert to the float data type. That time you can uh write one parameter. Uh so here you can write a parameter the parameter name is strict. Okay strict. So you have to make it as true.

Okay. So if you make it as true. So what will happen? You have given uh float type. But if you are trying to give this uh string type it will throw you error.

See it is throwing you error. It is telling weight uh should be uh input um it it should be a valid number float type number. But we are giving string type. Okay, that's why it's not working. So now if I make it as float.

Okay, so it will be working right now. So if you're giving integer also again it will throw an error because here I make it as a strict. Okay, strict parameter. So that's how you have all kinds of customiz customizable option inside Pythic. Whatever you want, you can do everything here.

Okay, this is possible. So guys uh we have seen some uh data validator uh validation actually strategy how we can do that. Now I'm going to uh discuss about this uh um validator um in advanced level. Uh we call it as a field validator. Okay.

So see so far the validation we have done uh this was like the simple validation. Uh so we used some of the predefined validator and uh we also like uh given some some of the like um custom constraint there. Okay. But let's say uh you have some complex scenario where you have to do uh a complete field verification. Okay.

So for an example let me uh let me tell you like um the problem statement. The problem statement is that let's say um the application we have created um let's say this is a hospital application. So basically this stores the patient information. Okay. Then it performs the diagnosis to the patients.

Okay. Now just try to consider this hospital has also connect connection with some of the bank. Let's say uh u some of the bank it has the connection. Let's say HDFC bank it has the connection. ICICI bank it has the connection okay now what happens if it is having the connection with the banks let's say whatever patients are coming from these are the banks so they will be getting 50% discount okay they will be getting 50% discount from this particular hospital and if the patient is not from these are the banks so they have to pay 100% about the money so this kinds of let's say validation I want to add inside this application now how to do that so definitely this is little bit complicated created.

So for this I have already created the code as you can see I just copy pasted the same code but what I have done I just redu uh reduced the u I mean some extra coded uh so that you can uh understand easily see what I have done uh the previous uh uh validation I showed you with the help of annotated I removed each and everything I just taken my previous example okay previous this clean example so here you can see this is the cleaned example okay I have taken the name email age married, allergies, contract. Okay, these are the things I have taken. Now let's say I want to check the email here. Okay, I want to check the email here because only I will understand whether this patient uh he's from any bank or not. How I'm going to understand?

Because patient will give their email address, right? So if I'm a like a very uh I mean common person, so I'll give my common email address like at thegmail.com and all right. But if anyone is working in the bank so definitely they will be having uh their bank domain email address okay let's say hdfc.com or icici.com

okay like that so email is the best u field I can uh do this kinds of validator so for this what you have to do you have to write a custom function okay so the function name is I have given email validator okay you can give any name but I have given email validator and whenever you are creating this function make sure you have to give two decorator One is the field validator. So field validator you have to import from pientic. So you can see I have imported from pientic. Uh field validator and inside that you have to mention which field you want to validate. So here I'll tell I want to validate this email.

Make sure the spelling should be same. Okay. Email field should be validated and another decorator you have to get called class method because this is the method of this particular class. That's why this class method. Now this is my function.

So this function takes two argument. One is the class class object itself. Okay. And this is the value. Value means uh let's say user is giving the email right email address let's say abcdgmail.com

or sdfc.com. Okay. So this is called actually value. So this particular value will come and I have to validate this particular value.

Okay. So for this what I have done I created a list uh I named it as valid domains. So here I just listed all of the bank uh let's say domain. Let's say sdfc.com ici.com.

You can also give any other uh bank domain if you want. Then what I'm doing first of all the value I'm getting from the user let's say whatever email user is passing okay I'm just trying to extract this last part okay as you can see let's say if this is the email address I'm extracting this particular part so this code is doing that so I'm splitting with the help of this address then I'm taking the last value that means this particular part then what I'm checking if domain name not in our valid domain that means if particular this domain name is it is not available inside our valid domains that means this is not U uh this is not a a patient from the bank. Okay. This is a common people. Okay.

So that time I'm raising exception not a valid domain. Okay. Otherwise we are returning the value. Simple. Now let's try uh whether it's working or not.

See here I have given simple email address buppygmail.com. So definitely it will throw error because uh I'm not from the bank. Uh okay. Still it is working.

Okay. The issue is that uh this should be patient data object. Okay. Not patient. uh this should be patient data object uh patient data class.

Now if I execute now see it is giving you error. It's telling value error not a valid domain. Okay that means uh this particular person it is not from the bank. Now say if I give the bank domain let's say I'll give sdfc.com.

Okay. Now it should be working. Still some error. build required merit. Okay.

So here I haven't passed the merit, right? Uh so let's give the merit as well. Married is equal to true. Now if I execute, see it's working fine. Okay.

Because this particular person uh he's from the bank itself. Okay. So that's how you can do advanced level uh uh validation. Okay. This is called field validator.

Now you can also do some transformation with the validation as well. Now let's say I will be working on another example. So one more thing you can do uh with the help of this field validator you can um you can definitely validate but uh if you want you can also do do the transformation. Let's say the name you are getting from the user. Uh you want to store this particular name in a uppercase format always.

Okay. If user is also not giving it's completely fine but you want to make it uppercase and you want to u save inside the database. So for this again you can write another validator uh field validator. So see this is the function I have created called transform name and I told you you have to use two decorator. One is field validator.

Now you have to specify which field I'll tell name field and the class method decorator. Now it will take class object and the value. Now whatever value user is giving that means the name. I'm just doing the upper operation. Okay.

And I'm returning it. Now see uh here I'm giving let's say lower case BP. But if I execute this code still you will see that in the database all of the uh character would be in upper case. Okay. So this is called transformation with the help of this field validator.

That is also uh we can do here. So guys, now we'll understand one another important concept which is model validator. So previously I told you about this field validator. So in field validator uh what uh I was performing. So let's say if I want to do a single field validation that time I was using this field validator.

Okay. But let's say there is a condition you have to verify multiple field. Okay. Multiple field means let's say u the system you have created you want to add another functionality which is let's say if patient age is greater than 60 okay that time in the contact details there should be a emergency number so this kinds of uh validation I want to do okay so that time with the help of only field validator I can't do that because I can't um I can't actually mention two field together in the field validator okay only one field can be mentioned so we solve this particular problem with the help of this model validator So for this this is a very simple concept. So let me show you how to add this.

So here you have to add this uh add this code. So here I'll just try to define the indentation and you have to import this model validator from pi identical. Okay. There is another validator called model validator. You have to import and inside that you have to uh give this parameter as after mode is equal to after.

And here you will be creating the function. The function name is uh validate emergency contract. This will take the class. Okay. And this will take the model.

Model means the entire schema. Okay. So if you give the model that means you can access all of the schema. Okay. Uh from inside this particular function.

So here you can see here I'm checking if model.hage that means I'm extracting the age if it is um greater than 60 and uh emergency not in model. Okay, that means if emergency phone number is not available that time you're raising one exception value error patient older than six uh 60 must have a emergency contact. Okay, then we're retaining the model. Now let's try to check this whether it's working or not.

So let's say right now my age is 25 that means this kinds of uh this condition uh will not match. So it will work fine. So if I execute see it is working fine. There is no error. uh but if I let's say make my age uh to more than 60 let's say 70 now this will throw you error it is telling uh value error patient older than 60 must have emergency contact number now here I have to add the emergency contact number so maybe after the phone number I can add a emergency number now if I execute see it's working fine okay so this is called actually model uh validator so that means if you have multiple uh field verification that time you can use this model validator Okay, inside your application.

Now let's try to understand another concept which is computed uh fields. Now with the help of computed fields, what we can do? Let's try to understand. Let's say in the same example um I want to do another thing. Let's say um here I have added another informations another data called height.

Okay. Now um see what computed field does. It does a computation itself. Okay. Let's say if user is giving any kinds of information and it has to recreate or let's say generate a completely new information by utilizing the same information that time we'll be using computed fields.

Let's say in this case my patient has given me weight and height but I want to calculate inside my pent uh the BMI okay BMI of the patient I'm not taking the BMI from the patient itself instead of that what I want with the help of weight and height I want to calculate the BMI. So that time I'll be using this computed field. So you have to first of all import this computed field from pi identic. We have already imported. Now you have to again uh use this as a decorator and you have to write a function here.

So my function name is BMI and again you have to use another um another actually um uh another uh decorator which is property. Okay, you have to use this property. Uh so the property I think this is already available. uh this property is already available inside Python. This is default one.

So you don't need to import from anywhere. Then this is the function we are writing BMI and we are giving the self parameter and this returns uh the float value. Okay. Because BMI should be float and here we are calculating the BMI. We you can see here we are taking the weight.

Okay. Uh then we are dividing with the help of this height and we are squaring it. Okay. Then we are taking the uh BMI. Okay.

We are calculating this BMI. We are taking the result and this result we are trying to returning it. Now if I want to print this so I I have to just simply write patient.bmi right now see BMI I haven't written here okay inside my schema instead of that I'm calculating it and I'm returning it. So that's why I have to call with the help of this particular function.

Let's say if this function name is BMI test you have to also give BMI test here. Okay this is required. Now simply let me show you whether it works or not. So here I have already given the height. uh height let's say I'm considering in meter and weight I'm considering in kg.

Okay. Now if I execute now see it is also giving you the BMI. Okay. So this is called actually computed field. So if you want to compute anything with uh with the existing uh schema you are having existing data you are having you can use this computed field at time.

So guys now we'll discuss about another important concept inside pentic which is nested model. Uh so sometimes what happens whenever we create the fields um so field might be uh complex field as well. So let me give you one example. Let's say here I have this particular um pentic model that means the class patient data. So here I'm having the patient information like name, gender, age and another information I have which is address.

Okay. Now address field might be complex field because address I can't write in a single uh let's say word. So inside a address there should be three kinds of entity. One is city, pin and state. Okay.

Now here I'm not going to write uh this kinds of syntax. Okay. Because this is not possible here. So instead of that what we can do we can create another actually pentic um class. Okay pyic model and we can make it as a nested.

Okay. Uh so how it can be done? So let's say here I have created my patient data. This is my model. And here I have created another model which is uh address.

Okay. And again I inherited with the help of this base model. Okay. Now here I've given three entities, state and pin. Now first of all I've created the address uh as you can see address dict.

So city is equal to I have given Google state is equal to harana. Pin is equal to this is the pin. Okay. Now this particular address you have to pass where to this address model. Okay.

So we are passing it to the address model. We are unpacking that. Okay. Now this will uh this will return me one pentic object. Okay.

Now I'm going to create my patient information right now. So you can see name uh gender age and now right now address is equal to see what I have done. I have given this particular object this class. Okay. Address should be this class.

So I'm passing this particular object right now. Okay. Address is equal to this address. Then this patient information I'm passing inside my patient uh model. Okay.

Now this is giving you the patient information. Now inside this patient information you are having all of the information whether it is related patient data, whether it is related address. Now let me show you. So here I'm importing first of all all of the patient uh you can see data. So inside patient I am having name age okay and the address.

Okay address object is also available. Now if I want to uh let's say access the name I can do that. If I want to access the address I can also do that. Now let's if I want to only access the patient city. So you just need to write patient uh address dot city.

So this will give you the city. Okay. So that's how you can write this nested models. This is also possible inside pyic. Okay.

I hope you get it. So guys uh one more last thing I'm going to discuss about this pentic which is uh serialization. That means you can also um export your uh pentic object u as a dictionary or as JSON. For this we use serialization. So I have taken the same example.

So only the last part what I have done. So here you can see let's say this is my final object uh of my u nested uh nested model. So what I'm doing I'm just doing model.dum. If you do model dump so what will happen?

It will return you as a dictionary. See you are exporting your object as a dictionary. Okay, you can see this is a Python dictionary. Okay, but if you're using this uh JSON dump, okay, this should be uh string that means it's a JSON format. Now, you can use uh JSON library to export um I mean you can also export it.

You can also dump it and you can also load it um let's say later on. Okay, this is required. Let's say whenever let's say you have created a pyic object okay you have done some data validation and all and you want to uh take it as a take it as a let's say file and uh let's say you want to load it later on you can do do this kinds of serialization okay this is also possible it's like a like in machine learning we train model right after training the model we save the model right we serialize the model so it's kind of that okay now guys uh with that our uh discussion has been end and we have understood all of the concept concept related pyntic. Okay. And I think now you are pretty much comfortable with pyic.

You should not be having any kinds of issue with the pyic whether you are working in uh aentic whether you are working in machine learning deep learning anywhere you will see this kinds of concept will be available. Okay. Now one thing I want to show you. So if I go to Google and if I search like why pyentic is important for AI agent. As you can see uh pyntic is crucial for agent because it brings the structure relability and type safety for software engineering to be uh traditionally unstructured and unpredictable word of large language models.

Okay. By leveraging the Python typhoons and uh runtime data validation. Pyic ensures that AI agents interact uh realy with external docs APIs and databases. Okay. So here are some of the uh you can see uh concept they have given.

you can go through that you'll see that uh at the end this particular concept is very much required whenever we're working with aentki application. Okay. So yes guys I think you have understood all of the concept. If you have liked it please try to subscribe to my channel and share this video with your friends and family. So in this video I'm going to show you how you can implement uh AI agents with the help of this langen.

Okay. But if you're completely new to the langen, if you don't know about anything about the langen, so definitely there would be a prerequisite for this session uh which is the langen and this langen video is already available on my YouTube channel. As you can see, I am having a complete langen crash course on my YouTube channel. The uh video name is ultimate langen crash crash course for developers. Okay, so I'm going to add this uh uh add this video link in the description.

If you're completely new to the langen guys, first of all, go ahead with this particular uh video then you will be able to understand each and everything about the langen then it would be easy for you to understand this langen agent's creation. Okay. But if you already familiar with this langen um you don't need to go through this recording. It's completely fine. You can continue with this particular lecture.

But those who are completely new, I'm telling you guys please try to complete the langen then you can start with the phase three. So in this video I'm going to implement a single agent system uh application with the help of langen. Uh there I'm going to teach you um like what are the things you need to implement this kinds of single uh agents uh let's say workflow uh and how you can utilize langen okay for uh for this particular task. So guys uh in this video we are not only going to implement uh our AI agents after implementing it I will also show you how we can deploy these kinds of agents over the cloud platform. So this is going to be very interesting video uh and this is going to be our first agent.

Okay the first agent uh uh application we'll be creating with the help of Langen. Uh so this is going to be a single agent uh system guys. Don't worry, I'm also going to show you the multi- aent system as well in the next video. Uh so each and everything I'm going to clarify. So make sure you watch this video till the end.

So guys, uh before implementing this AI agents, first of all, let me give you the idea about AI agents. Although I have given you the detailed introduction of AI agents, but let's uh do some quick revision. As you can see, an AI agents is an intelligent system that receives a highle goal from a user and autonomously plans, decides and execute a sequence of action by using external tools, APIs or knowledge sources all while maintaining the context reasoning over multiple steps, adapting to new informations and optimizing for the intented outcome. Okay, that means agentic AI application or AI agents is having a kinds of power. Uh basically it uh it has lots of connection with uh external like tools, APIs or knowledges.

So whenever we are giving any kinds of prompt okay it is taking it as a uh goal okay and with respect to the goal it is planning all of the uh let's say task one by one okay and once all of the let's say task is ready it will try to execute those task okay as sequence and whenever it required any kinds of external tools or APIs it will try to use that okay that means if I give you uh brief idea about the traditional LLM and uh uh and the current AI agents what would be the different between them so let's say I think you know previously we use only large language model right large language model and here we pass a prompt okay prompt so what will happen this large language model will take that prompt and it will give you a kinds of answer or response okay but this large language model doesn't have any external connection with any kinds of tool APIs or knowledge sources. Okay. So whenever you are asking something it should be available in the knowledge base itself of the LLM. That means u this information should be available when they train this particular LLM. Okay.

But the difference of this AI agent is that whenever you are giving a prompt to the AI agents. So definitely internally AI agents is utilizing the large language model as a brain. Right? It is utilizing large language model as a brain so that it can perform the reasoning operation. Okay, reasoning operation and I I think you know why reasoning is required because with the help of this reasoning it will decide when to utilize what kinds of tool or what kinds of external sources APIs or knowledge sources whatever right so whenever we are giving a prompt to the AI agents so basically what it is doing it is trying to utilize the large language model it is performing the reasoning operation okay and when it is required any kinds of external tools for getting the informations it will try to use that particular tools or any kinds of API any kinds of let's say uh external knowledge sources it will try to utilize then this will give you the response okay uh with respect to the prompt you are asking okay but whenever it is doing this kinds of operation so basically it is running some of the plan right internally it is running some of the plan uh it is making the decision okay then it is executing these are the workflow one by one okay so this is called actually AI agents I think you already know that and to make this particular agent okay to utilize these LLM tools and everything we need the orchestration framework okay we need the orchestration framework so with the help of that particular framework we can uh integrate like large language model we can integrate like external tools APIs knowledge base okay then uh we'll try to integrate the reasoning ability so it happens with the help of one orchestration framework so in this video we'll be using langen orchestration framework.

Okay, apart from langchen actually other orchestration frameworks are also available uh which is only designed for AI agents like langraph, crew AI, autogen okay we'll try to discuss definitely but uh I want you to first of all show you the first orchestration uh orchestration framework uh actually lang uh developed okay for the AI agents. So we not only use langen for agent uh generative application development still you can use langen to implement uh these kinds of AI agents but langen is having some like limitation I'll tell you about the limitation in the next video what is the limitation we are having why we have to use lang graph uh crew AI okay these are the things definitely I'm going to tell you each and everything so now let's try to see how we can implement uh these kinds of AI agents uh with the help of this langen. So for this I'm going to open up my uh local uh local actually directory and there I'm going to launch my VS code and all of the setup we'll be doing and we'll start the development. So guys I'm inside my local directory. So here what I'm going to do uh I'm going to open up my visual code studio here.

So let's open up my visual studio code. So this is my Visual Studio Code. Let me zoom and I also need to open up my terminal here. So I'll open up my terminal. Okay.

So the first step here will be uh creating a virtual environment and we'll do the requirement installation for this agent. So let's try to create a file here. I'm going to name it as readme.md and inside that I'm going to mention all of the command you need to execute. So to create a environment you have to uh execute this command.

So contact create rate create n um I'll name it as lang uh lang agent uh that means lang chain agent you can give any name it's up to you. Then you can specify the python version. So, python is equal to I'll be taking uh 3.11 and hyphen y that means I want to give the yes permission. Once it is done, you have to activate the environment and you have to install the requirements.

Okay. Now, you can copy this command one by one and you can execute inside your terminal. So, for me uh this uh environment is already available. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to activate directly. But if you don't have guys first of all try to execute the first command then execute the second command.

So see guys this lang agent is already available. This environment is already available. Now I'm going to add the requirements. So let's create another file here. I'm going to name it as requirement.txt.

Inside that you have to mention all of the requirements for this particular agent. So I have already listed down all of the requirements you need guys. So these are the requirements you need. So I need langen I need langen community I need langen code I need langen openi I need um uh this things I don't need I need request then tabi python and pythonb okay I'm going to tell you why this uh uh this thing are required actually let me tell you see langchen I think you know this is the main framework this is the main orchestration framework and to uh run this langchen you need some other dependency package like langchen community and langen core And uh here we'll be using a large language model because I think you so internally agent uses a large language model for the reasoning and this is the main brain. So for this large language model I'm going to use this open AI.

Okay, open AI provider. So uh from open AI I'm going to use a particular model and uh here you can uh change with any kinds of model if you want. Let's say you can also uh use any free provider like open router. You can also use grock API. Okay, you can also use Gemini API.

You can use anything but I have the open AI that's why I'm going to use the open AI. But whenever you are using this kinds of free model so there are some limitation definitely so you won't be getting any kinds of good response from this kinds of free model. That's why I'm using my open AI model so that I can uh show you the best response I'll be getting from my agent itself. Okay. But this course uh this model is changeable guys.

This provider provider is changeable anytime you can change with any model any provider. So simply you just need to copy that uh model initialization code and if you give to the chat GP and if you ask like let's say I want to use open router this free model so definitely you'll be getting that. So let me first of all uh write the code then I think you will be able to understand. Then request I need let's say if I want to hit some of the URL external URL or external website external API that time I need this request module. Uh I'll tell you why this request module I I'll be using here.

Then tab python. So tab is a tool okay search tool. So with the help of tably what you can do you can perform the internet search operation. Okay. So uh the agents we'll be implementing will try to uh add this tool so that my agents will be able to search any kinds of content over the internet and python.b

I need for the environment management I'll be using open api key. I need dav API key. All of the API key I'm going to mention inside my env. Okay. So let me create a file called env.

So inside that I'm going to mention all of the API key. But first of all you have to install this requirement txt. So let's copy this command. open up the terminal and simply execute that. So for me it is already installed.

Uh it will tell like requirement is already satisfied but for you it will take some time. Okay. So see it has executed. Um okay I think everything is fine. H okay.

So here another package you need which is langen langen hub okay langen hub is also required I'll tell you why langen hub is required so let me install again done okay langen okay spelling is not correct so let's copy the spelling Now I think yeah everything is fine. So for me it is already satisfied for for you it might take some time. So once installation is completed guys. So what I can do I can simply create a folder. uh I can let's say give the folder name as research and inside that I'm going to create a uh Jupyter notebook file.

I'm going to name it as agent uh demo ipy nbv. Okay. Yeah. Perfect. So one more thing I I have to do which is this file.

I will copy this one and I will paste it inside resource as well. Okay. Because uh if I want to execute this notebook file definitely I need this. So that's why I have done that. Uh yeah.

Now guys what I'm going to do I'm going to first of all import some necessary library. But before that let's select our environment. So Python environment which is lang agent. Okay. I'm going to select that.

So simply I'm going to import some required library. So I need operating system. Then I need certify. Okay. Why I need certify?

I will tell you. Then I need request import request. Then I need env. So let me copy all of the input I need here. Yeah.

So I need uh ENB. Uh so I will import load env because with the help of this load envoirment variable and whatever key we are having inside that we can load. Then from langchen openi we are importing chat openi. So this is the class uh we can use to load any kinds of large language model from openi provider. Then we are also importing this tools.

Okay. Why this tool is required? I'll tell you. But as of now, let me delete this option and also delete this uh delete this library because these two things I want to show you later on. First of all, let's create a simple agents.

Then I'm going to show you how we can improve this particular agent. Okay. Then from langen community I'm importing this tably search result. Okay, that means this tab search tool. As I already told you, we are also installing this uh tab python.

So tab is one of the search tool. With the help of that you can perform the internet search operation. So we can import this uh tab from the tool and it is available in langen community. Okay that's why you also install langen community. We are importing tools tab search and tab search result.

Okay so once it is done so simply I'm going to uh okay another package I need which is uh langen hub. Okay. So from langen import hub. So now let me import all of them. So it is asking uh it will install some required IPI kernel package.

So let's install. So if you're doing it for the first time um let's say in VS code first time means in a like uh if you are creating a first Jupyter notebook file and if you're executing so initially it will install some dependency uh IPI related uh package. Okay. So it is installing. Let's wait once this installation is complete then we can execute again.

Okay, it has executed successfully. There is no issue. Okay, now here guys what I'm going to do simply I'm going to um import uh some agent related functionality from langen. So first of all I need um two things. So from langen dot agent okay it is available inside agent module uh I'm going to import create uh create react agent okay so there is a a function we are having called create react agent okay so this thing I'm going to tell you what is this create react agent the full form of this uh react agent is reasoning uh reasoning and action.

Okay, so the full form of this react is reasoning and action. Okay, we can we can call it as a react agent. I'll tell you how this react agent works. Uh what is the mechanism behind it? But as of now just try to think this is the agent uh we mostly use from the langen.

Apart from that some other uh let's say agent function we are having in the langen but this is the most popular one people uses. Okay. um react uh sorry reasoning and action agent. Now once it is done I'm going to import another functionality which is agent exeutor. Okay I'm also going to tell you why this agent exeutor is required and how this works with the react agent.

Okay. So these two library I need. Now let's try to import them. Yeah. So once we have imported now simply uh what we have to do guys we have to uh we have to load the environment variable.

Okay we have to load the environment variable because in the environment variable itself we'll be mentioning all of our API key. So first first of all I need my open API key because I already told you for the large language model uh we'll be using openi right. So let's try to mention the open API key. So how we can get the open API key guys I think you know simply you just need to go to open AI uh API provider. So here you can go to the API platform and uh left hand side you will see the option called uh API key.

Okay simply create a API key here and you just need to copy the API key. Okay so for me I already have the API key. Let me show you. I'll just copy copy this API key. So this is my API key guys.

Don't use my API key. I'm going to review after this recording. Just try to create your own API key. And uh you don't need to necessarily create use this open API key. If you want, you can also use any other like LLM provider.

Okay, it's completely fine. Now with that, I also need another API key which is the tabi. Okay, taby API key because uh what happens? Let's say whenever I will be initializing the search tool, okay, search tool of the tab. Uh so to use this tab, I need a API key.

So how to get the table API key? So for this you have to visit tavly.com. Okay. Or you can search like tavly API key.

So instead of taby there are some other like search tool are available like sar api duck duck go search uh and other tools are also available but I'm going to use this tably one. So simply click on tably api key. So you have to create a account if you don't have account. So I already have the account guys. I created with the help of my Gmail.

So once you are inside the dashboard you will be seeing this kinds of interface. So from here you can create a API key. Okay. So for me I already have created some API key but let me show you how to create the API key. So let's say here I'm going to create a API key called my key.

Okay. Once it is done just create the API key. Okay. Your key is created and initially whenever you are creating an account you will be getting 1,000 free credit. I think this is enough for learning but if you want to use it for the production that time you have to take their premium plan.

Okay. Now let's copy this key and what I'm going to do I'm going to open up my env inside that I'm going to mention my tabi table APAK. So let's make let me copy. So this is my tab APK. Okay APK done.

Now let's uh initialize this thing. But I have to load the environment first of all. load environment variable. Let's load. Yeah.

So here we are loading the environment variable. But before loading it, so here you can see I'm setting this SSL uh certify file. Okay. Uh so from this certify uh library you can see we have already imported and here we are calling v because what happens if you're using windows operating system so sometimes it will it it might give you some path related issue okay because what happens window windows by default uh open some older uh path okay and uh that's why this issue usually raises so what this code does actually it will uh tell your windows that uh it will always try to use the trusted C uh certificate authority uh uh so that uh whenever it is initializing the uh path uh it will load the updated one. Okay, instead of loading the old one, okay, you can also search over the internet, you can read about this SSL certified file.

Okay, I think you will be able to understand. But if you're using any other operating system like Mac OS or Linux, I think that time it is not required. But if you're getting the path related issue, that time you can add this code guys. Okay. Uh this is optional.

Uh for me actually I was having this issue that's why I have added but for you if you don't have issue uh if you don't have issue you don't need to add it. Okay. It's completely fine. So once it is done now we are getting our open API key and uh we are loading it here in this particular variable and we are also loading our tably API key. Okay once it is done let's try to load them.

Now uh we'll be initializing the tab search result uh object. So I can name it as a search tool. Search tool is equal to tably search result. And inside that there is a parameter you can mention like max result. Okay max result means how many result you want after doing the internet search operation.

Let's see what searching for a topic. Let's see what searching give me some latest news. So how many search result you want? How many reference website you want? So if if it is let's say two, this will give me two relevant uh let's say um result.

Okay. If you if it is five, it will give me five reference. That's how it works. Okay. Now let me uh show you how this thing will work.

So simply what I will do, I'll just try to initialize it. Now let's try to test it. Search tool dot invoke inside that I'm going to let's say give what is the capital of French okay or let's say I'll tell okay now s spelling is not correct Now fine. Now here I can tell give me the latest news on AI. Now I will store it in a variable called result.

Now simply I'm going to show this result. search tool is not defined. I have to execute this. Now re-execute this. Okay.

Now see uh it is real time searching over the internet and it is referring some of the website. You can see this is the URL. So this is the first website it is referring for the latest news on AI. Uh let me show you this website. This is referring this uh blog google.com.

So here is the latest AI news announced in March 2026 and there is another reference you will get see uh this one this is another website uh from here also it is getting the informations that means now my maximum result is two I'm getting two actually um internet search reference if you if you make it as three four you'll be getting four reference okay like that okay that's how you can use this tab Search for real time internet search operation and this is called actually search tool and you can use this tool with your agent because agent should be always connected with uh this kinds of external tool like this kinds of realtime tool whenever it needs any kinds of latest information it will be using this tool to get this informations okay uh with you and again I'm telling you I'm creating a single agent system here uh I'm not creating multi- aent system I'm also going to show you how we can create the multi agent system as well. Okay, each and everything I'm going to cover but in this video we'll be only focusing on the uh single agent system. Okay, fine. Now our search tool is ready. Now simply what I'm going to do, I'm going to initialize me my large language model.

So let's initialize our large language model. So this is the large language model guys. So from chat openaii, we are taking this GPT 3.5 turbo model. You can also use GPT45.

It's up to you. Temperature this is the creativity parameter. I I I just kept it with zero. And here you need to pass the open API key. Now let's initialize the LLM.

So on it is initialized. Let me also test whether my LM is working or not. I'll just do the invoke operation. LM.infoke.

Now here I'm telling let's say uh what is the year is it and the result we'll be getting again we will store spawns see uh this is is it currently uh 2022 2. Okay. Why it is giving you it is uh currently 2022 because this GBT3.5 turbo uh has been trained till 2022. Okay, it doesn't have any latest information after that.

Okay, that's why this agent is required. I told you right in my introduction session why uh we don't use the large language model only. Why agent is required? Okay, why realtime tool is required? Each and everything I've already clarified.

Now let me ask another question. Let's say tell me a joke about AI. Now see it is giving you a joke. Okay, that means it's working fine perfectly. Now I need a prompt guys.

Okay. Um to implement the agent I need a prompt. And here we are using this uh um create react agent function. And for this create react agent function I need a relevant prompt. So this prompt either you can write manually either you can download from langen hub.

So that's why we have already installed this langen hub. I think you remember. So what is langen hub? In the langen hub itself there are uh like so many prompt uh like pre predefined prompt are already available. So there are lots of uh let's say developer they have already published their prompt.

So you can use the pre-existing prompt and you can use it inside your application development. But if you want you can also manually write this prompt. Okay. But why we are taking the predefined prompt uh because uh we are using this create create react agent functionality. Okay.

And for create uh for this create react agent functionality. This prompt is like uh very good and this is recommended prompt to use that. Okay. Now let me show you this prompt. You can copy the name and if you go to Google uh you can search it.

You can search it here. Let's say now you can open the first website. Okay. So you'll see this particular prompt guys here. See this is already available in the hub and you can see the prompt guys.

Answer the following questions as best as you can. You have access to the following tools blah blah blah. Okay. I'm going to explain this prompt later on. But first of all, let me create the agents and then let me explain okay what it does.

Now my prompt is ready. Now what I have to do guys, I have to prepare my tools. So I only created one tools which is my table search tool. So what I will do, I'll just try to add this tool. So let me create a list.

Okay, inside that list I'm going to mention my search tool. Let's if you're using multiple tool, you can add inside this particular list. Okay, I'm going to tell you how we can add also. Now my tool is also ready. Okay, I have to also execute the prompt.

Now see it has uh it has get this particular prompt from that length in hub itself. Now let me show you the prompt. Now see guys, this is the prompt. Okay, this is the prompt. It has already got this particular prompt.

Great. Now you have to create the agent. Okay, you have to create the agent. Uh we have already got the prompt. We have already got the tool.

Let me comment here. Okay, tool is there. Now we'll be creating the agent. Yeah. So to create the agent guys, we'll be using this function create react agent.

And this create react agent takes actually uh three things. The first thing is the large language model. um like this is the brain of that particular agent and we are passing our large language model. The second is is that tool. Okay, the tool it will be using for uh actually external um search operation or external reference.

And the third thing it needs the prompt. Okay, that means you are telling uh your agent how it should interact. Okay, how it should perform the jobs each and everything each and every instruction is giving inside the prompt. Okay. So whenever you are creating this uh uh react agent that time you have to pass this three thing.

Okay. And this will return you one agent object object. Okay. Now let me execute. So I got the agent object right now.

Now what I have to do I have to run this agent. Okay. With the help of the agent executor we have already imported. So as you can see we have already uh imported this agent executor. So let's use this agent exeutor to run this agent.

And don't worry, I'm going to explain you why this uh uh I mean how this create react agent works, how this uh agent executor works. Okay, why it is required and everything I'm going to clarify. So now let me define the executor. So this is our executor. So as you can see we are calling this agent exeutor and agent exeutor takes another uh three argument.

The first one is the agent. The agent we have created let's say here we have created only one agent. Okay, which is this one. we are passing it. Uh then we are giving the tool.

Okay. Uh the tool we have initialized. Then there's another parameter called verbose. So verbose if you make it as true that means whatever agent will execute let's say whatever plan state it will execute you'll be able to see the in the terminal and if you make it as false you you won't be able to see the logs. Okay.

So basically if you want to see the logs of your agent you can make it as true otherwise you can make it as false. Okay. So this will give you the agent executor object. So once you got the agent executor object now you are ready to run this agent. So to run this agent guys we'll be using this agent executor and we'll simply do the invoke operation and here we are giving a input.

So the input wise we're giving find the capital of India and then the find its current weather. Okay. Uh so this thing I'm not going to pass it right now because uh I want to show you another things. Okay. Now simply I'm going to tell uh find the capital of India.

Now uh it will give you the response and this response I'm going to print it. Okay this response. So from the response I I will uh print the output. Now let me execute. Now see agent is executing.

So it is telling entering new agent exeutor chain. So I should use the search engine to find the answer. So it is using the search tool that means the tably search tool and it is finding see it is action is tably search tool it is util utilizing then it refers a website. Okay from the website itself it found that the capital of India is New Delhi and once it got the result okay now you can see the final result which is New Delhi. Okay.

So let me uh give another input here. So, I'm going to just write um tell me the latest news about Iran and USA world. Okay. Now, let's execute. So it is you can see it is using this tably search tool.

Okay. So as you can see my execution is done. So it is using this tably search tool and it is using different different online sources and it is extracting uh the latest information. And now let me show you the final output. So this is the final output.

The latest news on Iran and USA war uh includes Iran warning of consequences if the US launches new attacks. Okay. blah blah blah that mean it is able to give you the real time okay the latest informations although we are using the GPT3.5 turbo okay which is uh trend till 2022 but it is able to give you the latest uh latest actually informations about 2026 okay now let me show you let's say if I'm not passing any kinds of tool to the agent so what will happen so here let's say what I'm going to do um h so let's say here I'm going to create a empty empty tool okay so I'm not going to pass anything in this tool now let's execute now again I will create the react agent again I will um execute the agent executor then I will ask this Now see it is continuously looking for the tool but it is not getting right. See it is not getting.

So execution is done. If I uh print it the final response, you'll see that agent is stopped due to the iteration limit or time limit. Okay. What happens? Because whenever you are not providing any kinds of external tools, okay, what it is happening?

Uh it is not able to get any kinds of tool which it can use for searching these kinds of latest informations and it is continuously running this tool a loop. Okay. So there are uh there are actually u limitation of this particular loop. So once let's say it is not able to get it. So this loop would be finished and you are getting uh this agent is stopped due to the iteration limit or time limit.

Okay. But if we provide this tool, okay, if we provide this tool that time see my agent is working uh working perfectly fine. Okay, see it's working perfectly fine. Now it is able to get the tool and it is able to search the content on the internet and it is giving you the um answer. Okay, I hope you get it.

That means what is happening? Let's say this [clears throat] is our agent. This is our agent. Okay. And here we are giving a prompt or input and uh what it is doing first of all this input is coming to the agent and it is utilizing LLM okay as a brain for the reasoning operation and LLM is uh deciding let's say the input we are giving whether it needs any kinds of tool or not.

So the question we have given so definitely it needs a tool because here we are using very old LLM right which is GPT3.5 Turbo okay it doesn't have the informations about Iran and USA world right because this this happens actually this year that means the current year now LM will tell okay I don't have the information so what we have to do we have to use a external tool okay what we have to do we have to use external tool so right now let's say I have connected with tabuli search API so what it is doing it is going to tabul it is executing this tool. This tool is giving you the response like it is referring uh to website because there is a parameter called uh um search result uh that parameter I have like set it two. So it will get two relevant uh let's say informations about the uh USF word. So this is returning to the agent and now agent is getting that information and it is giving you the final output.

Okay, it is giving you the final output. That's how things are working. And whenever you are not giving this tool, right, that time what is happening? Agent agent is continuously looking for the tool but it is not able to get it any kinds of response from the tool. That that's how uh it is breaking the loop.

It is breaking the iteration and it is giving you I uh I didn't got the answer. Okay, the loop is uh executed uh sorry the loop loop is uh stopped. Okay, I think you saw this final message here. Uh here is the final message. Uh okay, I already like uh replace it.

I think you saw the message, right? This loop is already closed. Uh we are not able to uh execute that. Okay, so that's how things are working. Now let me explain about these uh two things which is create react agent and another is agent exeutor.

Okay, how this create create react agent works. Why why we call it as a uh reasoning action agent and why agent execute exeutor is required to run this particular create react agents. Okay, I'll try to discuss this part right now. So guys as you can see uh first of all let's try to understand this uh react agent how react agent works. So as you can see React is a design pattern used in AI agents that stands for reasoning and acting.

Okay. Um it allows a language model LLM to uh inter interleive internal reasoning thought with external act actions like tool use in a structured multiple process. Okay, that means I told you if I want to execute a agent, so I need some external tools, right? And to select that particular external tool definitely you need a reasoning and that reasoning you are doing with the help of LLM, some kinds of large language model. large language model is deciding okay now I have to use this particular tool and you are using that tool to get the response and you are you uh and you are actually sending that particular tool response to the agent and agent is giving you the structured output okay so the whole system is working like that okay now we are using this react react agent okay from the langen so the react agent is implemented in that way okay because internally they have written all kinds of code related this kinds of orchestration that means It has the connection with LLM.

It has the connection with lots of tool. Okay. So once we are giving any kinds of prompt, it is automatically deciding with the help of LLM like what tool to use. Okay. For the actions.

So let's say once I executed the tool uh then what will happen uh this tool will give you some kinds of response and you will be structuring this particular output and you will show uh show to the human. Okay. So this is a multi-step process. Okay. This is a multi-step process.

That means this is a kinds of loop. Okay. So you can see instead of generating an answer in one go the model thinks step by step decides uh deciding uh what it needs to do next and optionally calling tools APIs calculator web search etc to help it. Okay, that means not only um not only like tabularly search tool, okay, you can use any kinds of tool here. Either you can use any kinds of API, either you can use any kind calculator, web search and anything.

Okay, now see this react works in three step. So I have already given an example as you can see the first step is nothing but the thought. Okay, thought. Then the second step you can see action. Okay.

And the third step is nothing but observation. Observe. Observation. Okay. Now see here is the example.

So what is thought? First of all let's try to understand whenever we are giving any kinds of prompt. Let's say we are giving a prompt. Uh let's say um we are giving a prompt. uh what is the capital of France and tell me the uh population uh tell me the population for capital of France.

Okay, let's say this is my prompt. So first of all what will happen? We are using let's say this react agent. So this prompt will go to the react agent and react agent will try to make a thought first of all. So the what would be the first thought?

First thought is nothing but let's say I need to find the capital of France. Okay. So first of all this would be the thought. Now for this particular thought it will perform a kinds of action. Okay.

So in this action it will utilize external tool. So in this case it will utilize the search tool. Okay. And with the help of search tool what it will do? It will try to perform some action.

Okay. [clears throat] So let's say it has done the searching operation the capital of France on the internet and it got some observation like okay the capital of France is nothing but Paris. Okay. So once it got the observation you can see the first loop is complete. Okay the first loop is complete and in the first loop it has performed three things action and observation.

Now it will come to the second loop. Now you can see in the second loop again the thought will apply. Now let's say it has already got the Paris okay the capital of France. Now it will tell now I need to find the population of Paris. Okay what it will do again it will perform my action.

Again it will maybe utilize a search tool or any other tool it is having with the help of this particular tool. It will perform the action. Okay. So now it will try to figure out the population of Paris. Now let's say observation is 2.1

million. Uh it is the population of Paris. Okay. Now you can see this is the second loop. Okay.

Second loop is complete. Now it will perform the third loop. Okay. Now you can see once it got the final result. Okay.

Once it got the final result that time this loop would be um this loop would be stopped. Okay. Now how it will understand this loop should be stopped because there we uh in the prompt itself we try to set whenever we we get the final answer. Now let's say uh the uh third iteration you will you'll see that now I know the final answer. Okay.

So once it knows the final answer okay that time this particular iteration should be stopped. Now you can see it will return with the final answer that time the Paris is Paris is capital of France and has a population around 2.1 million. Okay, that means the prompt I think you remember I showed you one prompt. Okay, we are using from langen hub in the prompt also these kinds of steps are available.

Okay, and there we strictly mentioned that once you got the final answer. Okay, once you know the final answer just try to stop this particular iteration. Now let me show you this uh prompt again. I think now it would be clear to you. So guys, as you can see this was the prompt.

Now you can see the prompt. Answer the following questions as best you can. You have access to the following tools. So I think you remember in our agents we have already provided the tool access. Okay.

All the tool access we are having. Now we are telling use the following format. Question. Okay. Question should be the input uh questions you must answer.

Okay. The user input questions. Now you can uh you can have three things three step. First of all thought. You should always think about what to do.

Okay. And this thought how it will think with the help of LM. Okay. Now with respect to the thought it should perform some action. Okay.

The action to take uh should be one of the tools. Okay. That means this action should be tell with the help of one of the tool. So once let's say we have selected the tool. Now uh what should be the action input?

We have to provide the action input. Now this will perform the action and when whenever it will get the response from the tool. So this this is called actually observation the result of the action. Okay. Once you got the observation now this particular step should be running continuously.

You can see this thought action action input observation can repeat end times unless and until thought is I know uh the final answer. Okay. I know the final answer. This particular this particular uh let's say um iteration should be continuously running. Okay.

Once you know the final answer that just try to provide the final answer. Let's say this is the final answer of the original questions and uh what will happen? It will try to uh end that particular uh agent. Okay. So every agents works like that guys.

Okay. I think you got it because the main fun is behind a agent is to run some of these steps. Okay. And continuously this will run this steps unless and until it found the final answer. Okay.

Once it found the final answer then this particular loop would be break and you will be getting the final output. Okay. Now you can see the question um as a as a like say um human we have to give the question our question and agent internally will try to take the agent uh scrap uh scratch pad. Okay. What is agent scratch pad?

Agent scratch pad is nothing but the that three things. Okay. this thought action and observation because continuously it has to take that okay continuously it has to take that to understand the previous question action and observation okay so these kinds of things will be continuously happening unless and until we're not going to final answer okay now I think you got it so that's why I told you uh we'll be using this predefined react prompt for this react agent uh you can also write your own prompt but if you're writing so you may miss down these are the option and whenever you miss down these are the let's say context or definitely your agent uh might not give you the correct response so that's why prompting is always important whenever you're creating your own agent system guys okay so guys now I think you have understood uh what is this uh create react agent okay how it works uh now we'll try to understand what is this executor is agent exeutor okay why we need this agent exeutor to run this uh react agent let's try to understand about this. uh one more thing I want to uh tell you which is that let's say after using this create react agent it takes three parameter lm to send prompt we get the agent object okay this is our final agent object and to run this agent we need this agent executor okay now let me show you another diagram so guys as you can see uh this is the diagram of agent and agent executor now we'll try to understand how this works okay why this agent executor is required so let's say we I have created a react agent object which is nothing but our agent. Okay, in the code itself I already told you.

Now to run this agent, I need a agent executor. Okay, so why I need this agent exeutor. See to run this agent. Okay, I think you know internally agent uh runs actually three step. One is the first thing first thing is like the uh this one which is um um let me show you.

Yeah. The first thing is the thought. Okay. Thought thought. Then second thing is action and the third thing is observation.

Okay. So to run this three step guys we need this agent executor. Okay. Okay, to run this three step we need this agent executor. So without agent executor we can't actually run this three steps.

Okay. So that's why whenever we have created our agent to execute this agent we need a agent executor and internally agent executor handle these three scenario. So what will happen in the first iteration let's say uh you can see this is the steps of agent executor orchestrate the entire uh loop. So first of all sends the input uh and previous message to the agent. Okay.

So what will happen? This agent executor will try to send the input. What is the input? Input of nothing but the user input. Okay.

User input. Let's say user has asked let's say um I think I can give you the same example the previous example. Uh what is the capital of friends? And uh I need the population of capital of friends. Let's say this is the input.

So first of all this agent executor will try to send this input to the agent and it will also send the previous message to the agent. Previous message means these three things start action and observation. So initially for the first time whenever you are executing the agent definitely this three uh three actually block would be completely empty. Okay this three block complet uh it should be completely empty. That means whatever thought action and observation you are sending it it should be completely empty.

So your agent will only receive the user input that time. Okay. Now once it got the user input now your agent will decide okay whether it has to use any kinds of tools or not. Okay. Now you can see gets the next action from the agent.

Okay. Uh so you can see um uh yeah so sends the input and previous message to the agent. Once it is done, now uh agent will try to uh let's say perform the reasoning operation with the help of reasoning. Uh it will decide the question we are getting whether I need to use any kinds of tools or not because agent is already connected with the tools. I think I showed you right.

It has already connected with tools. Okay, it has connected with tools. Now agent will decide whether it has to use any tools or not. Let's say it has to use a tool. What tool?

The tabular search tool. Then again agent will try to tell agent executor they uh uh um that like I have to use the tably search tool to give the answer. Okay. Now what agent executor will do? It will go to the tool.

What tool? The tably tool. Okay. Tablely tool and it will hit the tably tool with the question user is asking. Let's say the first question was what is the capital of French?

Now tab will refer some internet website and it will give you the answer. Again agent will give this answer to the agent. Okay. Now agent got the answer. Let's say the capital of France is Paris.

Okay. Now what will happen? This is the observation. You can see execute the tool with provide an input adds the tool observation back into the history. Now what will happen again?

It will try to add uh add uh inside this thought action observation because it is already getting this thought. uh then action and observation. Now this these are the parameter would be filled up. Now what is the thought? Thought should be uh let's say it already got the um capital of friends which is Paris action it has already taken it has used the tabularly tool.

Okay. And uh the input was what is the capital of friends and uh uh sorry thought should be uh it already got the capital of friends. Okay. Um and action should be it has let's say already executed the tab tool and observation should be the Paris. Okay, it already got the Paris.

Now it will run the second loop. Okay, it will run the second loop because it does it didn't get the final answer yet. Okay, it didn't get the final answer yet. Now again what it will do again exe agent executor will run. Okay, now agent uh agent executor will run the thought.

What is the thought now? Next thought should be this one. Next thought should be this one. Now I need to uh I need to find the population of Paris. Okay, this should be the next part.

Again go to the agents. Again agents will decide whether it has to use a tool or not. So again it will tell okay I need to use the tab search tool. Agent executor will go to tab search tool. It will hit the tab search again get the realtime information pass it to the agent.

Now agent will again fill up this information with thought action and observation. You can see thought action and observation. Okay let's see it got 2.1 million. Okay, now it got the final answer.

Okay, now this agent will tell now I have the [clears throat] final answer. Now once agent executor got this one. Let's say now I have the final answer that time this agent executor will stop. That means this is running the entire loop. Okay, that means this is running the entire loop.

So once you are getting the final answer, this particular loop would be executed uh exited and your application will stop and you will be able to see the final answer. Okay, so that's how things are working guys. That's how the langen agent and agent exeutor we are creating it is working internally like that. Okay. So whenever you are using this react agent so definitely you have to use this agent executor.

This is very much required. Now I think guys you are pretty much clear about the langen create agent. Okay how it works. Sorry langen react agent how it works. Why we need this agent exeutor along with that.

Okay. Now let me show you as a code. So you can see the code guys. Uh in the code itself we have already written this create react agent. It takes lm tool and prompt.

Okay with the help of prompt it performs all the instruction how this react agent works. I think I already showed you the prompt and to run this agent I need the agent exeutor. That's why we are giving this agent tool we are also giving because I think you know that uh agent executor will uh invoke this tool. Okay that's why tool access also I need to give to the agent executor and there's another one verbose. Okay.

Barbos is the all the execution is happening right internally. See you can see the logs but if you make it as false let's say I will make it as false. So what will happens? You won't be able to see any kinds of execution. Let me again create the react agent executor.

Now if I run the agent see you won't be able to see any kinds of logs. See it executed but you can't see any kinds of log but still you will be able to see the output. Okay output is there. But whenever you make it as true right so you will be able to see the um log. So for this again I have to execute the agent.

Now see this particular log you will be able to see whatever decision uh whatever thought actions and observation your agent is performing you are able to see that okay in live so that's why we make it as uh this parameter as true okay now I think you are clear enough guys okay so yes guys so that's how we can uh use this lang chain to develop this kinds of single uh single actually agent system and this is our first agent guys uh This is like a very simple agents we have created. Uh so don't worry in the next video I'm going to also show you how we can create the multi- aent system. So here only one agent is working right. But if you want we can also create multiple agent and that will be working together. Okay this is also possible.

Now uh what I'm going to show you guys uh I'm going to show you how we can convert it uh this particular notebook in in a application file that means app.py and we can run that particular app.py Pi okay because I have showed you the research right now that means the experiment right now but in production definitely will you will not create the Jupyter notebook file instead of that you have to create a python file so let's say I'm [clears throat] going to name it as app.py Pi. Okay.

So, simply what you can do, you can copy whatever code you have written in the notebook in this app.py. See, I just copy pasted the same code. Copy the same code. But before that, let me show you how we can improve this agent.

Um, if you want to improve it, if you want to add some more tool, so how it can be done. Let's say here I want to add another tool and that particular tool will real time search the weather informations. Okay. Uh weather informations given any kinds of location because right now I'm using the tabularly search tool. It is completely fine.

But I want my custom custom tool. Let's say I have created a custom function and that custom function I want to use use as a tool. Okay. How it can be done? Let's try to see that.

So for this uh what I'm going to do I'm going to let's say import this langen dot tool okay import there is a function called tool you have to import that and I will import another library called request okay this two library I'll import once it is done now simply here I'm going to create a function so after this search tool maybe I can create my custom function. So this custom function will get the uh weather information. Okay. So I've already written a function. So let me show you this function how it works.

So maybe I can show you test ip or let's say here itself. I'm going to show you how this function works. Yeah. So this is my function guys. So what this function does this function takes a city name.

Okay. or given any kinds of location and it it it fetch the current weather informations of that particular city. So for this we are using this weather stack API. Okay, weatherstack API I think you know this is a website weatherstack.com.

So let me show you uh this is the website weatherst.com. Okay. So this is the website guys. So here first of all you have to create a account.

Uh just sign up with free. Okay. So once you sign up you'll be able to see your dashboard. Okay. So if you go to the dashboard uh so here you will be see this kinds of interface okay and uh we are using the free plan so in free plan only we can search the real-time weather information but if you're using the paid subscription of this weather uh stack that time you can perform location search uh astronomy data hour by hour okay full historical data so there been so many things you can perform here but I only need for the weather information That means my free plan is completely fine.

So here you have the API key. You just need to copy this API key. Okay. So don't use my API key. I'm going to remove it after the recording.

So here you have to pass this weather API key. Now what I can do maybe in the itself I can mention my API key. Uh so here is so I already collected this API key guys. Let me show you. So this is the API key.

weather stack API key and this is the API key I have copy pasted from the dashboard. Okay. Now simply here itself you have to load this API key as well. So let's load it. Weather stack API key west.get

weather stack API key. So you're also loading this. Okay. Once it is done now see this API key would be given here. Now how these things will work let me show you.

I will copy this and uh I will paste it here. Now f string I'm going to just remove it. because this is I have given only for static variable f string I don't need now if you give any city here let's say I'll give I'll give home hit enter uh okay you have to pass the API key right so let's copy the API Okay. Now if I hit enter, see you will be getting uh response like that. Okay.

So this is having the informations about the Mumbai uh the current uh weather information as you can see. Okay. the kind of weather information it is having. Okay. Now I have to extract the data from this particular JSON itself.

So what I have done I have written a function here as you can see. So this function hit this URL with this API key and you can give any kinds of city name. I'm hitting with the help of this request library I have already imported here as you can see request. So once we get the response so what we are doing we are just converting to the JSON. Now we are telling if current not in data.

So I'll tell could not find the face weather data because current parameter should be there because in the current one we are having the current weather information. Okay, this temperature weather it is having. Okay, so we are getting this current key. Now once we get the current key I'm taking the city name, temperature, weather and humidity. Okay, these are the information I'm taking.

If you want you can also take any other information. It's completely up to you. So this is a function custom function. Now if I want to use this custom function as a tool. So what I have to do I have to write a decorator at the tool I have imported.

Okay. So this tool I have imported. I have to just give this particular tool. Now what happens? This particular function becomes a custom tool.

That means this tab search result this is a predefined tool. This is already developed by some other organization or other company or other developer. But right now this get weather data function we have created this is our tool or custom tool. Okay. That's how we can create our custom tool and we can use it inside our agent.

Okay, this is also possible. Now let me execute. Now simply what you have to do uh here itself in the tool itself uh where I have mentioned the tool. Huh? In the tool you just need to give the tool name which is get weather data.

Okay, that's it. Uh get weather data name. Yeah, now let's execute. I mean I will execute from the beginning. Okay.

Now initialize the LM. Now we also involving the LLM for some response. Now facing the prompt. This is the prompt. Now we're initializing our tools.

Okay. Now see you can pass list of the tools. You can pass hundred of tools. Okay. It's up to you.

Now we are creating the agent and we are passing the list of the tools right now. Now my agent is having multiple tools. Okay. One is the search tool and this is the get weather tool. Now I'll again execute.

Uh now uh my executor is ready. Now I can give a prompt. So now I'll give this particular prompt. Let's say this is the problem. Find the capital of India and then find the uh find its current weather.

Now see if I execute you can real time see see I should first search the capital of India uh uses the weather data tool find the current weather. See first of all it has used the tably search tool to get the capital of India. So it is referring some website uh Indian website and it is getting uh the capital of India which is New Delhi. Okay. So we got the New Delhi.

Now once it got the New Delhi now what it is doing guys it is utilizing it is utilizing my get data tools. Okay my get data tool and it is fetching the weather informations. Okay so that's how things are working guys. I think you got it. Okay that means now it is having multiple tools.

So tably s it is utilizing for the search operation. Okay, for uh finding the capital of India and my get weather data tool it is utilizing to get the weather informations and how it is deciding with the help of this react agent. Okay, because it is internally using LLM and LLM is doing the reasoning. Okay, and it is deciding what tool to call and this kinds of tool calling and everything is happening with the help of this agent executor because it is running that three-step that means uh I think I showed you uh three-step means first of all thought, actions and observation. Okay, that's how things are working.

Okay, I hope you get it. Now, if I want to uh convert everything in the app.py guys, so this is the final code. So, let me select my environment which is lang agent. So, this is the final code.

I just copy pasted the same code, okay, from my notebook. As you can see the same code, nothing change. Okay, now I can run the app.py. Let me show you.

So, I will open up my terminal and if I execute my app.py. So, python app.py Pi uh okay so it is telling table okay uh because I'm running the app.py and now app.py

will refer this env because previously I created inside resource folder so what I can do I can copy all of the key and mention inside this particular variable okay now let's execute the terminal clear now again execute app.py Now see agent is executing. Now see first of all it is uh getting the capital of India. Now once is uh got that it is utilizing my custom tool get weather data and it is giving you the temperature. Okay.

Now this is the final temperature. As you can see the capital of India is New Delhi and the current weather is 37 uh 37°C with H. Okay, perfect. That means we have implemented our first agent guys. Congratulation with the help of Langen.

Okay, and don't worry, I'm also going to show you how we can create the multi- aent system in the next video. Now let's say if you want to convert uh this uh app to a user interface, this is also possible. Maybe we can add uh streamlit user interface. So what I have done guys, I have uh just designed a streamlit user interface with the help of chat GPT. Uh you can also do that.

Okay, it's like very easy. Uh you just go to the chat GP and tell I need a user interface for this code. So it will generate for you. Okay, so what I have done guys? Uh I have already generated a So what I can do?

Let's say I'll rename this file. Maybe I can name it as main.py. pi. Now I'll create another file here.

I'm going to name it as app.py. Okay. Inside that I'm going to paste my updated code. So this code is having the streamlit user interface.

Okay guys, so this is the code. So nothing else. I just added the streamlit. Uh I think you know streaml is a python package with the help of we can uh create the user interface without writing any kinds of HTML and CSS code. So first of all we have to install this streamlit.

Uh so I will add this in my requirement streamlit. So let's install pip install hyphen requirement.txt Tasty. Okay, installation is complete. Now if I go to my app.py,

now this error will disappear. Yeah, now see only change uh it has done it has set a streaml page configuration. So there you can see it has done a page configuration. Uh page title is agentic assistant page icon. Uh this is centered layout.

This is the title and uh we have given a markdown search and weather AI agents using langen. And everything is same. The only thing is that at the last uh it has added the user query section. So there would be a input box. So there I can give the query and there would be a button.

If I run this button, so my agent will be executing. Okay, so this is a simple user interface code my uh chatgpt added. Okay, inside my this main.py. Now let's execute and see how this looks like.

I will clear and run streaml run app.py. I'll give the permission now. I'll show you this agent. Okay.

So here I'm getting an error. So let me see the error. Okay. So this error I'm getting because I told you uh you have to add this line otherwise this error might come because I'm using Windows. I will add in the app.py.

I here itself I will add that I have to import certify okay done now if I reexecute it should work see it's working now aentk assistant you can see this is the user interface now here I can give my query so maybe I can pass find the capital of let's say French and uh the current weather. Okay. Now if I run my agent, you can see agent is thinking. So every agent actually thinks. Okay.

If you use any kinds of agent guys, you will see that this uh thinking uh option is there because internally it is executing uh that uh tools and everything all of these obs uh I mean three steps are executing like thought uh then action and observation that's why it's taking some time okay if you open any kinds of agent uh let's say if you open VS code agent if you open cloud desktop if you open Gemini you will see that this um process would be there Okay. Now see uh response generated. The final response is the capital of France is Paris and the current weather there is 11°C with rain and thunderstorm. Okay. That means our agent is perfectly working fine.

Okay. Amazing. Now uh what we can do if we want we can also deploy this over the cloud because right now it is running on local host and people can't access my agent. So I can if I if I want I can also um I mean host this. So if you want to host this.

So what I can do uh you can use uh different different cloud provider. You can use AWS, GCP, Azure. But uh let me show you one amazing cloud provider. There you can deploy this uh agent as free. So the cloud name is rendercloud.

Okay, render.com. So if I open render.com. So you have to first of all create a account if you don't have account.

So I already have the account. I'll just try to click on the dashboard. I'll login with my Gmail. Okay. Now simply what you have to do here first of all you have to um I mean upload this code to the GitHub.

Okay. So what I will do guys I'll simply upload but before uploading I don't need to upload this because if I upload my my API key will be exposed. So here I will add another file called dot get ignore. Okay. Inside that I will mention env should be ignored and in researchb should be ignored.

Okay. Now let's uh create a GitHub repo. I'll open my GitHub. I'll go to the repository. I'll click on new.

I can give a name. So let's say I'll give this name search and weather AI agents using langen. Uh I'll add a readmi file. Then simply create the repository. and make sure you keep it as public.

Okay, you can also make it as private. It's up to you. Now I'll click on code, copy this link address. I'll open up my local folder and clone this repo here. So get clone done.

Now what I will do, I'll just copy this. Git and paste it here. Okay. And this folder I'm going to remove it. I only need this.

Git. Okay. Now from my VS code itself, I can commit the changes issue. Now if I show you see uh this env is ignored. Now simply I'll commit the changes.

Now I'll just write get add space dot. Now get commit m uh I'll give updated. Now get push origin main. Okay. Now if I go to my GitHub refresh see all of the code are available.

Okay. Now let's try to reply. So I'll go to my render and here what I'm going to do guys I'm going to just create a new web service. Okay. Now here I will click on public git repository.

Now I'll copy the link and paste it here. Now let's connect. Done. Now you can give a other name also if you want. Uh it has automatically taken my um repository name.

Now everything just keep it as same. Uh only here you just need to give a command. Okay. See it will also install the requirement. This requirement we are having.

Okay. Now let's give the command of running streaml app. So this is the command. So basically this command will run the streaml server. Now here I will take the free okay free instance and here you'll be by default you'll be getting 512 MB RAM and 0.1

CPU uh which is a little bit slow uh but it is fine for the learning if you want to let's say professionally deploy it then you can take their plan okay but I think this is fine now here I'll try to add my environment variable so here I'm having open API key let's add it and I have to give the blue. I copy this. Then I will add the environment variable. Another one tab API key. I will add it here.

Then add another one which is this weather stack API key and add the value done. Now simply um okay now simply I'll just do the deployment deploy web service. So this is the free instance. Uh it may take some time guys. We'll wait once uh this particular option is live.

Okay. Now it is building the entire uh instance. Okay. Internally it will set up everything. Once this is live we'll be able to test that.

Now see it's running. Now see it is installing the requirements one by one. Uh let's wait. So I will pause the video once this installation everything is complete. I'll come back.

So guys as you can see our application is live right now. Uh everything is fine. There is no added. Now there is a link you can copy and you can open in your browser. So there you will be able to see your agent.

So guys uh you can see this is our application. This is completely live. Uh if you're using free instance it may take some time. Uh now we can test it. So here I'll just tell find the capital uh of Nepal and tell me the weather of that.

Now I'll run the agent. Now see agent is working internally. So guys, here is the final response. The capital of Nepal is Kathmandu and current weather 20° C with drizzle and 94% humidity. Okay, amazing.

Now you can share this uh URL with anyone they will be able to use your agent. So yes guys, I hope you understood. I hope you have seen how we can utilize uh this lang chain to develop these kinds of AI agents. But uh here we have created the single agents. Okay, single agents pipeline.

Uh in the next video I'm going to show you how we can create the multi- aent system. Okay. So everything would be covered. So guys uh we'll be continuing with our complete agentic AI course. And I think you remember in our previous video I have already shown you how we can implement uh a single AI agents with the help of langen.

So this was our first AI agents implementation with langen. Then I told you I'm also going to show you how we can create multi- aent system with the help of langen. So in this video I'm going to uh show you the entire implementation how we can utilize lang chain orchestration framework for implementing this kinds of multi- aent AI system. Okay. So make sure you watch this video till the end.

Uh you don't miss anything. If you complete this video you'll be able to implement u multi- aents AI system with the help of langen. And in this video I'm not only going to implement uh these AI agents uh even after implementation I'm also going to show you how we can add the user interface and how we can deploy this kinds of multi- aent system on the cloud platform. I implemented a weather AI agents with the help of langin. So there I created a single agent uh that has some tool connection like I given tabuli search tool and I created one of the custom tool.

Okay. Uh that particular tool uh can access any kinds of uh realtime weather informations given any kinds of city or uh location whatever okay that means if I show you the architecture diagram. So yeah if I show you the architecture diagram. So there let's say I created a single agent. Let's say this is our agent.

Okay. So this agent having some connection with tool. Let's say it is having connection with tabuli. Okay. Okay.

And it is having connection with weather API. Okay. So whenever I was giving any kinds of prompt or let's say input. So first of all uh this will uh and definitely it was connected with the LLM. Okay.

because LLM was the brain and with the LLM actually it will perform the reasoning operation and um whenever I was giving any kinds of input then LLM was deciding whether I need to use a tool or not uh with respect to the question let's say if I'm giving a prompt uh just tell me the capital of India and uh give me the weather informations of that right so what it will do it will first of all go to the agents and it will search with the help of tab like what is the capital of India India then it will get let's say the capital of India is Delhi. Now what it will do again it will tell okay now uh you just need to fetch the weather information of the uh Delhi. So with the help of uh this weather API it will real time get this informations and uh your agent will try to refine the output and it will show you the final output. Okay. So that's how the things were working and the whole system actually we have orchestrated with the help of langen.

So there we used actually create uh react agent right this functionality we used from the langen and to execute this create uh react agent we used agent exeutor and the full form of uh react is reasoning and uh action or acting whatever you can say. So with the help of that we created the agent. Okay. So this was the previous architecture. Now first of all let me give you u the multi- aent uh we'll be implementing uh for uh for this video.

Uh first of all I'm going to give you the idea what is the system we're going to develop. Then I'm also going to show you the architecture diagram. Okay like what would be the flow and how we can uh create the AI agents how we can make the connection with different different tool. That means the entire uh overview I'm going to give then we'll start with the development. So for this uh this is the uh this is the actually content I have prepared.

So as you can see uh multi- aent system with the help of langen we'll be developing in this video. So a multi- aent uh research assistant is a fully autonomous AI system that thinks uh search reads and writes on its own. Okay that means here we'll be creating a multi- aent research assistant. Okay basically this will perform the research. So I think you have seen in chart GPT or Gemini there is a research option is available uh if you open that uh uh let's say application.

So if you perform the research so what it will do it will take some time and it will perform the research operation on the internet u uh in a given topic right so that's how we'll be also implementing a research assistant so that research assistant will be having some kinds of uh let's say tool access and with the help of tool it will perform the realtime resource operation okay and here we are not going to create a single agent instead of that we'll be creating the multi- aent system here so as you can see mult multi- agent research assistant a fully autonomous AI system that thinks, searches, reads and writes its own. Okay. Instead of a single AI answering your question from tools, uh here we'll be developing a team of specialized intelligence agents. Okay. A team of intelligence agents will be developing here uh that collaborates together to produce a professional research report on a uh topic you give them.

That means if you are giving a topic okay so what it will do it will per uh it will use all of the like specialized intelligent agents okay it will work together and it will try to give you a professional okay research report on that particular topic. So it it will not only research okay it will also write the report for you okay and you can see the search agent goes so the first agent should be the search agents with the help of search agents will be uh doing the real time let's say research operation over the internet the search agent goes out on the live internet and finds the most relevant recent sources okay so it will perform the research operation of all of the internet sources it is having uh then the reader agent then dives deep into the those sources and scrap the scrap and extracting meaningful content. That means here I'm going to create another agent. The agent name would be reader agent. So that region agent uh what it will do it will try to scrap and extract okay all of the content from that sources.

Let's say the first agent will return you the recent uh recent relevant sources that mean some URL. Okay. Now what we will do? we'll just try to pass this URL to the reader agent. So reader agent will take those URL and it will open that URL and whatever content it is having it will extract a scrap then uh it will gather those content.

Okay. Then here we'll be creating another actually agent the writer agent uh writer agents uh takes all that generated intelligence and craft a well ststructured detailed report. That means write uh there would be another agent called writer. So this will take all of the content and it will uh prepare a draft. Okay, prepare a draft report.

And after preparing this draft report, we'll be sending this draft report to another agent called critic agent. You can see and finally the critic agent reviews the entire reports, scores it and gives feedback just like a senior researcher reviewing a junior's work. Okay, that means at the last we'll be creating another agent. This agent will try to review. Okay, whatever let's say your writer agent has written, it will review.

it will uh give you the feedback. Okay, it will uh do some marking. Okay, just like let's say you are a senior researcher. Whenever your junior is giving any kinds of task, you are reviewing that and you're giving the feedback. So, every single agent is powered uh powered by a large language model.

Okay, connected through Langen's modern LCAL pipeline and orchestrated through a shared memory system that makes them works uh as one unified brain. Okay, so here we'll be utilizing the modern langen guys. So previous agent I created with the help of the old lang um but in this development I'm going to utilize the modern langen as well which is lce langen uh langen expression language so for this definitely you need the understanding about the fundamentals of langen so that's why I told you langchen prerequisite uh I mean definitely should be there if you are working with this kinds of agent so for this langen on my YouTube channel I already have one dedicated uh video guys ultimate langen crash course for developers uh so it's uh around seven more than 7 hours of course 7 hours of recording so there I already covered this LCL and everything if you go to the time stamp section uh you can see uh here I have already covered this uh LCAL okay LCL okay the modern uh langen which is langen expression language okay so definitely you should have understanding on this other topic if you don't know please try to go ahead with my langen lecture I will add the link in the description from there you can check it out okay so the main fun is in this development we'll be using the modern langen instead of using the old langin uh uh I wanted to show you both of the langen version because still people uses old langen okay uh and people also use like model langen both I'm going to show you uh you can use any of them okay it's completely fine but I will recommend you to use the model lang chain because in model lang chain the updated langen so many functionality came and people are moving to that okay so instead of relying on old langchen maybe you can use that one okay so each and everything I'm going to clarify now I think guys uh the project introduction part is clear what to do now let me show you the architecture how we'll be building this kinds of system so guys uh this is the architecture I think uh you can see um let me show you the architecture yeah so this is the architecture so in this architecture guys as you can see uh here we'll be implementing multiple agents. So that means let's say this is the first agent uh we'll be developing and here we'll be passing given research topic. Let's say if I want to do a research I will give the research topic.

So it will go to the first agent. Okay. Uh so this agent will have uh some kinds of tool access. So here I'm going to give tably API that means tably search tool access to this agent. So whatever research you are giving to this agent.

So what it will do? It will use this tably API and it will uh uh do the realtime search operation over the internet and it will get the relevant sources. Okay. It will get the relevant website for that particular topic uh to this agent. Okay.

Now what I will do here this particular response I'm going to save in a state memory. Okay. So here I will try to create a state memory. So state memory will try to save this particular response so that and your next agent can refer this particular response. Okay, your second agent can refer this kinds of response.

Okay, so that's why we are using the shared memory concept. You can also improve this particular memory uh by utilizing some other technique. So this part I'm going to also discuss in my future lecture. So I think you you saw my entire plan there. I told you we'll be um I mean discussing this particular memory part in detail but as of now just try to consider we are using a state memory uh you can also replace the state memory with any other let's say uh other um um like memory database you can use that okay it's completely up to you but here I'm going to use a state memory um in Python okay I'll show you how we can implement that so now we'll be creating a second agent guys so this uh second agent name is reader agent so this reader reader agent will also have some kinds of tool access.

So here I'm going to use a beautiful soup uh scrapper tool. So what this beautiful soup scrapper tool will do basically whatever URL you are getting from the first agent okay given topic. So this will take all of the URL and with the help of beautiful soup it will extract the content from the URL. I think you know with a beautiful soup we can perform the web scrapping. We can scrap the content from any kinds of given website right.

So that's why the first agent is returning the web URL web uh sources and with the help of second agent we are extracting the content from the URL with help of beautiful soup. Then what we will do guys we'll try to pass this content to another state uh let's say memory uh called let's say scrapped content. Okay maybe I can create another uh another actually let's say object here called scrap content inside that I can save those informations. Okay. Now here we'll be creating um another two actually agent.

You can also call it as chain inside modern langen. Instead of creating this kinds of like u agent in lang what you can do you can create a chain because at the end you got your final uh you got your final important content. Okay. If you got the final important content now it would be easy for you to generate that particular report and it would be easy for you to review that particular report. Okay.

But the main thing is in that section. So basically here we are performing the real-time source operation on a different topic. After getting that we're extracting the content. Then if we have the final content guys we'll be uh creating a writer chain. Okay.

In lang chain we we call it as a chain. Okay you can also consider it's a agent. Okay it's agent. It's a writer agent. So what this writer chain will do it will take that particular content.

Okay your beautiful extracted and it will write a draft. Okay, it will write a draft report on top that on top of that particular um content. Okay, because at the end it has also connection with the LLM. Okay, it has also connection with LLM. It is also having connection with LLM.

Okay, so with the help of LLM with the help of this uh content you got it will prepare a draft. So once it has prepared a draft what it will do guys, it will send this draft to the critic chain. Now what this critic chain will do it will try to review this particular draft whether is there any mistake or not is there any uh let's say improvement section or not it will try to review that once the review is complete okay once the feedback is complete then it will show you the final output okay it will show you the final output so you'll be able to see the final output even you will also see the feedback the ratings okay and everything you will be able to see from this critic chain that means the critic agent okay because it is also having a connection with the large language model all Right. So yeah, this is the entire uh actually architecture of this particular multi-agent system. So this is going to very interesting project guys.

So make sure you watch till the end. So I think each and everything would be clear in your mind. Okay. Now uh here is the step guys we'll be following to develop the entire agent. So first of all at the first step guys we'll be setting up the environment.

Then second step we'll be creating the tools. Okay. All of the tools we'll be creating one by one. Then third step we'll be creating all of the agents one by one. Then fourth step will be creating a pipeline.

That means uh uh uh why pipeline is required? Let's say after creating end tools you have to combine them. Okay, you have to uh you have to add them together to work right. So we we can do it in the pipeline section. So once our pip entire agent pipeline is ready then we can run and test our agent.

Okay. So this is the entire step we'll be following for developing this kinds of system. So guys, now I'm going to give you the idea why uh we have to create uh mostly multi- aents AI uh AI application. Uh what is the problem with the single agent? So I think you know that uh this is like very um I mean easy things you can understand.

Let's say um let's say if there is a company okay if there is a company um let's say company uh what they does let's say they takes a project okay they takes a project okay after taking this project so what they do they just try to assign this project to a team right team of employee team of employee. So in this team uh what we have we have multiple employee let's employee one employee two employee three and so on. Okay. So what they do actually just just try to assign this kinds of project as a task to the team and definitely in the team itself they will try to divide the task to different different employee. Let's say here are some of uh let's say employee one is very good at with the front- end development.

Okay, front end development. Employee 2 is like really good with let's say AI development. Okay, and employee three is good at with backend development. Okay, backend development. So what they will do?

So the project they are having uh so for the for the front- end development for this project they will assign the task to the employee one for API development uh uh sorry AI development for this project they will assign the task to employee employee two okay and for backend development for this project they will assign the task to the employee three okay that means all of the project will have these are the things are common right and it's not like that there would be a single guy okay single guy he can let's say handle each and everything I can't say he cannot handle he can handle definitely let's say if I'm hiring a full stack developer so definitely he will be able to handle this kinds of scenario he will be able to let's say implement the entire project but what would be the problem okay because if you see most of the fully stack engineer so they will have actually limited knowledge uh on this uh on this actually let's say individual topic. So for the end to end development whatever things they need to know they definitely will do that for you. But when it comes to the deep research, let's say I want to create some AI features uh for this project and uh I I need a deep research. Okay, I need a very um very good uh let's say good uh sources. Then after getting the good sources, I have to refer that sources and I have to build the AI features.

Okay. So if we are only depending on this single let's say employee so he wouldn't be able to do that because he doesn't have actually that much of depth knowledge on this AI development okay he can only let's say uh use some of the framework library and he can implement that project for you but when it comes to deep deep let's say research let's say deep experiment he won't be able to do that that means with the help of single guy I can't perform actually multiple task task can be performed But the output the quality of output we'll be expecting this should not be good. Okay. This should not be good. This should be uh this should be kind of average output.

But whenever we are having this kinds of project definitely will expect like very good quality output from my team. Right? And if we are uh if we are let's say assigning this kinds of task to the single employee so definitely single employee won't be able to give the quality output to me. So that's why every company having a team and in that particular team they they are hiring okay different individual those who are let's say expert expert in different different field let's say someone is expert in front end someone expert in AI development someone is expert in uh back end development okay and whatever project they are getting they're uh dividing their task to them so let's say employee one has completed front end employee two has completed AI development employee three has completed the backend development now they will combine they combine everything and they will prepare the project for you. Now when it comes for research let's say having a deep research on individual let's say topic so easily these kinds of employee can perform because he's only expert in front end he knows about the front end and if you give time okay if you give time if you tell this uh let's say employee just try to research and add some more front end feature with latest like framework he will be able to do that okay because he don't need to worry about the I development and back end development he will only focus on the front end development so that's [snorts] for AI developer guy also I can tell just try to explore more and add some other AI features as well.

So definitely he will be able to do that because he doesn't uh need to worry about the front end and back end. Okay then employee 3 I'll tell just try to research more about the back end let's say I don't want to use uh flask you just need to use fast API just try to explore fast API you'll be able to do that okay so that's how individual person is working on individual task and the output we are getting from here this is like very good quality output okay good quality output we'll be getting okay that's how whenever we are creating kinds of agent application instead of creating a single agent Okay, instead of creating this kinds of single agent because in single agent if I want to perform all of this task okay if I want to perform all of these tasks so definitely the output should be very poor and if I'm using multiple agent okay the architecture I showed you I think so this is the architecture if I'm using multiple agent so here I'm assigning a uh different different task let's say first agent I have assigned your task is to only fetch the real-time data from the internet and give the uh collect the URL. Okay. Then you will try to save the state memory. Then second agent I have given another task.

Your task is to take those URL and extract the content from that. Okay. So after extracting content agent save to the state memory. Then third agent I told uh um I mean let's say this agent just try to take those content and write a report on this particular resource. Okay.

Your task is uh your only task is to generate the report. So it will try to generate the report. Then the uh fourth agent I told this agent you just need to take this uh draft and try to review that whether it is good or bad or it still it needs some feedback just try to read rate read this okay so this particular agent only uh is responsible for rating this okay or critique this particular task so once everything is done then we are getting the final output and this final output would be very good quality but if I am performing the same task with a single agent so definitely Definely the output would be very bad quality. Okay. So that's why this multi- aent things are required.

Okay. That's why you are uh will be developing multi- aent system most of the time and all of the application you can see. Okay. Whatever application like cloud desktop or you are using VS code anti-gravity any anything you'll see that they're using multiple agents in the back end. They're running multiple agents.

Okay. They're adding let's say 100 and 100 like agents in their back end and they're performing one kinds of task. Okay. So yes, that's how guys uh we will be following this multiple agent development. And one more thing whenever you are creating multiple agents, so make sure all of the agents will have kinds of tool access.

Okay, if it is required, definitely we'll give the tool access and all of the agents will have a large language model for the reasoning operation. Okay, I think everything is clear. Now we'll move on the uh development part, guys. So first of all I'm going to create a GitHub repo for this multi- aent. So let's try to create a GitHub repo.

So here I'm going to give a name. Let's say I'll give a name here langen multi- multi- aent research research. Okay, research system. Uh I will make it as public repo and I will add the readmi file. I'll also add the g ignore.

So here we'll be coding with python. So I'll select the python. After that you can select a license. So let's take this u maybe apache license. Okay.

You can take any of the license. It's up to you. On it once it is done now let's try to create the repo. Okay. So repo is created.

Now we have to clone this repo inside our local folder. I'll click on this code. Copy this link address. I'll open up my local folder. And here I will just try to open my terminal.

Now let's clone it. So get clone paste this link. Okay. So this directory is already exist because previously I already created uh so what I can do maybe I can rename it. Okay I can rename it.

Okay. Now just try to open your terminal in this directory and just write get clone and paste that URL. Okay, you have copied. Now if I hit enter, so you'll see my repo has been cloned. I will go inside that and I will also redirect my terminal inside this uh directory.

So for this let's write cd command cd langin multi- aent research. Okay research system now I'm inside this particular folder. Now here I'm going to open up my quisel code studio visual code studio. Uh fine. Okay.

Now the first thing guys uh I told you so let me show you the steps we'll be following. Yeah. So this is my actually um this is my actually note note file. So in this particular file you will be getting all the nodes and architecture steps everything. So this is excali uh like extension file.

If you want to open it up so you have to install one extension from extension market called excali. So if you can search here Xcali Xcali drop okay so this particular extension you have to install if you install that you will be able to open this okay in your VS code itself uh fine so now if I show you my step um if I show you my step so the first step what I have to do uh I have to do the environment setup okay let's try to do the environment setup so for environment setup here I'm going to write all of these this step here let's say the first step you have to create the environment so to create the environment you can use the same command I think you used for the previous project on create-en n you can give the name let's say lang agent then you can specify the python python is equal to you can take 3.11 and y okay you are giving this permission after that you have to activate that then you have to install the requirements okay so just try to create the environment so for me I think I already have the environment uh so I'm going to just activate the copy and activate the environment so see this lang engine is already um installed for me okay but if you don't have just try to create the environment then try to activate then after that Let's install the requirement. So here I'm going to add the requirement.txt and inside that I'm going to mention all of the requirement package I need.

Um yeah so these are my requirement guys. Okay so these are my requirement uh I need for this particular project. So you can see we're installing langen. Um so I think you remember in previous project we use uh we installed actually langen old version. So let me show you it was 0.1

something I think. So this is the like uh first agent repository that means our single AI agent repository. So if I go to the requirement.txt as you can see we have installed langen 0.1 here.

Okay but here we're installing langen 0.2 that means this is the modern langen the latest one. So here actually lcl that means langen expression language is supported but here this is this was not supported. Okay. So, both I have showed you uh but try to use the latest one if you want.

Okay. Uh latest one is always good. Uh because older one uh people are uh not using anymore. So they are trying to u moving to the new one. It doesn't mean older one cannot be used.

Still you can use old one. Okay. There are some good functionality you can use. But yeah uh whenever we have the latest one so why not we can utilize this this one. Okay.

Then we are installing this langen core community openi lang openai. So you can use any other LM provider as well. It's completely fine. Simply you just need to go to the RGP and tell let's say you want to use open router or Gemini. So you'll be able to see that they will suggest you the code.

Okay. You can replace that code here. Okay. Then streaml I need for creating the user interface. Then tavly for this search tool.

And I told you we'll be creating another tool which is a beautiful soup extracting. So here we'll install this beautiful to soup. And for beautiful soup we need these are the dependency package as well. Okay. Then python do uh env for the environment management.

So these are the package we have to install. So how to install? Let's copy the command. So here's the command. I will copy this and run in my terminal.

So for me it is already satisfied but for you it may take some time. Okay. Once it is done now we can create the folder structure right now. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to first of all create a folder here. I'm going to name it as src and inside that I'm going to create a constructor file init_py and uh inside that I'm going to create another folder uh I'm going to name it as tools.

I'm going to create another folder called agents. Okay, then I need another folder called pipeline. Okay. Yeah. So once it is done then here I'm going to create an endpoint which should be my app.py.

Okay. And I need av file for environment management. So yeah, so this is my folder structure. Uh but uh right now I'm going to create some of the file inside these are the folder. Like first of all I have to create a constructor file.

So this is called modular coding. We're uh creating as a module each and every separate module. Inside that we'll be creating a file called agent.py. Then pipeline also I'm going to create a constructor init_.py

and I'll be creating a file called pipeline.py. So for tools also we'll be doing the same thing. Okay, everything is done. Now let me check.

Let me verify everything is fine or not. Uh yeah, I think everything is fine. So now if I show you my step again, uh we have prepared all of the folders. Okay. Like for tools, we have created a separate tools folder inside src.

So inside that we'll be writing all of the tools in the tools.py. For agent also we have done the same thing agent and inside agents we'll be writing all of the agents. For pipeline we have done the same thing. For pipelines we'll be writing the pipelines.

Okay. and run and test. We'll be using this endpoint which is app.py. Okay, so everything is fine.

Um uh okay, one more thing I can do for running uh and testing the agent. First of all, let's say we'll try to test in the main.py. Then once uh everything is working fine, we can convert we can add the user interface to the app.py.

Okay. Yeah. So now it's ready. Now let me commit the changes to my GitHub. So simply what I will do uh I'll try to uh commit the changes.

So get add space dot get commit m um agent setup and folder structure created and get push origin done. Now if I go to my GitHub refresh, see my border structure is ready. Okay. Now first thing let's try to work on this. Um I'll open up my state.

Yeah. So environment setup and folder creation is done. Now uh here what I can do maybe I can write another things folder structure. Okay folder struct structure. Yeah.

Now first of all we'll be uh creating the tools. Okay let's try to create the tools. Uh so here I'll close all of this file. But before creating the tools uh first of all I have to collect uh this uh uh secret credential. I need my openi API key and I need table API key.

Okay I already showed you in my previous implementation how to collect them. So I already collected let me show you. So this is my open API key and this is my table API key. So for openi what you have to do you have to visit openi API platform. So there simply just try to login with the API platform.

Once you have logged in just try to see the API keys option and create the new access uh secret key. Okay. So for me I have already created. Now for tabuli you can visit tab API key tab.com and see here if you don't want to use open AI you can use Google Gemini API or open router or gro API key anything you can use.

Okay only you just need to change that model uh initialization simply you can go to the chat GPT and you can replace that okay very easy but I have my openi account with me that's why I'm going to use openi because I am expecting good output from my agent. Okay, that's why uh because in free API there is some limitation. Um so after c certain time actually uh this limit would be offered. So that's why we are using open air here. Now table also you have to do the same thing.

Uh here is a API creation option. You can uh click here you can create a new key. Okay for me I already create the key. So this is available. Okay.

Now environment is ready. Now simply let's try to create the agent. Uh what I'm going to do I'm going to open this sorry not agent I'm going to create a tool. So I'm going to open this tools. Okay tools folder uh tools.py.

Okay I'm going to open it. So the very first tools guys I have to create I think you remember which is uh this web search tool which is this web search tool. If I show you my diagram web search tool which is tab API. Okay. And we'll try to connect with our first agent.

So let's try to create this table search uh table search tool. So for this let's import some library. First of all I'm going to select my environment. [clears throat] So I'm going to import let's say langen dot tools import tool. Okay.

Then I'm going to import request. I'm going to import um I'm going to import this uh env. So from env import load env. Then I need the operating system. Okay, it should be import.

And one more thing I need to import the table. So from tably import tably client. Yeah, you can also import tably from langen uh because langen inside tools it is tably tools is available. You can import either you can import from tably framework itself and you can create as your custom tool. So in my previous example taby I initialized from langium u I didn't create it as a custom tool but in this implementation I'm going to show you how we can uh create tab as your custom tool okay this is also possible uh both you see and whatever you like you can prefer that because in my requirement I already installed this tably python okay that's why we'll be able to do that so simply first of all load your environment variable and after that let's create a tably object so tably key is equal to so tably client here you have to pass the API key of the tably so I'm going to get from my involvement variable so west get env table tably API key and inside this enb I've already mentioned my table apak okay it will try to load from here so once I got it now I'll create a function here so this function will try to perform the web service operation with help of tably so maybe I can name this function function as web search.

Okay, web search web search. So this will take a query or I have already created let me show you. Yeah. So this is the function guys as you can see. So websites this is the function.

This takes the query and what [clears throat] it does it uh use tab and it searchs that particular query over the internet and max result is equal to five that means it will give you five sources okay five relevant uh sources uh URL from the internet and what we are doing uh let me show you what we are doing here let's say once we are getting all of the five uh five responses so let me just print them one by print result all of the results. Now let's call this function or we can also test inside our endpoint which is main.py. Let's import from src dot tools dot tool import web then websource let's say what is the capital of French okay I have given this one or let's say latest news on a research now if I execute python main.py.

Now see it is giving you five response. Okay, five response. But this print statement is not clear enough. So if you want to make it clear enough, so what you can do guys, you can install one tool which is rich. Let me add inside my environment reach.

Okay, so reach helps us to uh actually um see the good print statement and you can also use it for the login debugging. So let me install the rich as well clear. I'll install my requirements once it is done. Now let's try to import the rich in the tools. I'm going to import from rich.

Okay. Import print. Now instead of this print I'm going to use my rich print. Okay. Now if I execute this will give you beautiful output.

Now see this is uh clean right? This is understandable. Yeah. So you can see we are getting this response from tably API. So Tableau API what is it doing?

It is going to internet and it is searching it is searching over uh different different website. Okay. So this is the first website reddit.com. So if I open it up so here it has already discussed about this uh uh latest AI research news.

Then again you can see there is another website called artificial intelligencenews.com. Okay. So this is another news. So that's how you have see uh that's how you can see 1 2 uh 3 4 5.

Okay. Total five uh response we are getting here. Okay. Five uh URL we are getting here from different different website. Okay.

Now what I can do see I don't need all of the informations because here I only need this result. Okay. In the result I have the URL. I have the title of that particular let's say information and I have a content. So in that content actually some uh like uh one to two lines headlines are there about the content.

Okay. So if I'm able to get these are the three things I think this is more than enough uh for my agents because if I show you my agent if I show you my agent here. So let's say first agent what it will do it will uh use tab API uh for real time data data feting operation from different different website and we have to take there these are the information URL title and content. So this URL title and content will try to save in the state result and my second result will try to uh take that and from the URL itself okay from this URL itself it will try to extract it will try to extract the content because this is a web okay this is HTML web so now what it can do uh it can actually so extract the content and how it extract I think you know if I perform the inspect operation so there is a option let's say if I want to extract ract any text easily I can do that let's say I can show you let's say I want to extract this this particular part if I click here so this is the content of that okay I can easily extract the content and this operation we perform with alpha beautiful soap okay so I'll try to do that as well so here let me show you I'll open it up h now instead of taking all of the content so what I'll do I'll just try to Okay, these are the information. Okay, these are the information like I need title, I need URL and I need content.

Okay, content I need and content I'm only taking 300 word just to make my uh let's say agent understand. Okay, so this is the content related that and it is available inside this URL. You have to extract that. Okay, now if I uh see after doing it I'm just running a for loop because this result will have a result keyword. Okay, we are going inside that because this is a JSON response.

We are taking this key and inside that we have title um URL title and content. So inside that we are extracting title, URL and content and we are appending to this particular empty list one by one. That means the five uh five output should be there. Five uh five links response should be there inside that. Okay, because I'm getting five response.

Now let me show you. So if I print this uh if I first of all I'll return it. I'll return it. So basically I'm performing the joining operation. uh so what the join will do it will try to join as a string okay so every time it will give a new line and it will join all of the content now let me show you how this thing will look like so maybe now I'll try to receive it here let's say output and print the output now if I execute my file See I'm getting five output the title and this is the URL of that content and this is a like uh short paragraph of that particular news.

So if I go to the reddit.com you'll see that an AWS user started. Okay. So this thing is available. Yeah.

Sorry from here. An entropic drops a uh drops a new research paper today. Okay. So, entropic uh drops a new research paper today. So, that's how it is taking 300 word from the entire content.

Okay. Entire content. Now, this is the second one. This is the third one. This is the fourth one.

This is the fifth one. That means we are getting fifth uh response from our tab tool. Okay. Which is amazing. Now, what I will do guys?

Um my first tool is ready. My first tool is ready. That means this particular tools is ready. Okay. Now I have to work on this tool which is beautiful soup scrapper tool.

Now let's try to also work on that. So for this I again need to import some other library like I need to import uh beautiful soup. So from BS4 I import beautiful soup. Then I have to import from readability import documents. Then I have to import chart.

Okay. Uh trafil uh tora. Okay. This is uh this thing I need uh with beautiful soup. Um uh that's why this is a dependency package.

And I also need regular expression import. So if you have ever performed web scrapping I think you know these are the libraries useful H. So what I've done guys I have already generated a function with chart GPT. Let me show you the function. Yeah.

So this is the function I have generated from chat GPT. Uh so basically if it takes a URL okay it takes a URL and what it does uh it uh ex scrap actually all of the content from the URL. Okay it perform the scrapping. So here you can see uh we are using request package. We are hitting the URL.

After that we are getting the JSON uh HTML response and we are extracting the content. Okay. So everything is performing with help of beautiful soup. And once we got the content, we are returning the cleanup. And if exception is occurring, we're raising the exception.

Okay, that's why exception handle is also important. If you're using any third party services, definitely you can use try accept block. Okay, this is required. So yes guys, uh this is the scrapper function we have created. You can also test it whether it's working or not.

So maybe let's say here what I will do, I'll try to import it as well to scrap URL. Uh so this returns, right? This is returns H. This returns okay return. So what I can do I can I can show you let's say results.

So this takes a URL. Okay. So maybe I can provide a URL. Let's say I'll copy this URL. Copy this URL and I'll give inside there.

Okay. Then I will print the result. Now see what happens here. Python main.py Still we are getting this title URL.

Why? Oh, okay. We using websites. I have to use scrapper URL. Okay, scrap URL.

This function. Sorry, my mistake. Now, let's again execute. Okay. Now see from that HTML I'm getting the content.

Okay. I'm getting the important content. Okay. So this function is doing that. So this function is going to that particular URL.

Okay. This function is going to that particular URL and extracting all of the content. Okay. You can see extracting all of the content relevant content. Okay.

And it is giving me here. Now this content I'll try to pass to my next agent here. next agent. So let's say my second aent uh second agent will try to extract uh this informations and it will save in the state memory. Now I can use my writer agents to use this particular content and prepare a draft for me.

Okay. And my critic agent will try to review that. This is the work I think you are getting. So this is called actually uh team. Okay.

This is called actually team and uh we are using uh we are using list of agents to performing for performing actually uh task okay multiple task we are performing with the of multiple agents one by one okay so this is the beauty of multi- aents instead of using the single agent now one more thing I want to show you see as of now I have created these are the tool as a function okay and now if I want to use it as a tool so what I have to I think you remember we have to give a decorator. Yesterday also we did the same thing. So we have already imported this tool from Langchen. So now I can give a decorator. So here just simply give the tool decorator.

Whenever you are giving the tool decorator now you can invoke. Okay you can invoke this tool. Let me show you tool decorator. Now let's say right now what I'm doing uh here right now I just need to call this function and give the input like that. Right.

Now we have converted as a tool. Now I can perform the invoke operation. So how to perform the invoke operation? Let me show you. So let's say this is my tool web search tool.

Simply I'll do the invoke operation. Invoke operation. Now here is the question. Let's say I'll give what is the latest research on using AI for climate change migration. Now whatever response I'll get I'll try to save inside a variable.

That's the result and I'm going to print it. Now let me show you. This will work as a tool. See now this is working as a tool. Okay.

You can perform the invoke operation. All right. So similar guys you can also perform the invoke on the scrap URL. Okay. Both it will work with the help of invoke.

So now guys our tool is ready. uh we have created uh all the tool like tabularly tool as well as the beautiful soap scrapper tool uh and it is already working. Now the next part we can work on the uh agents implementation. Okay. Now I'm going to show you how we can implement the agents.

But before that let me commit the changes. I can also commit from my VS code. So here I can tell uh tools uh created for agent oh that's a tools created okay I'll commit and send the changes done now if I go back I'll close this other tab refresh. Now see tools added already. Okay.

Fine. Now let's try to work on the next part which is agent implementation. Okay. We'll try to implement the agent. So guys uh to implement the agent I'm going to open this uh agent folder.

Inside that I have agent.py. Let me open it up. Uh I can close these are the file as of now. So first of all here what I have to do guys I have to create my first agent which is uh search agent.

Okay search agent. So basically this will have the connection with tab API. So let's try to create that. I'm going to import some necessary library. Um so these are the library I need.

These are the library I need. So one more thing I think you can observe. Um right now I'm importing langen.agent import create agent. Okay.

But previously I imported create react agent. Okay. There are some difference between them. Now see because previously I showed you I installed actually old version of the langen. So in old version langen they implemented create react agent that means uh reasoning and action agent.

Okay but in the latest version in the updated version modern langen they have replaced with create agent. Okay this particular function. So for this I did a Google search. Let me show you the result. See I told is create agent and create react agent same in langen it's telling no uh they are not same um uh though they both serve similar purpose in recent langen updates create agent has become the standard streamline function while create react agent is older implementation.

Okay. So what they have done they have updated the langen package and what they did they actually also worked on this create react agent they and they updated with this react agent sorry create agent right now because create agent is nothing but it's the updated version of create react agent and this is more stable more standard. Okay, that's why they're recommending don't use create react agent instead of use create agent only because this is more standard and stream light function. It's not it's not like that you can't use uh react agent you can use uh create react agent but um I think it's good to go with the updated one always. Okay.

Now here are some um like difference between them. So you can see create react agent. This is the modern recommended method in core lang package. It creates an agent that execute a built-in loops of tools calling using highly flexible modern middleware system. And uh apart from that this create uh react agent is a older implementation b strictly on foundation react reasoning acting okay prompting uh paper.

It was previously able uh available one older version of langen but has been deprecated in u um create agent. Okay, that means the latest one. Okay, so basically I think remember whenever we use this create react agent function we have to use another additional function which is agent executor and that has to perform three things. One is the thoughts then action then observation. I think I showed you the detailed discussion in my uh previous agent implementation.

If you have missed out just try to check it out. So there we used to run three things thought action and observation. And uh for running this three step we used to use agent executor with this create react agent. But right now in create agent you don't need to use that separately. So they have integrated everything that means that thought action and observation all of the execution process in the loop they have inbuilt with this create react agent.

So they will take care each and everything. You don't need to do these are the part. Okay. So that's why this is like more standard and optimized version of create uh create react agent. Okay.

So that's why we'll be using this create agent right now. Okay. I hope it's clear guys. So that's why in my code you can see instead of importing this create react agent. Where's the code?

Yeah react agent I'm importing create agent only. Okay. And all the code are same like openi chat openi. Then we are also importing the prompt template. If I want to give my custom prompt I can set my prompt with help of chat prompt template.

Then output parser I need because I'm going to use the LCL lang lang expression language the [clears throat] modern langen uh let's say uh syntax. So that's why output parser is required and to understand this one definitely you have to go through my langen lecture guys there I have discussed each and everything what is lclput parser is required each and everything I have already explained then from tools we are importing uh this is not tools anymore so this thing I can import like that so in my main.py Pi I have already imported I will copy and I'll replace it here. Okay. So from src uh from src tools uh we have created web search tool and scrapper tool.

Okay. Both we have created and we're importing and initializing the now the first thing we have to set up the model. Uh so lm is equal to chat openai. So I'm going to use this model. This model.

So here I can comment model initialization. Okay. Model initialization. So we are using this GPT4 mini model. You can use any model GPT5 whatever you can use.

And this is the creativity parameter I have given zero. So this will give you the LLM object. So right now I'm going to create my first agent which is this agent called search agent. Let's try to create it. Now see if you're using modern lang chain that means create create agent function.

It's like super easy only you just need to create a function. I'm going to name it as let's say build search agent and simply you just need to return that okay return what return your create agent okay create agent and this will take actually some parameter the first parameter takes the model so model is equal to I'll pass my llm second parameter it takes tools. Okay, the tools you want to connect with this agent. So I want to connect this tool actually web search tool because my first agent will try to connect with my web search tool which is tab API. Okay, so what I'm going to do I'm going to call this web source and pass it here.

Okay, and there is another thing you can perform I think which is system prompt. Okay, system prompt you can pass you can tell your agent what to do. But system prompt I think it is already given in default. Uh the same system prompt I think I showed you right uh yesterday. uh I u downloaded from langen hub.

So basically it explains about the agent behavior. Okay, how to work. So I don't need to give it here because this is my um search agent. So basically it will take take a prompt uh so take a topic and it will perform the uh live search operation over the internet and this will return you the URL content. Okay, with respect to that.

So for this uh the manual prompting is not required. I think the default prompt is fine completely. But if you want you can also change the system prompt. Okay, it's completely up to you. So you can generate a system from from chat JP and you can pass it here.

So this is my first agent. So this is my first agent. Okay, which is s agent. Now I'm going to work on my second agent which is scrapping agent. Okay, that means this one uh reader agent.

Okay, we can name it as reader reader agent. reader agent. So let's create it. So similar wise, I will create this agent as well. I'll copy this code.

And uh here this is my read reader agent. Okay. And this will take this scrap URL tool because this will connected with my beautiful soup. That's why we're passing this scrap URL tool in this particular agent. And if you want you can also change the system prompt here.

But I think default for prompt is fine with me. I'm not going to change the prompt. Okay. So my uh first agent and second agent is done. Now I'll be working with my uh I'll be working with my um third agent and fourth agent and see this third agent and fourth agent I'm not going to create in that way.

Instead of that I can utilize the modern langen chain functionality. Okay this is called LCL chain. So I think this is enough u because in lang chen we can use this lcl chen uh uh for for this kinds of operation. Okay this is also possible. Now let me show you how it can be initialized.

See if you haven't watched that my ll in my langen so try to watch that otherwise it would be little bit confusion uh for you but if you watch that uh session I think it would be clear. So I have already created let me show you this is my writer chain that means my writer agent see so first of all here you have to prepare a prompt okay custom prompt so I'm using the chat prompt template and what I'm doing I'm giving a system prompt you are expert research writer write a clean structure and insightful reports a human write a detailed uh research on report on the topic below Okay. So first of all I will give the topic and this topic will come from the human human input and this will take the research. Okay. And where it will get the research.

It will get the research from this reader agent. Okay. Because reader agent will try to first of all uh first agent what it will do it will give the URL okay URL of the relevant uh relevant actually sources and the second agent will try to extract the content and it will save in the state memory and writer agent will try to take those content and write this uh draft for you. So that's why this research we are taking it from my reader agent. Okay.

So this will automatically go to the uh go to the writer agent. Okay. Now here you can see structure report as I need these are the informations in that report. Introduction, key findings, minimum three world explained points, conclusion, okay, and sources. That means whatever URL you refer, just try to also refer the URL in the research topic.

You can change this kinds of prompt uh with respect to your requirement. You you can generate a detailed report, you can generate a short report, you can generate more sub point here. You can customize it. Okay. Now be detailed and uh factual and professional.

Okay. This is the entire palm. Now we are creating the chain. So writer chain is equal to writer prompt. First of all you have to give the prompt.

Then you have to give the llm. Then you have to give the str output. So what will happen? This prompt will go to this llm. Lm will try to work on that because lm is expecting the topic and research.

We are already getting from the topic from the user and research from my second agent which is uh reader agent. Agent reader agents will return the content research content and with the help of this research content it will refer and write that particular um report. Okay, just try to think about if I give you the recent let's say recent let's say I'm searching for tell me the latest AI tools. So if I give you the if I give you the let's say uh source content source content means let's say in from the internet I have collected some URL and from URL I have extracted some uh let's say um I have extracted the content of that particular latest information and I have given to you. So this is the content and now just try to prepare a report on that.

So what you will do you'll just try to refer that and prepare the report for me. Okay, the same thing we are doing here. So that's why we don't need to create an individual uh agent like that. Okay, it can be done with the help of this LCL chain. Okay, very easy.

Now same we'll try to do it for my critic chain as well. That means this one. So this one is done. Now we'll performing for this one. Let's do it.

So this is my critic chain. So here also we are doing the same thing. We are creating the prompt template first of all. So you are a sharp and constructive s research critic. Be honest and specific human.

Review the research on below and evaluate it strictly. So we are giving the report. Report means this writer agent whatever it will return you. We'll try to pass here. Now it will respond like that.

First of all it will give you this four strength areas to improve one line uh verdict. Okay. Then uh we are preparing [clears throat] the chain. So critic chain is equal to critic prompt that means my critic prompt lm and st output. So this will become your critic chain that means this part is also ready.

Okay. Now we have to combine them all together to make all of the agent uh work together. Okay. So these kinds of things we'll be performing in the pipeline. Now we'll try to create the pipeline.

We'll try to combine this agents all together. That means first of all first agent will come whatever output we'll be getting we'll try to save in the state memory. Then second agent will try to receive that. Then uh we'll try to connect this stability tool with first agent. Then uh this tool with the second agent already this is done.

Okay, I have already connected this tool. As you can see this tool is already connected. Then once it is done we'll try to connect the writer agent as well as the critic chain. Okay, critic agent or chain whatever you can say. Now let's try to see how we can uh create this pipeline.

So my agent is ready and my tools is ready. Now I'll be working on the pipeline. So guys, our agent and tools everything are ready. Now we can work on the pipeline. So in the pipeline I told you we'll try to connect all of the agents uh together and we'll also try to uh connect the state memory there.

So for this uh let's open up this pipeline.py file. Uh it's available inside pipelines. I'll open it up. Uh now let me show you how it can be done.

Okay. So for this first of all we have to import um we have to import this agent. Okay the agent we have created that means my search agent then reader agent then my writer chain as well as the critic chain. Okay. So all these thing we have to import one by one.

Uh this is the critic chain. So let's import in the pipeline. So I'm going to write from uh from src dot aagents dot agent. So I'm going to import first of all build reader uh build a search agent then build reader agent then writer chain then my critic chain okay critic chain now what I'm going to do guys I'm going to write a function Um already I prepared this function. Let me show you what it will do.

Yeah. So first of all I'll try to add this. So this is the function guys. Let me explain. H yeah so you can see the function name I have kept run resource pipeline so this will take the topic whatever topic user will pass uh so first of all what I'm doing guys I'm uh taking a state dictionary here okay so why I'm taking a dictionary because I told you we'll be creating a state memory okay state memory this is a temporary memory uh once agent has executed uh successfully then this uh particular memory would be cleared so that's I told you later on if you want you can also add the permanent memory by adding some u memory database that thing I'm going to definitely discuss in future but as of now just try to consider this is our this is our state uh memory we are taking as a dictionary.

So every state it will try to save some data inside that particular dictionary. So first of all I'm just doing a print statement uh just to see a beautiful logs in my terminal. Okay. So we are first of all telling searching agent is working. Then we're giving like 50 uh this uh equal sign.

Okay. Now what we are calling guys? We're calling now build s agent. Uh so we are creating an object of that particular agent. Then we are invoking it.

Okay. What we are invoking? We are invoking without prompt. So user is giving a prompt. Find the recent realable and detailed information about this topic.

And from where we are getting the topic. Topic will be given by the user. Okay. From the user interface we'll try to pass the topic. So this topic will come here.

So this uh search agent what it will do it will use tably search API it will search over the internet of that particular topic and this will return you the result. Okay, this will return the search result. What would be the search result? I think you remember this will return you these are the search result that means the title, URL and snippet that means the content. Okay.

So this is the work of the first agent. You can see and this particular state the first agent whatever it is returning I'm going to save inside state memory. So this is what we are doing. You can see we are calling this state and I'm adding a new key which is search result and we're storing this particular result in that particular memory. Okay, you can see search result.

Uh we are getting the message and we're getting the content of that. Okay, content of that and we're stringing uh storing in the state memory and once it is done we're also printing that particular memory what is we have inside that particular state. Okay, so this is for my first agent. So we have completed till here. Now we will be creating this particular option my second agent.

So this will connect it with my previous state. It will take the data and it will run my second state and whatever output we'll be getting we'll try to save in the state memory again. So let's try to work on that. So my second step my reader agent. So this is my reader agent.

Yeah reader agent. Again I'm doing some print statement. Now you can see I'm initializing my reader agent. Again we are doing the invoking operation of the reader agent. Then we are giving the prompt user based on the following search topic.

Uh so topic we are getting from here. Okay. Uh pick the most relevant URL and scrap it for deeper content. That means it will scrap that particular URL. And whatever let's say uh URL we are having we are also passing from my state.

You can see we're calling the state and I think you remember we created a key called search result. search result we are giving that particular um I mean content that means whatever URL my first agent has extracted uh my first agent got from my tab we have stored here and my second agent is reading from that particular state you can see it is reading from that particular state that means all of the URL title it will get then it will perform the scrapping operation and whatever scrap result we'll be getting again we are saving in the state memory again I'm creating another key called scrap content inside this state and we are saving the content inside that very simple okay then we are printing that particular content so this part is also done second agent and second agent response we are saving in the state memory now we have to work on the writer and uh critic now let's do it so first of all I'm going to write my writer so this is the writer you can see again I'm doing the print statement for beautiful logs now we can We created a uh variable here. So this variable having two information. One is the source result. Okay, source result and one is the detail scrap content.

Okay, the search result we are getting from where we're getting from uh this uh source result. Okay, then what we are doing? We are also getting the scrap content. Scrap content means nothing but uh my previous okay previous whatever scrap content we got, we have in the state memory, we are also getting that. Okay, we are getting the scrap content.

Now we are writing our chain. You can see uh chain.invoke. We are giving the topic as well as the research combined. That means both of the example we are giving.

Why we are giving the search result? Because I told you I think you remember here if I show you my writer agent. Writer agent. Okay. So here I uh told uh you have to also mention the sources.

Okay. Sources uh list of the URL found in the research. Okay. And if I want to list down all the URL, so definitely I have to pass the URL as a reference. So this is what we are passing here.

All the URL we are passing. And whatever content we got from the URL, we also passing that. So it will prepare a draft for me. And this particular draft report we are again saving in the state memory. Okay, we are saving in the state memory.

So that my critic chain can refer and it can uh uh review that you can give the feedback then we can get the final output. Okay, so you can see we are storing in the state memory and we are printing that. Now the last things we have to write the critic report. Uh so this is the critic report. Again we're doing the print statement.

After that uh we are calling the critics and invoke and we're giving this report. The last uh state was the report. We are passing the report. Okay. So this will basically take the feedback and again I'm storing in the state memory as a feedback and we are printing it here.

Okay. And we're returning the state. So yeah this is the pipeline guys that means this connection we have done perfectly. Now let's test it whether it's working or not. So what I will do?

So in the main.py I'm going to test it. So simply here let's try to import first of all this uh this function. This is the main function run resource pipeline. So here I'm going to import it.

So from src dot pipelines dot pipeline import run resource pipeline. Okay. Now simply here I'm going to take a topic is equal to let's say the impact of AI job market in 2026. Let's say this is my topic. Now I'll going to pass inside my run resource pipeline.

Okay, run resource pipeline. So basically what it will do, it will give you the final result. Okay, final result. And although we are printing so that's why we don't need to store it here. So it will print in the terminal.

Now let me show you. I'll clear I'll run my main.py. Now see first of all research uh search agent is working. Now we got the uh source result okay with URL.

Now my second reader agent is working. It is scrapping all of the informations from the URL on that topic. Now see we got the um content. Now my writer agent is drafting the report. Now it will prepare the report by utilizing this content as well as the URL.

Now see my final report is ready and it has also given you the sources whatever sources it has referred. Now critic agent is also working and it has given you the report. It told okay you got six out of 10 and there is some strength point here is the areas of improvement and here is the oneline verdict okay amazing that means all of my agents are working perfectly guys okay all of my agents are working perfectly there is no error and it is working together okay it is working together and we're getting a very detailed report on my given topic okay but this thing I have to execute from my terminal and it's not like uh readable properly and if I give it to like non-coder guy so definitely he won't be able to execute that agent. So what I can do maybe I can add a user interface here. Uh to add the user interface you can use uh any kinds of framework.

If you know front end development you can use React NexJS. Okay you can do it for you. But if you don't know about HTML CSS React uh React NexJS okay completely fine. There is a library inside Python called streaml with help of streaml you can create a user interface. And again you don't need to write the code from scratch.

You can use chat gpt. simply uh give this uh pipeline code to the chart GPT and tell just try to add a streaml UI interface with that. So I have done the same thing. So what I did guys with my chart GPT I have generated a user interface with the help of my streaml. Okay.

So charge GPT has given me a code. Let me show you how this code looks like. So this is the code. This is the code. Okay.

So you can see this is a streamlit uh development. Okay. I have to import this one only. uh instead of importing like that in the app.py I have to import like that.

Yeah. SRC agent, uh, build agent, uh, reader agent, writer agent and prediction. Fine. So, first of all, you can see it is utilizing streaml and we have already installed streaml inside our requirement as you can see. Then we it is setting the page configuration.

It is adding some custom CSS for the designing of my um UI. Okay. Some color, background and images. It has added uh some other like markdown it has added. Okay.

some HTML content has added. See in streaml also you can add HTML and CSS but again I told you if you don't it's completely fine just open up your any kinds of uh assistant gemini or chat GPT or cloud and try to give this pipeline.py Pi and tell like okay I just need to add HTML UI it will add it whatever user interface you are getting just try to run okay nobody's actually remember HTML CSS nowadays okay because we have this kinds of uh flexibility now this is a simple actually uh interface we have created with the help of streamlit again you don't need to understand this code uh this is like uh AI generated uh user interface it's completely fine but there would be definitely uh other guy in the company they will be working on the front- end development as per the company requirement. Okay. But as a uh agent engineer we don't need to worry about the user interface but to run our agent I need a user interface so that I can show to my manager I can show to my let's say customer uh so that uh they can test my agent okay in the user interface uh background okay instead of giving the terminal access.

So now if I want to execute my app.py what I have to do guys I have to run this app.py. So simply I'm going to write a streaml run app.py.

Now if I execute this will run my app here and all of the code I'm going to share guys in my description from there you can execute. See guys this is the user interface. I think this is amazing right? My chat GPT has created this user interface for me and it has named it as research agent because in the prompt I told this should be the research uh research agent. So that's why it has named like researcher agent.

Okay. Multi- aent AI system. Uh four specialized AI agents collaborate searching, scrapping, writing and creating to deliver a polished research uh report on a given topic. Amazing. Right?

Now here you can see uh here I have the input option that means I can pass any kinds of research topic. Even it has also given some suggestion like you can try with these are the example. Okay, this is amazing. Now there is a button. If I click on the button my agent will be executing and these are the pipeline I'm having inside my agent.

That means the first pipeline the search agent. Second pipeline reser agent. Uh third is the writer ch. Fourth is the critic chain. And right now the starter is waiting.

Okay. Now let me try whether it's working or not. So maybe what I can do maybe I can uh copy the same example or you can also write some other thing if you want. Now simply run the research pipeline. Now see first of all my first agent is working.

Search agent is working. It is searching with the help of tab API. Let's see. Done. Now my research agent is scrapping.

Sorry, reader agent is scrapping the top resources from the URL. Now my writer agent is drafting the entire report. Okay. So step by step it is working. Amazing.

Right. The same things you can also perform in your anti-gabit VS code or Google cloud or charge GPT. You'll see that it will also work step by step using the agent mode. Right? So the same thing we have developed here.

Now see my critic agent is reviewing the report and that's how multi- aent system works. Now see it's done. Now here you can see the status is already done. All the pipeline is completed successfully. There is no error.

That means amazing beautiful user interface it has created. Now just below you can see this is the result even you can see the individual uh actually execution let's say my search result my search agent has searched right what it has search you will see see that it has got the URL and this is the URL it has got the content from medium the snippet that means the introduction part then this is the title okay title URL introduction part then this is the title URL introduction part okay that's how it is having five information. Okay, five information. Now, second agent that scrap the content from the URL. Now, you can see this is the extracted content from all the five uh URL.

Uh this is how it has extracted okay and refined and this is the final uh research report we got. Okay. On this AGI development in next five year introduction, key findings. So, it has written all of this thing. Then conclusion.

Now, if you want to make it more detailed, you can change in the prompt itself. I think remember So here is the prompt uh here is the prompt in agent.py. So here you can uh increase that particular section. Okay.

If you increase it will try to add that. Then sources whatever sources it has referred it also giving you the URL. You can see one by one all of the URL it has given you. Okay. Amazing.

Now you can also download it as a MD file. Okay. U my chart GPT also added another button here. I can also download as a MD file if I want and I can open it up. Then this is the critic feedback.

So you can see score got six out of 10. This is the strength that means still uh uh sorry this is the strength that means of this particular report like the report provides a clear timeline for a development blah blah blah. It address both technological and ethical consideration. Still areas to improvement are there you can improve. These are the section maybe in the next um prompt itself you can add these are the point here.

Okay, these are the point here to improve that particular response and uh this is the one verdict uh line it has written. Okay, amazing. Now let me try with another prompt. So what I will do? So maybe I can ask like um all latest AI agent in 2026.

This example run the resource pipeline. again. My agent is working now. Reader agent is tapping. Now my writer agent is drafting the report.

Critic is reviewing the report and my agent has executed. Now this is my search result. This is the scrap content result. Okay, you can see here and uh this is the final okay final research report on latest AI agency 2026. This is the report.

This is the sources you can download. Even this is the critic feedback. Okay. Amazing. It's working perfectly.

Now if you want you can also change the title. Uh then you can also change this uh you can also change this okay this content from this team itself. you can go to the code and maybe you can find out that section where it has added um so I think there is a so the best part is that like you can search okay so let's I'll copy this and uh here I can search Ctrl Ftrl V ah so here here itself you can change it here okay Now you can also change this title. Change this title if you want. Let's say uh here I think researcher agent.

So I can make it as let's say research agent. I'll save it. If I come here refresh now it will become research agent. Okay that's how you can change the title whatever you want. Okay.

Everything is possible but I'll keep my researcher agent only. So you just need to figure out where to change this UI interface and you can also change the color. Even if you want you can also design this UI interface with respect to your requirement. It's completely fine. That means my agent is working fine.

We have already tested. Now we'll commit the changes. Uh agents working and tested. Now we'll try to deploy this agent. So simply uh what I can do I can go to my GitHub refresh.

Okay my agent is ready. Now if you want you can also update the readmi file. So nowadays updating readmi file is super easy. Just open the agent inside your VS code and try to mention update the readme file for this project like a open source repo. Mention how to install and technologies used here if architectures.

So now I'll send this prompt. So automatically it will try to understand my entire code code base all the code all of the agents tool everything and it will prepare the readme file for me okay so you don't need to write manually after generating you can customize okay so let me quick do it quickly so that I can update in my repo then I will show you the deployment now see it is evaluating see it is also working step by step right first of all it is editing the file evaluating the file that's how it is running multiple agents in the back end okay things are working like that now see once it it needs any kinds of human permission it will tell me I'll give the permission again it will work you can also give this kinds of human in loop permission I will also show you in future this kinds of thing now in the readmi file see it has updated my readmi now you can uh see here you can simply open the preview and this is the update okay this is the update you can see amazing right now what I can do maybe I can commit the changes readme updated it always try to update the readmi uh because with the help of readmi file user will be able uh I mean some other people will be able to use your repo and definitely whenever you are adding project in your resume you have to update the readmi in a proper github um repository now see this is uh updated now see this is this looks cool right this looks like a like professional project okay professional opensource project you can see it has added all of the features architectures Okay. And then agent responsible technology used prerequisite installation process. Okay. Then uh get your own API keys.

How to get the API keys? Uses streamly UI. Then project folder structure workflow example output contributing license acknowledgement and supports. Amazing. Right?

Now let's try to deploy this project. So to deploy this project either you can use u paid google uh paid actually cloud services like AWS, GCP, Azure or you can use any uh other platform where you can uh freely deploy this project. See there is a platform called rendercloud. I think previous project also I showed you this render.com.

So render.com also you can uh deploy any kinds of AI application. You can see first path to production for the workflow you can deploy it here. But the best part is that here you will be getting a free instance. Okay, there you can deploy the project.

But although this instance is like very low but still I think for landing it is fine. But if you want to uh professionally deploy that time you have to take the subscription. But in AWS GCP I don't free I don't uh freely actually deploy. We can't freely deploy there right? So that's why we're using render.

So first of all you have to create an account in render. I already have the account. So I'll click on my dashboard. Okay. So previously I already hosted another application as you can see.

Now let me create a new web service. Okay. Now I'll click on public git repository and I'll just try to give my repository link here. Then you have to connect it. Okay.

Once it is done you can change the name. By default it it has taken my repository name. Everything would be same. No need to change anything. Only you have to give a start command here.

So to run a streaml app you have to give this command. Okay. Streamlitly run app.py server port server address 00 and it will automatically install my requirement.xt whatever I'm having here.

Okay. Once it is done now I'll take the free plan. So initially it will get 512 MB RAM and 0.1 CPU. This is enough for I think learning but whenever you want to professionally deploy it you can take the subscription plan.

Now you have to set the environment variable because environment variable it's not available in my GitHub. So I have my open AI and uh this table API both I'll add it here. So pi give the value. Okay. Now I'll add my another environment variable which is tabi.

Okay. Once it is done, now simply click on deploy web service. Now it will set up everything in that particular instance. Maybe it will take some time because we are using free instance. Uh we'll wait once this installation everything is complete.

I will come back. Now see it is installing requirement txt. Let's wait get once this status is live. I'll come back. So guys, as you can see, my uh build is successful and application is live.

Now I can copy this URL, open up my browser, paste it and hit enter. Now this will load your application. So initially it may take some time. uh you have to wait once this has loaded then you will be able to use that. So guys, as you can see, this is our application is live.

Now you can share this URL with anyone. They can use it. Now let's try. Maybe I can copy this prompt and I will test it. See, it's working.

My search agent is working right now. Now reader agent is working. Now writer agent is drafting the report. and critic agent is reviewing the report. Okay, all of the execution is complete.

Now, here is the final result. You can expand and see this is the search result. This is the scrap content and this is our final result we got. Okay. Yeah.

So this is the sources you can download also critic feedback. Everything is visible. So yes guys, I think uh it's working fine perfectly. There is no error. Uh we have successfully deployed as well.

Congratulation. Now let me show you. If I want to let's say delete the instance. So how it can be done? So for this you have to go to the settings and just below there is option called delete web service.

Now you have to give this command. Now delete the web service. Okay. Once you do that, you will see that your web service will be deleted. Okay.

So guys, I think you have seen the entire uh deployment entire implementation of this uh AI agent. We have created the complete multi- aent pipeline uh with the help of langin. Uh definitely uh I think this is going to be uh this is going to be actually uh interesting project uh to you if you're creating the agent for the first time. Uh so this was uh the first orchestration framework we have explored so far. Don't worry uh we'll be exploring all of the orchestration framework one by one.

Now in the next video I'm going to tell you let's say why we have to use the actual aentk orchestration framework like lang graph crewi okay or autogen why we can't use uh lang chen okay what are the limitation lang chains are having each and everything I'm going to clarify so guys I think you know uh we have already uh implemented some AI agents with the help of lang chain uh this was our first orchestrator framework uh for building uh GNI powered application but I told you we can also use lang chain for building these kinds of AI agents. So there I have shown you uh single agents implementation as well as the multi- aents implementation. So if you haven't uh checked that uh the link is given in the description from there you can check it out. So from this video itself guys I'm going to start uh our actual uh agentic AI orchestrator framework. The first framework we'll be starting with uh which is langraph.

So I think you have heard of about langraph. It's a very famous and mostly used framework in industry and uh developer are using this framework okay day by day in their life. So before starting actually langraph first of all I want to give you the idea behind uh this langraph why langraph came in the market and if you don't know langraph is a product of langchen okay so langen developer team has implemented this langraph framework for building akai application so first of all let's try to understand why they have created this framework for building these kinds of aenti application uh although they are having language Okay. Um I I think we saw we can use langen for building some of the agents. Okay.

Some of the basic level agents. But why we have to use the langen? Okay. What was the purpose behind to use this particular uh let's say lang graph. Okay.

First of all we'll try to understand each and everything. Uh then I'm going to start with our langraph concept. Okay. So this video will cover the uh detailed discussion be behind actually langen versus langraph. uh I will uh tell you I will show you why we can't use actually langen when it comes to complex actually workflow complex uh uh agenti let's say application we can't use langen uh instead of that actually we have to use langraph for that okay so I'm going to show you each and every example so that your understanding would be more clear so make sure you watch this video till the end guys now let's see what are the things we're going to cover from this video I'm going to give you the agenda first of all then I will start with the discussion.

So guys as you can see uh these are the things uh we'll be discussing in this particular video. Uh first of all uh I'm going to discuss about the uh brief overview uh of langen. So again uh the prerequisite for this video is you have to know langen. Okay, langchen uh understanding is required and I already told you in my YouTube channel I have created langchen video. Uh again I'm going to add the link in the description from there you can check it out.

So first of all uh we'll understand um what is lang chain how lang chain works uh what are the application actually we can implement with the help of langchen then we'll be discussing about the lang graph uh we'll understand why lang graph is required and what is lang graph exactly then uh we'll try to understand like uh the difference between lang chain versus lang graph uh what are the benefit we'll be getting from the langraph okay and what are the dis disadvantage we'll be getting from langen and when to use what kinds of framework definitely we'll try to understand each and everything. So uh guys uh here you can see guys uh here is the langen um langen definition. So if you see the langen definition uh here langchen is an open-source library uh designed to simplify the process of building llm based applications. uh it provides modular uh building blocks that let you create uh sophisticated LLM based workflows okay with this. So I think uh you have already used langen uh I mean um inside generative AI and there we uh work with large language model and mostly we implement some ALM based application like uh chat bots then we create RG system text generation system okay uh uh retriever system we try to create these are the things right so guys as you can see lang chain uh consist of multiple component the first component is the model component.

So basically uh this model component gives us a unified u actually interface to interact with any kinds of large language model provider. Let's say if you want to connect with open AI LLM so it is having the model component for that. If you want to connect with anropic uh model so it has the model component for that. Okay. If you want to connect with any open source LLM like Llama, okay, Mistral, okay, everything is possible.

So all kinds of provider basically it supports and it it will give you some kinds of functionality so that you can connect with. Okay. Then uh it is having something called prom component. So what is prom component exactly? So this prom component helps you to engineer the prompt.

So let's say whenever we want to give our custom prompt. Okay, custom prompt, custom prompt. Then um if I want to write actually different different um prompt template. So everything is possible here and all kinds of uh like u prompting strategy prompting engineer we can perform inside this pro prompt component. Okay.

So langent is having a prompt uh functionality. With the help of that we can play with the prompting and I think you know especially in GNI application prompting is super important. Without prompt actually we can't create a robust system uh because if you're using very uh poor prompt definitely whatever output you are getting from the application it would be definitely poor. But if you're using a good prompt with a detailed uh instruction that time you can get best output from the application itself. Okay.

So langen provides all of them. Then there is another important things we are having inside langen which is this retriever component. So this basically helps you to fetch relevant documents from a vector store. So I think you know we use this for the RG application rag application. So whenever we create the rag application that time this uh retriever component is super important.

So there we um there we use something called vector databases and inside vector databases we store all of the documents as a chunk chunk of vectors and whenever we require them so we use retriever component for that to fetch the information relevant informations. Okay. So, yeah, I think uh these are the some major components, multiple components we're having inside Langchen. Uh but the biggest offering of Langchen is the chain. Okay.

Uh this this particular things chain. So without chain actually uh it was uh very difficult uh creating this kinds of um this kinds of actually uh production grade uh geni application because chain is kinds of uh actually workflow uh it it's actually sequential workflow. So what is this chain exactly? Chain is nothing but it's a um I mean workflow. Uh basically here we uh create uh this chain in a sequential order.

Uh so if you have already used languin I think you know that let's say you have to create first of all multiple uh block okay let's say I have created a prompt block then what I will do um I will take another block called model okay then I will take another block called let's say output parser parser then we'll try to connect this chain together okay this chain together so basically ally what uh will happen uh first of all this prompt will go to the model and model will generate some kinds of output and this output we'll try to see with the help of output pareter so basically it's a uh it's actually sequential workflow and we call it as a chain so uh every block will give some kinds of output and this output will become the input from for the next next block okay then again uh this block will generate some kinds of output again this will be uh going as an input to another block. Okay, that's how you can create actually um uh as many chain as you can. Let's say you can create create thousands uh blockchain. You can create uh hundred of blockchain here. Okay.

So everything is possible u inside lang chain. So this is the biggest benefit we'll be getting from the lang chain. So here you don't have any kinds of restriction that means you have to only create uh uh three blockchain or four blockchain. Uh you can create as much and as any as uh so here you can create as much as block you can okay as much as uh uh like um this chain you can okay you have the flexibility here so that's why this uh lang chain got like very popularity and uh it was uh like uh very easy for the developer for creating this kinds of geni powered application. So as you can see what you can build with the langen.

Uh so I already told you we can implement like conversational workflow like chat bots, text summarization app. Okay. Then apart from that we can also create uh translation system. Okay. All kinds of NLP related um um I mean um uh problem statement we can solve with the help of this langen.

Okay. We can implement with the help of langen. Then multi-step workflow it supports. So let's say whenever I want to create any kinds of mult um multi multi-step workflows that time it is also possible multi-step workflow means let's say um I can give you one example let's say here you given a topic okay you given a topic then uh what you have done let's say you generated a detail okay detail report on that topic okay once this detail report a topic generated then again you took that and you perform something called summarization summary okay so basically you are running multi-step workflow here okay so if I break down uh as a um let's say chain here so what you are doing let's say first of all you are taking a prompt prompt uh related the topic so you are passing it to the llm okay let's say you are telling uh I have uh um or let's say tell me about um tell me about actually um large language model. Okay.

Um you just uh generate a detailed report on that on the large language model in 2026. So your uh this uh particular component will try to give you uh the output uh that means the detail report. Then what you are taking uh again uh you are uh creating another prompt. Okay. You are creating another prompt.

Then you are telling uh now I need the summary of this particular detail report. Then again you are passing to another LLM. Okay, another LLM and this LLM is giving you some kinds of uh output summary. Okay, output summary. So basically you are running here multi-step workflow.

So here we are not only using one large language model or one prompting you can use multiple large language model, multiple prompting, multiple output parert. Okay, so that's why I told you this chain can be created uh as many as you can. Okay, and this is the best uh uh things we got inside line chain. Then uh the next thing we have which is uh this RG application that means rag application. So inside rag application what we can do we can create a external knowledge base okay knowledge base for the LLM and we we can connect our LLM there.

So basically if you are asking any kinds of question if the question uh answer is not available in the LLM itself. So what it will do it will refer kinds of database. Okay, we call it as a vector database and this is the knowledge base actually we try to connect the LLM there. So LM will fetch the informations from here. Uh and uh this uh process actually we perform with the help of this retr component.

Okay. Then we uh give the answer to the user. Okay. So this is another things we can develop. Then the last thing we can do on this uh basic level agents creation.

So we have already seen um how we can implement AI agents application with the help of plankin. So there I showed you we can um uh create a single agents as well as the multi- aents. But uh here the problem is that you can only create uh like very simple um I mean workflow kinds of agents but whenever it is having complex uh architecture complex workflow that time it would be difficult for you. I will show you okay how what is the difficult and if I want to implement with the help of lang chain so what would be what would be the biggest challenge for you each and everything I'm going to clarify so basically in the basic label agents what we can do maybe uh we can take a large language model and here we can uh take some kinds of tool okay tool access so whenever user is giving any kinds of things any kinds of input so this particular LLM will have the connection uh with the tool And it it can use the tool to get the um get the answer whether you can use any kinds of search tool or any kinds of tool you can use here with respect to your task. It will fetch the informations from the tool and it will show the user.

So basically here what we have we have some kinds of uh system that that system connected with some tools. Okay. And that tool will provide some realtime informations to the agents so that it can perform it can perform some automated workflow. Okay. So this is the thing and in multi- aents we created multiple agents and uh we combined them together so that whenever I was assigning any task it was working together.

Okay. In a sequential manner. So yeah guys uh these are the things we can um actually implement uh from this langen uh langen actually framework. So guys now uh we'll take an example um and we'll try to understand uh why uh langen cannot be used whenever we are building any kinds of agenti application. So what would be the biggest uh difficulties and challenges uh if we are using lang chain for building these kinds of agent application uh we'll try to understand in detail okay and why uh we have to use lang graph uh we'll also try to understand in detail okay so for this uh I'm going to take the same example uh the example I given you in my introduction session uh where I discussed about the agentic AI I think probably this was the second session uh you have to uh watch uh on my playlist.

So uh there I told you about a um recruitment process uh agent. So basically let's say if I am having uh um if I'm having a job position and if I want to uh if I want to let's say hire someone so how I can utilize a agent. Okay, how I can utilize an agent and how this agent was working. Okay, I think I given you a detailed introduction on that. So what I have done uh that particular example I have converted in a flowchart.

You can see this is a detailed flowchart. So this flowchart uh actually explains um uh each and everything about that particular application. Um so basically we call it as a workflow. So this thing we call it as a workflow. Okay workflow.

So don't try to relate this workflow with the AI agents because there are some difference between this workflow and AI agents. So if you want to understand this thing so what you can do uh you can um you can visit a website uh entropic.com. So they have written a blog about the building effectic AI agents. So if you just go below so there uh they have discussed uh about the workflow and agents.

Okay. So as you can see um workflow are system where LLM and tools are orchestrated through a predefined code path. Okay. So as you can see this workflow I showed you. So this is kinds of predefined path and every time whenever I will run my uh let's let's say this particular block it will it has to follow the same things.

Okay. But if I'm talking about the agents, okay, agents as you can see, agents on the other hand are the system where LLM dynamically directs their own process uh and tool uses, okay, maintaining control over how they accomplish a task. So I think you have seen my first example I have given you of the same requirement process uh uh applic uh let's say system there my agent was like kind of automated. So I just need to give a prompt. Let's say I want to hire a backend engineer.

So all the step actually it was performing automatically. Okay. Sometimes it was giving you some kinds of u uh uh let's say uh human in loop that means u human confirmation but every everything it was automatically working. So it was deciding what to do. It was automatically selecting the tools.

Okay. And each and everything. But uh to make you understand about uh this uh lang chain uh langchen actually um uh agents implementation or let's say if I want to implement the same uh that recruitment application with the help of langin so what would be the difficulties okay for that I created this particular workflow so that I can make you understand okay how it can be done um so here you can see this is a workflow uh so workflow means this is a predefined path so you You can see some kinds of condition looping. Okay, it is available. Okay, as you can see but on the other hand agent are actually dynamically um changes everything dynamically take the decisions um and it actually basically dynamically controls each and everything.

Okay. So I think you have understood what is workflow and agents. Okay. So for example guys we'll try to consider this particular workflow. Now see let's try to understand this workflow again.

So first of all what uh we were doing here. So first of all we are starting this workflow and starting actually we are giving our first uh prompt which was let's say I want to hire a backend engineer. So what will happen that time this particular request will go to this hiring request. Uh so this is kind of a python function you can consider this is a python function. So this uh request will go to the hiring request.

Uh so once it will go to the hiring request. So what will happen uh it will uh create a job description uh of that uh of that actually um um job you are asking for. Let's say you have given backend engineer. So what will happen uh for uh backend engineer one job description would be created. Okay, one job description will be created.

Uh so let's say you are using some kinds of tool here that tool will help you to write that particular job description. Then what it will do? it will try to send to the next uh actually block you can see called JD approved. So this is another function. So this function let's say has connection with another another LLM.

Okay. So this LLM what it will do it will try to let's say verify this job description. It will check whether this is fine or not for this job job role. If not fine so it will send no. Okay.

If it is sending no that means again you have to create the job description. Okay. And if actually this particular job JD uh let's say block approved. So what will happen? It will go to the next block.

Okay, it will go to the next block and it will post the job description. So in this case, let's say you are using some other tools like uh LinkedIn API, no API. Uh and with the help of this API, you are posting the job on that particular platform. Okay. Now it will go to the next block.

Let's say here it will wait for 7 days. Okay. So this uh this particular block will wait for 7 days. So after waiting for 7 days uh it will u continuously monitor like how many application you are receiving. Okay.

So now again it is it is going through another condition. So let's say if you got enough application then it will perform the other step like short list uh short listinguling conduct interview and all. But let's say if you're not getting enough application let's say you are getting only two to three application what will happen? It will send you no and again it has to modify the job description. Then again let's say it will wait for uh 48 hours.

Okay. Then again this loop will be uh jumped to back. Okay. U that means the previous block again uh monitoring will start and again it will check whether you got enough application or not. If you got enough application now let's say you got uh 20 application this is enough.

That time short listing will be happening. Short listing means let's see it has some kinds of réumé parser tool. So it will use that uh and it will uh uh it will actually match the resume with our actual job description and uh it will short short list actually some of the candidate let's say from 20 candidate it will it's like four to five candidate then we'll try to schedule the interview okay uh then we'll take this interview okay manually take this interview then again there there is another condition block will come so if let's say uh we selected the candidate uh so what we'll do we'll try to send offer letter and all but if we uh let's say don't select the candidate so what will happen when uh regret email will be sent to the candidate let's say I'm extremely sorry for that u actually we are not uh uh we are we are not actually hiding you because let's say you haven't uh performed good in in the interview okay this kinds of regret email we can send otherwise we can send the offer letter okay uh so in offer letter also there are some condition let's say if this offer letter is accepted that means definitely will performing the onboarding and other task but if this operator is not accepted then again what you will do you'll try to perform some renegotiate okay let's say maybe I can uh increase the uh I can increase the package mode let's say initially I I u let's say initially I offered uh uh 25 LPA but let's say this person has rejected that so again I will renegotiate that let's say I will give you 30 30 LPA so that time actually this person may prefer this particular package. So it will accept he will accept that then I'll perform the onboarding process and all then we'll u um I mean end this particular um workflow. Okay.

So that's how guys the entire workflow is working and uh this was the first example we have taken to understand the AI agents and uh right now we have seen as a workflow how I mean things are working. Okay. Now let's say you want to implement this uh system with the help of langen. So how you can implement this with the help of langen. Okay.

Because lang chain doesn't have any kinds of conditional uh conditional let's say u I mean uh workflow or conditional related functionality or looping functionality. Okay. So langen doesn't have that. So first of all let me tell you the challenges you will be facing here if you're um if you're using lang chain for this this one. Uh let me show you.

Yeah. So the see first challenge you will be getting here which is um uh conditional branch. Okay. So as you can see this particular workflow is having u so many conditional branch. Okay.

So this is the first uh challenges we'll be facing if you're using langen because langen doesn't have any kinds of conditional branch because it works with respect to the chaining concept. Okay, it it it kinds of sequential chaining concept it will be working it doesn't have any kinds of conditional branch. Then the second second challenge you'll be getting the loops okay loops. So as you can see um sometimes it is performing the looping. So that means this particular things will continuously um happening.

Okay. If let's say you you you haven't received enough job uh application. So this process will again repeat. Okay. So that means you are looping the operation.

Okay. Unless and until this is not satisfied. So again this looping concept is not available inside langen. Okay. You can't uh create this looping concept inside lang.

This is not possible. Now the third challenges you'll be guessing um getting called jump. Okay, jump. Now what is jump exactly? Now you can see uh whenever let's say I didn't get any enough application.

So this is telling no that time we are modifying the job description waiting for 48 hours then again we are jumping back to my previous block. Okay you can see monitor application. Okay. So from here we are jumping again here. So this is called jump and this kinds of jump we can't do inside lang chain.

this is not possible. Okay. So these are some uh biggest challenges guys uh we will be facing whenever we will be using langen for developing this kinds of agent system. Okay. Now let me show you um as a code actually how it can be developed.

Uh let's say somehow you want to develop this uh agents with the help of this lang. Uh so now what would be the code coding strategy? Okay. What would be the problem in the coding? Let's try to understand.

So here I have actually uh taken some code example uh and this is the langen implementation as you can see. So uh maybe I can open up my diagram. Let me open the diagram guys. H so this is the diagram. This is that workflow.

Okay. Now we'll try to understand now with this code. Now as you can see first of all here we are preparing our prompt. Uh we need to hire a software engineer for the back end uh backend team. That means we are starting this recruitment process, we are sending the heading request.

So as you can see um before u uh before starting with first of all I need some I need some let's say um I need some um um I mean important object like first of all I need the LM object. So we are taking an LLM as you can see um chat openai we are taking let's say GPT4 then we are creating the prompt template okay so create a job description based on the hiring request okay so whatever request we are getting uh so let's say this particular request we are getting uh we are preparing a job description for that okay this is this is a job description prompt okay so to create this job description we need a prompt so we are preparing here then we are creating the chain here as you can see JD chain is equal to job prompt that means first of all job prompt will come go to it will go to the LLM lm will prepare a job description okay job description then it will uh uh it will be uh go to the output parser and output parser will give you the job description okay now what we have to do guys we have to write this particular uh things as a function uh JD approved okay this is going to be a simple Python function as you can see so we have written a uh def uh approved JD. So here we'll try to pass the JD whatever JD we have uh prepared. Okay I'll try to pass in this function and this function will return see inside that I haven't written the whole code I just given you the highle idea let's say if this job description is approved based on some parameter then we'll try to return approved otherwise we'll reject it. Okay, as you can see we'll try to approved otherwise we'll try to send no.

Okay, so here you can see um once this particular job description is approved then we have to pass to the uh post job description. See as of now we are considering uh till here. Okay so this is the entire workflow but I am not creating for the entire workflow. So let's try to consider u this part. Okay, this part we we are implementing as of now with the help of blank.

Okay, I'm only considering this part. So you can see uh let me show you. Yeah. So you can see the next function I have written for post job description that means this particular function. So it will take the job description and let's say it has some connection with uh some job portal you have the API key like let's say LinkedIn noy and it will use that and it will post that particular job description.

Okay, so we have prepared all of the helper and utility related functionality. Now we have to work on the actual logic building. So you can see sometimes we have to run the loop. Sometimes we have to uh go through the condition. So these are the things we have to do.

But in langen this kinds of functionality is not available. In langen I think I told you this kinds of conditional branching, looping, jumping is not available. So for this what we have to do? We have to write some manual code. So let's say here we have written the manual code.

So first of all we have taken two variable approved and job description output. Okay. By default I have created as a false and this is this one is none. Okay. Now here you can see in step five we are running a loop until job description is approved.

That means this particular things. Okay. This particular loop we'll be writing. So for writing this loop I have taken a while loop. Okay.

While loop and I told uh while not approved. Okay that means unless and until this particular approved parameter is true this loop will be running. Then continuously what we are doing we're u creating the job description. Okay job description with the help of this particular prompt user is giving and we're sending to approved job description that means this particular function and unless and until we are not getting approved from this function this particular loop will be continuously running. Okay, you can see if not approved job des uh job not approved uh regenerating again it will come here again it will generate another one again it will send to the uh this particular function this loop will be continuously running okay let's say uh this particular job description is fine we got approved then what we'll do in the final step if it is approved then we'll try to post this job description with the help of this post JD function okay so that's how we can implement this system okay we can implement this system uh And yeah, we are able to do that.

Okay, somehow we are able to do that. But to implement this system, I think one more thing you have observed which is this uh extra code. Okay, which is this manual coding. So let's say this manual function we have created again. Um this uh this manual code we have created.

Okay, this manual code we have created. So this is called actually blue code. Okay, glue code. So to implement this project, we have to write okay so many line of glue code. Now let's say you are creating the entire workflow right now.

Let's say you are creating the entire workflow right now. Just try to think about to complete the entire recruitment process how much glue code you have you have to write here. Okay. And it's recommended whenever you are creating any kinds of production grade application. So you have to avoid writing this kinds of glue code.

Okay. you have to avoid to write this kind of glue code, this kinds of manual coding. Okay. So that's why in the market uh they published different different framework for different different kinds of task. Okay.

For agents also we can't use langen because in langen we can implement we can implement this kinds of system. It's completely fine but for this we have to write so many manual coding so many glue code and this glue code is not good for our application. Okay. And again just try to think about as a developer uh definitely uh it would be very hectic task for you to write that that much of glue code okay inside your u uh codebase and just try to think about how much your uh your code base would be it would be huge codebase right to manage this codebase like you have to I mean uh you have to uh I mean take care everything and we won't be do that right so that's why guys we won't be using this lang uh for building this kinds of uh agentic workflow because if you see this agentic workflow is not a linear one it's a complex workflow right it's a complex workflow when it comes linear workflow that time it's completely fine let's say there is no condition there is no looping that time easily we can use the training concept and we can implement these things with the help of langen okay but when it comes this kinds of conditional uh conditional branch looping jump that time this lang is not recommend recommended for that. Okay.

So for this we have to use some kinds of agentic framework. Okay. Agentic framework it is only for design for building this kinds of complex workflow complex block. Okay. And it has support with this kinds of conditional branching looping jumping all the functionalities it is having.

Okay. That's why Langchen team has implemented another amazing framework called Langraph. Okay. So they have created one amazing framework called langraph. So lang graph is a agentic AI framework.

Okay. With the help of that you can create agents application. Okay. So how much complex it doesn't matter. You can implement all kinds of agents application.

And why this kinds of framework is uh really good for building agentic application because it works works uh I mean with respect to the nodes. Okay. I think you know graph is all about nodes. Okay. You can create as much as nodes you can then you can connect those nodes all together.

Then you can also add the conditional statement. You can add the looping in the nodes. Okay, that means graph data structure is a complex data structure. It's not a linear data structure. If you have already studied about this DSA concept, I think you know that.

So graph data structure is a complex data structure. It's a nonlinear data structure. So here we can do anything. Okay. So that's why uh this langraph is got I mean this is like very uh very powerful and popular framework when it comes for building any kinds of agent application and that's why langen team has developed this kinds of system and internally they're using uh langen only okay internally they're using langen only they have written some robust code for that and with the help of that actually they have built this lang graph for us uh so that we can use this lang graph for building AI agents application.

Okay, I hope you understood. So as I told you this lang graph works uh with the help of nodes um because it has to create a graph and to create a graph we have to create a nodes. So if I now open the workflow you can see uh I can clear yeah so if I open the workflow as you can see here each and every block is kinds of nodes. Okay Lang graph will consider each and every blocks uh as a node. So let's say this hiding request it it would be a node.

So I can write here h. So let's say this hiding request it's a it's a node padding request. Okay. Now next we have this create job description j. So this is going to be another note.

This is going to be another node. And then we have um job approved. Okay, that means this checking function. So I can make it as job approved. Now there is another node called uh this post job description.

Okay, post. I can make it as a post. Okay, so that's how it will create the nodes. Just a minute guys, let me fix it. Yeah, nodes.

Okay, now after creating the nodes guys, what it will do? It will draw the edges. Okay, edges means the flow. Let's say this hiring request will go to the job uh description that means from here to here. Okay, this is called ages.

Okay, in langraph we call it as a edges. Okay, you can see in the code also I'll explain this code as well. U but I I know that uh you you haven't uh written any kinds of code in Langra but it's completely fine. I'm going to teach you how to write the code but as a high level I'm going to make you understand okay how things are working. Now this job description will go to the uh job approved.

Okay, this block that means this note. So again we'll create another edge. Okay, now this uh job approved will go to the next uh next ed uh next actually nodes which is post job description. Post job description. Okay, so we have drawn the edges.

Okay, now we'll be working on the conditional and looping. Okay, now we we have to work on the conditional and looping. Now to uh I mean for better understanding maybe we can see the code guys here. Uh so this is the code implementation uh of langraph. Let's say the same workflow uh we can implement with with the help of langraph.

So you can see the langraph implementation. So first of all we are adding the nodes. Okay all of the nodes one by one. First of all we are adding hiring request this this nodes we are getting these nodes. Okay.

And uh you can see uh we are giving the name as well as we are giving a hiring request object. Now you can ask what is this hiring request object. This is nothing but this is a simple python function as you can see hiding request. Okay. So we are um creating a simple Python function.

uh we are using LLM or we are using some kinds of API here in that and we are preparing a function and once this function is ready we are giving the object of that particular function in the inside the nodes that means this particular function will be uh created as a node okay node inside langraph then the next uh uh node we are adding create uh job description job description again create job description is another function okay we are giving the object here okay then we are creating [clears throat] Next note which is check approval that means this function. Okay. So this is the function check approval. Then next we are doing uh this uh post job description that means this note this note again this is the uh post approval. What is post appro uh post right?

Post job description. Okay this one this particular Python function. Okay. So with the help of that we are preparing all of this node one by one. Now once node is created now I have to draw the edges.

Okay. Now we'll be drawing the edges. So as you can see we are drawing the edges. Uh so now see the workflow. First of all uh hiding uh request will go to the uh create job description.

So you can see uh graph add age uh hiding request will be connected with create job description. That means here to here. Okay. So the first one then the second one. Okay.

You want to connect this particular edge. Now next is would be create job description to check approval. Create job description to check approval. Okay. So here we have to draw the edges.

Okay. But in between you can see uh create job description to uh job approval. Here we have a uh we have a condition. Okay. If job is not approved then it will again create a job description.

If it is approved then it will post the job description. Okay. So now we have to create this conditional statement. It would be very easy for me to create a conditional statement because we are using this uh uh graph structure. Okay.

In line graph. Now you can see in graph itself there is a function called add conditional ages. Okay. Now what would be the condition? Condition would be depend on this check approval function.

That means this check approval we have created. That means this one. Okay. So if this check approval returns no. Okay.

If it is returns no. Okay. not accepted again it will create the job job description you can see if it is not approved then create the job job description it's a loop back right but if it is approved then it will go to the directly post ID now you can see in next graph we are again adding another edges post ID that means from here to here from here to here okay so that's how guys we can easily implement this kinds of system with the upline graph okay I hope you got it and see like very easy it is right but in my previous implementation it was very hard for me and we have to write so many line of glue code here but here it is not required. Okay. So I hope guys you have understood.

So this is the easiest example I can give um like uh regarding this langen versus lang graph and why people are using lang graph why um it is recommended to use lang graph uh like uh instead of using langen for building this kinds of agentic workflow now I think everything is clear in your mind so that's why in this langraph implementation you can either use looping okay looping concept either use branching concept this conditional statement concept Okay, without writing any kinds of glue code. Uh that's why it is uh uh super powerful and recommended and easily you can implement any kinds of complex application complex agent application with the help of this line graph. Okay, because internally it is using this nodding concept, graphing concept. I hope it is clear guys. So guys, now I'll be discussing about the second challenges you will be getting whenever you are using uh lang chain um for this agentic AI application.

So the challenge name is uh handling state. So let's try to understand what is state exactly. So see state a kinds of uh meta data uh we use whenever we execute the entire workflow. So if I open the workflow I think you have seen um these are some uh important blocks we are having. So every blocks will generate some kinds of output and based on this output actually we are deciding for the next block.

Let's say hiring request will go to the job description. Job description will generate job description. Okay. Then job approved will try to check whether this job description is fine or not. If it is fine.

If this job description sends yes then job post will be happening. Otherwise uh if it sends no that means again it will create a job description. So in uh in every step guys you can see we are generating some kinds of state data okay state data. So if you just go through this block I think you will understand u uh why this block are important and why the generated uh datas are important because based on the data we are making the decision for the next block. So as you can see if I show you this state.

So let's say if this is our goal hire a backend software engineer. So first of all uh uh what will happen these are the information will be stored in the state memory that means the job um description text would be available. Then job approved or not this particular status would be true or false. Job posted or not this would be true or false. How many applications you got?

Number of applications you have. Okay. Shortlisted candidates name is offer letter sent or not. Interview question is prepared or not. Okay.

So these kinds of data you need to run the entire workflow because this uh your agents will try to refer this state okay state data and it will decide okay what to do next. Let's say uh you have run till here let's say you have run till here you have executed till here till monitoring. So now right now your agent is having this kinds of state data. Let's say it know actually how many application uh you you you have currently okay it it it received currently and how it will understand because this information is available inside state right so it it will solve let's say five application came so far so what it again it will do again it will tell this is not enough just try to modify the job description and again try to monitor everything okay based on that particular data it is deciding right so this is super important so this is called actually state And langen is stateless. Okay, langshen doesn't have any kinds of state related functionality because you can see this particular state would be stored as a key value pair like a dictionary.

Okay, but langen langen doesn't give you any kinds of um dictionary or key value pair storing concept. Okay, that means langen is completely stateless here. Okay, you can't do it with the help of langen. You can do it for this maybe what you have to do you have to let's say whenever you are starting the code at the very first time you have to take a dictionary about u name let's say state okay you are taking a dictionary and uh you have to manually like define these are the key here manually define these are the key and every after every execution you have to manually update these are the value here okay so that means you are again writing the glue code here and this is very trick task for you to manage all of the state right so If I show you all of the state because it's not a like a very uh short state we are handling. If you're creating the entire workflow just try to think about how many state uh that mean how many metadata will come and every time you have up to date that inside langen okay so this would be head trick for you but inside uh this uh lang graph okay if I'm using lang graph so inside lang graph guys uh this concept is available so lang graph is like stateful okay stateful if you're using lang graph it is stateful because in lang graph We create a nodes right?

We create a nodes and nodes will be having this kinds of uh this kinds of actually state connection. State connection means see state connection means we can we can create a state object. Okay, we can create a state object inside langraph. So state object. So this state object can be created with the help of pyic.

So I think I already taught you pyntic in my playlist the same playlist you can check that either you can create with the help of type dict there is another concept you can uh use it type dict. Okay. So basically what you will do you'll just try to define this kinds of structure at the very beginning of your application and in every nodes you will try to provide this state access. Okay. So what the node will do?

So after every node execution automatically these kinds of data would be updated. Okay. These kinds of data would be updated inside the state. Okay. So let me show you maybe uh you'll be clear enough.

So I think I showed you an example right? I showed you one example related this yeah node concept. Yeah you can see we are creating the node. Okay, we are creating a node. So whenever you are creating a node, it will have the access to the state object.

Okay, so let's say whenever it is doing any kinds of um execution, let's say it is generating the job description. That time um in the state there would be a section called job description in a key, right? It will try to update the job description. Again, it will run to the next node job approved. So whether job is approved or not whether it is true or false again it will try to update that particular parameter because we are defining this particular state with the help of this pentic pentic or this state dict okay we are doing that this kinds of structure so that's why in the code itself if you see the langraph implementation so every time in the function itself we are giving this kinds of state okay you can see we are giving this kinds of state okay and output it will also return you some kinds of state okay because it is updating in that particular um state object okay so that's how this lang graph handles this kinds of scenario this kinds of stating scenario okay uh but you now you can ask me in in lang chain uh we have the memory concept definitely right in lang chain we have the memory we can use the memory but memory you can use for what for the conversational workflow converation okay you can store the conversation the conversation you are doing with your chatbot or whatever you can state the you can store the conversation okay conversation story but it doesn't support any kinds of key value pair storing this kind of stating concept is it doesn't support you can store the conversation you can use conversation buffer memory for that but this kinds of thing is not possible okay I hope it is clear guys now guys let's talk about the hard challenges uh we'll be facing um uh which is eventdriven execution.

Okay. So what is this eventdriven execution? See let's try to understand this one. So the workflow we have uh seen here. So this workflow can be executed in two way.

Um money is uh let's say this is the workflow. Okay. So this can be executed through sequential manner. Okay. And event driven event driven.

Okay. So let's try to understand the sequential. So let's say um sequential means let's say uh you are implementing through the lang chain and I think you know lang chain works in a uh in a chain order that means in a sequential order. So what I can do maybe just a minute or let's clear H. [clears throat] So see in Lchen in Lchen you have created in a sequential order.

So let's say first of all you have given a prompt then you are passing this prompt to LLM lm is giving a uh kinds of output again you are preparing another prompt again this output and prompt you are giving to another LLM okay LM then you are getting some kinds of response here response here right so this is called actually sequential left to right you can see left right it is happening so this is a sequential order sequential order it is following. Okay. So, sequential order means this will start and this will uh complete the execution then it will be completed. Okay. In between it is not pausing anywhere.

Okay. In between it is not pausing anywhere. But if you see the workflow inside workflow sometimes we have to pause the execution. Okay. So let's say if I give you example let's say if I come here you can see so whenever this workflow is running right it is running the workflow it's completely fine but here you can see it is waiting for some manual trigger right let's say it will uh wait for 7 days after waiting for 7 days then what it will do after posting the job description it will wait for 7 days then your monitoring application will be started okay so here it is waiting for some kinds of trigger Okay.

So this triggering concept is not available inside that sequential execution. Okay. It is not available inside langen. Langen doesn't have any kinds of uh uh this uh pausing option triggering option. Okay.

You can't do that. Okay. But you can implement inside langen. So for this what you have to do let's say maybe you'll be creating this part separately. Then you will wait for 7 days.

Okay. Let's say in some uh in Python code you will be writing a function that that function will try to wait for seven days then again you will run this particular uh this particular let's say workflow okay so that means you have to do it manually again you have to write the glue code for that but inside langraph okay inside lang graph this kinds of concept is available this eventdriven concept is available so langen what it will do so automatically because it has the state connection right it has the state connection and the state itself this uh metadata would be available. You have to wait for 3 days. So in lang lang graph automatically this particular eventdriven option should be available. So it will wait for the trigger.

So once this trigger is complete then it will run the remaining workflow for you. Okay. So this is another challenges you'll be getting if you're using langin for building this kinds of agentic workflow. Okay. I hope you clear guys.

So guys uh next challenges uh you'll be getting called fault tolerance. So what is this fault tolerance? Fault tolerance means let's say whenever we are running these kinds of big workflow so definitely there would be some kinds of fault in your application. Okay, fault in your application. Fault means let's say sometimes for uh what happens?

Let's say you are executing the workflow. Let's say here you are executing the workflow uh at this particular workflow is getting executed. This particular block is executed. That time let's say you are posting the job description to the LinkedIn. Let's say uh that time LinkedIn API is not working.

So definitely your application will stop that time. Okay. So this is called fault. Uh there is another fault. um let's say you have deployed this workflow in a server let's say AWS and AWS got down so this is another fault so that means this fault can be two types one is small type small type and one is big type okay in small type uh what is happening you are getting the fault in between let's say in between the block let's say you are not able to post the job in the LinkedIn because LinkedIn API is down Okay, big fault means let's say you are you have hosted this workflow in AWS and AWS got down that time your application will crash.

So what happens inside uh this uh lang chain lang chain doesn't have any kinds of fault tolerance functionality integrated with it. That means if you're creating a chain let's say you have created this kinds of chain. Okay. This kinds of chain. Okay.

So how chain executed? It executed in a sequential order. Let's say here you you break the chain. Okay. Let's say for a reason let's say this is the post job description.

Let's say API is not working. So that time it will break here and all of the application will be break okay break then whenever you will be uh re-executing again it will reexecute from the beginning okay from here it will execute okay but already you have done so many stuff before posting the job description let's say your JD is prepared everything is ready but if you're running from beginning again it will do everything then again it will post the job description over the LinkedIn that means it is not able to resume from here okay it is not able to resume from here. It is executing the entire workflow again. Okay. Inside uh lime chain, this is the problem.

Okay. Uh and let's say if your server is getting down, AWS is getting down also again you have to execute from the beginning. But inside langraph uh this fall tolerance functionality is available. So basically what happens let's say whenever you are creating this kinds of workflow. Let's say this is your workflow.

Okay, this is your workflow. So let's say you are coming here and you you got you got some kinds of error. Let's say your LinkedIn API is not working that time it will give you um one option called retry. Okay, retry. So if you do the retry operation that means from after some times from here only your execution will start that means it will go to the this node and this node.

Okay, it it doesn't have uh has to come here from beginning and run the entire workflow. Okay. And let's say you have hosted over the AWS AWS got shut down. And let's say you run till here. There is some other workflow also available.

Let's say you run till here. Okay. So whenever you again let's say uh your AWS server uh fixed. Okay. And uh it is running again.

So again it will uh continue from here. Again it will continue from here. Again it doesn't need to run from the beginning. So this kinds of fall tolerance option is available. And again this fault tolerance uh how it is u I mean handling with the help of the state concept state concept because we are having the state informations okay all of the state information every time langraph will take this snapshot of the state and it will stored in a memory okay you can also use a physical memory here if you want some memory database you can use and this state you can save inside a memory so every time it will take a snapshot of the state let's say what is the current execution current execution let's say post job description Post job description.

Let's say here your uh uh let's say you got the fault. Okay. So this kinds of state already saved. Let's say before this post job description everything is ready but during post job description this is failed. So what it will do again retry from here again retry from here.

It will not run from the beginning. Okay. I hope you got it. So that's why fall tolerance is another challenges inside langen. So guys, the next challenges uh and the very important challenges you'll be facing if you're using langen called human in the loop or hittl uh hl uh I think you know what is human in loop uh human in the loop and why it is required because I have given you the same example and let's try to understand from this workflow itself.

So human in the loop actually it depends upon the human input. So uh basically you are not giving the full access to the agent instead of that some of the uh restriction you are setting let's say whenever it will create the job description uh before posting the job description it will ask for the approved to the human let's say it is asking for the approve to you if you approve that then it will post this job description okay or let's say here before sending this uh conducting the interview it will ask you uh whether uh you free or not? Can I schedule the interview? So if you give the access then it will like um schedule the interview for you. Okay.

So this is called human in the loop and this human in the loop functionality is not available um default inside lang. Um I mean you can't um take the human in uh I mean human input in between the chain. So let's say if you create a chain here. Let's say this is your chain. This is your chain right and in between let's say you have to take a input from the human okay you have to take the input from the human that time uh you can't actually uh I mean uh use any kinds of default functionality for that so maybe what you can do in between maybe you can take a input function and you can take the input from the human but again uh this will stop the chain here okay unless and until you are not giving the input this chain won't be executed or it will take unnecessary computation and whenever it is longterm Right?

Long-term means uh this kind of aentic system is long-term. So user can give the input after 2 days as well. Right? So that time I don't want to necessarily compute uh I don't want to necessarily use my computation. Right?

So this is another problem. So maybe you can create this chain separately this ch separately in between you can ask the input and whenever user will give the input then you can recont this chain from here. Okay. But again you have to take all of this state uh I mean state data manually and you have to copy here again. So again you have to write some glue code there for that right.

But inside this uh lang graph this human is loop already implemented. Okay this is already the first class citizen. Okay first class citizen inside this lang graph. It is already uh already available. Okay already available.

Even if you go to the uh documentation of langraph uh there is a separate section for that. Let me show you. So this is the langraph documentation. So you can see human in the loop is available. So the human in the loop um hittl middleware wire lets you and human oversight uh to agents to call when model response an action that might requires a review.

For example, writing to a file or execution SQL. Uh the um middleware can pause execution and wait a decision. Okay. So you can see this particular option is available and they have already integrated in their functionality. Okay, human in the loop.

Okay, this is already available. We'll definitely learn this in detail whenever we'll uh learn the langen component. Uh sorry, lang lang graph component. I will try to learn each and everything. Okay, I I hope this part is clear.

That means this is another challenges you'll be getting uh if you're using langen. Okay, and this is super important guys. If you're is creating this kinds of workflow, so this uh human in loop is required there. Okay, I hope you clear. Now let's talk about the next one which is nested workflow.

uh nested workflow means see inside langraph you can run the nested workflow. So whenever I'm talking about lang graph I think you know we can create actually complex nodes here right it works as a node okay you can create this kinds of node okay now let's say a nested workflow means the nodes you are creating um inside this nodes you can create another graph let's say this node represents this kinds of graph okay that means This node itself it's a graph object. This is called nested workflow. Okay, I I think you get it. We call it as a subnote.

So there is a concept inside the documentation. Let me show you. Um this is the documentation. Uh you can see if you see there is a concept called sub sub node. So let's say this is your uh node.

This node itself should be a uh another graph. Uh and you can use this particular graph. Okay. So this is called actually sub sub node concept and we call it as a nested workflow and this nested workflow is very much required whenever you are creating this kinds of system. So let's say if I'm talking about a use case.

So let's say if I'm talking about this conduct interview okay since said conduct interview uh this thing is not like uh very easy to implement because just try to think about if I want to conduct the interview first of all I have to prepare um set of questions for each and every candidate then I have to also um uh take the interview let's say round one round two round three okay I have to track those informations so instead of creating a single uh nodes here maybe I and uh create it as a sub node. So this will be connected with another nodes and that uh sorry this will connected with another workflow another graph and this graph will try to uh let's say uh prepare the interview questions for the candidate or uh taken taken care by the round one round two round three okay and so on. So these kinds of complex uh nodes whenever it is coming you can simply handle with the help of this nested workflow and this is very much important whenever you are building any kinds of uh multi- aent system. Okay, in multi- aent system, this nested workflow is required that time. But this uh nested workflow functionality is not available inside langen.

Inside lang actually we can't create this kinds of sub nodes and all this is not possible. Okay. So that's why uh you can call it uh this is as a feature inside lang graph as well. Now guys the last uh challenges will be understanding which is observable uh observability. So basically uh what is observability actually let's try to understand observability refers to how easily you can monitor debugs and understand what your workflow is doing at the runtime.

So whenever we are running these kinds of runtime so definitely we have to uh continuously do the observation otherwise what will happen uh sometimes it will do some um let's say unexpected uh task right let's say you have run your um agents uh uh for the LinkedIn ads okay so let's say it is running the LinkedIn ads continuously and you will end up with lots of cost that time right let's say it's not necessary to run that much of uh LinkedIn ads or that much of budget right so that time uh if you're not doing observations so definitely you will end up with lots of cost uh so that that that's why observability is required but it's not like that we'll sit there manually observe all of the execution it's not like that so definitely we have to use some automated things that will continuously do the observation continuously do the monitoring uh and uh it will give me the report okay so fortunately in lang chain If I'm talking about Langshen, Langshen has um observability tool which is Langmith. Okay, I think you heard about Langmith. So, Langmith is a um like observation tool with the help of Lang Langsmith. We can continuously track the Lang Lang chain actually pipeline Langchen chain. So whatever lang chain um chain will be executed all of the uh all of the actually let's say parameter we can uh we can actually monitor here in the lang langismith will automatically monitor so by default lang langismith um can support this lang chain u monitoring okay and don't worry we'll try to understanding langismith as well continuously uh sorry uh going forward but what is the problem with the lang chain uh if you're using langismith with that uh see if you're implementing writing this workflow with the help of Langen.

So definitely you have to write lots of glue code. I already told you right you have to write lots of glue code but glue code cannot be uh monitored with the help of lang. Langismith only can monitor your lang chain chain okay chain code or whatever you are writing inside that but if you're writing extra glue code you can't actually uh you can't actually uh track with the line speed this is not possible but if I'm talking about lang graph if I'm talking about lang graph okay lang graph is having very strong connection okay it is having very um strong connection with lang okay so that means whatever node execution you are doing one by one all of the node would be tracked in the lang smmith okay langismith and you can see each and everything okay so that's why this langu as a observ observability tool we'll be learning in this playlist as well in detail I'll tell you how to use the lang and all and how we can perform the monitoring operation of our agent each and everything we we'll also try to understand here okay this is super important and uh uh yeah I think this is a good practice to add the observability uh whenever you are creating the application because there you will get the enough understanding about your workflow execution okay at runtime this is super important so yes guys we are done with uh all of the challenges we have understood each and everything in detail now we'll try to conclude uh this video uh so before concluding let me tell you few things so guys so far we have understood uh about the langraph and difference between lang and lang graph um And I also uh showed you the challenges actually we will be facing. Okay. If you're using only langen okay if you're not using lang graph what would be the challenges.

Now you have pretty much u good understanding about the langraph what exactly the lang graph is. But again I have given a definition you can see lang graph is an orchestration framework that enables you to build straightful multi-step and event-driven workflow using large language model. it uh it's deals uh ideal for uh designing both single agents and multi-agent applications. Think of a langraph as a flowchart engine for LLM. You define the uh steps nodes.

Okay, we call it as a nodes how they are connected edges um and uh and the logic that um governs the transitions. Langraph takes care of state management, conditional branching, looping, pausing, resuming, fault recovery feature uh feature essential for building robust production grade AI system. Okay. So I think you have seen I have introduced so many um so many actually strong terms here like uh this uh edges branching looping pausing okay fault recovery. So now I think this uh these are the terms are clear because I have already clarified these are the terms then I given you the introduction.

So at the very beginning I could have given you the introduction to this line graph okay uh this kinds of uh definition I can show you this uh this uh actually page I can show you but uh you won't be able to understand okay what the langraph is and you that time actually you are not familiar with these are the concept so what I have done actually I have clarified all the concept now I have given you the introduction okay I have given you uh I have uh told you what is line graph exactly okay now I think you are pretty much uh clear with now let's try to understand when to use what kinds of framework. So use langen when you are building simple linear workflow like prompt chaining summarization or basic retriever system chatbots okay these are the things and use langraph when you use case uh involves complex nonlinear workflow that needs conditional paths loops okay human in the loops concept and multi- aent coordination and asynchronous or even driven execution okay so now I think guys uh you have the understanding uh about uh this concept like when to use what kinds of framework. Uh so based on the problem statement you can decide whether you will be using the langen, whether you will be using the langraph for that. Okay. So now I think you have the enough understanding on that.

Now one more very important things will be understanding at the last uh so see people uh people will uh I mean uh tell you like uh don't use uh lang chain lang chain is like deprecated and all okay so should we still use lang chain or not? because this kinds of question will definitely come and uh through the entire video actually I have given the appreciation to the langraph instead of giving to the langen okay but things is not like that see still we have to use this langen okay langen is required why because langraph is built on top of langen okay internally they're using langen only okay uh then they have created this langraph framework so it is basically handling the complex workflow okay the complex workflow uh by adding the nodding concept but internally it is using langen because if you see still you need langen components like if you want to load any kinds of llm you have to use chat openi or any other open uh let's say llm provider uh functionality if you want to create a prompt uh so you have to use the prompt template if you want to create a retriever system you have to use the retriever documents loader tools etc okay these are the things you will be only uh loading from the langen not from the langraph okay I think you get it And langraph handles workflow orchestration while langchen provides the building block for each steps in the workflow. That means langen is uh very important. Okay. But we can't use langen to build the entire complex workflow orchestration.

Okay. We create this orchestration. We create this workflow orchestration with langraph. But internally langraph uses some langen building blocks like these are the building blocks to uh work on that. Okay.

I hope this part is clear guys. Okay. So guys uh I think uh you have uh now clear and uh I mean enough amount understanding on this langraph lang chain uh you have got the detailed introduction to the langraph uh and uh don't worry I'm going to teach you the uh teach you all of the component of the langraph we'll be also building the agents with that okay each and everything we'll be covering um in this uh course itself okay now in this video I'm going to discuss uh some important core component of langraph because uh what I feel like uh before starting the actual langraph concept first of all let's try to understand the langraph core component so once we have understood the lang lang graph core component it would be easy for us to learn all of these component one by one then we can combine all of them together and we can build any kinds of agenti application so guys as you can see uh what is lang Lang graph lang graph is an orchestration framework for building intelligence stateful and multi-step L workflows uh it enables advanced features like parallelism loops branching memory and resumeumability making it ideal for agentic and production grade AI applications and lang models your logic as a graph of nodes basically we call it as a task and ages okay I think you saw there are some uh ages we are drawing um in my previous class right so uh we call it as a edges we also call it as a routing instead of a linear chain okay so in langen we used to create a linear chain but here uh we don't create the linear chain instead of that we try to make everything as a graph um and uh uh to make this graph we use nodes and edges okay inside line graph so let's say you are having a LA markflow so let's say this is our L markflow Okay, this is our LM workflow and this is called actually edges. Okay, this is called actually edges H. So let's say this is our LM workflow.

Okay, I'll tell you more about this LM workflow. What is LM workflow is? LMA workflow is nothing but um I told you about the workflow, right? Workflow is nothing but it's a uh it's a process of executing a entire uh let's say application, entire problem statement. So basically we try to represent as a workflow and inside that we use LLM right.

So that's why we call it as LM workflows. So you can see um this is the LM workflows. So here we pass any kinds of input. Okay. And all of these you can see node.

Okay. This is called actually node. This is called actually node. This node can be called as a task. Okay.

Task basically let's say you are having you are having a entire goal. Okay, entire goal. So to achieve this goal, what you have to do? We have to break down this goal as a task. Okay, different different subtask.

And each of the subtasks can be represented as a node. Okay, in lang graph. So we try to represent as a node. So this node will perform all of the task. Let's say some of the let's say the first node is responsible for taking the input.

Second node is responsible let's say preparing the prompt. Okay. Then third node is responsible for calling the LLM. Okay, that's how another node will be responsible for calling a tool. That's how it is defining a separate separate task as a node.

Okay, I hope you get it. Now we also call it as a flowchart. We also call it as a flowchart. As you if you see this particular graph, this is kinds of flowchart. Okay.

Now you can see inside lang graph we can perform this parallelism looping branching memory reasonability each and everything. So if I'm talking about the parallelism so lang graph can be also executed in a parallel. Okay, let's say here you are having a a node. Here also you are having a node. So both node can be executed parallelly.

Okay, both node can be executed parallelly. Let's say you are preparing a prompt template and here you are calling the LM. Okay, so it's not like that after preparing the prompt template you will call the LM. Both you can execute in parallel, right? That's how there are so many problem statement you can I mean um consider here.

Okay. Now it can also supports this looping concept. Looping concept means let's say sometimes let's say you are you are here in this particular node. Let's say after completing this node again you have to go back. Okay again you have to go back and uh again you will re-execute and again you will try to send to the another nodes.

I think you remembered our previous uh uh previous actually um example I have given you that uh interview uh interview agent AI uh I think uh huh so interview uh interview system okay that interview system what happens let's say whenever u uh sorry not interview that was actually recruitment agent so that actually what happened let's say if uh if let's say your job description uh is not generated properly so what it will again it will go back and again it will regenerate. So this is called actually looping right? This is called actually looping. You're performing the looping here. Then you can also perform the branching operation.

Branching means the condition. Let's say if this condition is not true. Okay that means if if it is not yes then it will go here. Okay that's how you are creating branch here. So this is called branching.

Let's say uh if uh you didn't get uh 20 applications again what you will do again you will try to um like uh change the job description and wait for the application submission. So this is called actually branching. So this branching also can be supported. Then memory. Memory means let's say each and every nodes whatever it is generating the output it would be stored inside a memory.

Okay. It will remember that particular output and input as well. This is called memory. Okay. Then uh reasonability.

Reasonability means let's say I told you about the um about the actually u problem okay problem means let's say somehow your one of the uh application got uh let's say got trouble that means it got stopped let's say it got stopped here only in this particular node okay in this particular node it has stopped so whenever you will uh reinitialize the instance so instead of running from the beginning it can resume from here only it can continue from here only this is called resumability Okay. So that's why uh we uh call it as a like a very powerful uh I mean framework this particular langraph because the way it is handling all of the let's say task all of the um system this is completely amazing right and that's why uh we can't use the simple lang chain here the linear chain here to solve this kinds of complex workflow that's why lang graph is required and this is what actually your lang graph is okay so basically here we will be working with the nodes and edges okay to make a graph okay instead of a linear chain I hope you understood guys okay now let's try to understand about the LM workflow um in more detail uh so you can see what is LM workflow first of all let's try to understand so LM workflows are step-by-step process using which we can build a complex LLM applications each steps in a workflow performs a distinct task such as prompting ing reasoning, tool calling, memory access or decision making. Workflows can be linear, parallel, branched or looped allowing for a complex behavior like uh retries, multi- aents communication or two augmented reasoning and we'll be discussing about some common workflows as well. So the first workflow as you can see this is the linear uh sequential workflow. We can also call it as a prompt chaining.

So here what happens let's say whenever we are giving any kinds of input it will first of all go to LLM. Okay, LM call because I'm calling it as a LLM workflow and definitely inside the workflow definitely LLM call should be there. Okay, LLM should be there that time we can call it as LM workflows. Okay, if it doesn't have any kinds of LLM that time you can't call it as LM workflow. And now inside a workflow there can be one or multiple LM call.

Okay, one or multiple LM call. It's not like that you have to only use one LM call or let's say 5 LM call or 100 LM call. You can use as many as LM you can inside a workflow but make sure LM call should be there otherwise we can't call it as LM workflow. Okay. So let's say this is our workflow.

So first of all this input will get this particular LLM. Then here we are let's say doing a kinds of verification whatever output we are getting whether it is good or not. Okay. If it is good then we are passing it to the another LLM. Okay.

for another task then uh it will uh send an again to another LM for another task then it will uh give you some kinds of output okay otherwise if this particular response is not good then it will exit the application okay so this is called actually linear workflow uh you can understand okay from this particular so here you can understand uh this particular concept from this uh workflow itself okay I hope you cleared now let's take an example to understand this prompt chaining workflow So let's say you are building uh you are building an agent that agent will take a topic okay topic name as an input okay so this input should be a topic name topic name and what it does it generates a complete report on that particular topics okay so I think previously you saw I created these kinds of agents with the help of langen so that I passed a topic and it was preparing a detail uh detail actually um scientific report on top of that Okay. So, [snorts] first of all, what you are doing, you are giving this particular topic name uh to the first LLM call and that means the first LLM and this LLM will try to uh we will try to generate something. Okay, we'll try to generate something. Let's say this particular LLM um has generate a draft from this particular topic. Okay, so let's say it has generated a draft.

Okay, draft. Now here you are doing a verification. Let's say you are writing a condition if this particular draft is more than 5,000 word. Okay, it is more than 5,000 word that time you are not going to take. You simply uh exit the application.

Okay, you only take less than 5,000 word. So if it is less than 5,000 word then again what you will do again you will pass to the allar LLM. Let's say this LLM does the u review operation. Okay, review operation that means it will perform the review operation. The draft you have prepared.

If review is completely fine, if it pass, okay, then it will go to the next LLM. This LLM will try to write this particular draft in a file. Okay. Uh write okay write this particular draft in a file. Then you will get the output.

Okay. So this is the example you can consider about the prom chaining. Okay. So inside prompt chaining what you are doing? You are trying to break down a task.

Okay. Um and you are trying to solve it. Okay. Step by step. This is called prom chaining.

Now let's try to understand about the another uh LM workflow which is routing. Okay. So this is another kinds of LM workflow. Um uh this is called routing. Routing means here you are getting an input and you are using a LM um definitely LLM call.

But this LLM call we are considering as a router. Router means it will basically route uh route the route the task. Okay. route the task to different different LLM. Okay, as you can see, let's say this is LLM 1, this is LM2, this is LLM 3.

Okay, and here we are getting the output. So let's say you are building a customer uh support application. Let's say for the tech company. So there you are getting different different let's say customer questions. Let's say uh you are getting related um let's say you are running an ad tech company.

Uh you are let's say getting the question related about your service. Okay. The service you usually provide uh let's say whatever course you provide. Okay. Whatever let's say content you are providing this kinds of service people are asking about.

So let's say the first LM we we just let's say defined this service task to the first LM that means the prompt we have written here. So this particular LM will try to only handle about our service. Okay. Service related query. So let's say this is the service uh service lm.

Okay. Now the next let's say t uh next let's say um uh I mean um task which is uh about our um about our let's say what I can say um or let's try to consider about a technical query technical query technical query okay technical query means let's say people are having a doubt related Python or machine learning deep learning whatever. So this particular LM will try to handle that. Let's say this is the tech LLM. Okay.

Now there is another LM. This LLM will try to give you the interview related help. Okay. Interview preparation related help. Let's say you want to prepare for the interview.

So uh this particular LM will try to handle the interview related task. Now whenever any kinds of student is giving the input let's say student asking about the services okay the service we usually provide in the DS with BP okay D with BP whatever service we provide he's asking for now what this LM router okay LLM call router will do it will automatically understand about your questions and it will decide when to send this where to send your question whether it has to send to the LM call uh sorry uh service service LLM whether it has to say uh send to the tech lm or whether it has to send to the interview lm. So definitely this is kinds of service related query it it will send to the service LLM here. Okay. And service LM will try to give you the response and you will see the output.

Now let's say someone is asking about the technical query. Let's say he is getting uh Python uh function error. So that time LM router will understand okay now I have to send to the tech lm. TechM will give you the output and you will be able to see the output. Now there is another let's say question you are getting related interview.

Your LM router will send to the interview LLM and you will be getting the output. Okay. So this is called actually routing workflow. Routing LM workflow. This kinds of workflow we can easily create inside the line graph.

Okay. So definitely we'll try to also discuss about that. Now let's try to understand about the next workflow which is uh paraly um par uh parallelization. Inside parallelization actually what we can do we can execute uh the task in parallel. So let's try to understand uh this particular concept as well.

As you can see, let's say here we are getting the input and some multiple LM call is happening. Okay, let's say LM 2, LM 1, LMU 2 and LM3. Then we are performing the aggregator operation, then we're getting the output. Okay. So if I'm giving you a realtime example, let's say uh I'm a YouTuber definitely I just try to upload my content to the YouTube and by default YouTube also YouTube also use internally this uh um I mean AI related uh functionality.

Okay. So with the help of AI actually it u what it do it it try to let's say uh do the verification check of your content. Let's say the content we're uploading to the YouTube. Okay. Okay, let's say I have recorded a video.

Okay, I have recorded a video. So, first of all, you will upload that video and it's not like that YouTube will directly take that video and uh it will allow you to publish. First of all, it will do some uh verification. Okay, verification. Verification means let's say it can be multiple layer verification.

The first is let's say whether it is any uh unappropriate content or not. appropriate content or not. Then it will check whether it is sexual content or not. Then it will check whether this content is uh having any kinds of uh any kinds of let's say abusive or not. Okay.

So this kinds of let's say multiple layer verification it will do. Now here what we can do for each of the verification maybe we can use different different task different different let's say LLM call for that. Let's say the first one is responsible for checking unappropriate okay unappropriate verification. Second one let's say it is responsible for sexual verification and third one is responsible for let's say um abusive verification. Now it's not like that after checking this unappropriate verification you have to do the sexual verification or after checking the sexual sexual verification you have to check for abive verification.

It's not like that. All of the checks are independent here. Okay. So instead of running sequentially, you can run in parallel. So parallelly all of the check will done.

Okay. Once you will get all of the um let's say check check uh let's say ratings and answer. Then we'll try to aggregate them together. Okay. Let's say it will give you some kinds of rating.

Let's say it has given you 9.5 out of 10. Okay. That means this video is good. It it has also given you let's say 9.6

around 10. Okay. It has also given you 9.5 around 10. Then you are combining all of them together.

You are making the average and let's say there is a condition uh there is a average threshold. Let's say if this threshold is matching that time you will try to accept this video otherwise you'll try to reject the video then you are getting the output here. Okay. So that's how this parallelization will be working and uh this kinds of workflow also we can easily create uh inside our langraph as well. Okay.

Now the next uh workflow let's try to understand which is this orchestrator workflow. Okay. So this is uh this is the same kinds of uh I mean paralleliz uhization actually workflow as you can see we are also taking all of the result and we are also doing the aggregator operation and we're getting the output but the only difference is uh let's uh let's try to discuss about so in this workflow uh as you can see um before this uh uh before this particular section there is another section we have which is orchestrator. Okay, orchestrator is uh another you can say lm um lm uh call. So basically this is the main okay lead uh lead actually um uh lead nodes this particular nodes will decide uh a particular task it is getting uh so what to assign whether it will assign to the llm 1, llm 2 and lm 3.

Okay, it will basically decide but if you see the previous one the parallelization one. So basically here we are uh uh setting the task. Let's say here we are assigning the task. Let's say LM uh one will get the task related unappropriate content. LM will get the task related uh let's say uh sexual content and LLM3 will try to get the task related abive content.

We defining the task but here there is no task nature. Okay. So basically your orchestrator will decide where to set this particular task. Okay. So uh based on the orchestrator uh it will define let's say it can define to llm 1 lm 2 and lm 33 okay it doesn't matter but it will decide okay which one would be appropriate for this particular task then once we are getting this we are again doing the synthesizer that means aggregating and we're getting the output okay so your orchestrator can also define this particular task to only lm1 okay or let's say it can define the task to lm1 and lm3 it doesn't matter okay based on the task it will decide it can either give to the uh let's multiple LM either it can give it to the one LM.

Okay. So this is called actually orchestrator workflow. I hope you get it. Okay. So this is the similar kinds of your parallelization.

Now the next workflow you are having this evaluator optimizer. Okay. So what this evaluator optimizer? So I think by the workflow itself you can understand uh the uh actual uh example. Okay.

How this will work. So basically it has one LM call generator. Okay. LM call generator. uh this particular uh section and it it is having another one called LM call evaluator.

Okay. So basically whatever input you are getting giving first of all LM this LM call is generating this particular output then you are sending to the LM call evaluator and it is checking okay it is checking uh whether it is good or not. Okay whether it is good or not and if it is not good it will reject and with the reject it will also give some kinds of feedback like what to update next. Okay. So this will get again uh this particular LM call generator the rejection parameter as well as the feedback.

Based on the feedback again it will try to based on the feedback again it will try to generate. Okay. Again it will try to send to the LM call evaluator. Okay. Then if it is good then it will accept and you'll see the output.

Okay. And this particular loop will be continuously happening unless and until this LLM uh call evaluator will accept your content. Okay. So I think you know that in our uh that uh recruitment agent I told you about the job description right. So let's say one of the LM will generate the job description here.

Let's say this is this is uh generating the job description and another LM you're using for verifying the job description whether it is perfect or not. If not perfect it will give you some kinds of rejection and the feedback. Again it will try to generate the job description. Again it will send and if job description is fine then it will accept it um that particular job description. Okay.

I hope you get it guys. So guys, I have shown you I think uh five workflows here. 1 2 3 4 and five. Okay. So five different LLM workflows I have explained here.

And don't worry I'm going to um I'm going to cover these are the workflow in this particular playlist itself. Okay. We'll try to see all of the workflow one by one. Now the very important concept we'll try to understand about the um langraph uh components okay we'll try to understand lang graph core uh components uh which is graph nodes and edges okay although I've given you the highle overview in my previous video what is graph nodes and edges but still we'll try to understand this particular concept in detail so for this here what I'm going to do I'm going to take an example I'm going to take a problem statement and this problem statement we'll try to uh define as a graph okay define as a workflow then we'll try to understand these are the concept so guys uh as you can see here I have taken an example um so let's say here we want to create a system uh that generate a uh SE topic okay I think you know about SE uh so whenever you are let's say going for any big uh universities uh so basically you have to submit there. Okay.

Uh bas based on the topic. So let's say uh what it does it uh collects the student uh SE submissions and it evaluates in parallel on depth of analysis, language quality and clarity of thoughts based on the combined score. It either gives the feedback for the improvement or approach that I see. Okay. So to build this particular system first of all we have to uh break down the task okay let's say this is the entire goal okay this is the entire goal of our system now to achieve this goal we have to define uh a set of task okay the let's say first task what it would be so let's say this particular system will first of all generate a se right the uh first of all we have to generate a topic so system generate a relevant uh UPS style as topic and uh present in uh pres present it to us to the student let's say uh you are giving UPSC exam that time let's say the this particular essay topic you have to prepare okay then you have to collect the SE from the student so student write and submits the SE based on the generated topics okay you you will try to collect that after collecting uh your system will evaluate the SE okay parallel evaluation block because here we will be evaluating based on the analysis language quality clarity of thought so All of the checks we are doing, all of the evaluation checks we are doing based on the language, based on the um language quality, then analysis, okay, clarity of thought, we are checking each and everything.

Okay. So after getting the evaluation report, we are aggregating the results. Let's say the combined the three scores and generate the total scores. Uh let's say we got the three scores all together. Then we combined them and we got one average score and we matched with the threshold.

Now here there is another uh task you can see conditional routing. So based on the total score either you will uh accept that particular SC otherwise you will give the feedback let's say again you have to update this particular SC. Okay. So then then you can see we are uh our next is the give feedback based on the uh conditional routing that means aggregating results we are giving the feedback and there is another option we have kept. Let's say if user wants to uh give the uh revision version of that particular AC, they will be able to do that.

Then at the last we'll try to show the success uh message to the um student. Okay. If your if their essay is good, then we'll try to congratulate them. Okay. So this is the entire let's say um problem.

Now if I want to uh if I want to represent with the help of lang graph. So first of all we have to make it as a graph. Okay. I think you know lang graph um make every let's say problem statement as a graph as a workflow. Okay.

So basically it will represent as a graph after representing as a graph then what it will do it will try to uh take all of this task as a node. Okay all of the task as a node then it will connect the edges let's say after uh which node another node would be executed. Okay this particular connection will be do doing with the help of edges. So for this I have already prepared a um graph. Let me show you.

Let's say this is our uh line graph graph we have prepared. Okay. So you can see uh whatever problem statement I have showed you here. So I have just represent as a graph. First of all it will generate a topic.

So this is the first you can see this is the first uh first task right. Let me just write here this is the first task. Okay. because we broken down our entire goal as a task and generate topic was one of the task and this task we represented as a node okay this is called actually node each and every block is a node here okay now this is another task as you can see right AC right as means you can also let's say take the from the student okay user will upload that student will upload that then after uploading you are doing the evaluation here okay so this uh this evaluation is also another task another node. So this is also node this is uh this is also node this is another node this is another node this is another node so here we are let's say evaluating with the with respect to the clarity of thought depth of analysis lang base then we're getting some kinds of score here okay let's say we are getting some kinds of score let's say this this one is given you 9.5

this one is given you 9.8 need this one is giving you 8.5. Okay, based on that we are doing the final evaluation. We are aggregating the results.

Let's say our threshold is 9.5 and after combining all of these we are getting uh 9.5 or greater than 9.5 then that time what I will do I'll just try to simply give the success message to these students. Okay, let's say I will congratulate them otherwise I will give the feedback.

Let's say this is another another node. In this particular node I'll give the feedback. So in the feedback itself I'll tell what to update otherwise they can also resubmit that particular hy to me. Okay. So this is the entire representation and you can in the representation itself you can see this is the entire graph.

Okay. This is the entire langraph graph and each of the task is a node. Okay. Each of the task is a node and the connection you can see this particular connection this is called edge. Okay.

This edge is represents after generate topics write a will execute. After write a this uh evaluation uh let's say nodes will execute. After evaluation this final evaluator node will execute. Okay. Then either it will go to this access nodes either it will go to the feedback nodes.

Okay. This is called ages. This is called connection. Okay. So if you understand this thing guys it will be very easy for you to create any kinds of langraph graph for you.

Okay. And you can represent any kinds of problem statement in a graph. Okay. I hope you clear guys. So guys, now we'll be uh discussing about the next uh line graph component which is state.

So I think you know already about this state. I have given you the state overview in my previous video. But let's try to understand. So as you can see in lang graph state um it is the shared memory that follows through uh your workflows. It holds all the data being passed between nodes as your graph runs.

Okay, as your graph runs. So as you can see uh this is uh how your uh state looks like. So this is a kinds of u like python object okay python uh kinds of dictionary object it is having the key key and value pair either you can create this with help of pentic okay pentic uh library with uh inside python either you can also create it as a type dict okay type dict both you can use to define this particular state uh memory. So I think you know that uh to run a LM workflow let's say this is our complete LM workflow we need this kinds of state that means some metadata informations because each of the nodes will generate some kinds of output and that particular output will take uh taken by another nodes okay let's say this generate topic will generate some kinds of topic okay topic name so this topic name will go to the next node which is this right a because uh on top of that your um essay will be written right so that means whatever topic uh this particular node is generating this should be stored in this state memory and the next node let's say this write as a we'll take that particular topic and it will write that content as well so after writing this content this content would be also saved in the state memory so you can see there is another section called text topic okay then we are uh evaluating the scores and all of these uh scores would be saved in this uh this uh uh statement memory. You can see they have this score, language score, clarity score.

So after this score, you will perform the final evaluation. Okay. So totally score would be also saved. Then you will be giving the feedback. This feedback will be al also saved.

Then evaluation round it will also save. Okay. So that means uh to execute the entire nodes to execute the entire workflow you need this particular state. And this state is a shared okay it's a shared memory. As you can see it's a shared memory.

Shared memory means each of the nodes will take this particular state as an input. Okay. Each each of the node will take this particular state as an input. All of the node okay all of the node will take this particular state and after taking it once it will generate some output this output will be instantly updated in that particular state. Okay, that's why this state is mutable as well.

Okay, mutable. Mutable means you can change it any time and after exe uh every execution this state would be uh saved. Okay, because this is completely dynamic and this is required guys. Okay, without that actually um you can't create any kinds of agent application inside line graph. Okay, this state is required.

So yes, I think you have understood and uh whenever we'll try to um uh create these kinds of uh uh application definitely we'll uh define this state at the very beginning either we can use p identicular we can use type dict for that okay and we'll try to define this state and for your problem statement you have to define the state like what are the variable you'll be keeping here what data uh you you feel like okay this should be updated to run your entire agents okay this thing will try to uh define at the very beginning. Now let's try to understand the next uh component of lang graph which is reducer. So what is reducer exactly? Uh so reducer in the lang graph defines how updates from nodes are applied to the shared state. Each key in the state can have its own reducer which determines whether new data uh replaces, merges or adds to the existing value.

So if you see this reducer is very close to your state. Okay, this is very close to the state. That means whenever you are defining the state that time reducer will come to the picture. Okay, so let me give you one example. Uh see as of now what we are doing let's say whatever we are getting the data from each and every nodes we are directly updating in the state memory.

Okay, I think you know that and this state is a shared uh shared uh actually memory and it it is accessible to all of the nodes here. Let's say this nodes will also take this state. These nodes will also take this states. Okay, all of the nodes will take this state and it will update in real time. That means every time the value uh you are changing here it is replacing okay let's say previously you you generated a topic let's say topic a so again whenever you will second time execute that this topic will replace that means the previous topic will be removed okay that that means we are replacing the value that's how depth score language score clarity score acetics okay so all of the parameter you are changing every time and your previous uh information you are losing but let's say sometimes uh let me give you first of One example let's say you are creating an application okay you are uh you are building an application that application let's say um takes two number so let me just give you the workflow let's say takes two number a and b after that it perform the sum operation okay then whatever sum you get okay it perform the multiply operation with three okay then it shows the result result.

Let's say this is your application. Now in this application, what would be the state? If you consider state, so state would be first of all the first number. First number, okay, first number should be state then second number then the result. Okay.

So this this is this is your state. So what will happen? Let's say you are giving two number. First number is five, second number is six. And if you do the sum operation, what would be the result?

It would be 11. Okay, 11. But if you see you are multiplying by three. Okay, if you multiply by three, so what will happen? This result will be replaced.

That means previously it was uh previously it was 11. Now I'll rub this 11. Initially after summing the result is 11. Now you have to multiply by 3. So if you multiply by 3 that means this 11 will be replaced by 33.

Okay that means this 11 is not there anymore. Okay, this is changed completely. But in some application, let's say uh let me give you another example. I will rub this. Now, let's say you are creating a chatbot.

You're creating a chatbot. In the chatbot, what you are doing? You are doing the conversation uh to the uh AI uh your conversation to the uh application. Let's say this is your app. Okay, this is your app and you are doing the conversation.

So in this uh application what would be the state? State state it would be the let's say message the message we are sending or message we are getting from the um application. So initially let's say you have given hi I am bi okay let's say this is your message. So this message would be saved here. Let's say hi, I am BP.

Okay. Now let's say second time you have given uh I like football. Okay. Now this message will be replaced. Okay.

Let's say this this will removed and it will replace by I like football. Okay. Football. Now if you ask what is my name? So that time um let's say your nodes won't be able to uh get get your name because this this name is already removed okay from the state memory.

Now you only have I like football okay this is the problem. So in this case if you're using only state without reducer that time it will replace that but if you're using reducer okay inside reducer you can define whether you have to okay you have to replace the data or merge the data or add the data. So in this case maybe we can add the data. So that means my previous message would be also there. Let's say I am bi after giving a comma maybe I can add the second message.

That's how continuously all of the messages would be saved here. Either you can merge, either you can replace, everything can be defined with the help of this reducer. Okay. So that means the reducer in langraph defines how updates from nodes are applied to the shared state. Okay.

That means whenever you are creating the state that time you can define all of the state data you are preparing, right? Whether it should be addable, it should be mergible or it should be replaceable. Okay. So in this case let's say we have defined this particular state. So in the feedback section you can see we have given add.

Add means instead of uh let's say replacing the feedback it will continuously add. Let's say this is our example I showed you. So in this example let's say the feedback we are getting. So this feedback should be definitely saved in the state memory. So next time whenever it is executing okay it will see that particular feedback the previous feedback then it will give the new feedback otherwise what will happen the same feedback continuously it might give right?

So that's why it should be addable. Okay, it should be addable inside state memory. So this is the work of reducer and definitely we'll also learn um by a project okay uh in this particular playlist there I'll try to use this reducer concept as well with the state. So there this part would be more clear. So I think guys now you got it what is the reducer?

So reducer only can be used whenever you are using the state concept inside the line graph. Okay now I think it is clear. So guys now we'll be understanding the last concept of this lang graph which is lang graph execution model. So what is this lang graph execution model means that means uh the way it is executing the graph because I think you know lang graph internally defines uh your problem statement as a graph. It creates the nodes then uh it creates the edges.

Okay that's how basically it executes everything. So what is the execution process of this particular graph? Okay, this is called actually execution model. So lang graph internally follows uh one amazing execution uh model strategy which is u let me show you which is actually google uh pragle. Okay, pragle.

So what is Google pragle? Google pragle is a system for large scale graph processing. Uh so basically uh they have published this particular research long uh uh long ago that time actually they showed if you are having a large scale graph okay that time how it can be processed okay so internally lang graph uses the same technique uh for executing this kinds of graph because if you see the langraph uh actually graph uh whenever you are creating very big workflow that time this graph would be also big and to process this to execute this you have to follow that pragle strategy. Okay. Now this is the strategy guys.

As you can see here I have already defined all of the uh execution process. So first of all what happens uh if you see here first of all it defines uh the graph. Okay. So whenever you are giving any problem statement uh it it will define the graph. So whenever it will define the graph first of all it will define the state schema that I showed you showed you about the schema right uh state schema.

uh either you can uh do it with the help of pentic with the help of uh type dict okay you can you you just need to define this schema after that you have to prepare the node and edges okay so this node and this edge connection okay so fun uh and what is node actually this node is nothing but it's a simple python function okay it's a python function only if you can write a python function if you can write a python code you can just define any kinds of node okay because each of the nodes is responsible for a specific task And this task you are solving inside this Python function only. Okay, that's it. And what is edges? Which node connects to uh which okay that means this particular ages will be connecting to another nodes. Okay, like the execution flow like after this node which node would be executed.

So once you have defined this particular graph then next step you will do the compilation. So here we'll do the compile. Compile operation compile means let's say you have created a uh graph. Let's say this is your graph. Okay, this is your graph and this is the age connection and let's say you created another node but this node doesn't have any kinds of connection.

Okay, so after doing the compilation you will be able to understand okay this node doesn't have any kinds of connection that means there's some problem with the graph. Okay, otherwise what will happen? Our entire agentic system will be okay uh terminated. So that's why after defining the graph we have to do the compilation to checks the graph structure and prepared prepares for the execution. Okay.

Then the uh third thing we'll be doing the invocation operation. So invocation operation that means uh whatever first node we have prepared we'll try to do the invoke operation with our initial state. The state we are preparing we'll try to pass to this uh pass to this initial actually nodes and this initial nodes what it will do it will take this uh state and it will execute and it will generate some kinds of output and this output would be also updated in the state. Okay. So once it has updated to the state then this state will go to the another function okay another another nodes and this node would be also initialized that that means activated okay so after giving this initial state this node would be activated and once you get some kinds of output from this node then it will pass to the next one the next one would be activated okay so this is called actually invocation okay you can see langraph sends the initial state as a message to the entity of nodes okay then once it gets this particular particular uh let's say uh uh output and whenever it activates okay we call it as a super step begins okay execution process uh in rounds that means uh it's not like that manually you have to uh I mean initiate uh and invoke all of the nodes one by one so once you invoke the first one okay the remaining one will be automatically executed because it is getting the output and after getting the output this will go to the input to the next node and next node would be uh activated Okay, this is called actually super begins.

Super step begins. Okay, lang lang graph call it as a super step begins. That means all of the nodes would be activated that time. That means you can see message passing and node activation. The messages are passed to the downstream nodes via edges.

So that means whatever output you are getting from the first node, it will go via this edges to the second node. Then it will be activating one by one. Okay. So this is called super step begins. Okay.

And with the help of that it perform the message parsing and node activation. And the last step which is nothing but uh nothing but the halting conditions. So execution stop when all uh no nodes are activated and no messes are in transit. That means if all of the node has been activated and no message are uh let's say in transit that time this particular condition would be stop and your graph would be also stop. Yeah.

So this is called actually the spreel a system for large scale graph execution process and langraph follow the same strategy whenever they execute their graph. Okay. So yes guys I think you have understood all of the concept about the uh lang graph all of the component about the langraph. Now it would be easy for you to uh code in langraph whenever we try to write the code whenever we'll create the agents that time you won't be having any kinds of confusion you won't be having any kinds of problem related each of the components we have discussed so guys so far we have uh discussed about the theoretical aspect of agentic AI uh as well as I have already given you the in-depth understanding about the uh langraph components and all. Now it's time to start the practical uh exploration.

So from this video onward guys uh we'll be working on the uh practical part of the langraph. So uh first of all we'll be starting with the very uh basic workflow uh inside langraph which is uh sequential workflow. I think I have already told you about that. First actually workflow the workflow name is sequential workflow. Okay, sequential means uh this will run um uh in a step-by-step uh let's say manner.

Okay, this is called sequent sequential workflow. So, it doesn't have any kinds of looping. It doesn't have any kinds of conditional branching. Okay, it doesn't have anything. Only uh it will be working as a sequence manner.

Uh so we call it as a sequential workflow. Okay. So for this guys uh first of all uh we'll be installing the langraph. Okay. In inside our system.

So to install the langraph guys you can visit this langraph documentation. So there uh you will be getting uh all kinds of actually tutorial how to install okay how to create your first agent. So each and everything they have already given. So see if you want to install this langraph you can use the pip command either you can use uv okay so let's use pep as of now maybe in future I will also show you how to use the uv package manager as well. So you just need to run pip install lang graph.

So this lang graph would be installed inside your system. So for this let's open up our local folder and here I'm going to just open up my visual code studio h and I will also open up my terminal here. Okay. So the first thing guys uh here I'm going to create a file called readmi md and inside that I'm going to mention um all of the command you need to execute uh to install this uh lang graph to create your virtual environment and everything. So if you want to create the virtual environment you have to execute this command called cond createen n okay then you can give the name of the environment I will give let's say lang graph test okay python you can specify the python version python is equal to 3.11

and hyphen y okay so this is the command first of all you have to execute this command want to create a virtual environment then you'll be installing this line graph. Okay. Now you have to activate this environment. After that you'll be installing the requirements. We have to install pyener requirement.txt.

Okay. So these are the command guys you have to uh follow first of all. So let's create this requirement.xt here. H.

So inside that let's mention our line graph package. Okay. Lang graph. So apart from lang graph uh you need to install some other library as well like you need this lang chain open ai. Okay.

So we are using this langchen openai because uh I'll be using my openai uh large language model but if you want you can also use any other model um from any other provider. Let's say you can use open router, you can use gro API, okay, you can use gemini API, anything you can use. It's completely up to you. It's a very easy things. You just need to uh change this model provide at that time.

Okay. So with me, I am having my open API key. That's why I'll be using this one. Okay. And if you want to use openi API, so that time you have to install this langen openi because I told you langraph uh doesn't work actually independently internally.

It is uses langen. Okay. And uh for all the model u let's say loading creating the prompt template we need the langen okay still langen is required then uh I also need pythonb for the environment management okay now guys uh you have to install this requirement txt file but before that I told you you have to create the environment so try to copy the first command and execute from your terminal so this will create the environment okay for you but for me this environment is already available I'll activate the environment. So can't activate langraph test. Yeah.

So you can see this is already available. But if you don't have just try to create it first of all then just execute this requirement command. It will install everything. So for me it is already satisfied because I installed previously. Okay.

Now once it is done now what I'm going to do guys um let me just tell you about the sequential workflow. Okay. Uh what is the workflow we'll be creating here. See here I'm going to create a very simple uh workflow without using any kinds of LLM. Uh I'll also show you how to use uh LLM um how to create the LM workflow as well.

Don't worry but this is our first workflow we are creating inside Lang graph and we don't know how to code inside Lang graph right so to understand the workflow first of all we'll be creating a very simple workflow without using any kinds of LLM. Then I'm also going to show you how to use the LLM as well. Okay. So guys uh now let's see uh what workflow we'll be creating first of all. So here you can see uh we'll be creating a sequential workflow uh and the workflow is temperature conversion workflow.

Okay. So here it doesn't have any kinds of LLM. As you can see this is a simple workflow we have created without using any kinds of LLM. So basically this workflow what it will do it will convert actually Celsius temperature to Fahrenheit. Okay.

This is the only work this workflow will do. And if we convert this workflow in a graph. So this will look like that. So as you can see we have taken the start node then convert temperature node and the end node. So start and end would be common for all the workflow you'll be creating uh with the help of this langraph.

This is a dummy nodes you can say because langraph understands okay workflow starts from here and it it uh ends actually here. Okay. And basically it takes the input uh to the like other nodes as well. And this will also have a state right state is a shared memory and this is a mutable u let's say object you can create this uh state with the help of pentic either you can use type dict okay anything you can um use it. So basically the state I have to share to all of the node so that it can take the data and it can update the data as well in real time.

So you can see uh in this particular workflow the only function I have to write this conversion function temperature conversion function. So user will give Celsius uh temperature and I'll try to convert it to the Fahrenheit. Then this uh uh this Fahrenheit output would be show uh shows shows as an output. Okay. So you can see for this we have created we have taken a node convert temperature and this node would be a simple Python function.

in that particular Python function what I will do I'll just try to I'll just try to uh write u um the uh code related conversion uh temperature conversion and whatever output we'll try to get we'll try to update in this particular state so here in this particular variable we'll try to update that let's say whatever uh temperature user will give this is in Celsius so this will save inside this particular state uh let's object and whatever I'll try to convert right uh in the Fahrenheit this one I'll try to save it here. Okay. Then whenever I'll try to show the output. So from here I'll try to read and I'll show the output here. So this is a simple workflow guys.

Uh we have to create and this state is a shared memory. So this will go to the all of the uh all of the nodes. Okay. One by one and the complete you can see this diagram this workflow this is called actually graph. Okay I hope you cleared.

Now let's try to code inside lang graph. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to open up my uh So let's create a file here. I'm going to create a file. I'm going to name it as one temperature conversion workflow NB. Okay.

So here I have taken the Jupyter notebook file guys because here I'm not creating any kinds of end to end project. I'm just explaining the concept. Uh that's why I think this notebook uh format would be uh great fit for that because I will also show you the uh workflow in a diagram. Okay. And this diagram I can't uh I can't actually uh show you inside Py file.

That's why I have taken this file notebook file. So let's select our environment line test. Yeah. So first of all uh what you have to do guys you have to uh import some library. So here let me comment.

First of all you have to import some library. Okay. So you have to import uh this line graph. So from lang graph dotg graph. Okay you have to import state graph.

Okay you have to import state graph. If you check the documentation as well. So here also they are doing the same thing from lang graph they're importing state graph then start and end. Okay this is a dummy nodes I already told you this will be common for all the uh workflow you'll be creating with the help of this line graph. Okay.

So let's try to import them. H so state graph then I need start I need start then I need end. So here state graph is the function with the help of that we create the graph. Okay, entire graph it will be creating basically uh this helps to create the graph as well as uh to add the state uh inside our graph. Okay, now let me import them.

Yeah, so import is successful. Uh that means we have already installed this langraph and we are able to import uh everything. Okay, then I also need to import this type dict from typing. So from typing. So first of all I'm going to show you how we can create the state with the help of this type dict uh typed dict actually module u from python then later on I'm also going to show you how we can create this uh state with the help of pientic okay pientic is another uh python framework with the help of that you can also create the state so let's import typed dict this one now let me import all of them now the first thing Guys, I have to uh initialize the state uh state object.

Okay, state is important. Uh without state actually we can't uh create the graph. Then after creating the state we'll be creating the entire graph. First of all, we'll be um uh creating the nodes all the nodes. Then after that uh we'll be uh we'll be creating the ages as well.

Okay. So this is called ages. Ages means this is the connection. Let's say after uh which node uh which node would be executed. Okay.

This is the connection. So this edges should be also created. Okay. And if we uh create all of them uh this will be uh this will become a graph. Okay.

So now let's try to define the state here. Uh so here maybe I can comment define state H. So for this problem I told you state would be uh two state. Okay. uh one is temperature Celsius and temperature Fahrenheit.

So let's try to define that. So for this I'll write a class. Okay, I'll write a class. I'm I'm going to name this class as a temperature state. Okay.

And I'm going to inherit uh this uh class with this type dict uh function we have imported. Okay. Now basically you are telling this class uh um like this class right now can store uh any kinds of data as a key value pair. Okay. Now the first key should be the temperature temp Celsius.

Okay. And uh you can mention the data type as well. What should be the data type for this particular u uh variable. So basically uh Celsius should be in a float uh data type. I think you know that it can't be integer.

It should be float. That's why I told uh it is a float. Okay, float data type. Then you have to write another variable called temperature Fahrenheit. So this should be also a float type data.

Okay. So this will become our state. Okay. This will become our state and this state we'll be using inside our nodes. Okay.

All of the nodes we'll be creating. Yeah. Now this state is also ready. Now let's work on this graph. So here what I'm going to do uh here let's say I'm going to comment define okay define and compile graph I think you know after defining the graph you have to compile I told you the graph execution process right in my previous video as well so to define the graph I told you first of all you have to use this state graph of uh function you have to create a object of that.

So let's uh create a object called graph. Then I'm going to initialize state graph and inside that you have to pass the state the state you have created. This is the state temperature state. Okay. So basically this will take the state.

Now see what is happening if you're using the state graph object right state graph functionality and if you're passing the state inside that uh so basically this particular function will try to provide the state to all of the nodes okay automatically one by one you don't need to manually provide that okay so this is the main benefit here so that's why we're using the state graph state graph u basically takes this uh state object and it provides to all of the nodes okay one by one now uh we I have defined our graph here. So this is called definition of the graph. Define your graph. Define your graph. Now next I have to add the nodes nodes to your graph to the graph.

So to add the nodes guys you just need to write graph dot add nodes okay add nodes then you have to provide the nodes name okay nodes name at the very first time you have to give the nodes name let's say if you see my nodes here okay if you see my nodes here so I have only one nodes which is this uh convert temperature right I have only one nodes which is convert temperature now I Ask me start and ed ends is also a node right but this is a dummy node this thing you don't need to create it separately okay so whenever you are uh defining the ages okay that time you will mention that let's say uh after start uh after start this convert temperature node would be connected okay this is called actually connection that's why we call it as a um like uh dummy nodes we don't need to create separately here okay we don't need to add separately here so by default your uh lang graph adds that and we just need to uh we just need to connect this particular nodes to our actual nodes. Okay, this is the fun here. Now let me first of all create none I'm going to explain okay how it works. So first of all here I have to add our nodes. So here I only have one nodes which is convert temperature.

So maybe I can just give a name. I'll give let's say convert okay convert temp. You can give any name it's up to you. But make sure uh the name you are giving here the same name you use for creating that particular function. Okay.

Now this will take that uh convert temperature function object. Okay. This will take this convert temperature function object and I told you every node takes a function and this function is nothing but it's a Python simple function. Okay. Now let's try to create this convert temperature function individually here.

So what I'm going to do, I'm going to uh simply um come here. So basically this is our first node. So now let's write the function. So def convert temperature. So this will take a state.

Okay, this will take a state. What is this state? This temperature state. And this will return uh also the state I told you every time this state would be the input and each and every nodes will return some kinds of output. This output should be also state okay the updated state.

So that's why I have to uh I have to give this um blueprint that uh this function takes uh state uh state as an input and it also returns the state. Okay, this temperature state only. So that's how you can give the blueprint of a function. Okay. Now inside that first of all I'll take the Celsius data whatever data user will provide.

So here I'll just write Celsius. Celsius okay is equal to this Celsius should be available inside state. Okay. So we are calling state and we are extracting the Celsius only because this is a dictionary right now and you know how to work with the dictionary right? uh so we are working in a same then after that we'll try to convert uh we'll try to convert this to the Fahrenheit so I've already written the code let me show you so here we are converting to the Fahrenheit okay you can see Celsius to Fahrenheit and if you want to see how to convert Celsius to Fahrenheit you can go to Google you can search here so you will see the formula okay so this is the formula so we are replicating the same formula here you can see we are replicating the self same formula we are first of all multiplying this Celsius uh with uh 9 out of five then we are adding 32 with that so once we get this Fahrenheit we have to also we have to also update the state memory right we have to also update the state memory because we have taken a variable called temperature Fahrenheit now whatever Fahrenheit we got we have to update inside this particular state right so for this uh that's how we can update because this is a dictionary right this dictionary.

So I'm uh just adding this particular new value to this variable to this key. Right? So here we're using round function because if it is a float type uh data so after point there would be too many number but I'm not taking too too many number. I'm only taking last two uh digit okay after after the point. Now once it is done I'm going to simply return this state.

So return this state. Okay that's it. So this is our simple python function we have created. Okay. Now this function can convert any kinds of Celsius data to Fahrenheit and we are updating the state here.

Okay, that's it. Now this particular function will object will come here. So that's how guys we have created our first node. We have added our first node. Now see this node has added.

Okay. Now you have to create this edges. Okay. You have to create it create this edges that that means the connection the flow of execution. So for this let's do that.

So here I'm going to comment add edges to the graph. So first of all you have to add the first edges. Now see this start node will come here. Okay. Now see so here I'll just write start and convert them.

Just try to see this uh graph. See now I'm telling this start node would be connected to the convert them. Okay, that means this is the connection we are making right now because from here it will start and it will go go to the convert temperature. See here we're doing start to convert temperature. Okay, now I will add the second graph sorry second edge add is now convert them to end.

Now you can see uh so basically let me just show you. See first of all we connect it here right that means this connection this connection we have built start to convert temperature now convert temperature to end okay that means this particular edge we are getting right now this edge is already created start to convert them now convert them to end okay particular uh this this edge we are getting uh this edge is already created now we are doing it here so you can see convert them to end okay I hope you clear guys now once this is done then you will compiling the graph. So compile the graph. So you just need to write uh graph dot compile. Okay.

And this returns you the workflow. So maybe I can store inside a variable workflow. Okay. Now let's compile. So compilation is also done.

Now we'll simply execute the graph. Execute the graph. Now guys, we'll try to execute the graph. So to execute the graph uh first of all you have to take the initial state that means the input uh which is the uh Celsius okay Celsius uh um temperature. So here what I can do I can create a variable.

I'm going to name it as you can also call it as input state or initial state. Okay, it's up to you. But I have named it as initial state because this this will become my initial state. Okay, the first state which is nothing but the uh temperature Celsius, right? So initial state.

So temperature Celsius I'm giving let's say 28.5. Now this thing we'll try to provide to the workflow. So I have created my workflow workflow dot invoke. Now you can perform the invoke operation because this is a lang graph object.

Inside that I'm going to pass my initial state and this will uh return you the final state. Okay, final state that means the output. Final state and this final state I'm going to simply print it here. Okay, done. Now let's uh see whether it is working or not.

Now see if I execute. Now see initially we have given 28.5 this is the Celsius temperature. Now the final state is uh temp temperature Fahrenheit 83 uh 3. Okay you can also try with Google let's say if I'm giving Celsius now see Celsius is uh 28.5

and you are getting 83.3 you can see 83.3 that means it's working fine right? So we are able to execute our first graph guys. Okay, we are able to create our first graph and this is completely working fine.

See there is no problem. Now if you want to see this graph as a uh image you can also do that. That that means you can visualize this particular graph. This is very interesting things I found in langraph. So let me just comment here.

Okay visualize graph. So I found this code inside this langraph documentation. Yeah. So here we are using this ipython display um and we are importing this image function. Inside that we are just giving workflow.get

graph. Okay. Basically this will get the graph and we are drawing this particular graph as a mar mermaid png. Okay. So mermaid is a kinds of uh you can talk about it's a flowchart.

Okay flowchart style. You can search on Google mermaid flowchart or simply search for mermaid. You will see that. Uh okay. Mermaid flowchart.

Yeah. See, so this will give you this kinds of flowchart. Okay. Now let me show you. If I execute, see guys, you are getting the flowchart.

Now see this flowchart and this flowchart. Just try to tell me whether you are able to see this is same or not. Okay, this is same right. So you can see start then it is going to the convert temperature. then it is uh giving you the final output that means the end nodes.

Okay, amazing. So guys, congratulation. We have created our first workflow, first uh line graph graph and this is completely working fine. So guys, now what we'll do, we'll just try to uh update uh the workflow we have created. Let's say this is our workflow.

Uh so here we are only converting the temperature to the Fahrenheit. Now what I have done, I created another workflow. So this is the sim similar workflow only I have added a new node here you can see. So the node name is label weather. So what this label weather will do let's say the fahrenheit temperature we are getting uh we'll just try to label that label means let's say if this fahrenheit temperature is less than 50 that time weather status is cold.

Okay. If let's say Fahrenheit temperature is it is uh less than equal 50 and less than equal uh 77 that time it is mild. Okay. If it is less than 95 uh then that time it is hot. And if it is not all of them that means it is extreme heat.

Okay. So this kinds of labeling I want to do. So for this I have created another node here. I'll I'll be writing another node here. this particular node will try to um try to uh figure out the weather status.

Okay, it will try to figure out the weather status whether the weather is hot, cold, mild. Okay, or extreme hot etc. Right? And uh to create this particular uh graph guys, I need another state called weather status because uh these nodes will return the label right whether it is hot, cold, mild or anything. So this particular data I have to also save in the state that's why I have taken another variable called weather status here.

But previously this was missing here. Okay. Now let's try to update this. So what I'm going to do I'm going to open up my code again. So see here I'll add another nodes.

Okay. I'll add another nodes here. Yeah. Let's say the node name is uh label weather. Okay.

And it will take a function Python function called level weather. So now let's write this function. So after this function maybe I can write it here. So def label weather. So this will take this state as an input.

Okay. And it will also return this state as an output. State as an output. Okay. So already I got the suggestion code from my uh from my co-pilot.

Let me show you the code I have written. So this is the code. Okay. Now let me also comment here. Let's say this is for label weather condition.

This is our second note. Okay. So now what what we are doing the Fahrenheit temperature we are getting we're taking it from the state okay we are pulling the Fahrenheit from the state instead of Celsius uh because I want to check with respect to the Fahrenheit okay I want to check with respect to Fahrenheit you can also do it with the help of Celsius as well Celsius temperature as well you can also label that but I want to do it with the help of Fahrenheit I want to I want to only show you the output we are getting whether we can use it inside this particular node or not okay that's why I'm using is uh temperature um finite then after that I'm checking if finite is less than 50 that time uh weather status should be cold we are updating this state okay there should be another variable called weather status and right now this status should be hot cold mild so I can consider this should be a string type data okay now let me execute this node yeah now you can see this weather starter should be cold if it is less than and equal 50 or less than 73 77 that time the weather status should be mild. If it is uh less than 77 and less than 95 this should be hot otherwise it should be extreme heat. Okay.

So this is our uh uh this is our logic we have written inside this label weather function and we are returning the state. Okay. Now let me execute. Now what I'm going to do just execute from the beginning one one more time just to show you the output. H.

So the node add is done. Now we'll try to add the edges. Okay. Now we'll add the edges. That means after convert temperature, this will go to the label weather.

Okay. So here I'm going to write um see uh start start uh convert temperature. Okay, that means this part is done. Now I have to work on this part. Convert temperature to level weather.

So here I have to write convert temperature to level weather. Okay. Now label weather to end. Now here I just need to light right level weather to end. Okay.

Now I think you have understood this particular edge connection. Okay this like very amazing right and if you understand this edge connection just trust me you can create any kinds of workflow inside langraph. Okay that's why I'm showing you this easy workflow at the very beginning. Now once it is done, now let's try to compile the graph again. Then I will execute the graph.

This only takes the uh temperature Celsius input. H uh so you can see temperature Celsius this 28.5 we are getting the Fahrenheit and based on the Fahrenheit result we are seeing that weather status is hot right now. We can check if it is 83 right 83 that means here this condition is matching here okay that means this particular condition is hot right now okay now if I visualize this graph now see another node is added which is level weather now this uh this graph and this graph I think you can match okay great guys so yes this was the first uh sequential uh sequential actually workflow we have created without using any kinds of large language model. So now I'm going to show you how we can create sequential workflow uh with the help of large language model as well.

So guys uh now we'll be creating a LLM workflow. Uh previously the workflow I showed you uh this workflow I have created this is a non-LM based workflow. Uh here I'm not using any kinds of LLM. Okay. uh with the help of simple python function simple python logic I was handling everything now let's say you want to use llm okay llm inside the workflow so how to create the workflow for that let's try to understand and see here our main goal is to learn the lang graph uh like workflow creation the problem statement I'm taking uh it might be very simple uh you can think about okay this this thing I can create with the help of simple python function only but why we are writing that much line of code.

Okay. So our intention is to learn the um lang graph workflow. Okay. How we can use the lang graph? How we can create the workflow?

How we can create the node edges. Okay. Each and everything this idea I'm giving you. Okay. So problem statement doesn't matter.

You can use any kinds of problem statement. So after learning this simple concept so later on whenever we'll be creating the actual agents or big project. So this concept will help us a lot. Right? So that's why we are um uh explaining this concept with the help of simple workflow.

Now here I'm going to take another uh very simple workflow guys for the LM workflow. So here what I'm going to do uh here this is the uh workflow. This is the graph you can see. So basically this will have the start and end nodes definitely because this is common. So the only one nodes I'll be creating here the LMQA nodes.

Okay. So LMQA means what it will perform. So basically user will give some of the question and this lm will uh answer that particular question and this will return you the answer only this simple operation will be doing okay in this particular workflow. So for this what should be the state? The state should be definitely the question whatever question user is giving and whatever answer we are getting from the LLM this should be another state.

Okay. So this state should be passed to all of the nodes and it will real time update that and our uh uh workflow would be ended. So this is the simple uh graph guys. Now let's try to implement this graph with the help of lang graph. So for this I have already prepared a notebook as you can see simple keyway LA workflow.

So let me open it up and uh to run this uh um um code guys you need this file because in the env I have mentioned my openi API key because here we are using large language model and I'm using openi large language model but if you want to use any other large language model you can use it completely fine for this you can change the API key here. So this is the uh code guys. This is the notebook I have prepared. Now this is this looks same as per your previous uh notebook. Only the things I have added the llm functionality here.

Now first of all you have to import some necessary library. So see you can see we are importing the same uh state graph start ends from the langraph graph. Then one additional package we're importing langchen peni chat opi. I told you if I want to use any kinds of uh let's say large language model or whatever I have to still use langen because langraph doesn't have direct functionality so that functionality can load any kinds of llm okay so it has to use this langen to load the large language model so here one more thing you are also learning how we can use langen along with the lang graph okay so this is the concept so we are importing chat open a let's say if you're using any other other provider if you're using grock or open router inside langen it is available you simply you can open it up. Then we are also importing type dict just to create the state and the load envadment variable.

Now the first step we are loading the environment variable this env. For this we are calling this load env. So if it is returns two. Okay first of all I have to import this. Now I'll execute.

Now if it if it returns to that means this env file is present and inside that we have the uh key right. It has loaded successfully. Now we'll try to define the large language model. Okay. So here we are creating a model object and we are calling the chat openi.

So by default I think it loads a model. Okay. Uh I think GPT 3.5 turbo model it will load. You can also change the model parameter.

If you want to use any other model like GPT 5 or 4 you can easily do that. But I will take the default model. It's completely fine for me. Okay. So I got my model object.

Now here you can change with any model object. Either you are using grock uh either you can using open router Gemini anything you can use. Now we have to create this state. Okay, this state we have to create and I told you to create this workflow I need u this these two state question and answer. So this thing I'll be creating right now.

You can see I have written a class I named it as LLM state and again I'm inheriting with the help of type dict. Now we can store the data as a question uh key value pair. Now the first state you can see this is the question and the data type should be string because usually uh whatever question we are writing this is kinds of string type data and answer also this is a string type data okay we are preferring the state now once uh state preparation is done now we'll be creating the nodes but before uh showing you the nodes u logic I will show you the graph definition so you can see guys uh we are creating the state graph and we are passing the state the state we have created this state then After that we are adding the nodes. Okay. The first node we have added the LM QA.

Okay. Now this LLM QA we have to write. Okay. This LLM QA we have to write. So this this is this should be a simple Python function.

Inside that we'll perform the LLM call. So see LM QA this is the function we are writing. This will take this state as an input and return the state as an output. Now whatever question user is giving I am taking it from the state. Then I'm preparing a prompt.

Answer the following questions. We are giving the questions. Then this particular prompt I'm just giving to the model. We're just doing model.info giving the prompt and whatever content it is giving me.

I'm just extracting in the answer and this answer I'm updating in the state memory again. Okay. So you can see it is having the answer key. I'm updating the value there and we're returning the state. Okay.

Now let's execute. Now once our node is added now we'll be working on the edges. We'll try to connect the edges. Now if you see the graph so see first of all start node will connect to the lm QA. So we are connecting that start to lm QA.

Then LLM QA will be connected to the end. You can see then add LLM QA to end. Okay. And I told you start and end is a default node inside Langraph. You don't need to manually add that.

This is a dummy node. Okay. So only we'll be calling whenever we'll be adding the edges. So once it is done we'll try to compile the graph. Let's compile.

Okay, now everything is ready. Now we can execute the graph. So we are preparing the initial state which is nothing but the question. Let's say here I'm giving a question who is the creator of Python and uh the workflow we have created. We are just doing the inbing operation.

We are giving the initial state and we are getting the final state output. Then we are just returning the answer. So I'm asking a question which is the creator of Python. Now let's see. So see the Python was created by Guido Van Rosrom in the late '9s80s.

Okay, 1980s. So it's working fine. Okay, you can give any other question as well. It will work. Now let's try to visualize the graph.

So here I will execute this code. This code is common. Now see this is uh the graph. You can see start LMQA and ends. Okay, amazing.

So this is the actually LM workflow we have created. So previously we created without uh nonLM workflow. Now we have created LM based workflow. Okay, I hope you get it. So that's how guys, if you want to use any kinds of large language model inside the workflow, you can uh define it like that.

Okay, now we'll be learning another uh amazing concept. I I think I told you in my previous video as well called prom chaining. Promching means you can use multiple LM calls. See here I'm using only one LM call, right? One LM call.

But if you want to use multiple LM call, that is also possible. So we'll be learning in the pom uh we'll be learning this concept in the prom chaining. Okay. So I'm going to create another notebook. There I'm going to show you how we can perform the prom chaining operation.

That means one uh LLM answer you are getting. You can pass this answer to another LM to get another response. Okay, this is also possible here. Let me show you that part as well. So guys, now I'll explain about this prom training.

Uh this is another sequential workflow. So in our previous uh workflow, we did the single LLM call. That means uh user was giving any kinds of question and it was generating the answer. But let's say you want to do multiple LM call that means uh after one LM call that output you want to use for another LM okay as an input. This is called prompt chaining.

So for an example let me just uh tell you see here what I'm going to do. I'm going to let's say uh create a blog generator. Okay blog generator from a topic. So here let's say user will give a topic name. Okay.

So this will generate a blog. Okay, block blog for that. But this block I'm not going to generate directly. Instead of that what I'm going to do first of all I'm going to take this topic name. Then I'm going to pass to LLM.

Okay, I'm going to pass to LLM. And this LLM will try to generate the outline. Okay, outline for the block. So let's say this will generate the outline. Okay, outline of the block from this LLM.

And whatever outline I will give uh get from this LLM, I'll pass to another LLM. Okay. And this LLM will try to take this topic as well as this outline and it will generate the block. Okay. And we'll be getting the final block as an output.

Okay. At the last. So this is the workflow and this is called actually prompt chaining concept. Okay. Prompt chaining concept.

Basically whatever output we are getting from a first large bank model we are passing it to the second LLM as an input and we are getting a final output. That means we are calling multiple LM call here. This is called prompt shading concept. Okay. So this workflow we'll try to create right now.

Now see guys I have already created this uh graph. Okay. Uh I've already created this workflow as you can see. So start and end would be common. So here I have to create two nodes.

One is the create outline. That means whatever input I'll be getting. That means uh the topic. So first of all I'll generate outline and this outline as well as the topic I'll send to another nodes which is create block. This will generate the blog and I'll be getting the final block as an output.

Okay. And what should be the state for this particular uh workflow? First of all the title that means the blog title. Okay. Then whatever outline it will generate this outline as well.

And whatever content that means the blog will be getting this should be another state. Okay. So that means three state will be available for this particular uh workflow for this particular graph. Okay. Now let's try to represent in the lang graph code.

So for this I have created another notebook as you can see prompt chaining workflow. So let's open it up. So this is the notebook. So again this is the same uh as per your previous notebook I created. First of all we have to import all the necessary libraries.

You can see we are importing state graph start ends chat open. Okay. Then type d load env. Then we'll be loading the env uh env file to load the opinion API key. Then we'll be defining the large language model.

Then we'll be creating the state and uh this state name I have uh named it as blog state. And again I'm doing the inheritant inheritance operation with the help of this type dict. Now we are preparing the state. State means the title, outline and the content. Okay.

Three state we are taking. H now before creating the nodes first of all let me show you the graph okay see here we are creating the graph state graph and we are passing the state and first of all we are adding the nodes okay so the first nodes we are adding for the create outline now let me show you this create outline function so this is the create outline function so this will take this state as an uh input and uh return you the state as an output okay so whatever title user is giving first of all I'm taking the title And here I'm preparing a prompt generate a detail outline for the blog uh for a blog on the topic. So then we are passing it to the LLM. LM is giving the outline. This outline we are saving inside the state.

Okay, inside outline variable then we are returning the state. Then after that if you show if you see I'm adding another nodes okay called generate blog. Now whatever outline I got and title I got I will pass to this particular function. You can see uh it will take from this state the title as well as the outline. Then I'm preparing another prompt.

This prompt is telling write a detailed blog on the title. Okay, using the following outline. The outline we are getting as well as the title we are using here. Then we are passing it to the LLM. Okay, again we're doing the LM call.

Whatever LM is generating, I'm just storing in the content. That means this is the final block. Okay, I'm storing inside this content uh content state. Okay, so it is done. Now you can see we are adding both of the nodes one by one.

So this uh nodes is added create outline and uh create blocks. Now I have to create the edges. Now to create the edges guys here you can see I'm creating the edges. First of all age would be created. Start to create outline.

You can see start to create outline. Then create outline to create block. Create outline to create block. Okay. Then create block to end.

create block to end. Okay, then we are doing the compile operation. Then now we'll execute the graph. So here as initial state we are giving the title. Okay, we are giving a title let's say raise of AI in India.

Let's say this is our uh title and I want to generate outline and then block. Now we are giving into the workflow. We are doing the blocking operation and we are getting the final state as an output. See it is doing multiple LM call that's why it's taking some time. First of all it will invoke first LLM then the second LM.

Right now see here we are getting the output. So this is the title based on the title we are getting the outline and also we have a content final content I think somewhere content is also there. Uh we can see uh here. So final state uh first of all I want to see the outline. So this is the outline.

Okay, it has prepared. Now if I want to show you the content that means the blog. So this is the blog guys. Okay, I'm getting. So this is called prompt shading concept.

Now if I want to show you the graph. So this is the graph. You start create outline then it will go to the generate block create block then hands. Okay, I hope you got it guys. Okay, so that's how guys we can create any kinds of sequential workflow.

Either you can create a nonLM based, either you can create LLM based, either you can create prompt chaining based, anything you can create only you just need to know how to uh how to define these uh nodes and this particular connection. Okay, age connection if you can understand this concept you can just trust me you can create any kinds of workflow okay inside lang graph. Now I think by end of this video it is uh very much clear how we can create any kinds of sequential workflow inside lang graph. Okay don't worry I'm also going to show you uh like complex workflow as well like parallel workflow. Okay there are lots of workflow we saw right we'll be learning each of them don't need to worry but before starting that complex workflow first of all I've given you the sequential workflow.

uh I think uh now you have enough understanding how to code inside langraph at least right now I think these are the syntax won't be confusion to you right like what is a node what is ajs okay so so far we have learned so many theoretical concept now we have seen the practical implementation and all of this code and everything would be available in the description from there you can uh download and you can uh try in your system and one more exercise you can perform let's say this prom training u we have Maybe you can add another node for the evalu evaluation for this block. Let's say the blog you are generating whether this is good or bad. You can uh take another LLM. You can take another nodes and you can evaluate that and you can also uh print the evaluation result. Let's say it needs the feedback or not or it is completely fine.

This kinds of result you can also uh print. Okay, that means you you have to take another state here and whatever result you are getting you can also show the result here. Okay, after you can see uh content maybe you can uh print another result which is evaluator result. Okay. Now the best part is of this state is you you can access all of the output.

Okay. All of the output input any time. Let's say we have generated uh these three uh three things right? Uh title, outline and content and it is accessible anytime. Okay.

This is the final state. From the fin from the final state you can access um any kinds of state. Let's you can access title, outline, content or if you're adding the evaluator you can access it anytime. Okay. So yes that's it guys.

So yes uh this is all about from this video. I hope you got it. Now in the next video guys we'll be uh we'll be learning uh some other workflow as well. Okay like uh parallel workflow we'll be also learning conditional workflow, iterative workflow. Okay, all the workflow we'll try to cover one by one.

So guys uh we are continuing with our uh complete agenti course and as you know we started uh learning our first orchestration framework which is langraph and in our previous video I have already showed you how we can build sequential workflow inside langraph. So if I open up my um previous uh like uh materials. So there I already showed you about the sequential workflow and I think you know how sequential workflow works. Basically it will work as a step-by-step manner. Okay.

First of all let's say this node then this node then this node okay that's how it will execute okay as a sequence. So if I uh show you see I created a nonlm based workflow and lm workflow uh then prompt chaining workflow. So as you can see u after executing this node this node would be executed. Okay then you will be getting the output. So this is a sequential order.

Now we'll try to understand this uh parallel workflow like how parallel workflow works and we'll also try to uh write the code inside langraph. And uh here is the example guys. The first example I'm going to show you the employee analytics workflow. Okay. So this is the example I have taken.

uh I already told you just don't um I mean don't focus on the problem statement I I have taken some of the problem statement uh easy problem statement so that I can make you understand these are the workflow so later on we'll be building some amazing ANTI application completely end to end so you can see guys uh here uh this is the parallel workflow uh graph as you can see uh so you you can see the difference between the sequential and the parallel sequential means uh After executing this node, this node will be executing. That means the output you are getting from this particular node, you are passing this particular output to the next node and this node is taking that um output as an input. Then it is executing. Okay, that means um you have to wait okay um you have to wait till this node just complete the execution then this node will start. But in parallel workflow um it's not like that.

Each of the nodes are independent that means you can execute them independently. Okay, simultaneously you can execute all of the node and you can get the output. So for this I have taken one amazing example called employee analytics workflow. So basically what we'll do here we'll just try to take some employee data. So here I already created the state as you can see I have already defined the state for this particular demo.

So as you can see let's say this is our employee state and you know what is a state right? state is a uh a shared memory uh inside our graph, right? And it will pass to all of the nodes. So you can see these are the data we'll be taking from the user. Okay, let's see employee name, monthly salary, working days and completed projects.

Okay, based on that what we'll do, we'll just try to calculate the bonus of the employee, uh yearly salary of the employee and the project evaluation. Ev evaluation means the project is excellent. uh let's say project work is excellent or average okay we'll try to mark that now you can see u to do that I don't need to wait for any of the node here let's say I don't need to wait for this bonus to calculate the yearly salary then I don't need to wait for project evaluation for this calculate yearly salary okay I don't need to wait for each and every nodes here because each and every nodes are independent the task I have taken you can see this is completely independent task So instead of running this in a sequential manner so I can follow this par parallel workflow. Okay. So that I can execute them in parallel and I can quickly complete my task.

Okay. Otherwise if you if you are running in sequential order you have to wait for the previous node to be executed. Okay. But here it's not like that. This is completely independent.

Then after uh getting all of this uh information what we'll do guys we'll just try to give a summary. uh summary means let's say the employee name their salary yearly salary project evaluation calculated bonus we'll just try to return a string complete uh detail summary string and we'll just try to end the graph okay so this is a simple problem statement I have taken again I told you guys uh don't uh just focus on the problem statement uh just to make you understand I have taken this problem statement the main intention you have to learn this workflow okay how we can build this workflow so first of all we'll try to learn this nonLM based workflow So here I'm not going to use any kinds of LLM. Uh then after learning this nonLM based workflow, the next one I'm going to take the LM workflow. Okay. So both we'll be learning.

No need to worry. Now let's start the coding inside Langraph. So what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to simply um create a I'm going to simply create a file here. I'm going to name it as four um employee data analytics. Okay.

Employee analytics workflow. I'm going to create a notebook file. Perfect. So here I'll take the code cell and I will select the kernel. Uh so previously I created this environment.

I think you remember we'll try to select that as well. H fine. Now guys the first thing what you have to do I think you remember the first thing you have to import all of the necessary library. So maybe what I can do I can refer my previous notebook and I can just import all of the necessary library. I need um I need this one right?

this uh line graph state graph and start and end. So I'll try to import the this as well as I need this uh typing to create this uh state. Okay, I need this particular type dict. Now let's import it. H now the second thing guys you have to define the state.

Okay, if you uh if you see that let's say the previous example also uh so this is LM workflow. But if I open my previous example, let's say this one I created, right? This is the non LLM based workflow. Uh then second thing you have to define the state and uh for this uh example guys what should be the state. So this is the state I already prepared.

First of all uh these are the state we'll be taking from the u user and these are the state we'll be uh we'll be just calculating. Okay we'll be updating basically let's say this calculate uh yearly salary. We'll try to calculate the yearly salary and we'll try to update in the inside this particular state. Then bonus okay we'll update inside this uh state then project evaluation we update inside this project status and summary whatever summary we are getting we'll also update here okay and all of the data type I have also mentioned you can see employee name should be string data type monthly salary should be integer working days uh it should be also integer completed project it should be integer that means the number of project employee has completed yearly salary this is also integer bonus amount also integer project status okay uh this status I will let's say tell excellent average okay so this should be a string and summary also should be a string okay so this is the data type now let's uh try to um just write same uh uh state uh inside our notebook I'm going to just close this other file so this is the state guys okay you can see the same state we have prepared here and I just named it as employee state and I inherited with type tic because I can store my data as a key value pair okay I think I have already disced test previously. Okay, this thing.

So, I'm not going to repeat again. Now, uh my state is done. Now, I'll just need to uh create the graph. Now, let's try to create the graph. So, we'll try uh create the graph.

You can see we are using a state graph. And inside that we are passing our state. Okay. Employee state. Now, we have to add the nodes.

Okay. Now, how many nodes we are having? Uh 1 2 3. Okay. And last, we have another nodes called summary.

And start and end. You don't need to take it because this is a default node inside langraph. This is a dummy node. So first of all let's try to create this um uh this one this um calculate bonus or you can create any of them because this is completely independent right uh you are not uh I mean uh you you don't need to worry about the like order because this is not a sequential one you can create any of them any of them. Okay.

So first of all let's create uh this calculate yearly salary. So here I'm going to add a node. So this is the node guys. Graph add nodes. I named it as calculate early salary and the same name I used for this particular function.

Okay. And this is going to be a python function. We'll just try to write the function. Okay. Just give me some time.

So like that I'll also define for all of these nodes one by one. Uh the next one I'm going to create for uh calculate bonus and project evaluation. Yeah. So calculate bonus this one and the project evaluation. Project evaluation.

Okay. So all of the nodes I have created only the last node I have to create this summary. Now let's also create the summary. Summary. Okay.

My node uh creation is done. Now I'll write these are the function one by one. So I'll come here. So here I will comment uh this is our node one and the function name is calculate yearly salary. Okay.

Now let's define a function def uh calculate yearly salary and uh this will uh take this uh employee state uh as an input because every nodes takes this uh state. I think you remember okay every node takes this state. Okay. And also return a state right. So we are we are giving this type hint here.

So let's try to write write the logic here. Uh so first of all we'll try to calculate the yearly salary. So how to calculate the yearly salary? I think you know that we have the monthly salary. So what I can do uh I can just multiply by 12.

So this will give me the yearly salary and multi salary I have inside the state. You can see the monthly salary I have inside the state. So once it is done I'm going to update the yearly salary where in my state again. You can see we are updating this yearly salary in this state. Then we are returning the state.

You know that every nodes return the state. Okay, we are returning the state. It's completely fine, right? We have written the first uh first nodes. Now like that we'll also write the second nodes uh state nodes doine.

We have to execute this cell. Now let's execute. Okay, now it's working fine. Now the second node guys, we have to write for the calculate bonus for this one. Uh let's write this function def calculate bonus.

This will also take um this will also take uh employee uh state that means the state and also return the state. Okay. And here we'll try to calculate the bonus. So you can see we whatever um so what I can do I can calculate the bonus based on the monthly salary monthly salary so I'll just try to multiply by two okay see here I'm not calculating the exact bonus yet just try to think about just I'm adding some bonus uh based on the monthly slid of that particular employee okay and after that we are adding this bonus amount uh inside the state then we are returning this state. Okay, it's done.

Now we'll try to create the next one which is uh project evaluation node three project evaluation def project evaluation this will also take the state as an input and return the state as an output. So here I can just write a logic. So let's say this is the logic. I can write simple logic. If uh let's say the completed project amount is more than five.

So that time I can just give the status excellent otherwise I'll just try to tell it's average one. Okay. Now I'll update this project status. Then I will return the status. Okay.

So yeah this is our notes we have uh prepared. Now uh once it is done the at the last I will add this summary notes as well. Now let's add the summary note. So inside summary I'm just going to return all of the summary. That's it.

So ref summary. So here I will just initialize the summary. Let's say this is the entire summary text. I've taken the f string and I'm just joining the string all together. employee employee name then has a yearly salary of yearly salary a bonus of bonus amount project status is the project status okay that mean this is a complete string I'm just writing and updating and returning it okay that's it now let me execute yeah my all of the nodes are prepared now what I have to do guys uh we have already created all of the nodes that means nodes is created now we have to add the edges okay this is called edges now we have to do the edge connecting connection.

Now let's try to do the edge connection. So for this I think you know that we use this add edge uh uh addage function inside lang graph. So here I can comment h. So first of all try to see how we are going to connect the edges. You can see from start it is connecting to calculate bonus.

It is connecting to calculate yearly salary. It is connected to project evaluation. Okay, that means simultaneously you can see it is having three connection. Okay, with calculate bonus, uh calculate yearly salary and project evaluation. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to do the same thing.

First of all, I'm going to add this start with calculate yearly salary. Then I'm going to add with my calculate bonus. Then I'm going to add with project evaluation. Okay, I'm going to add with project evaluation. Now just try to um relate you can see start is connected with yearly salary calculate bonus and project evaluation.

Okay. So these are the connection I have already made. You can see these are the connection I have already made. Now this connection is complete. Now I have to build this connection.

Okay. That means now um calculate bonus is connected to the summary. Yearly salary also connected to the summary. Project evaluation is also connected to the summary. Okay.

That means I have to build this connection. Now let's do that. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to write uh calculate yearly salary it is connected to summary calculate yearly salary it is connected to summary okay then calculate bonus it is also connected to the summary and uh project evaluation this is also connected to the summary okay project evaluation this is also connected to the summary and summary is connected to the end now let's add another edge H summary is connected to the end. Now just try to relate. Okay, just trust me if you can understand this one just the age connection at the node creation you can build any kinds of workflow inside langraph.

Okay, any kinds of workflow you can create. So I hope guys you got it. Okay, I hope guys you got it how we have made this connection. Okay, and this is a independent connection. This is a independent connection.

Nobody uh I mean none of the nodes is dependent on another nodes. Okay. So that's why we call it as a parallel workflow. Now let me show you for this. First of all we have to compile the workflow.

Let's compile. Okay. Now I'll compile the workflow. Now you can just see the workflow graph. See if you're using uh this Jupyter notebook you don't need to write uh this extra code for that.

uh I think in the recent update u they have uh automatically done this one in the cell itself. So previously I used this code to draw this graph but right now you don't need to do that. If you just print this workflow you'll automatically see this particular uh graph. Okay. Now see guys this is the graph and this is our parallel um parallel workflow we have created.

Now just try to relate this graph. Okay. Now you can see start and it is connected with all of the nodes independently connected. Then whatever um result we are getting we are just returning the summary and we're ending the graph. Okay.

So this is the parallel workflow. Now let's try to execute. So what I'm going to do I'm going to uh initialize my initial state and what should be the initial state. These are the uh state should be the initial one because we'll be taking these are the data from the user. So let's define that.

So this is our initial state. You can see I'm taking the employee name. Um then monthly salary. So I'm going to take my name. Let's say I'm the employee.

This is the monthly salary. This is the working days. And this is the completed project. Okay. Now we'll just try to run this workflow.

Run the workflow. So we're just running this workflow dot invok. We are giving the initial state and we're getting the result. Now execute. Okay.

Now see guys here we are getting one output. The output is add key employee name can receive only one value per step. Use an annotated key to handle multiple uh value. Now you can ask me why we are getting the error. Okay, why we are getting this error?

Because everything is fine so far, right? Everything is fine so far. But why we're getting the error? See the reason I showed you this error? Actually, I could have fixed it previously, but I showed you this error so that you can relate the difference between the sequential workflow and uh this um this uh parallel workflow.

Okay, if you can understand this, I think you won't be having any kinds of problem. See what is happening. If I show you my workflow again, so this is my workflow. See here we created the state, right? We created this state and we are passing the state to the all of these nodes.

But if you just observe uh if you just deeply observe what is happening whenever we are passing this uh state uh to all of the nodes what is happening to calculate the bonus what I'm using okay to calculate the bonus what I'm using I'm using this uh initial state that means whatever data user is passing I'm I'm using that so to calculate this I think I was using this um monthly salary only right I was using the monthly salary and I was updating this value wire in this particular section that means this boner bonus amount variable would be changed okay after running this state this particular variable would be changed I'm not changing these are the variable right that means the monthly salary is remain same I'm not changing it anywhere that means the employee name I'm also not changing working days also I'm not changing completed project also I'm not changing right I'm only changing these are the variable here but these are the variable remains same common right so wherever you are passing the state everywhere it is updating here only not here okay so that's why in parallel workflow whenever you are giving this simultaneously to all of the nodes okay so this nodes uh actually conflicts each other conflicts each other means there is no update so it conflicts like uh whether the value we are getting here this is correct for this nodes or not whether the value we are getting here this is correct correct for these nodes or not. Okay, that means it conflicts inside because we are returning the entire state. Here you can see we are returning the entire state. Although we are not updating this at the state but still we are returning the entire state that means the entire state will go to the another node. Okay, that means the entire state will go to the another node.

Although we are not doing any kinds of update but we are returning the state. Okay, it's not recommended. So whenever you are creating the parallel workflow you have to make sure only the update you are doing inside the variable that particular variable or that particular state you have to return only okay let's say in this case let me just give you an example let's say in this case we are only calculating what we are only calculating the yearly salary so instead of returning all the state together what I'm going to do only I'm going to return the yearly salary okay because this is a parallel one I don't need to like wait for my employee name monthly salary these are the things right whatever update I'm just doing I'll just only try to return that so instead of uh this uh update what I'm going to do guys I'm going to only return I'm going to only return uh yearly salary see I'm going to only return the yearly salary we have calculated we are only returning that because at the end uh this is this is a dictionary. Okay, this this nodes returns a dictionary. Okay, we have to return a dictionary somehow.

Now I don't need to give this time type time type time type time type time type time type time type time type time type time type time type int. Okay, this is not required because we are not returning the entire employee state. Okay, now I'm going to just remove it. So only it will take the state and whatever update it will do inside the state and that state will only return not any other state. Okay, not any other state only the updated one it will return.

So for this I'll uh update for all the nodes I have done. So let's say here uh I was uh updating the bonus amount. So I'll only return the bonus amount and this thing is not required. Okay. Now for this project evaluation also I'll do the same thing.

Return the project status. This thing is not required. Now for summary also we'll do the same thing. This is not required. Okay.

So let me check everything is fine or not. Yeah, everything is fine. Now let me execute from the beginning. Now our workflow is created. Now we'll uh now we'll just try to invoke this workflow.

Now see it's working. Now if I print the result see we are getting the final result. So this is the employee name, monthly salary, working days, completed project, yearly salary. So see we got the calculated yearly salary. Then bonus amount project status excellent because the completed project is seven and our logic was if it is more than five right more than an equal five that means it is excellent you are getting the excellent here and here's the summary but summary is giving a function so let me check okay so this should be summary text I'm just returning the function only right the nodes only so this should be a um this this variable.

Now I think this should work. H now we are getting the summary. Employee BP has yearly salary of that amount. Bonus uh bonus is that amount and project status is excellent. Okay.

So this is our uh uh parallel workflow guys we have created and I hope you understood. Okay. Okay, I hope you understood and uh this particular concept also you understood why we don't need to return the entire state inside parallel workflow. If you're creating the sequential workflow, it's completely fine. You can return the entire state that time.

Okay, you can return the entire state that time. But whenever you are creating the parallel workflow, make sure only the state you are changing, just try to uh return those state only. Okay, not the entire state. Okay, you don't need to do like that because uh internally it will do the conflict operation because we can't pass simultaneously to all of the nodes the same state. Okay, this is not possible.

So in every state that should be that should uh should be updated. Okay, state should be updated. But here you can see it is not getting updated. Okay, after going to the every state, every nodes it is not going to be updated. Okay, that's why this is going to be conflicted.

So we have to update it somehow. So that's why we only are returning these are the state which is getting updated. Get it? Yeah. So this is the concept guys and this is our first non nonLM based workflow we have created and this is the parallel workflow.

It is executing as parallel. Okay. Now we'll try to create another workflow. Uh we'll use the LLM and we'll call as a LM parallel workflow. Now let's try to see how we can uh create this LLM based parallel workflow guys.

So guys, so far we have created uh this nonLM based parallel workflow. Uh we have already seen the example how it can be done. Now I'm going to show you how we can create LLM based parallel workflow. Now we'll try to integrate LLM with that. And for this example uh I'm going to take uh this particular demo called SA workflow.

So I think you remember uh in my introductory session whenever I was giving you the introduction about the langraph I used one example called essay okay essay writing example so there there I created a system I created a workflow that workflow takes an essay as an input and it does uh the evaluation based on some parameter like uh it checks the um it uh depth analysis then language uh evaluation then uh um like research of thought evaluation. Okay, based on that uh it returns you uh some kinds of feedback as well as the score and we get the final evaluation then we conclude that right. So these kinds of things I think I uh already discussed about my uh this session. Okay. Uh this is the number seven video I have already discussed.

You can go through that uh if you want to understand about that particular workflow. But again I'm going to um show you the workflow here. I already created the workflow. I'm going to discuss it here. And uh you can also see what is essay.

Essay is a like uh it's a short non-frictional piece of writing that presents a specific argument analysis or personal point of view on a particular subject. Okay. So basically whenever you um attend any kinds of uh let's say uh exams or you if you are studying in a university any kinds of university that uh so these are the essay writing you will be getting there. Okay. So this is a kinds of research topic you can talk about.

So what I'm going to do I'm going to take this same example uh here to make you understand this LM based workflow because here we'll be utilizing the LLM to analyze is the essay right and we'll also do the marking and all. So this is the workflow. This is the graph guys. Uh we we I have created as you can see start and end nodes would be common and these are the nodes we'll be creating. Uh evaluate analysis nodes.

That means uh whatever essay topic will be giving right. Uh essay will be giving it will try to evaluate the analysis whether the analysis section is good or not. It will evaluate and it will give you two things. Okay. This is this will give you two things.

Uh just let me write down what I can do. I can take a screenshot. I can take a screenshot and I'll open up my board. So now let me tell you so let's say you are giving a essay here. You are giving a essay here.

Okay. That that means the entire essay essay text you are giving. So basically first of all we'll be running this uh evaluate analysis. So this evaluate analysis will try to analyze the entire essay. It will this it will give you two things.

The first one is the uh feedback. Okay feedback feedback of the essay and second one is the score. This will give you a score. Uh let's out of 10 it will give you some kinds of score. Then next nodes we have writing for the evaluate language.

Let's say you are using English language, right? So, how is your grammatical uh let's say uh I mean uh grammatical arrangement or if you are following the right grammaticals structure or not and uh what is the words you are using. So this kinds of language related evaluation will perform then again this will give you a feedback. Okay. And this will also give you a score out of 10 right then we'll just perform another analysis.

This is the like uh uh thought analysis. Thought analysis means the thought thought of on top of this essay. Okay. Uh so here this will also give you a feedback and the score. Okay.

That means every nodes we are getting two two things feedback score. Feedback is score feedback is score. Okay. Then we'll pass this feedback score uh uh feedback and score all of the feedback and score from all of the nodes. Let's say this is node one, this is node two, this is node three to another nodes called final evaluator.

So that means this will evaluate based on all of the feedback. Let's say this is feedback one, this is feedback two, this is feedback three. So it will take all of the feedback then it will give you the final feedback. Final feedback, okay, or evaluation. Then it will take all of this code, okay?

All of this code. And this will return you the average score of that. Okay, average final score of that. Okay, so this is how actually we'll be uh implementing this particular essay. Then once it is done, we'll try to end this particular uh end this particular but um graph.

Okay, now if I get back to my workflow, I think now you are getting right and to make this workflow I need these state. Okay, I already prepared the state as you can see. I need this state. I named it as assay state and I inherited with type dict and first of all I need to take the essay and essay should be string right this is a variable then language feedback that means uh here so evaluate uh language this will basically do the language uh language evaluation and whatever feedback we'll be getting we'll try to save inside language feedback then it will also give you uh this will also give you um another score right uh that means the uh language score so instead of storing inside a single var variable. So what I'm doing?

So here you can see I have taken another variable called individual score. Okay. And here I use this annotated list integer operator add. So I think you can call this uh call this concept right. So this is called actually reducer.

I already talked about the reducer here uh in my um demo whenever I was explaining about the langraph core component there I talked about the reducer. So if you haven't watched that video guys please try to watch because this is important without that actually you won't be able to understand what is reducer exactly. So reducer uh will help us to uh replace add and merge the uh like data inside the state. So uh by default it will replace everything. I think so far whatever state we have created it was replacing every time right but as you can see from each and every nodes from each and every nodes we are getting some score.

Okay, let's say if I'm only taking one let's say score variable. So what will happen? So whenever I'll get this score from here, let's say I got 12 uh sorry I got let's say 8. Then from this particular nodes I'm I get another score from this particular node I get another score. Let's say this is 8.5.

So what I will do this 8.5 8 would be replaced by 8.5. So that means I will lose my previous score of that evaluate analysis. Right?

Then let's say this this node has generated another one. Okay, let's say 9.5. So again, it will replace by 9.5.

So I lose my previous like uh score, right? But I need all of this code to make the average. So I need this score as well. I need this score as well. I need this score as well.

That means I need to keep inside a dictionary. Let's say the first score I'm getting eight. Second score I'm getting 8.5. The third score I'm getting 9.5.

I'll store all of the score from all of the nodes. Okay, inside a list. Then I'm going to create a average of that particular score. And this is going to be my final evaluation. Okay.

And for this we are using this operator do add here. Okay. You can see we are using operator do add here. And we are using annotated. Okay.

I think you know what is annotated. Whenever I want to use reducer, right? I have to use this annotated. And here we are mentioning that should be a list of integer. Okay.

There should be a list of integer. That means I want to uh I want to uh let's say store uh store list of integer here. So here I have taken a float value but you can consider I want to uh you can also like give it as float value here. Let's say sometimes uh score should be also um float value 8.5 7.5

but I told I need only integer type uh like feedback okay integer type score. So that's why given list of integer and operator dot add that means I want to perform reducer reducer what operation add operation that means instead of replacing it will every time add all of the score so whatever score I'm going going to get from my evaluator analysis I'll store it here okay apart apart from the feedback then from evaluator language also I'm going to add the score from uh evaluate thoughts whatever feedback score I'm getting I will also try to add there okay so that's how you can see for all of the nodes I have indiv individual variable. So you can see language feedback I have one variable then evaluate of thought that means uh uh this one clarity feedback okay uh this is uh clarity of thought you can consider and the full name is clarity of thought we have taken a variable called clarity feedback so basically this feedback will store here then we have evaluator analysis that means the analysis feedback it will store here okay that means language analysis then evaluate thoughts. Okay, clarity of thoughts. Then the overall feedback.

That means from final evolution also we are getting a feedback. From final evaluation also we are getting a feedback. So this feedback will store inside overall feedback. Okay. And final evalution will give you another uh score which is average score.

And for average score we have kept another separate variable called average score. And this should be a float value. Okay. And for individual uh score we are getting we are storing inside this particular list. Okay, individual score this should be a list and we are performing the reducer add operation.

Okay, now I think you got it how we created this particular state. Okay, how we created this particular state. Now I think this is pretty much clear guys and to understand this reducer concept I will suggest you go through this uh recording. Okay, lang core component you will try to understand okay how reducer works. So yeah, I think our uh uh our uh state is ready.

Everything is ready. Now we can start working on that. But one more issue we'll be having which is this u uh output format. Okay, that means I need a structure output from my LLM. That means every nodes will return feedback and score feedback and score feedback and score.

And we are using LLM and you know LLM is unstructured uh uh data generator. Okay, we won't be getting this kinds of feedback score every time. Let's say if you're adding by the prompt I need a feedback and score only let's say it will run five times maybe in six times it will give you some other parameter as well that time your code will crash right so to make our output stack chart so I taught you about uh I already taught you about this pyantic right so you can see pyantic for AI agents I've already taken a class on that so you just need to go through this pantic because we'll be using pentipic concept to get the structured output from my lm Okay. Now let's try to show you how it can be done. So what I'm going to do here I'm going to create another um another file.

So I'm going to name it as pipe as a workflow. I'm going to select my environment. So first of all I will import all of the necessary library. So I need this state graph start end okay from lang graph. Then I also need openi model because here I'm going to use llm and for lm I'm going to use openi model.

You can use any model. Okay it's up to you. You can use gemini gro provider any kinds of model you can use. But I already have the open API key yesterday. I already collect uh collected.

I think remember okay that's why I'm using that then uh okay I'm going to close this then I need this uh load env to load my involvement variable because inside environment variable I I have my API key then I need um these are the these are the import as well from typing I'm importing this type dict and annotated why annotated because you know that uh to make this reducer Okay, I need this annotated. Okay, annotated is required. Uh and it is available inside this typing. We are importing annotated and we are using pientic. So from pientic we are importing base model and field and you have to install pientic for this.

Uh let me install pientic. Pentic I'll install this specific version of the piantic. Now let me uh activate my environment. Then let's install the requirements again. Okay.

Done. Now I'll come here. Now you can use this pi identic. So from identic I'm importing base model and field and what this base model field does guys I already discussed in this session please go through that okay I'm not going to repeat again so this session will give you the entire entire idea about pi identity okay why it is required and operator for this add operation that means for the reducer okay uh operation dot add operator do add we have to write it here so once it is done now let me import all of the package yeah so it's working fine now first of all we'll try to load put the involvement variable. Yeah.

Then we'll prepare the model. So here I'll take GPT4 mini. Okay. This model. This is our LM.

Now you can perform the invoke operation if you want directly. But if you perform the invoke operation right now, so what will happen? Uh this will uh give you unstructured output. But I need what? I need only this uh feedback and score.

Okay. Okay, I need feedback score uh from this uh model. Okay, whatever essay I'll give you um I'll I'll give to this uh model, it will give me feedback and score. So I have to make the structure. So how to make the structure?

For this we'll be using the pyic. So here I have created one pentic class. So this is the pentic class. So the name of the pyic class is evaluation schema. Uh and we are inheriting with the base model.

Okay, the base model we have imported here, we have inherited and here is the pentic syntax. Okay, this syntax I already taught you in that session. So this should be uh string and this should be integer and here I have given the field. So in the field I'm telling detail feedback for for the essay and for score I've given a description score out of 10. uh so this is the greater than and this is the lesser than okay greater than zero and lesser than 10 so this should be the score so this that's how you can make the structured output from any kinds of given lm okay now uh to make the structured uh model what I'm going to do simply I'm going to just add this uh add the schema to the model so for this you have to call the model dot with structure output there is a function function called with structured output I think with structured output inside that you have to pass this class okay this pentic class now this will set um uh into the model that means whenever you will generate any kinds of output this will have two things one is the feedback is the score okay now I'll store inside another variable called structured model now this is going to be my structured model object okay now every time I'm call this I'm going to call this model.

Okay, not this model. This model will give you unstructured output, but this model will give you the structured output. Okay, now let me execute and see whether everything is fine or not. H now if you want to test guys, so maybe I can show you. So I'll give a essay here.

So this is one essay I generated from chart GPT. You can see this is essay I generated from chart GPT Europe in the age of AI, the regulatory super power. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to pass this asset to this structured model with a prompt. So this is the prompt uh I have written. Evaluate the language quality of the following essay and provide a feedback and assign a score out of 10.

Okay, I'm giving the essay text here and right now I'm calling the structured model, not the model only. Okay, structured model.invoke and I'm passing the prompt. Now this will give you the result. Okay, result I stored inside result variable.

Now let's execute. Yeah. Now if I print this result, you'll see that it will have two parameter. One is the feedback. Okay.

Feedback of the essay and another one is the score. Okay, see I got this code. You can also extract it if you want. So you just simply need to write result dot feedback. Okay, you'll get the feedback and if you want this code, you can call result.core.

Okay, this this code you got. I hope you got it guys. Okay, that's with the pyic you can um you can get the structured output from any large than case model. Okay, this is very much important. Now we'll try to start writing our uh this workflow.

Now first of all let's prepare this state. So already state is given. I'm going to just replicate the same state here. So this is our state essay state. So we giving the essay language feedback test analysis feedback clarity of clarity feedback overall feedback individual scores and this is uh reducer uh reducer concept you're using.

Basically this should be a list of score. Okay. and it will add every time and the average score. Now let's initialize that. Now we'll write our our graph.

Let's prepare the graph. Yeah. So we have given this state to this graph. Okay. Now we'll try to add the nodes.

So first of all I will add this node, this node, this node. Okay. And the final evalation node. Total four nodes I have to add. Let's add it.

Um I have already prepared all of the node add node. So yeah you can see we're adding the nodes. First of all we're adding the evaluation evaluate language. Okay evaluate language this node. Then we are adding evaluate analysis this node.

Then we are giving evaluate thoughts this node. Okay. Then last final evaluation. final evalation. Okay, my node is done.

Now we have to uh create these are the Python function one by one. Let's create quickly. So here I'm going to just create it quickly. First of all I'm going to create this function evaluate language. So I already created let me show you.

Yeah. So evalute language this will take this state as an input and here you can see uh I'm using llm and for this I prepared a prompt. So here I'm telling evaluate the language quality of the following essay and provide a feedback and assign a score out of 10 and we're giving the state uh sorry essay from the state. Okay and we are calling this structured model that means the structured model we have prepared here this model. Okay, instead of this model, so structured model, so this model will give you two things.

One is the feedback, one is the score. So the feedback we're storing inside language feedback. That means this particular variable because we are evaluating the language here. That's why feedback will go to the language feedback. And the score we are getting we are storing inside individual score and this is um like uh reducer type that means we are adding inside a list.

So that's why you can see individual score output score. Okay, that means the first code will save here. That means let's say uh what I'm going to do see that means um from here uh evaluate language right I think it is evaluate language uh evaluate language so that means we are executing this note so this node will give you two things one is the feedback one is the score okay so feedback I already stored inside my feedback um feedback um uh feedback state that means here language feedback now score okay score what I'm doing because I created an individual feedback variable okay uh so here let me show you maybe I can take a screenshot so Here you remember I created this individual score variable. So basically this is a list. Okay.

This should be a list. This should be a list. Okay. And we added our first score which is this uh evaluate language. Let's say it has given you eight.

Okay. Then there would be a comma done. Okay. Now I will write for the next nodes which is evaluate analysis. Okay.

because I already executed uh I already created this node evaluate language this will give you feedback and it's code I already got it and instead of returning all the state we are returning the updated one only because in my previous example I showed you if you're creating parallel workflow you don't need to return the entire state instead of that only you just you just need to return the updated state okay otherwise there would be a conflict problem okay yeah so now let me define this node now once it is done I'll define Find the next note which is the depth of analysis. Evaluate analysis. This will take the state and here we are giving the prompt again. Evaluate the depth of analysis of the following essay and provide a feedback and assign a score out of 10. And we are giving the essay and this will uh pass to the structured model.

This will give you two things. One is the feedback. So this feedback I'm storing inside analysis feedback. that means here in this particular variable and it is giving you the individual score and we are uh storing this uh score in the individual score that means here okay this is a list so like let's say this has given you uh again eight okay this will store here okay that's how we are storing now this is also done now we'll write for the next one which is clarity of thought analysis is evaluate clarity clarity of thought. Again, this will take the state as an input.

We are defining the prompt. Evaluate the clarity of the thought of the following essay and provide a feedback analysis and assign a score out of 10. Okay, we're giving the essay and we are passing it to the structured model and this will give you two things. One is the feedback. So feedback I'm storing inside clarity feedback in this uh variable and the score we are getting we're storing inside individual score.

Okay, that means here then again it will get give you another score. Let's say you got uh nine here. Okay, so that's how your individual score will form, right? And now we have all of the score from all of the nodes. Now we'll try to make the average one.

Okay, later on. Now it's done. You can see uh we are also returning uh these two things clarity of uh clarity feedback and individual scores and this will become my next node. Now we have to work on the uh final node which is final evaluation. Now let's also write that this is our final evaluation nodes.

Again this will take the state as an input and again we are preparing a prompt based on the following feedbacks. Uh create a summarized feedback. Okay. Now here we are passing all of the feedback one by one. That means this feedback, this feedback, this feedback.

Okay. This feedback, this feedback, this feedback. Three feedback we are giving. language feedback then depth of analysis feedback clarity of thought feedback and I'm just uh telling the model give me a overall feedback and right now I only need a feedback I know I don't need any kinds of score okay so that's why I'm using the original model instead of working on the structured model I'm now invoking the original model because I only need the feedback that's why I'm invoking on the original model I'm giving giving this prompt and whatever content it is generating I'm just storing inside overall feedback. Okay.

Now I have to calculate the average um average score. Okay. And how to calculate the average score? Because I already have the all of this score, right? All of this score as a list.

Now you can see from this state I'm extracting the individual score. Okay, individual score uh because this is a list. Okay. Now we are calculating the length of this uh uh uh like list and how many uh like let's say variable uh how many value we are having we are just doing the dividing operation. Okay first of all we are doing the sum operation you can see.

So how to calculate average? First of all you will do the sum operation. You will do the sum operation 8 + 8 + 9. Okay then you'll just try to divide with the number of uh item you have. Let's say we have three here.

Now whatever output you will be getting this is your average. Okay. So we are calculating the average like that. First of all we are summing all the value. Then we are dividing with length of the uh item we are having inside the list.

Then this is going to be your average score and we are returning the overall feedback and average score. So overall feedback we are storing inside this variable overall feedback and the average score we are storing this average. Okay average score here. That's it. Okay.

Now all of the function we have created. Now we have to add the nodes. Now let's try to refer this graph and add the nodes. Now see whenever you are adding the nodes first of all you can see start would be connected to the evaluate analysis evaluate language evaluate of thoughts. Let's add that addages.

Yeah. So you can see start is connected with evaluate language, evaluate analysis, evaluate thoughts, evaluate analysis, evaluate language, evaluate thoughts. Okay, that means these are the connection we have built. Now evaluate analysis is connected with final evaluation. Evaluate language is connected with uh final evaluation and evalu evaluate thought is connected to final evaluation.

Now I have to make this connection. Now let me do that. See evaluate language is connected to the final evaluation. Evaluate analysis is connected to the final evaluation. Evaluate at heart is connected to the final evaluation.

That means this connection is also done. Now final evaluation is connected to the end. Now final evaluation is connected to the end. Okay. Now we have to compile the graph.

Done. Now if you print the workflow. So that's how your workflow looks like. And now you can verify this workflow and this workflow. Okay.

These are same. Now I need to uh invoke this workflow. So for this let's prepare another essay. So I generated another ay from my chart GPT. So this is another essay.

I named it as ay 2. Okay. So this is in test state in the age of AI then infrastructure and capital super power. So I'm going to invoke it right now with my workflow. So let's do that.

So first of all here I have prepared the initial state and I have given my SA okay then we are involving the workflow and this will return you the result done now we'll print this result. See here you have all of the data. So this is the essay. This is the language feedback you got. This is the analysis feedback feedback you got.

This is the clarity feedback you got. This is the overall feedback you got. This is the individual scores for from all of the nodes. Okay. And this is the average score.

I hope you get it guys. See amazing right? So that's how we can create any kinds of LLM based parallel workflow. Uh now I think it is pretty much clear and the only things is that you have to understand the connection you have to understand this graph and the state. Okay the state you will be using here and when to use this u reducer when to use the pantic you have to understand uh by seeing the problem statement.

So here two things you have learned um I just used in this particular practical demo. One is the pientic how to use pientic to get the structured output. Okay. Then another one this reducer. So reducer we already uh saw right uh in the concept understanding now we practically applied this reducer as well.

Okay in the lang lang graph. So yes guys uh this is all about uh that's how we can create any kinds of parallel workflow. Now in the next video I'm going to teach you some other workflow like conditional, iterative. Okay, each and everything we'll try to discuss then we'll also implement some amazing uh practical project. Okay, agent project.

Okay, in our previous video I have already discussed about uh parallel workflows like how parallel workflow works and uh we already did the coding as well with the help of lang graph. Uh now let's try to understand this conditional workflows and this conditional workflows would be more interesting because if you have already uh let's say learned programming language you know that inside programming language we have something called a condition right so based on this a condition we uh handle any kinds of conditional based scenario so the same thing you can do inside langraph as well whenever you are having a workflow this is having some kinds of condition you can handle this kinds of scenario with the help of this conditional workflows. Okay. So, make sure you watch this video till the end. Don't miss anything.

And if you found this content useful, guys, please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like. Uh just uh hit the like guys because like is required if you like the session. So, uh it will be uh it will be reaching to all the people out there so that they can also find this kinds of content and please try to share this video with your friends and family. So, first of all, let me give you the idea about conditional workflows. Then I will also show you how we can code with the help of lang graph.

How we can implement this conditional workflow with the help of lang graph. So here also I'm going to uh take two kinds of example. I'm going to take the first example nonlm based conditional workflows. First of all I'm going to show you the nonlm based workflows. Then after that I'm also going to show you the lm based workflows.

Okay. Both we're going to cover here. So if you see here um this is the conditional workflows guys. So this is uh similar to the uh parallel workflows. I think you already studied about parallel workflows.

Okay. So let me show you. So previously I already discussed about this parallel workflows, right? So in uh parallel workflows what happens if you give a task. So basically here we are having multiple nodes and all of the nodes would be executed independently.

That means it will execute uh it will be executed in parallel. Okay. Altogether it will be executing. Then whatever result I was getting, I was just aggregating and u showing the results. Okay.

But inside this conditional workflow, this is uh um little bit different. Let me show you. So inside conditional workflow, what will happen? See here also we are having multiple nodes. Okay.

Uh in parallel but these are actually condition. Okay. These are actually condition. That means let's say uh let's say whatever content we are sending. So first of all it will analyze that after doing the analyze it will perform a conditional statement that means if this content is good let's say it will approve that particular post if it is let's say uh if is let's say needs any human review that time it will send it to the human review okay and it if it is having any kinds of problem that time it will directly reject the post that means here you are checking the condition based on the condition you are executing one of the node.

Okay, you are not executing all of the node. You are only executing one of the node. Okay, let's say this node can be executed based on the condition or this note can be executed based on the condition or this node can be executed based based on the condition. Okay, based on that you are ending the entire graph. But here it's not like that.

Here you are executing all the node togethers. Okay, in parallel you are executing then you are aggregating the results and you are showing that. But here it's not like that. This is working as a a fields condition. Okay, so let me show you.

See here basically we'll just write a condition. Okay, let's say here the problem statement. First of all I'm going to show you u this is actually content moderation system. This is the nonlm based workflow. First of all I'm going to create then after that I'm also going to show you how to create the LMB based workflow.

So here basically we'll be creating a content moderation system for a social media platform. It processes a user text post and evaluate it for spam and conditionally allowed it to be published. Okay, published either flagged for the human review. If it is uh need any kinds of human review it will try to send to the human review or it will automatically reject that particular post. That means here we'll be uh basically deciding this kinds of statement based on the condition.

Okay, condition we'll first of all check the content. Whatever content user will post, whatever text user will post, we'll try to check that. Okay, before checking that we'll try to first of all format the post. Format the post means I will show a message. Okay, I will show a message like let's say this is the user he has posted this uh this this particular content.

After that we'll analyze that, right? Analyze that. So this analyze function will try to analyze whether this is uh this is uh this particular post I can directly post or not if it doesn't have any kinds of violation or not or either if user is completely new to my platform okay first of all I have to send this post for the review okay either if it is having any kinds of uh violation related post I'll just try to reject that particular post okay so this is the condition so basically here you are sending uh you are handling this kinds condition. If else condition, if else condition, okay, if else condition, if this uh post is fine, you are approving that. Okay, if it is uh uh like uh uh if it uh or if user is completely new user, okay, new user, you are sending for the human review or else you are rejecting the post.

that means there is there is a violation problem. Okay. So this is a conditional based workflow. Now I think you got it. What is the difference between this conditional workflows and the parallel workflows.

Okay. And to implement this workflows guys I need a state. So I already prepared the state. As you can see I named it as moderation state and I inherited with the type dict and here I have taken some of the variable. So the first one I have taken for the post content that means whatever text user will pass I'll try to save it here.

post content and this should be a string type data. Then uh user reputation. This is also userable pass. User reputation means either user is a uh registered user or he's the new user. Okay.

Let's say if user reputation is equal to is equal to let's say um let's say the user is uh the user is let's say trusted user. Okay. Trusted user means this is uh this user is already registered user. Okay. So that time I'll uh not send this post for the review.

Okay, this post uh won't be going for the review because the review I I will only learn uh I mean I will only execute whenever the user is completely new to my platform. Okay, so this this uh statement will uh store here and this is going to be also string type data. Then formatted post. So whatever content user will give give us first of all we'll try to format that particular post. Format means I will give a message.

Let's say um let's say user says this is the post. Okay, that that kind of like uh I'm going to just give a message then content flag. Content flag means u here is the content flag. Basically all of the condition whether this should be approved or whether this should be rejected or whether this should be uh flagged for the human review. Okay.

So these kinds of condition I'll try to save inside content flag and this is also going to be a string because here I'm going to store uh either approved either review either reject post okay that's why it's going to uh it's going to be string then result the final result okay final result means whether the post has been approved uh that mean uh it will give a message right let's say post automatically approved or post flagged for the human review or post or already rejected okay these kinds of methods I want to show at the last that's why I have taken another variable called result and this is also going to be a string. Okay, I hope you got it guys. Now let's try to code inside lang graph how we can uh create this graph how we can create this workflow. So I think you already get it. First of all I have to create some of the nodes.

Okay, this node, this node, this node, this node, this node. Okay, then I'll try to do the edge connection and I will show you how we can uh handle this kinds of conditional workflow as well with the help of this um this langraph. Okay, this can be also um discussed in this particular video. Now, let me create a file first of all here. So, I'm going to create a file.

I'm going to create a new file. I'm going to name it as six content moderation workflow. PY NB. Okay, this is a notebook file. So, I'll take a code cell and here also I'll take the kernel H.

So the first thing guys I have to import the necessary library and I I think you know that uh what are the library we need right so let's import so I need this uh uh state graph start end from lang graph graph and type date let's import them then after that we have to create this state right so the same state I'm going to create here so this is the state I have taken the post contain user reputation Then uh formatted post content flag and result. So first of all now I'm going to uh create the graph. Okay. Then after creating the graph we'll try to add all of the nodes. Now let's create the graph.

So graph is equal to state graph. Then I have given my state moderation state. Then after that we'll just try to add the nodes. add the nodes. Okay, first of all, I'm going to add my first nodes which is uh this one format post.

Let's add that format post and this function I have to write. Okay, this format post Python function I have to write separately. Then the next uh nodes I have to write this uh analyze content. Analyze content. Okay.

I have give given the same name. Then the next node I have to create approve post. Then next node I have to create flag for review. Then next po uh node I have to create this reject post. Okay.

Now let me check whether I have any node or not. No, it's completely fine. I have created all the nodes. Now we have to create all of these node one by one. So first of all let's create the format post.

Uh see inside formatted post I'm not going to do anything. This is the nonLM based workflow. So I'm going to just write a simple Python code here. So basically whatever um let's say user is passing input user is passing. Let's say user is passing post content and user reputation.

So I just created a formatted string here. So here I told user uh reputation. Okay that means let's say user is trusted user. So here trusted user will come. That means user trusted user says post content.

That means whatever post he's giving this particular post it will show here. Let's say user has given uh one post uh check out this amazing new product and buy now. Okay. So this will show here inside a uh this f string. Okay.

Then after that we are just returning this particular formatted post. Okay. Formatted because we created this formatted post and whatever formatted output we are generating right we'll just try to store in the formatted post string. Okay we are storing uh storing here and we're returning it. And why we are not returning the enter state guys?

Because in my previous uh previous video I already told you about right I whenever I created the parallel workflow that time I told you uh if you are having this kinds of scenario um that time don't use the entire state uh returning concept instead of that uh whatever state you are changing only just try to return those state okay this is a good practice okay instead of returning the whole one because here you are not changing inside that okay after the execution node execution you are not changing inside this particular variable you are only changing inside that right that's why don't return the entire state instead of whatever state you are uh changing only just try to return that okay I hope you got it so this is our first node we have created now let's create the next one called uh this analyze content okay now analyze content would be very simple uh see here I just written a simple condition so see here I'm giving my state And whatever post content we are having first of all we're doing the lower operation. Okay lower operation then after that we are checking the condition. So as you can see if spam in the content or buy now in the content. See here we are only considering uh this particular post would be rejected based on some like parameter whether it should be a spam whether it should be buy now. If user is giving this kinds of word in the text itself, I'm going to directly reject that particular content.

Okay? Because this is a condition I mean non-LM based one. So that's why I I just taken uh like manual verification. But whenever it would be LM based that time it would be more robust. Okay.

But just for your understanding I kept this particular easy example. So that's why I only considered two word. One is spam one is buy now. Okay. If it is present in the content I'm going to directly reject that particular content.

So flag would be rejected. If the state reputation if is equal to is equal to new user that means I told you if user reputation is equal to is equal to new user that means he is the completely new user on my platform first of all I'll review this particular post okay I'll send it for the review or else I'm going to approve the post let's say if it it doesn't have any kinds of spam content or it doesn't need any kinds of review that means this content is fine I'm going to approve that okay that's why in the s block the flag is equal to approved then whatever uh flag we are getting based on the condition we are just storing inside content flag okay here we are storing that and we are returning this particular state okay I hope you got it now the next one I have to create for this approved post okay approved post so this will basically return this approved message uh result is equal to post published successfully to the timeline and result is equal to result so we are storing inside result okay now we'll do it for the same uh for the flag review and reject post as well. Now here also I'm going to just return the message for flag for review post sent uh to the human moderation uh queue okay for the review and we are updating the result okay and here you can see uh we don't need to store all of the like uh result here because this is not required because this is a conditional workflow. So either one of the node would be executed it it should not be executed all of the node right like that okay so previously it was executing all of the node and I was uh I was collecting all of the ratings okay and I was storing inside a list that's why I I uh I used actually reducer concept here but here reducer concept is not required because here either one of the node would be executed and I only need to save one particular result okay that's why this is completely uh string type okay I haven't taken any kinds of reducer type here. Okay, every time it will uh replace that.

Then the next one I have for the reject post. Reject post. So as you can see uh post automatically deleted due to the policy violation and we are updating the result. That's it. So let's execute this one.

Execute this one. And I'll execute this one also. Execute this one. Okay. Once it is done, now uh I have to I have to um do the age connection.

Okay. So first of all, let's do the age connection. Then I will show you how we can uh handle the conditional scenario. So here let's try to do the age connection. Add the edges.

So first of all you can see the age connection would be start to formatted post. Okay, let's try to do that. Start to formatted post. Okay, then the next one, formatted post to analyze content. Formatted post to analyze content.

Okay. Then after that uh what we have uh we have um we have uh this connection. Okay. But this connection will build up um based on the condition either uh analyze content will return uh this particular output to the approved post or flag review post or rejected post. Okay.

Now this conditional statement will come come into picture. Okay. Now this conditional statement will come into picture. So let's say if I'm not adding the condition if I'm directly just let's say this these nodes are not there. I'm directly just adding this um analyze content to the end.

Analyze content to the end. Analyze content to the and okay. Now if I compile the graph and if I show you the workflow again not okay uh there should not be any quotation that's why it's coming the error now if execute this workflow is created now if I show you the workflow now see the workflow look Next lab. So this is the workflow right now. Okay.

But I created the nodes already, right? So if I let's say um comment is at the node. Now if I execute, see this will look like that. So start formatted post then analyze content and end. Okay.

Uh let's say these are the nodes are not there. Okay. But now I have to create this node because uh I have to handle the condition statement. Now let's uh uncomment that. Now here I'll just try to add the condition.

Now I'll remove this one. Okay. Now here only you have to add the condition. Now see if you want to add a condition. Okay.

If you want to add a condition, so you have to use this function add conditional age. Okay. There is a function inside graph called add conditional edge. inside that you have to you have to give a uh you have to give a function object okay condition function object okay condition function object and you have to provide from where to it will go to the conditional function let's say you can see condition will start after this analyze content okay so here I'll just write analyze content okay analyze content Yeah. Now from analyze content it will either go to the it will either go to the approved post flag for review or rejected post.

Okay. Now I have to write this conditional function. Now separately I have to create another function. Let me show you the function. So this is the function guys.

Okay. This is the function. Now we have to import this literal. Okay. Literal from this typing.

Okay. Now see whenever you are writing any kinds of condition this code would be common. See I have named this function as check condition and it will also take this state okay and it will return uh it will return the nodes. Okay you can see we are giving the nodes name analyze content approved. Okay sorry approved post flag for review and reject post.

That means these are the node approve post flag for review reject post. Okay, because these are my node name, right? So this function basically what happens? See this function takes this state and it returns either one of this particular node. Okay, based on the condition.

Now let's try to see the condition. See if my state flag I already calculated the state flag guys here right if it is if it is uh let's say approved that means my approved post approved post node would be written that means this node would be written that means that time only this node would be executed not these are the nodes okay then if uh my content flag is equal to review that means only flag for review will be executed that means if my flag post is equal L2 is equal to uh let's say uh review that means this this particular node would be executed not these two nodes then if uh either none of them then rejected post post would be written that means if it is not approved post and flag for review then reject node would be executed okay neect node would be returned so this is the logic we have written here that's why we are using this literal literal means you can return the node object here okay you can return the node object Okay, that's why we have to give this particular syntax and this syntax uh basically uh recommended by langraph. If you check the langraph documentation, you will see that they have also uh given the same thing. Okay, so this is the condition function you have to write whenever you want to use this kinds of conditional edges. Okay, if you want to handle this kinds of conditional scenario that time you have to write this kinds of function.

Now this function object you have to just provide here. Okay, after this analyze content, you have to provide this kind uh this this function object check condition. That's it. Okay, now what will happen after analyze content? This particular uh connection would be either with this particular node or with this particular node or with this particular node.

Okay, but you don't know which one because it will check the condition based on the condition which condition will match it will go to that particular node. Okay, that's why we have written the condition. Okay, I hope you got it. Now this connection is also done. This connection is also done.

Now it will uh do the connection either one of them. Okay, now you have to make this kinds of connection. That means approve post will be connected to the end. Flag for review will connect to the end and reject post will also connect to the end. Okay, now let's do uh do this connection.

So here I will just do the connection. So this is the connection. You can see approved post is connected to the end. Then flag for review which is also connected to the end. Okay.

Then uh reject post will be also connected to the end. Then we are compiling the graph. Now if I execute the graph uh okay check condition is not defined because I have to execute this function. Uh lit is not defined. Okay sorry I have to also import it first of all.

Then I will execute. Then I will compile the graph. After that now let me show you the workflow. Now see guys this workflow and this workflow is same. Okay I hope you got it guys how we are handling this kinds of conditional scenario.

Okay, I know I hope you already got it right. Only the change is that you have to use this kind use this function add conditional edges and this add conditional ages takes the uh previous connection. Okay, previous connection and it takes the condition uh condition function because condition function will decide uh after that which node should be connected. Okay, either approved post, either flag post, either rejected post. Okay, but it should not be executed all together.

It would be only executed either one of them based on the condition. This is what we have done guys. Now let me check this workflow. So I'll invoke this workflow. First of all, let's define initial state.

So this is our initial state. So first of all, I've given the post content. Check out this amazing new product and buy now. And then I've given the user reputation. Let's say this is the trusted user already registered user.

Then we're invoking the workflow and this workflow will give me a result result. Okay. Now if I print this result now see guys this is the post user has given user reputation is trusted user and we are formatting that particular uh post. So you can see user trusted user says check this amazing product buy now. Content flag is rejected.

Okay. Why it is rejected? because it is having buy now and we already did the condition check here uh buy now by now here. So if uh buy now is present in the content it would be rejected. Okay.

So that's why uh you can see content flag is rejected and result is also post automatically deleted due to the policy violation. Okay. Now let's say here I'm not giving this by now. By now I will remove it. Now if I execute the workflow again.

Now see uh right now it is approved because it doesn't have any kinds of violation. Uh again user is trusted user so it doesn't need any kinds of approval. Okay. Uh it doesn't need any kinds of review that's why directly approved and post published successfully. Okay.

Now let's say user is new user. New user. Okay. Now see although this uh um I mean content is fine but still it will uh okay I have to execute then result huh so although see although this uh content is fine but still it is waiting for the review because I have to first of all check the user because this is uh he is not registered in my platform that's why it is uh going for the review and you can see post sent to the human moderation P okay I hope you got it That's how this conditional workflow is working. Okay, that's how this conditional uh conditional workflow is working.

So whatever message you are giving based on that it is first of all checking the condition. Okay, after checking the condition it is executing either one of this particular node. Okay, not all the nodes altogether. I hope you got it guys. So this is what our nonLM based workflow.

Now let's try to discuss the LM based workflow as well. So guys, so far we have seen the nonLM based workflow, conditional workflows and I showed you how it works, right? How we can handle the conditional scenario. Now let's try to learn the LLM based conditional workflows. Okay, now we'll be uh using large language model.

But previously I didn't use any kinds of large language model here. Okay, everything I handled manually. So see if I u um first of all explain the problem statement we're going to uh create here. So this is going to be a um review reply system. Review reply system means let's say here uh user will give a review.

Okay, user will give a review and what we have to do we have to uh give a reply to that particular review. Now review can be anything whether it should be a positive review, it should be a negative review. Let's say uh we are working we are working in a uh [clears throat] tech company right we are uh selling a product let's say we have created a software right so in that software uh uh let's say I I have uh made a subscription plan and some of the user have taken their subscription okay now definitely they will be using your product and uh based on the product actually they will uh give some kinds of uh like um I mean review right on on your product and uh as a let's say company owner what you have to do definitely you have to take take care about the um uh user review okay whatever user is giving the review uh you have to take care if they are giving the positive review that means it's completely fine your product is amazing okay you don't need to change inside your product but if they're getting some if they're giving some negative review that means if they're having some of the issue definitely you have to handle their issue right so you just think in that way so basically user will give a review. First of all, what we'll do is just try to check the sentiment of that review whether uh this is a positive review or whether this is a negative review. And whenever I want to do this uh sentiment uh check, right?

So definitely I have to use a large language model here. So here I'm I'll be using a large language model. And this large language model either will return the positive, either it will uh return the negative. That means this is also a structured output. And if I want to get the structured output guys, what I have to do?

I have to use the pientic. I already uh showed you in my previous lecture as well whenever I created that parallel workflow that time I also told you with the help of pientic uh you can uh get the structured output. Okay, you have to just create a schema and you have to provide the schema to the model and model will work in uh uh in that way and for this you have to learn the pyic and pyic video I already have in my playlist. Please try to check that. Okay.

So this particular node will return either positive or negative based on the review I will be using a large lang based model. Large lang based model will uh uh like uh analyze that uh analyze the sentiment and based on that it will give me positive either negative. Okay. If it is positive so see here your condition statement is working. If let's say this particular sentiment is positive that means I'll generate a positive response.

Okay positive reply to the customer. Okay. But if it is negative, if this review is negative, sentiment is negative. So again, I'm running another node called run diagnosis. Okay.

So what this run diagnosis will do? Basically I want to uh analyze this particular review uh in little more depth because I want to understand what is the uh what is the issue they are having. Okay. What is their main concern? I have to analyze that.

That's why I will be running another nodes called run diagnosis. So this run diagnosis will return three things. One is the issue type. First of all, it will return the issue type. What is the issue related?

Whether the issue is coming from UI uh UX okay or whether it is coming from performance or whether it is kinds of bugs or whether they need any kinds of support or any other things. Okay. I have to understand the issue type. Then I have to understand the tone whether they're angry, frustrated, disappointed or calm. Okay.

I have to understand the user. Then I have to understand their urgency. whether this urgency is low, medium or high. Okay, based on that definitely I have to uh take the actions. Okay, otherwise I can't sell my product anymore.

Right then once I got these are the let's say issue type based on that okay I will be generating a reply negative uh like reply to that particular user let's say I'll tell okay you are getting this kinds of UI related problem you you you are very angry okay and your urgency is high so definitely uh we'll our team will look into that immediately or if it is low uh so you just wait for 3 to two days I will look into that okay so this kinds of reply will try to generate Okay, I hope you got it this workflow. Uh now you can see here this is the workflow. This is a conditional workflow but we'll be solving with the help of llm. Okay, so we will be ling l we'll be using the lm uh two u uh two times here. So in this particular nodes and here also we'll be using the llm to run this diagnosis I need another llm.

Okay, with help of llm we'll try to generate these are the structure and again this should be a structured output. Okay. So every time whenever I run this nodes run diagnosis node LM will return three things issue type, tone and urgency again I have to use pientic for that. Okay. Pentic for that we'll be creating a schema and we'll generate this structure output.

Okay. So this is what we'll be implementing guys right now. And for this whatever state I need I already created the state as you can see I named it as review state inherited with type dict. So first of all whatever review user will give me I will store in the review and this should be a string and our this node will try to find the sentiment okay sentiment of the review. So either it would be a positive or negative.

You can either create it as a string. Either you can create it as a literal type. In literal type you can mention uh because this is a category right? Either it would be a positive or negative. It kinds of category.

So that's why we have taken this literal type. You can also take a string type. It will also work. Okay. I have taken literal type.

So positive and negative. Okay. Sentiment should be positive or negative. And uh diagnosis. So diagnosis will return three things.

That means uh tone type, tone and angry. Okay. So this this should this structure should be a dictionary type you can see this is the key this is the value this is the key this is the value right so that's why I have taken this should be a dictionary type and the response whatever response I'll try to generate whether I should I'll generate a positive response or negative response it will come here and this again this should be a string type okay I hope you got it now we can start coding inside lang graph guys okay so what I'll do guys I'll create another file here let's create another file I'm going to name it as Seven uh review workflow review workflow dot ip yv I'll take the code cell select the kernel fine so the first thing guys what I have to do I have to import all the necessary libraries so let's port and here we'll be using LLM. So again I'm going to use my uh open AI model. I already have the API key inside my env.

So you just also need to generate API key. Okay. You can either use any other model as well. It's completely fine. Uh yeah.

Then after that uh I need uh this uh typing type dict and literal from typing. Then I also need to load this env. For this I need this load env. And I also need to import the pi dantic. Okay, because I have to generate a structured output.

So pi dantic I need best model and field. So please try to see in my uh playlist guys this tutorial is already there. So here is the playlist guys complete aentici course and here is the pentic video. Please try to go ahead with this pyic you'll try to understand. Okay and previously I also discussed about this uh uh sequential workflow and parallel workflow.

Okay that this concept you have to also understand. Okay, if you're understanding this um uh conditional workflow because each of the workflow is uh something is like connected with each other that means if you can understand uh our workflow then you can relate with another workflow. Okay. So that's why this is required and the way I have structured this course course right step by step this is interconnected between so if you missed out the previous sessions so I think it would be a little bit confusing okay for the current session so that's why I'm telling you just try to go ahead with the previous session yeah so yeah so after that I'll first of all load the environment variable okay now let's initialize the model LLM model. So here I have taken GPT photo mini.

Yeah. Now I told you I have to generate this uh I have to create this uh structure. So yeah. So I told you this fine sentiment nodes will give you two things either positive or negative. Okay.

For this I'll create a a structured output and for run diagnosis node I'll create a structured output. That means it will generate three things. One is issue type, tone and urgency. Right? So for this let's try to write this pyic class.

So this is the first class I have written for the sentiment. Okay. So basically this will uh return two uh uh two things positive or negative based on the review. Okay. So this is going to be my first uh actually structured output from my LLM.

Okay. So maybe I can show you. So let's create a object of a model. Yeah. So let's say structured model uh is equal to model dot with structured output I have given the sentiment schema.

Now see if I show you the output. Let's say I have generated uh structured model. Now if I give any kinds of uh if I give any kinds of let's say prompt here let's say this is the prompt. What is the sentiment of the following review? This software is too good.

Okay. Now I'll give it to my model. Now see here I'm not using the direct model. I'm giving my structured model. Okay.

Now I'm doing the invok operation and I'm only getting the sentiment. Now see see positive it will either return positive or negative. Now let's say here I've give two bat. Now this will return me negative. Okay.

So this is the structured output and if you want to get this kinds of output you have to use the py okay schema for that. So the same thing I'll also write for my diagnosis uh node. So this is for my diagnosis node. Okay. So again I'm inheriting with the base model of the pentic and here I have written the issue type tone and urgency.

So this uh node will return this three thing issue type. Now here I have given some of the hint like I need uh issue type should be UIX performance bug support and others. Here I have given the field description the category of the issue mentioned in the review. Then tone, angry, frustrated, disappointed, clam, the emotion, tone expressed by the user. Urgency, low, medium, high.

How urgent to uh or critical the issue appears to be. Okay. So this thing I have discussed in my pentic uh uh class. Okay. So I already talked about what is this um literal, what is this field, what is the description, each and everything I have already discussed.

Okay. So this is another structured output we have created. Okay. Now you can also test for this you can create another uh another model. So let's say I have named this model as structured model to model uh uh with structured output and we are giving the diagnosis schema here and this is going to be my another object.

Okay. Okay. I'm getting an output. Okay. I have to execute this one.

Now I'll execute. Now see this is working. Now you can also give a prompt and you can uh you can uh basically uh do the analysis. Let's say uh now I'll call this model. Okay.

Uh structured model 2. Now I'm giving the same prompt. Now I want to see the uh output. Now see uh issue type is other tone is disappointed. U is medium.

Okay. So this is returning three things. Okay, I hope you got it. Now, uh what I'm going to do, I'm going to simply um um create the um state. Okay, now I have to prepare the state.

So, let's define the state, the same state. So, this is the state review state uh review, sentiment, uh diagnosis and uh response. It's done. Now, I'll define the nodes. Okay, I have given my state here.

Now add the nodes. So now see the node connection. Uh see the nodes how many nodes you are having. Find sentiment then you have positive response. You have brand diagnosis.

You have negative response. Okay these are the nodes. Let's add one by one. So these are the note find sentiment positive response run diagnosis and negative response. Okay.

Okay. Now I have to create these other function one by one. Okay. So let's create uh first of all I'll create find sentiment. So this is the function.

This is the note find sentiment. It will take the state and here I have given a prompt for the following review. Please uh find out the sentiment and here we are giving the review. Uh review is present inside our state. Okay.

And here we are getting the sentiment from the model and we are calling the structured model that means the first model and first model I think returns the only the sentiment whether positive or negative. Okay, we're getting the sentiment and we're updating the sentiment and we're returning this particular sentiment only. Okay, instead of returning the whole state then uh I'm going to write the next nodes which is uh positive response. Positive response. Okay.

So again it is taking the state and we are preparing the prompt. Write a warm thank you message in response uh uh to this review. So we are giving the review also kindly ask user to leave feedback on our website. Let's see that means if uh the review is completely positive other time I want to just give a thank you message to the user. Okay.

And I will tell also just please leave a feedback to the website. Then once it is done we are giving to the model and see we are not using any structured model here. we are giving the main model because why here I don't need any kinds of structured output because it will only generate some kinds of thank you message okay and I don't need any kinds of structured output that's why I'm giving the original model and whatever content it is returning I'm just uh saving inside my response okay done now next thing I have to create my diagnosis run diagnosis so this is the run diagnosis again it is taking the state and here I preparing the prompt diagnosis this negative review we are giving the review uh return issue type tone and urgency so we are executing this structure to model okay and basically this will return this three things and whenever we are getting we are updating my uh diagnosis you can see we're updating the diagnosis because diagnosis type is dictionary and this is also a dictionary type output okay we are doing that now once it is I'll do it for my next one. Uh negative response. Negative response.

So we are passing the state. Then uh we are taking the diagnosis. Okay. Then we are preparing the prompt. You are a supportive assistant.

You uh the user had a issue type then tone then urgency. Based on that just write a empa uh empathetic helpful resolution message. and we are involving the actual model and whatever response we are getting we are updating the response. Okay. So that's how we are getting all of the node one by one.

Now my node is ready. Now what I have to do guys I have to um make the age connection. Now let's do the edge connection. So add ages with condition H. So first [clears throat] of all the connection should be start to find sentiment.

Start to find sentiment. Okay, start to find sentiment then you have to uh take the conditional is right now because either it will go to the positive response either it will go to the uh run diagnosis. Okay. So here we'll just write the condition right now. Uh yeah so this is the conditional edges.

So see it will uh start from fun uh find sentiment and either it will connect to the positive either it will connect to the negative. So that's why we have taken the find sentiment. Now we have to write the check sentiment function. I think previous also we have created a conditional function right and this conditional function is return uh returning your notes based on the condition either it will return this note, this node or this node. Okay, we'll write the same thing here.

So let's write this function. Uh very simple function that's I told you this code would be common everywhere whenever you are using conditional based workflow. So see this is the function I have written check statement uh sentiment it will take the state and it will return the uh nodes either positive response node. Okay either positive response node either run diagnosis node that means this run diagnosis node. Okay, based on the condition now where I'll check the condition in the sentiment.

If the sentiment is positive, I'll return the positive node, positive response node. Okay, that means this node will be return or if it is negative, I'll return this run diagnosis node. That means this node would be written. Okay, I hope you got it guys. So that's why we have to give this particular function here.

Now this function will decide which node should be called. Okay, so once it is done, now let's say this connection is done. Okay, now this connection is done. Now I have to make the other connection. Now what will happen?

Uh this uh positive will connect to the end. Then run diagnosis will connect to the negative response and negative response will connect to the end. Okay. We'll try to make this connection right now. So this is the connection.

Yeah. So you can see positive response is connected to the end. Then run diagnosis will connected to the negative response. Okay. If let's say diagnosis run successfully, we got the issue type, tone and urgency, we'll connect to the negative.

We'll generate the negative response and negative response will connect it to the end. It is uh connected to the end. Okay, I hope you got the connection. Now let's uh define the workflow. Compile the workflow.

Compile the workflow. Now let's execute. Done. Now if I show you the workflow. So this is the workflow guys.

Now this workflow and this workflow is same. You can check uh find sentiment positive, run diagnosis negative and okay completely fine. Now let's uh invoke this workflow. So what I can do I can give a positive positive uh uh positive review first of all. So I will generate from chat JP.

I'll just tell generate a Write a positive review for a tech software in short. Okay. Now I'll copy this and what I'm going to do I'm going to add inside my initial state. So let me define my initial state. So in the review itself I'll try to write my Now let's invoke the workflow and this will give me the result.

Now I'll print the result. Now see this uh this is the review and the sentiment is positive and response is also positive. Their username thank you for your wonderful field uh uh here to that our software made such a positive. Okay, your kinds of word means a lot blah blah blah and also please uh give a review in inside our website. Okay, now let's give a negative response as well.

Now I'll generate another one. Now uh negative review. Now what I can do? I can copy the same code only. I'll just change this preview.

So I will invoke the result uh workflow and print the result. Okay, now we are getting the negative. You can see this uh sentiment is negative and diagnosis we got. Issue type is performance, tone is frustrated, urgency is high and this is the uh negative response we're writing. We are here to help you with the performance issue.

Hi user blah blah blah. Okay. So amazing that means it's working fine. Okay. And I think you got how we have created the entire workflow with the help of this conditional workflow.

Get it? So now I think you can create any kinds of conditional workflow either it is non LLM based or LM based it doesn't matter you can create it only you just need to understand this conditional connection okay if you understand this conditional connection then you will be able to create any kinds of conditional workflow. So guys in this video I'll be discussing about the last workflows uh inside langraph which is iterative workflows. So far I have discussed about uh sequential workflows, parallel workflows, conditional workflows. Okay, each and everything I have already covered.

If you haven't checked those videos, uh it is already available inside my playlist. Uh I have given the link in the description from there you can check it out. So uh this is going to be a very important and interesting workflows guys inside Langraph because with the help of iterative workflows you can perform the looping operation. So let's say whenever you are performing any task and uh if you feel like uh this uh task needs some more improvement you can continuously actually perform the looping operation with the help of this iterative workflows. So we'll try to understand this one.

So if you found my uh content useful guys and if you are really learning okay from this particular playlist uh I would like to request you please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like and please try to share this with your friends and family. So if you are supporting me guys if you are supporting my channel I'll be getting more motivation to bring this kinds of content. So if you uh see guys uh here is the iterative workflows we'll be discussing about. So previously I already discussed about all the workflows um I told you about uh inside langraph like sequential workflows you have understood the LLM non LLM based okay then I have discussed about the parallel workflows then I discussed about the conditional workflows okay now we'll try to understand this iterative workflows so you can see this is the uh iterative workflows graph I already created this particular graph so guys to make you understand this iterative workflows. I'm going to take one amazing example.

I'm going to take Facebook post generation example. So what happens? Let's say I want to post uh anything on my Facebook. Let's say I want to post uh any kinds of tech related uh content on my Facebook. So nowadays actually what will happen?

I'll be definitely using chat GPT or any other large language model let's say provider and I'll try to generate that content. Okay. And uh what I will do, I will uh um copy that and I will post on my Facebook. Okay. But it's not like that.

At the very first time, you will be getting the perfect post, right? Let's say you have given a prompt uh and it has generated something for the first uh time, right? It's not like that that should be 100% uh perfect and optimized for for you for your needs. So maybe you just need to do some little bit let's say change or you need some improvement you need some optimization. So again what you will do you will you will send it to the LLM and you will try to tell okay try to optimize it more.

Okay. So once you have let's say optimized another one again you will try to review that evaluate that if it is uh perfect for you then you will try to approve and you will post it over the Facebook. Okay. Otherwise you will uh again uh do the optimization. Okay.

So that's how let's say we usually generate any kinds of content from the LLM right. So why not we can uh create a automatic workflow. So this workflow will automatically generate u let's say u Facebook content u based on the topic you have provided. Then after that it will automatically evaluate that whether this content is perfect or not. Okay.

Let's say after doing the evaluation it found okay this is uh useful this is fine then it will approve. then you can post over the Facebook otherwise it will send it send it to the another let's say nodes and that nodes will try to do the optimization okay optimization it will optimize like um uh it will do some improvement then after that um again it will try to send it to the evaluator okay evaluate will again evaluate that if found let's say this content is fine then it will approve otherwise again it will try to send it to the optim optimizer then optimizer again it will optimize the content and it will again send it for the uh evaluation. Okay, so that's how this kind this particular loop will continuously run unless and until this content is approved. Okay, so this is called actually iterative workflows. So to make iterative workflows guys uh we are using um conditional workflows as well as you can see because here is the condition if uh this content is completely fine after doing the evaluation it will approve okay otherwise it will send it to the optimizer and optimizer will u like do the improvement and it will again send it to evaluator okay so here is the looping concept and this looping concept we call it as a iterative workflows inside lang graph.

Now we'll try to implement this particular workflows. Okay, inside lang graph and for this whatever uh uh state I need guys I already prepared the state as you can see this is the state I named it as post state and I inherited with the type dict. So first of all I have taken a variable called topic. So user will pass a topic. Okay for post generation let's say I have given a topic related uh let's say agentic AI.

So it will generate some kinds of post related agentic AI. Okay. So that uh let's say I'll send it to the generate llm. Right here we'll be using a llm. Then this uh uh this uh llm or let's say this node will generate the post.

Okay. Let's say this post I'm going to save inside this post variable. And this is also going to be string type data. Then after that we'll try to send it to the evaluator. Evaluator will also use a llm right large language model.

And it will evaluate that particular result. And it will send two things. One is the approved another is the needs improvement. Okay. If it is sending uh returning approved that that means this post is completely fine we can directly approve that and if it is sending needs improvement okay that time we'll try to send it to the optimizer okay and it will also give you some kinds of feedback okay let's say what should be the improvement it will also send it to the optimizer this feedback will try to save inside this particular uh variable then uh we'll also try to see the iteration iteration means let's say it has given this uh content to to the evaluator.

Evaluator tells okay uh this needs the improvement again it will send it to the optimizer. Optimizer will try to again generate a new uh or let's say optimize that particular post and it will again send it to the evaluator. That means one iteration is done. Then again it evaluator will try to check that again let's say it will tell it needs the improvement again it will try to send it to the optimizer. optimizer again it will improve that again we'll center the evaluator that that means iteration goes to that means how many loop it is performing we'll try to log that particular informations in this iteration variable okay and here we'll also set a maximum iteration let's say uh if you don't set this maximum iteration what what is the possibility let's say if you're using any very poor large language model that time let's say every time whatever content it will generate maybe your evaluator will not evaluate that or let's say approve that time this particular loop will continuously running.

Okay, we'll not get any final result. That's why we'll set a maximum iteration let's say four to five. So after four or five uh let's say iteration this particular loop will break and whatever content we got after four or five iteration that I will try to make it as final post. Okay, that's why this maximum iteration will also set. Then whatever let's say post we are generating whatever feedback we are getting okay from this evaluator will also try to save inside this particular variable as a history that's why we made it as post history and feedback history that means it will continuously add okay it will not replace it will continuously add so that that's why we'll be using reducer concept I think you know what is reducer inside lang graph you can see we're using annotated we are we have taken a list uh type data structure and we're using operation add That means every time it will add the post story and feedback story instead of replacing but here we are we haven't take any kinds of reducer it will continuously replace here okay I hope you got it then uh let's say once this uh uh improvement is done evaluator will uh let's say found this is useful or this is completely fine that time this would be approved and this loop would be break okay so this is what actually iterative workflows now we'll try to um we'll try to code inside lang graph then we'll try to understand uh the whole concept script.

Okay. Now for this what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to simply open up this uh iterative workflows.ipb file and let's select our kernel. So first of all we have to import the necessary library. So let's import.

So I'll import all of the necessary library. So you can see I'm importing the state graph start end. Then from typing I'm importing type dict literal and annotated. Then uh I'm using chat openi that means I'll be using openi large language model. You can use any kinds of large language model.

For this I have oneb file and I set my open key here already. Then uh I'm importing the system message and human message. Okay. Where we are importing the system message and human message because I want to give the prompt for each and every LLM. See you can see here we'll be using the LLM.

Here also we'll be using the LLM. For optimization also we'll be using the LLM. Okay. And every LLM I'll try to set a different different prompt. Let's say for generation one I will set uh generation related prompt.

For evaluator I'll set evaluation related prompt. For optimization I'll set optimization related prompt. Okay. So you can directly give the prompt as well but it is recommended to use this system message and human message function whenever you are giving the prompt. Okay.

This should be more optimized one. Then operator I need because I want to perform the reducer. I have to do the adding operation. Then env. So let's import all of them.

So as you can see execution is complete. Now we'll load our environment variable. Now uh we'll define all the large language model. So here you can see um yeah so I need uh three large language model. One is for generation, one is for evaluator, one is for optimization.

Okay. So what I'm going to do I'm going to make three object for three large language model. Uh see I'm going to use the same model only but I'm going to create uh three object. Okay because here I told you we'll be using three no three nodes okay differently. So whenever you are creating this kinds of project uh let's say uh in real time actual real project that time you have to select this large language model in such a way.

So let's say whatever model is very good for generation that time you can use that particular model. Let's say some model is very much good for evaluation that time you can take that particular model. Let's say some model is very much good for optimization you can take that particular model. Okay. So that's how we have to select in real time.

But right now we are only understanding the example that's why I have taken the same model but I created three object. Okay. One is for generator, evaluator and optimizer. Generator, evaluator and optimizer. Done.

Now next uh I'm going to uh I'm going to define the state. But before define the state I already told you uh here see this evaluator this evaluator nodes will return you two things. Okay one is the evaluation. Okay evaluation uh that means it should be approved or needs improvement. Okay these two things and another one is the feedback.

Okay, what should be the feedback for the optimization, right? So, it will generate two things. I don't need anything anything else apart from these two two things. One is the evaluation and another one is the feedback. So, if I want to get this kind of structured output, what I have to do?

I have to use the pidentic. I already told you previously I also uh I have also taken the same example. So, what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to just create a um pyic class. As you can see, I have created a pyic class. So here uh I have named it as post evaluation I'm inheriting with the pidentic based model and two things I have taken evaluation and feedback.

So in evaluation you can see this is the literal type it should be approved or need needs approved okay needs improvement and another one is the feedback that means it will generate some kinds of feedback for Facebook post that means if I now pass this thing to the u model that means if I add this line uh evaluator lm with structured output and if I pass this class this model will try to generate the structured output now so it will only give you evaluation and feedback not anything else okay now let Let me show you. So let's say I have defined this one. Now here I'm going to just generate a Facebook post from my chart GPT. Facebook post about presentic AI. Okay, I'll copy this and uh let's say here I can take a variable post.

Now inside that I'm going to paste this post. Okay. Now I'm going to send it to the the structured evaluation. Done. Now if I show you the result.

See this is giving you two things. One is the evaluation. You can also extract evaluation approved and the feedback. See this is the feedback for this particular post. Okay.

So that's how every time we'll be getting this structured output from this uh large language model. Okay. The evaluated large language model because we have used pyic um um uh data evaluation for that. Now what I'm going to do guys next I'm going to define the state. I'm going to define the same state I have taken here.

Um this is my state as you can see topic post evaluation feedback iteration max iteration post history and feedback history. So here I have uh added the reducer concept. So every time I'll try to add this uh two information instead of replacing. And these are the things I think you already got it right. Yeah.

H and why I've taken literal here because evaluation will only return two things approved or need needs approvement. Okay, these two category that's why I've taken literal type instead of string. So now I will um I will um add my nodes. Let's define the graph and add the nodes. Yeah.

So I have already defined the graph. You can see state graph. I have given this post state here. Now I'll add the node. Add node.

So how many nodes we are having? 1 2 3. Okay. Three nodes we are having. We'll add this three node all together.

Yeah. So these are three nodes. Generate post, evaluate post and optimize post. Okay. Generate, evaluate and optimize.

Now we'll write this function one by one. So first of all we'll just try to write this generate post function note. So this is the function guys I've already written as you can see uh generate post it will take the state and here is the prompt I have prepared. It's a detail prompt I created with the help of chart GPT and here we are using the system message and human message function whatever I have imported from here. Okay.

So as you can see this is the prompt. So system message I've given you are a funny and clever Facebook in influencer and human message write a short original and hilarious Facebook post on the topic whatever topic user will give and here I have assigned some rules do not use a question answer format maximum 500 characters okay and blah blah blah these are the things I have added now after that I'm just uh invoking my generator lm and whatever content I'm getting I'm just updating the response inside the post and post history I am also updating because simultaneously update two things one is the post and this is the post history both I will update right so here it will replace every time here it will add every time because here we're using reducer concept and we are returning this particular state okay instead of returning whole state we are only returning the state we are changing so this is our uh generate post um nodes we have created that means this node is complete now let's try to add the evaluator one generate is done now we'll try to create the evaluator one. So this is the evaluator one guys. Again um I named it as evaluate post and sending this state. And here is the prompt guys I have prepared.

Again I have given a sim uh system prompt. So this is the system prompt I have given. Okay. Now this is the human prompt. Evaluate the following Facebook post.

Uh we have given the post from the state and here are some criteria I have given. Based on that it will try to evaluate and it will return two things. One is the evaluation approved or need improvements. Another one is the feedback. Then we are uh invoking our structured evaluator LLM that means this one.

Okay, this one we are invoking this one instead of uh this one because here we have added the pentic class for the structured output. See and whatever evaluation result we are getting we are sending uh saving to the evaluator state evaluation state and feedback also uh I'm saving inside feedback and I'm also saving the feedback history because feedback history should be also updated. Okay. Yeah. So once it is done uh we are also returning the state.

Now let's execute. Done. Now we'll try to create the last one which is optimize post. So this is for the optimize post. Again we are passing the state and here is the prompt you are a punch uh a Facebook post or virality and humor based on the given feedback.

Then here is the human prompt I have given improve the Facebook post based on this feedback. We are giving the feedback. We're giving the topic as well as the original post. it uh my model has generated okay so based on the original post based on the feedback based on the topic it will optimize that uh post okay and it will rewrite that particular post and it will give it to you for this I'm hitting this uh optimizer lm and getting the response and we are updating the iteration here see here here we are updating the iteration like how many iteration it has to perform to give the final or let's say uh optimized version of the post okay every time this loop loop will execute and once let's say it found okay now this post is completely fine that time it will approve otherwise this loop would be continuously um running and how many times it will run for this we are just logging this iteration we are just adding one okay so this iteration value I'll give initially one okay u whenever I'll create the initial state and every time it will add the one how many time it will execute okay after that we are just returning the uh response okay that means the final post then the iteration okay then we are also uh saving this inside the post history and we are returning the state done guys okay now all of the nodes we have created successfully now we have to define the edge connection now let's do that so here I'll just try to comment add edges so first of all here we have to add the edges for this um start to generate Let's define start to generate. Then we have to define generate to evaluate.

Generate to evaluate. Okay. Now here conditional ages will come because evaluate either it will send it to the approved. Okay. It will directly uh to the approved otherwise it will send it to the optimizer.

Right? optimization. So here we'll be using using the conditional edges. So let's use the conditional edges here. So here we're using conditional edges.

So it will start from evaluate and evaluate will decide where to send whether it will approved or send it to the optimize. For this we have to write a conditional function. I think remember for conditional statement we write a conditional function separately. So this is the conditional function. So it will take the state and here we are checking the condition if my evaluation okay that means I already saved this evaluation inside my state right you remember right evaluation and what is the evaluation approved or needs improvement okay so here we are checking if this state is equal to uh state evaluation is equal to is equal to approved or state iteration is greater than equal state max iteration that means if let's say it has performed maximum iteration let's say we have given maximum iteration is equal to four let's say four time it has done the iteration and uh uh whenever it is running for the five time that time I think our condition is matching right because my highest uh highest iteration is maximum iteration is four but whenever it is going for five that means this particular loop will break right so that's how we are checking another condition if this iteration is equal to it is greater greater than equal to maximum iteration that time just return approved okay otherwise return needs approved so this will basically redirect take this particular route whether it will send it to the optimizer or for the approver.

Now we'll try to define this uh method here route evaluation. Route evaluation we'll write it here route evaluation. Okay H now here we'll be adding the iteration. Okay this that means the iterative workflows right now. Now now what will happen?

See, let's say this evaluator returns approved. That means this particular workflow will exit here because I got my final post. But if it doesn't got the approved, let's say it it sends needs improvement that time what will happen? It will send it to the optimizer. Okay, it will send it to the optimizer node and optimizer will optimize then again it will send it to the evaluation.

So these kinds of things if you want to write you have to give this statement inside conditional workflow only you have to write this you have to write this additional line see okay double comma I have given yeah now I think you can get see once this route evaluation returns approved okay that means it will end that particular workflow but if it return needs improvement that time it will execute the optimize node this optimize node Okay, optimize node. See, it is redirecting from here. If it needs improvement, it will hit the optimize node. Otherwise, it will hit the end note. See that?

That is what we are doing. And this is called actually your iterative workflows. So, here we are adding the iteration. Okay, this is called actually iteration. I hope you got it guys.

You don't need to take any kinds of separate function for this. Inside conditional is only you have to only write this statement. Okay, that means this route evaluation if it is returned the approved it will go to the end otherwise if it returns needs improvement it will um execute my optimize node and how many time it will perform unless and until we're not getting approved okay approved from my evaluator or this maximum iteration ends okay I hope you got it now our age connection is also done now simply what I'm going to do I'm going to um see this connection is this connection and uh this connection is done. Uh optimize to uh evaluate. Huh.

So this connection is done. Now we'll try to make this connection. Optimize to evaluate. So let's say once it is in the optimize. So optimize will try to connect to the evaluator.

That means optimize will send this optimization result to the evaluator. So this connection will try to add. So this is the connection. This is the connection. Okay.

Optimize to evaluator. Now we'll try to compile. Okay. Now we'll try we'll show you the workflow. So see this is the workflow.

Now this workflow and this workflow is exactly same. You can check it here. Okay. Now we'll try to execute this workflow. For this let's u define uh state let's say I have given the topic agentic AI let's say this is our topic and iteration initially I have sent it I have set it to the one because after that it will every time update um it will every time update one okay so uh whenever it needs any kinds of improvement optimization it will add one.

Okay, that means the iteration update and this is our maximum iteration. I want to uh perform this iteration maximum five time. Okay, if it is not found in five time that means this loop will execute. Then we are giving this uh initial state to my workflow and we are getting the result. Now let me execute.

Done. Now if I show you my result. So see this is the result we are getting. Uh as you can see uh this is the topic and this is the post it has generated. Evaluation is uh okay evaluation return approved.

See at the first iteration it it got approved. Okay. Then feedback. This is the feedback and uh you can see iteration is one. That means it didn't updated any iteration.

That means at the first time only it has approved. This is our maximum iteration and this is the post history and this is the feedback history. Okay. Now maybe you can change to another topic. Let's say I'll give uh LLM.

See here we are using openm right? That's why this LLM is very powerful. Uh at the very first time it is generating good post. Okay. That's why it is getting approved.

Okay. In the first iteration only. Now let me give any other topic or random topic and see the output. So maybe okay I'll give any random topic and let's see still uh at the first time only it is uh approving okay it's completely fine you can maybe try with different different topic okay and you will able to see that whenever it needs any kinds of improve improvement. Okay.

Um it will run this iteration and it will update. Okay. And again it will send it to the optimizer. The reason uh it is giving you one short uh approval because we're using this open AAI uh GPTO mini and this is uh like good model. Maybe you can use any weaker model.

Okay. Like more weaker model, more poor model. That time I think this uh loop will uh run. Okay. Iteration will run because we're using good model.

That's why we are getting the result at the very first time. Okay. Okay, I hope you got it. Now, if you want to see the post history separately, you can also just write a loop and uh from the result you can extract the post history and you can see all of the post history you are getting. Okay, you can also see the feedback history.

This is also possible. Okay, anything you can extract because you are getting all the object here. Okay, so yes guys, that's how we can write this uh iterative workflows inside Langraph and this is super useful. Trust me whenever you will be implementing uh actual AI agents so this concept you need okay without that uh you can't perform this continuous u looping operation and you need uh to create a workflow I need this kinds of looping I need this kinds of conditional statement parallel statement okay each and everything is required now we have understood the last workflows inside langraph now uh in the next video onward guys we'll try to start working on the project so guys as you know I have started a complete agenti playlist on my YouTube channel and so far we have completed um uh so many important topic uh in this playlist. So if I show you my playlist guys, as you can see I started from introduction.

I have already discussed about the uh evaluation from LLM to uh aentki how aentki came. We already understood about the entire aentki concept how agentic system works. Then I told you about asynchronous programming pentic. Okay. We also saw how we can implement AI agents with the help of langen.

Okay. Then we started our first orchestration uh framework for AI agents implementation which is langraph. Uh even we also understood this langraph u um each and every component in detail with the code implementation as well. Now what I'm planning for guys I'm planning for the uh practical development of uh project. So what I'm going to do uh I'm going to start implementing a agentic uh chatbot from this video onward.

So first of all let's try to understand uh each and every component in detail. Um we'll try to explain the things in detail because if you want to uh create a aentic chatbot so for this you need lots of component like you need uh tools, you need memory, you need persistence, you need streaming, you need user interface. Okay, there are so many things you have to implement uh independently then you will be combining them all together then one agentic chatbot would be ready. Okay. And if you found my content useful guys, please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like and please try to share it with your friends and family.

So, uh first of all, let's try to understand uh in this agentic chatbot whatever component we're going to implement. So, guys, first of all, let's discuss our plan like how we'll be implementing this entire agentic chatbot. So, the entire agentic chatbot I'll be implementing with the help of langraph. Okay, we'll be using Langraph orchestration framework to implement the entire agentic chatbot because uh this project is the part of our langraph uh orchestration framework in our playlist. So in this video first of all I'm going to create a simple simple chatbot workflow.

Okay, we'll try to create a simple chatbot workflow. uh then we'll try to um make this agentic chatbot like more advanced. Uh we'll try to add some more advanced component in this particular agentic chatbot and with the help of that we'll be learning all of the langraph core component. Okay. So whenever let's say you want to implement this kinds of project whatever component you need from the langraph you will be understanding each and every component.

Okay. So that's why I made this particular implementation like a series okay series of video. So next in the next video I'm going to show you the persistence concept like what is persistent okay persistence and uh why it is required why uh persistence uh we have to add inside our agentic chatbot we'll try to understand. So persistence in line graph. Okay.

Then we'll try to understand um how to how to add streaming feature. Okay. Streaming feature to our chatbot. Then we'll try to understand the concept of um resume chat. Okay.

How we can resume any kinds of chat inside our chatbot. Then we'll try to see the database integration. Okay. Integration in our chatbot. Then we'll try to see how we can implement uh user interface.

Okay, let's say chatbot UI. Okay, we'll try to also implement this. Then uh after that I will also show you how to add the tools. Okay tools inline graph then we'll try to understand um the observability okay observability uh so in observability we'll try to see how we can integrate lang okay langmith to our agent so I think you have already heard of about lang langismith is observability tool. Uh with the help of that we can monitor the entire application.

Okay. Uh what is the flow of the application? Uh when it is executing uh what component each and everything we can track okay in this particular lang lang smmith we'll also try to see how we can use the langismith here. Then after that we'll see the um RG concept okay how we can integrate the rag features inside our agentic chatbot because uh if you have already used this kinds of agentic uh system you know that it will also work with your documents let's say you can upload your documents and you can uh do the chat operation on on top of your entire documents okay this is called RG concept so the rag means retrieval augmented generation so we'll also try to understand this thing then we'll understand this uh hi TL that means human in loop concept then we'll also understand the short-term okay short-term and long-term memory concept as well okay memory so yes uh this is the entire plan guys so in this video first of all let's try to uh implement the simple chatbot workflow with the help of lang graph uh then from the next video onward I'm going to discuss these are the concept as well. So guys uh let's try to implement our chatbot workflow.

So if you want to implement any kinds of uh agentic chatbot uh first of all you have to implement the uh chatbot workflow and how chat uh chatbot workflow works I think you already know that um so let's say if I want to uh implement with the help of lang graph. So how many node I have to take I have to take only one node which would be chat node. So here user will pass some message okay any kinds of message and uh it will go to the chat node and chat node will try to return something okay so this is a simple chat operations we'll be doing here and to run this particular uh graph actually we need a state and uh for this particular chatbot what would be the important state important state would be the message okay uh let's say the message user is passing let's say hi my name is BP so this message should be saved right and uh let's say your bot has replied uh welcome bi okay and how I can help you today. So these kinds of message would be also saved uh inside this particular state right. So for this uh what I have done guys, I have taken this um uh this particular state and here we are using the reducer concept.

Okay, here we'll be using the reducer concept otherwise what will happen every time uh this uh state would be replaced with the new message. So I don't want that. I want to save all of the conversation story inside this particular state. Okay. And uh now you can ask me why we haven't taken string type data here because messages string type data.

uh because I already told you here this is a conversational story and uh in langraph actually this is recommended whenever you are creating this kinds of uh chatbot you have to take this function this is a u uh like langraph function we have to import from the langraph called add messages in uh uh basically this add messages will try to handle this kinds of scenario it will take all of the conversation story the user message as well as the replied message and it will stored in this particular state okay and this state will go to the chat node. I hope you clear. Okay. So once we have built this uh uh workflow, the simple chatbot workflow, then we'll try to make it more advanced. We'll try to make this particular workflow uh as agentic chatbot workflow.

Okay. So for this what we'll try to add guys uh we'll try to add uh see as of now in this particular workflow you can perform the simple chat operation. In this workflow you can perform simple chat operation. Okay. After that we'll try to add the rag functionality.

That means even you can also upload any kinds of documents and you can perform the chat operation on top of that. Okay. You can add extra knowledge base on this particular chatbot. Right? Then we'll add the tools.

Okay. Realtime tools we'll try to add so that uh if you are asking any kinds of question and if it needs any kinds of tool it will try to use that. Okay. And uh that time actually it will become agentic chatbot that means it doesn't only have the um like uh I mean um the existing knowledge base it has also connection with lots of tools okay so that whenever you are asking something it will real time fetch those informations and it will give it to you then um I will also add the user interface uh because user needs a user interface to use this particular chatbot. So definitely we try to create the UI and for UI implementation as of now I'll be using a streamlit package.

It's a Python package and here you don't need to write any kinds of HTML and CSS code but later on I'm also going to show you how we can use HTML and CSS code how we can use the fast API okay with the help of that we'll try to create the entire asentic chatbot but as of now we are learning okay this is our first project so that's why I'll be using streaml so that everyone can implement with me okay then we'll also try to add the observability tool which is lang okay lang hangmith will try to add. So with the help of that we'll try to monitor the entire chatbot. Okay. Uh like how it is performing which particular component is triggering each and everything. We'll try to log in the lang speed dashboard.

Then we'll also learn some advanced topic as well. Some advanced topic as well. Okay. Inside advanc topic we'll be learning memory concept. Okay.

Short-term and long-term memory concept we'll try to learn. Um um okay I missed out one thing which is uh persistence. Okay here we'll also try to learn this persistence. Okay we'll also try to add the persistence in the chatbot. Then we'll be learning the memory the advanced topic.

Then we'll also try to learn this hit human in the loop. Okay. Uh then here also we'll try to learn the retry functionality like how we can perform the retry functionality and all. So these are the thing we'll try to cover that means by this particular project itself we'll try to master okay all of these langraph concept in detail okay that's why I made this particular implementation as a series so that each of the video will cover uh each of these concept in a detailed way okay so yes guys uh this is the uh plan I think you got it now uh we already have the graph okay we already have the workflow uh architecture now based on this architecture now let's try to implement ment our uh chatbot. Okay, first of all, we'll try to create this simple chatbot workflow in this particular video.

Then from the next video onward, I'm going to discuss one by one all of this advanced component. So first of all, let's try to create a Jupyter notebook file. Uh because initially I want to show you this workflow in the Jupyter notebook. Then I'm going to just uh write everything in the py file. Okay, Python scripting file because Jupyter notebook file we won't be using whenever we'll be creating the project.

Okay. But for experiment purpose, we'll be using this Jupyter notebook. So here, let's try to create a file ipv. Yeah. So previously I had my environment which is uh this langraph test.

I'll try to select this one. And here we'll try to import all the necessary library we need. And this import would be common guys. I think you know that what is this import? Let's import everything.

So these are the import we need. Uh we are importing this state graph start end. Then from typing we are importing uh type dict annotated. Then we are also importing this base message and human message. And uh we will be using openi large language model.

That's why from langen we are importing chat openai. You can also use any other uh large language model provider like grock. You can also use open router, gemini. Okay. anything you can use only you just need to check the lang chain documentation how to import that okay even you can also copy this code and if you give to the chat JPT this will replace with another model but I have my open API key that's why I'll be using open AI model here so let's import all of the package okay it's done now the next thing guys what you have to do you have to get this open API key so quickly I'm going to move my env file from my previous uh previous code.

So guys, as you can see, this is myb file. And inside that, I'm going to simply copy my um open environment v uh open API key. So this is my open API key. I already collected. Now let's try to uh write the further code.

Yeah. So now what I'm going to do guys uh first of all here I'm going to um I'm going to initialize the LM. So here I'm initializing the LLM. Okay. So we'll be taking the default large language model.

Okay. Here I'm getting an error because uh I have to load this environment variable right. So let's load it. So from env import load env we'll try to load this environment variable. Then now this code will work.

Yeah. Now we are able to load our lm. Now first of all you have to define the state. Uh so let's try to define the state. Um this is the state guys.

And I already told you if you are uh storing conversational story that time you can use this function add messages from langraph graph message. Okay. So here uh we are using the reducer concept. Um um I think you know what is the reducer function um like um operation add previously we used but right now uh this is a conversational story. So we'll be using this add message and by default actually it will perform this uh adding operation instead of replacing.

Okay. And uh here I given the base message. Base message means uh see inside base message what happens? We are telling this is a uh like u uh chat history. Chat history means uh there will be uh user message as well and there would be um like uh AI reply as well.

Okay. So if you combine all of them together, this will become a base message. Okay. So this is why we are using the base message here. So this is going to be my state.

Now let's try to define the state. So after that we'll try to create the uh graph. Now let's create the graph. So this is our graph guys uh state graph and we have given the state to the graph. Now after that we'll try to add the nodes.

So let's comment here add nodes. So if you see we only have one nodes which is chat nodes. Okay, let's try to add that. So, graph dot add graph dot add uh chat node and uh this function we have to write separately. Uh so, let's try to write this function.

I'm going to create a function def chat node and this will take this state but I'm not going to return all of this state all together. Instead of that simply um I'm going to only return the update message. Okay. So first of all here we'll be taking the user query from this state. Okay.

Take the user query from the state. Yeah. So user will give the message right? User will give the message. So this message I'll be uh uh basically this will start store as a message.

Okay. So this message I'm extracting. Then after that we'll try to send it to the llm. Okay. Send it to the llm.

You can see llm.inbox. We are giving the message and we are getting the response. Okay. Now this response I'm going to store in the message again.

Okay. Uh response stored in the state. Uh that means in the message keyword because this is a list type. Okay. And every time it will uh store your user message as well as the um response.

Okay, altogether it will store and we are returning the state. So this is going to be my chat note. As you can see this is going going to be my chat node. So once this chat note is prepared. Now let's try to add the edges.

Okay. Now if you see the edge connection first of all start will be connected to the chat node. So let's try to add the edges. Add edges. So start would be connected to the chat node and chat node would be connected to the end.

Chat node would be connected to the end. Okay. So this is the simple um like edge connection. After that we'll try to compile the graph. Let's compile the graph.

We have com uh here we'll be compiling a graph. Okay. Now let's compile. Yeah. Done.

Now if you want to see the workflow. So this is the chatbot workflow. Okay. This is the simple chatbot workflow we have created like that. Okay.

Now here you can perform this simple chat operation. So this simple chat operation you can perform as of now. Now let me show you how we can perform the chat operation. Now let's give the initial state. So this is our initial state guys.

As you can see, we are using human message because this is a human prompt and for this we have already imported this human message. It's good to uh use this function whenever using uh whenever you are implementing this kinds of chatbot. So as you can see message uh this should be a dictionary we are giving the message and uh you can see it takes u as a list okay as you can see it takes as a list okay input. So that's why we are giving as a list. Now we are giving the human message and this is the content what is the object oriented programming.

So this thing I will try to pass to my uh chatbot. Okay. So chatbot do invoke we are giving the initial state and this will return you. Let me show you if I don't give this line. Yeah.

So this will give you this kinds of response. So maybe I can store inside a variable response is equal to chatbot.invoke. Now if I show you the response. So this is the response.

Inside this response you have two things. Uh here one you have the message. Okay the human message and another one is the AI message. Okay. Now I have to extract this AI message for this uh uh this is a dictionary.

First of all, I have to extract the message. Okay, message keyword. This message uh message key I have to extract. Once we got the extract, now this is a list. And here we have two items.

Okay, one is the human message and one is the AI message. And that's how this uh um add message stores your data right inside this list. Now I need the last one. So for this I give minus one. Okay, the last index AI message.

Now I only need the content. So here simply I'll just give dot content. Okay, if you do it now you will be able to get this content guys. Very simple. Okay.

So that's how guys you can perform any kinds of chat operation right now with this particular workflow. Now let's say I will ask another question. What is uh let's say object- oriented programming in Python. Now see object oriented programming in Python blah blah blah. Okay, it's working perfectly.

Okay, so guys, now what I'm going to do, I'm going to just make a loop so that user can continuously give the uh input and uh this chatbot will be working. Okay, uh it will provide the output u because right now every time I have to change the um message here and I have to re-execute the cell but I don't want that. I want a loop. Okay. So for this uh what I can do guys, I can just make a while loop.

So this is our while loop. Okay. So here we are taking a input from the user. Uh I'm just telling type here some message. Then we are printing this uh uh user message.

Then I'm checking if user messagees uh uh let's say if it is uh if they write like say Z, exit, quite and by. So that time I'm going to break the loop. Okay. Otherwise I'm going to simply invoke my LM. So let's do that.

So we'll be invoking our LM here. That means the workflow. So as you can see we are doing the same thing. We are just hitting this chatbot invoke. We are giving the message human message.

Right now the content should be equal to the user message. Okay. because previously I hardcoded this message but right now I'm taking as a variable input variable once it is done I'm going to print this response in the terminal okay we'll be printing this message in the terminal that's it now let's execute okay now let's execute this while loop now here I can give the message hi now see user given hi and it's telling hello how I can assist you today I'll tell my name is puppy Okay. Hello By, nice to meet you. How I can assist you?

I'll tell what is Python. See, it's working fine. Okay. But one issue I want to show you in this particular chatbot. Let's say now if I ask what is my name?

Now it will tell you I'm sorry I'm not able to access the personal information about the user. But although if you see every time we are saving this information to this state and we are passing this state to the uh to this node okay if I open my um diagram I think you see that. So every time what is happening whatever message user is giving I'm storing in this uh state and whatever uh response also I'm getting I'm also storing in this particular state and we are passing the state to the chat node. So chat node should have the informations okay about the older conversation because we are storing the conversation story but still why it is not able to give you the answer. Okay still why it is not able to give you the answer?

This is a question to you just try to think about and uh please reply in the comment if you uh can you can pause the video and you can reply in the comment okay why uh it is happening like that see if I tell you um uh see what is happening if you're using the state concept right if you're using the state concept so what will happen first of all let's say it will start this node then the input will go to the chat nodes okay then chat node will return some kinds of response then it will go to the end okay so once Once it is reaching to the end, right? Once it is reaching to the end, that time this execution is um this execution is ending. Okay, this execution is ending that means whatever you have in the chat state. Okay, that means in the state this particular data would be erased. Okay, this particular data would be erased.

So that time whenever you are running this loop, right? You are running this loop. So every time what you are doing you are invoking the chatbot you are invoking the workflow and whenever you are invoking the workflow that means what is happening you are re-executing from from here okay you are reexecuting from here that means again it will go to the chat node to the end again this data would be erased okay so every time this particular list will be erased okay it is not able to like uh let's say uh store the older conversation it will only store in this particular particular session only only one session let's say right now this loop is running right in this particular session this information is available but whenever we are again executing this loop is again executing from here that time this information is getting erased this is the problem okay now how we can handle this kinds of scenario we can handle this kinds of scenario with help of persistence okay I I think I already told you about persistence right now we'll be using persistence concept it and uh we can uh we can actually handle this kinds of scenario that means whatever conversation story we are let's say having okay so we [snorts] can store somewhere this conversation story because right now this is only storing inside the variable and once it is getting initialized again this variable is getting cleared okay this is the main problem so that's why langraph uh supports actually persistence concept so inside persistence either you can save these informations in the memory saber that means inside your RAM either you can save this particular informations in the database and you can load load anytime okay these kinds of things you can perform now let's try to see how we can do this kinds of persistence uh operation so for this I'm going to open up my code again okay so here simply I can exit my bot so for this you have to give this exit message sorry this exit message only done now see it has exited now see uh persistence concept I'm going to explain in detail in the next video so only I'm just going to add this persistence uh let's say um uh implementation here how we can add the persistence so inside persistence uh basically we just try to add a memory here okay we just try to add a checkpoint memory so what happens let's say the entire state we we are having right this entire state we are having so this entire state we can save inside a memory either you can save inside your RAM okay this memory you can say uh this state you can save inside your RAM either you can save inside the database okay but right now this particular state is not getting saved anywhere this is only storing the data in the variable and you know whenever code will re-execute this variable would be clean clear that time right we already know that if you understand the Python concept you already know that so Somehow we have we have to store this state inside a storage uh storage actually um let's say service either you can uh use your RAM because you know that RAM would be the temporary storage it's completely fine but if you want a permanent storage that time you can use any kinds of database this database part I will also show you in future but I told you I'll be going uh step by step so that I can explain each and every concept in detail. So initially we'll try to see how we can save this information in the RAM. So whenever we'll save inside the RAM so what will happen this uh this particular uh data would be saved unless and until I don't restart my kernel.

Okay if I restart my kernel that time this information would be clean up otherwise this information will remain same inside my RAM. Okay. So this kinds of concept we'll try to add right now. So here uh for this I'm going to import a function from lang graph. So inside lang graph there is a function called um memory saver.

Let me import that. So this is the function langraph. Checkpoint [snorts] domemory import memory saver. Okay. So this memory saver stores your state inside the memory inside the RAM.

You can also use any kinds of database. That part I will also show you later on. Okay. First of all let's try to see the memory server one. Now let me import.

Okay. So once it is done now simply here whenever you are defining the graph. So before the graph initialization you have to define a checkpoint. This checkpoint should be the memory server. Okay.

So this is going to be this is going to become your memory server object. Okay. Checkpoint. Now whenever you are compiling your entire graph that time you have to mention I have a checkpointer. Okay I have a checkpo pointer.

So this checkpointer will basically store your state in the RAM. Okay you can see checkpo pointer is equal to checkpoint and here we are using memory server. Memory server means the RAM that means whatever state it is getting right the chat state that means the entire state it is getting and every time it is updating right with the user message and the reply of the AI message right every time it is getting update so this information will save in the RAM right now okay because we are using the checkpoint uh checkpointter right now okay now let's try to compile the graph so one compilation is done now let me show you h now let's Okay. Uh I don't need to execute this code. I will directly execute my while loop.

Okay. Yeah. But before executing the while loop here, I will pass one thing. Uh here you can specify the trade. Okay.

Trade means um it should be like kinds of unique uh unique ID for each of the user. Let's say this chatbot can use many people, right? This chatbot can use by me then this chatbot can be used by any other person. So all of the people can chat together here right and if they're chatting together it's not like that let's say I will let the people to chat with my chat history right so instead of that what uh it should have it should have a different trade ID okay different trade ID different trade ID means let's say if this trade ID is equal to one I have set let's say trade is equal to one that means this is my trade ID so whatever chat I will perform it will store all of the information in this particular trade right in this particular let's say whenever it will store inside the memory right because I used the memory server so in the memory it will create a separate section for one okay and all of the information all of the chat history it will save inside this particular trade okay now if I change it to two right that time uh another user will come and he will perform the chat operation that means what is happening in the memory there are different block is getting created let's say this is trade one this is trade two okay whatever chat I'm performing in the trade one uh trade two person won't be able to see that okay he won't be able to access this information and whatever let's say uh chat trade two is doing trade one won't be able to see or get this particular information okay like the chart GPT like chart GP is having different trade right whenever let's say you uh you just create a new chart right uh in the chart GP whenever you create a new chart let me show you so here so this is my chat GPT so let's say here you can create a new chart right you can create a new chat and you can perform some chat operation here right so this is this becomes a trade right then whenever you takes another new chart that means the complete new trade will be getting here and you can perform the another chart operation here okay so that means you won't be able to get the previous uh let's Okay. Uh previous let's say trade uh information in this particular trade but you can switch to the trade.

Okay. Let's say you can uh switch to the trades anytime. You can go to the previous trade. You can uh go to the current trade. Okay.

That's how we can switch. So these kinds of things also we can perform with the help of this persistence. Okay. We can make different different trades here. Now let's try to do that.

Let me show you. I think after seeing the practical implementation you will be able to understand. Now let's say I'll make it as trade ID. Initially I'll give it as one. And uh whenever you are um using this persistence concept that time you have to define a configuration.

So this is the configuration before response maybe I can create it. So this is the configuration config is equal to configurable and here you have to pass this trade ID is equal to trade ID. So your trade ID okay then this should be a dictionary. Okay dictionary object and this config you have to pass whenever you are invoking the workflow. So here at the last you have to give this uh config.

You have to give this config. Config is equal to config. Okay. Now what will happen? Every time uh this uh this uh uh persistence what it will do it will try to uh load the information load the state from the memory and it will try to pass to the um it will try to pass to the um invoke function.

Inbox function means you are giving the user message as well as the older history. Okay, user message as well as the older history. That means whatever older history you are having, whatever chat state you are having, you are entirely passing the chat history as well as the new message user is giving. Okay, right now it won't be replacing because we are storing in the memory and every time we are loading it and passing it to the invoke function. Now see if I execute the code.

Now let's say here I'll tell my name is BP. Okay. Now let's say I'll give another message. What is Python? Done.

Now if I ask let's say what is my name. Now see your name is BYI. It is able to remember right now. Okay, it has some kinds of memory right now and this information is saving inside my RAM because we are using memory saver here. And this is called persistence.

Okay, this is called persistence. Now if I let's say give another trait. Okay, let's see if I give another trade. Let's see if I do exit right now. Um one thing I want to show you uh if I run it inside my while loop.

So if I exit my while loop so that time your entire session will be um like restarted. So instead of that maybe I can use this code. I'll copy this trade ID here trade ID and uh I will also copy this config and we'll pass this config to this Whenever we're doing the invoke operation here, I'll try to pass the config. Okay. Now let's execute.

So let's say I'll type what is or I'll pass my name is puppy. Now see uh nice to meet you BP. Now if I ask um what is my name? What is my name? It's giving your name is BP.

Okay. Now let's see if I give another trade here. Okay. Let's say trade two. Now if I ask what is my name?

Now see it is telling I'm sorry I do not know what is your name is an uh is uh as I am a AI assistant and I do not do not uh have access to the personal informations. Okay because this is a completely new trade right now. Okay. Now let's say in this particular trade I will give let's say my name is my name is Alex. Now it is telling nice to meet you Alex.

Okay. Now if I ask what is my name? Now it will tell your name is Alex. Okay. Now if I switch to my trade one.

Okay. Now if I again ask what is my name? You will see that it will tell you your name is BP. See your name is BP. Okay.

Now if I go to my trade two, trade two that time uh your name is Alex. Okay, I hope you got it this concept. Okay, this trading concept that means we can separate out the chat session. Okay, chat session for each and every user. This is possible, right?

And uh here you can also see the u state. Uh so for this you can use this code so chatbot dot get state and you have to pass the config and you will be able to see like uh how many trades you are having okay all of the history you will be able to see the entire state that means the entire state you will be able to see the state is saved in the memory so this is the snapshot object as you can see whatever question you have asked like what is my name some other metadata the AI response okay So each and everything is visible here the input token output token and you will be able to see the trade ID as well. So what is the trade ID? Yeah. So this is the trade ID 2 and trade ID one is also there somewhere.

Okay. So that means the entire U state snapshot you will be able to see here. So this entire step snapshot you will be able to see here. If you're using this persistence concept and there is a function called get state inside that you have to only pass the configuration the configuration you are preparing you'll be able to see the entire state. Okay.

Uh it is saved in the memory. So yes uh this is the concept uh of this persistence. Okay we have learned this persistence concept. So here I already told you persistence we can add inside langraph. This is also possible.

And don't worry I'm also going to um take another I'm also going to record another video on top of this persistent in detail. We'll try to understand each and every uh concept okay of this particular persistence. Now uh this thing is working fine. Now what I can do I can quickly uh I can quickly convert it to the um py file. So let's create a file here.

I'm going to name it as aentic chatbot.py pipe and whatever code I have written here I'll just try to copy here or let's name it as aic chatbot back end back end okay now I'm going to copy here so first of all let's import all the necessary library. Select my environment. Then I'll load the environment variable. Then initialize the model.

Define the state. So this is my state. Now I'll copy my node. After node I will copy my enter graph. Okay.

Uh so this is going to be my uh final. Yeah. So this is going to be my final uh workflow object. Okay. Chatbot object.

Now we can use this chatbot object anywhere to run this particular workflow. Now what I'm going to do guys um I'm going to show you whether it is working or not. So maybe I can create another file here called let's say app.py. Inside app.py

let me first of all import this chatbot object. So from aentic chatbot back end import chatbot. Okay chatbot. Now I'll just write response is equal to chatbox.invoke and here we have to pass the human message.

Okay. And for human message we have to import this library. This one so here I'll give let's say what is um python and whatever response I'll get I'll just try to print the response. Okay. Now let's see whether it's working or not.

So I'll open up my terminal. Then I will activate my environment. So cond activate uh lang graph test h. After that we'll try to execute then app.py.

So python app.py. Okay. Here uh okay. Uh sorry actually I have to give this uh I have to give this um uh trade ID right trade ID I haven't given because here uh initially we pass the trade right we are giving the checkp pointer so here I have to get the uh pass this trade so here I will copy this trade and also copy this configuration Then we'll pass this config.

Now I think this will work. See it's working. Python is a high level um widely used programming language blah blah blah. Okay. But here uh actually I can't left this kinds of application to the user because user don't know how to code right and how to execute this uh app.py

from the terminal. So definitely I have to add the user interface. Okay. Now let's try to add a user interface with the help of streaml here. So guys now we'll try to add the user interface uh for this uh chatbot with the help of streamlit.

So streamlit is a python uh package and here you can uh create any kinds of user interface without using any HTML and CSS code. Right? So for this uh uh we have to install this streaml. So what I'm going to do in the same requirement file uh I think you know this requirement file I am using uh so far okay inside my langraph u tutorial. So here I'm going to add another package.

I'm going to name it as stream. Okay, streamlit. You can uh specify any kinds of version if you want to install. So let's say I want to install this uh specific version. Then I will open up my terminal and I'll just write pip installer requirement.txt.

Oh, sorry. Install spelling is not correct. Okay, as you can see installation is complete. Now, uh I'll come back to my app.py.

Uh I'll close these other are the file. Now let's [clears throat] uh start implementing the UI. See uh your back end code will remain same. You don't need to change anything. Uh you only need this chatbot uh let's say uh object here.

So which we have already imported. Okay. from agentic chatbot back end. We have already imported the chatbot. Now I'll just remove these are the code as of now.

Okay. So see first of all here I need a streaml uh server right. Uh in that particular server uh I'm going to just add my UI functionality and uh this server should be run on my local host right and if you're using a streaml it's super easy to launch the server only you just need to import the streaml. So from or import streamllet as st. Okay.

If you only import that and let's say here I will give a title only st. title. Let's say I'll give uh agentic chatbot with langraph. I have given this title. Now you have to execute this file only.

Okay. Now if you want to execute this file uh if you just uh let's say write python app.py it won't be running that time for this you have to use streaml command streaml run app.py Pi. So basically you are launching the streaml server.

Okay. Now if I execute and now see streaml server will be running. See this is the streaml server guys. And this is running on local host port number 85. Okay.

Uh port number 8501. So by default streamllet runs on port number 8501 on the local host. See one thing you have observed here without writing any kinds of HTML and CSS. uh we got this kinds of user interface. Okay.

So this is the work of streamllet and uh here you you can also change the settings. You can go to the settings. You can also um change the appearances. If I let's say active this wid mode uh this u title will be uh moving to the left side and let's say if I change the color let's say I want a light color. I want a dark color.

Okay. Everything is [snorts] possible here. But here we'll try to uh customize uh in the code whatever things we need we'll only just try to add it. Okay, you can make it more beautiful for this. You can go to the streaml documentation and you can check it out.

There are so many functionality you can use. But uh this front end is not like our concern. Okay. Uh there would be other front- end developer. Okay.

They will take care about the front end and everything. uh but uh as a agent engineer we have to know the actual concept actual back end engineering I think this is more than enough okay so for this particular project uh whatever uh let's say uh UI interface we need we'll only just try to focus on that part see uh we already launched this uh streaml server and we set the title now here uh I need a user input box okay that means the chat box so here user will be able to pass any kinds of messages Okay, for this uh we can take this uh chat input. So if you want to get the chat input uh you can write this code st. chat input okay and you can give any kinds of message um because if you go to the chat GPT right so here you will see by default ask anything. So if you want to give this kinds of message, display message, you can write it here.

And whatever message we will provide, it will store in the user input variable. Okay. So once we got the user input variable, if I show you, so if I let's say refresh now, see here, I got a chat chat input box. Okay. Now, whatever uh input you will give here, you will try to send it here.

It would be stored here. Okay. Now I can also print and show you our S3.print ST uh dot text or let's say write I think there's a function called write now let me show you refresh user return none so if I let's say give hi now see here hi will come okay Okay, that's how you can take any kinds of user input. So after taking the user input guys, what I will check?

I'll check first of all user has given any input or not. If uh user has given the input that means if user input is equal to is equal to true. Okay, that time I'll just try to um I'll just try to give a uh display display um actually icon. Okay. of the user and uh from this icon I'm going to take the user message H user input whatever user input we'll pass we'll try to pass it here.

Now see what will happen if I refresh now say if I pass any text here. Now see uh this icon is coming because of this particular line chat message and this is user. Okay, this is the user icon and user has passed hi. So if you see any kinds of chatbot guys, you will be able to see people are using this kinds of icon to identify the human message as well as the AI message. Okay, that's why we have given this line and by default in streamllet it is available.

So once I got the user input now what I have to do guys, I have to uh invoke the message to my chatbot. Okay, the chatbot object we have created. But before that we have to configure the uh trade right. So maybe what I can do here only I can prepare my trade. So config is equal to configurable trade ID.

So here I have given let's say trade one. Okay. Trade one. You can also give 1 2 3 4. It's completely up to you.

Okay. Even you can also write like that. Okay. You can also write like that. It's completely fine.

But in in just one line I have added like that. Now let's try to invoke the message. Yeah. So here we'll try to invoke the message. Yeah.

Chatbot dot invoke and message is equal to we are giving the human message. Content is equal to right now the user input and we're giving the config. Now whatever response I'm getting guys I will also show this response. So first of all I will extract the content from this response. So AI message is equal to response message minus one content.

Okay, that means we are we are doing this operation. We are only extracting the AI message. And this AI message I will try to uh show in the console. For this I'm going to create another icon assistant icon and this message would be showing the assistant icon. Okay.

Now let me show you if I refresh. Done. Now let's say if I give hi send. Now see assistant is giving hello. how I can assist you today.

Now this is the assistant icon. This is the user icon. Okay, that's why we have given this chat message is uh inside that I have mentioned assistant. Whenever you will get give assistant automatically it will take the assistant icon and whenever you will give us user that time automatically it will take user icon. Okay.

So that's how streamly it works guys. By default internally they are handling each and every scenario. Uh and uh they have given some highle functionality. We can use that and we can create our chatbot. Okay, it's working fine.

But one issue uh in this particular chatbot would be let's say if I give another message I am bp now see previous message is getting replaced okay previous message is getting replaced now it is giving you the new one but I can't see my previous conversation but in chat GPT so let's say if I give I am buffy so I will be able to see my previous message as well okay so this kinds of thing uh if you want to do it that time you have to use something called session. Okay, session state inside streamllet. So streamllet also works in that way. U by default if you're not using session state what is happening? So every time it is reexecuting re-executing code from here and whenever it is re re-executing code from the beginning that time this message is getting erased.

Okay, it is getting cleaned and new message is getting replaced here. But if you're using session state, session state will store this informations in memory and every time whenever it will execute from the beginning, it will not erase. Okay, still uh this information will be available inside memory and from memory it will uh able to load that. Okay, the same concept like um uh trading. Okay, we have learned before, right?

Yeah. Now let's try to add this uh uh session state. First of all, we'll create a session state here. First of all, we'll try to create a session state. I'll check if message history is not in session state, then I'll try to create this message.

Okay, it will uh create like a dictionary kinds of thing uh by default inside um this uh streamllet and this dictionary um it's a different type of dictionary. Basically, this dictionary will store the informations in the memory. It will not erase. Okay, if you execute the code from the beginning, still this dictionary data would be remaining same. Okay, then after that we'll load the conversation from the dictionary.

So this is the code I have written loading the conversation story. So for message in state uh session state message and if it founds this message so it will basically load the role and the content. So role means uh whether it is the message for the user or AI. Okay, this particular role and the content. Now um here you have to write some line of code.

Let's say whenever user is giving any kinds of input, this input should be stored in the message story. So this additional line you have to write here. This is the additional line. First add the message to the message story. So state session state message story we are appending it.

Okay. Ro user content the user input. Okay. We are storing in this particular list. Once it is done now I will also do the same thing whenever I got the AI response.

So after getting the AI response, we'll also save this in the message story. So you can see ST dos session state message append role. Now this role should be assistant. Okay, because this is the response from the assistant content is equal to AI message. Okay, done.

Now if I come back here, refresh. Now if I give the message, let's say, hi. Hello. Hi. Can I assist you?

My name is BPI. Um, nice to meet you. How I can assist you today? Okay. But this agentic chatbot with langraph is coming here.

Let me see why. Okay, because you have to assign it at the beginning. Okay, because after load conversation story, we have assigned it. That's why it's coming here. So maybe at the top I will try to assign this one.

Okay, now I think this will work fine. Refresh. Now I'll give hi. Fine. My name is BP.

Now see nice to meet you BP. What is Python? Now see okay it's working perfectly and I am able to see my older message story as well. Okay. So yes guys we are able to create our um uh we are able to create our uh first uh chatbot workflow okay with the user interface even we have also added the uh this uh persistence concept that means the trading concept and don't worry I'm going to explain this trading course uh persistence concept in more detail in the next video but this is the first video guys I wanted to show you how we can create the skeleton of the agentic chatbot now the chatbot skeleton is ready okay now we have to add these are the functionality one by one.

Okay, we have to add these are the functionality one by one. Now next I'm going to show you maybe the persistence concept in detail. Okay. After uh next uh I will discuss about the rag concept. How we can add the rag functionality.

How we can add the tool functionality. Okay. UI I have already I have already shown you. Okay. UI um I'm not going to show you again.

Maybe I'm going to update continuously update the UI as per my need. Then I'm also going to show you how we can uh add the observability tool like lang memory okay HITL okay each and everything we'll be discussing one by one guys okay so yeah this is the part one uh for this implementation guys of this agentic chatbot and we are able to build our first interface of the chatbot but right now it doesn't have any kinds of tool it doesn't have any kinds of rack capacity uh we'll try to add one by one okay uh through the entire series of the video and I'm going to share all of this code in my video description. From there you can get and you can execute inside your system guys. Okay. Now I can test one more thing which is the persistence.

That means whether it is able to remember my name or not. So I'll ask what is my name? Your name is BPI as you mentioned earlier. Okay perfect it is able to remember. So guys here one more update we have to do inside this uh chatbot um which is let's say if I ask anything um let's say if I tell generate uh blog about um about let's say python now see if I give this uh prompt to my chatbot it will take some time Right?

It is taking some time to generate this particular block and user has to wait uh till the execution. Right? But if you go to the chat GPT, if you give the same prompt, right? If you give the same prompt and if you send this message, so instantly you'll be able to see it will start generating one by one. So this is called streaming response.

See it is still generating streaming response. But the chatbot we have created it is generating in one shot. Okay, we have to wait for the execution. Once execution is complete, once my generation is complete from the chatbot, then you will be able to see the content. Okay, so let's say if you are generating a big blog or any kinds of big content from the chatbot, that time you have to wait and this is not a good user experience, right?

But in chat GPT, this is a good experience. Uh if you give any kinds of prompt, whether it is a big content, it doesn't matter. it will generate this content okay token by token uh and user will read it okay instantly user will be able to read it so this is called streaming response so if you want to implement this kinds of streaming response inside your chatbot as well you can also do it because I already told you I will also show you this streaming response as well okay uh streaming yeah how to add the streaming uh inside langraph in langraph also you can uh add this streaming concept now let's try to add it I will open up my So in this app.py only you have to add this line. So there is a like a very minor change you have to do.

See uh whenever you are getting this um you are getting this uh assistant message right we we are invoking the response and after invoking the response we are getting the AI message. So basically here what is happening first of all you are invoking the message and you are waiting for the response once you got the response then you are showing this response to the streamly user interface. So we have to replace this code with this code. So this is the code guys you have to use. See here instead of inboxing at the very first time first of all what we are doing see we are preparing this assistant icon.

After that there is a function inside streaml called write stream. Okay we are using this write stream function. Inside that uh we are using the chatbot object. Okay. Now instead of invoking we'll be using stream.

Inside that you have to pass the uh message user input and you have to give the configuration. Okay. We already have the configuration. I need to pass the config only. So config is equal to config.

Yeah. And stream mode is equal to message. You have to provide this particular uh configuration. And you have to run a for loop uh for message chunk and metadata. So whatever message chunk you will be getting you will only take the content and this message chunk uh continuously it will be showing in the streaml cons uh streaml user interface because we are using write stream that means every time whenever using chart gpt and you are generating something okay let's say you are generating something let's I'll tell more about it it is giving you the response token by token as you can see token by token okay so this kinds of token by token output you will be getting and you will be writing in the streamlit user interface.

So this will feel like uh this is a streaming response that time. Okay. Then once everything is done then we will try to store this uh AI message to the history message we are appending like a same uh previously we did okay as assistant we are appending in the session state. Now let me show you. So if I get back if I refresh fine now let's say I'll give hi stream has no attribute right stream why this error is coming let me check maybe the version we are using it doesn't have this right stream so what I can do I can install the latest on.

Now if I give the message again. Okay, still the same issue. Let me check guys. Okay, I have given this error to the chart GPT and CH GP is telling you still you need to upgrade this streaml. So let me execute this command.

p install upgrade streamllet. H. So basically this will download the upgraded version. Then now we can try again. Now I'll give message hi.

Now see we are getting the response. Now if I ask let's say generate uh blog about python. Now see it is streaming response like chatgity right now. Okay. And this is more interesting and more uh good experience to the user.

Okay. So that uh this kinds of scenario you also you also need to take care whenever you are creating this kinds of uh agentic system. Okay. Or any kinds of simple chatbot whatever you are creating this kinds of thing you have to take care and a lang uh graph is having this kinds of concept integrated. Okay.

You can easily implement this thing in the lang graph. Okay. Okay. So we have also se seen how we can add the streaming response inside our application. Okay.

Now this application looks more cool. Now in the next video guys I'm going to discuss about this uh persistence concept in more detail. We'll try to see uh what is this persistence is all about. We have already understood in this video as a high level but uh in detail I'll try to discuss in the next video. So yeah guys this is all about from this uh first part of this implementation.

So guys as you can see this is the definition of persistence and uh in my previous uh video that means in the part one maybe I already given you the highle overview on top of this persistence like what is persistence and how we can integrate with our chatbot I already told you about but let's try to understand the detailed definition of persistence as you can see persistence in langraph is a built-in layer that automatically saves and restores the state of your agent or graph workflow over time. Okay. It works by uh using a checkpointer to automatically capture snapshot of the graphs state at every step organizing them into unique and retrievable traits. Okay. So I think uh by the definition itself you can understand uh what I'm trying to say here because if you have already completed the part one uh of this uh uh chatbot implementation I think you know that uh see persistence why it is required.

First of all, let's try to understand from the beginning. Um, I think you know uh inside aentic application first of all we'll have a goal, right? So let's say yeah let me write down. Yeah. So see in any kinds of agentic application first of all definitely we'll have a goal.

Let's say you have a problem statement right? You want to let's say here we are creating a aentic chatbot. So definitely this is our goal. Now this goal should be divided into multiple tasks. So first of all what we'll do guys we'll try to divide this goal to the multiple task.

Let's say this is task one. Okay this is task two and so on. That's how we'll be breaking down different different task and whenever we'll be using lang graph right whenever we'll be using lang graph because so far we are learning about lang graph. So in lang graph to define this particular task we use something called nodes right each of the task will become a nodes let's say this is our first nodes this is our second nodes okay and so on so that means first of all we'll be having a goal and we'll define a task from this particular goal like u step-by-step task and this particular task would be our nodes okay inside the graph because this is the entire graph as you can see this is the entire graph entire graph in line graph, right? This is the entire graph in line graph and these are the nodes.

Okay. And you can see this is the age connection. Uh this is the age connection and this start node is nothing but this is the input. So here we pass our initial state initial input right and this input will go through this edges. This edge is nothing but it's a connection.

This edge defines basically after which node what node should be executed. Okay, because of this particular arrow symbol. As you can see this arrow symbol defines okay after start nodes node one would be executed. After node one node two would be executed like that right. So this is called ages.

This is called ages and this is called nodes. We already know about this is called nodes right. Okay. Then this particular task will go through all of the nodes. Then at the last we use a end nodes.

What this end nodes will do it will first uh basically uh stop the graph execution. Okay. Let's say whenever we'll give any kinds of input and whenever it will reach to this particular end it will stop the graph execution and you will be able to see the final okay final result here. Final result here and we have already seen this particular things in the practical implementation as well. I think this is pretty much clear to you right now.

See the main things we have to understand uh whenever we are defining any kinds of graph right whenever we are defining any kinds of graph and if I want to execute this graph in lang graph we have to provide something called state right we have to provide something called state I think you know that without state we can't execute any kinds of graph and what is state is nothing but it's kinds of uh it's kinds of variable we are passing right it's kind of some of the data we are passing to the graph okay let's say in this particular chatbot what is should what should be the state state should be the message let's say the message user is giving okay and our AI bot is replying so this is the message this is the information so every time what will happen this state will go to the every nodes okay every nodes and this nodes whatever uh output will return it will basically update in this particular variable okay this is called state but what happens if we are giving this particular state to the um graph so let's say we are passing the state to the start node right Then start node will pass to the node one then node two then n then end. So whenever it will go to the end that means this graph execution is getting over and whatever state whatever state data you are having here it will be basically erased that time. Okay it will be basically erased that time. Then whenever you will be running second time you won't be able to get the previous information whatever uh you got in the first execution right inside the state. So this is the main problem.

Then what we introduce we introduce something called persistence right we introduce something called persistence. So in persistence what we usually do here we basically save the entire state okay inside a storage service either you can use your uh RAM okay we call it as a memory saver either you can use any kinds of database that means two kinds of storage service you can use either you can use your RAM that means memory okay your computer memory either you can use any kinds of database here okay database is the permanent one. Okay, perma net one and this is the temporary one. Temporary one. Okay, temporary means if you restart your application that time this data would be erased.

But in database if you restart your application okay it doesn't matter you if you restart if if your uh uh let's say system crashes it doesn't matter your data will be permanent okay you can load anytime this kinds of data that okay [snorts] that means uh inside persistent whatever state snapshot we are having okay we try to store inside a storage service that's why in in the definition itself you can see persistence in lang graph is a built-in layer that automatically save okay and restore That means you can restore this particular uh state anytime okay from the storage service the state of your agents okay the state of your agents or graph workflow over time okay over time means because it is every every time it is capturing your snapshot it is um let's say this persistence every time it will save the informations in the u uh storage service let's say after start whatever uh state uh update you got right this particular information would be saved after node one execution Whatever uh state would be saved, it will be basically saved in the database or your local storage. Okay, that's how every step okay every step it will be saving the information of your state. That's why we call it as a overtime here and it works by using a checkpointer to automatically capture the snapshot of the graph state at the every step. Okay, I already told you and in my previous implementation I used something called checkpo pointer. I think you know that again I will give you the idea.

Okay, how checkpoint pointer works and uh each and everything I'll give you. Then one uh another thing we learned this organizing them into unique and uh retrievable trades. Okay, we'll be also learning about the trades. Trade means you can create multiple trades. Let's say uh trade one you can do some kinds of conversation in trade two you can do another uh kinds of conversation.

Okay. So both conversation would be different and you can't use trade one information in trade two and trade two information in trade one. Okay. we can also make this particular difference. Okay, I hope you got it guys.

Now that's how your persistence comes into picture and this is very much important whenever you are creating this kinds of agentic AI application otherwise what will happen your application may not get this state uh data okay over time whenever you are creating this kinds of uh agentic chatbot or any other let's say advanced application uh which is required your older data as well okay just try to think about whenever we are creating this agentic chatbot definitely I need my previous response let's say I have given the input my name is BP right and second time if I'm asking what is my name so definitely it should remember that particular informations right whatever it has updated uh in the state okay but if it is getting end right and if the final result is getting erased okay of this state that time definitely your uh definitely your agent won't be able to give you the response but if you're using the persistence concept and if you're capturing this state okay inside a memory okay if you're saving this inside a memory so anytime time we can load this and we can pass again to the graph and graph will be able to recall the previous information and that that will be able to give me the result. Let's see your name is BP. So this is the main fun here. Okay, I hope you clear guys. So guys now let's try to understand the specialtity of persistence.

Uh see persistence uh is having some kinds of specialtity. Um see I told you uh whenever we define any kinds of state right and uh uh whenever we execute a graph so this state will go to the every nodes right every nodes it will go and uh all the nodes will be uh updating something in the state okay and we'll be getting a final result from here so it doesn't mean this persistence will only capture the final updated state information instead of that it will be able able to uh store your intermediate uh let's say data intermediate data means see what happens whenever we define any kinds of state right let's try to take example let's say state so let's say here I have taken a state um the state name is let's say I will take name I want to only save the name information here okay name let's say I have only taken one variable so what will happen this state will go to the every node first of all it will go to the start node. Okay. After going to the start node, uh this uh uh uh your graph would be initialized, your graph would be executed. So through this edges, it will reach to the node one.

Okay. Let's say in node one, we are doing some kinds of update. That means node one is updating this name. Let's say initially it was uh let's say initially I have given a let me take this color. Initially let's say the name was A.

Okay. Now what will do? This node one will try to update this particular name. Let's say it will be uh updating B. Okay.

It will update B. But whenever we pass this state okay initially it was name A. Okay. But whenever we pass through this node one uh this uh was changed to to the B. Right.

So the execution you can see here node uh start to node one uh that means through this execution okay this is called super super step okay this is called super step so what is super step basically to execute the entire nodes okay to execute the entire graph uh whatever super step we perform okay let's say if I want to execute the entire graph definitely I have to execute node one node two okay then it will go to uh go to this end then your entire graph would be executed. Then you can see multiple age connection is there and each of the age connection is a super step here. Okay, that means in every super step there would be some kinds of update in the state and your persistence would be able to capture this informations in the uh stories. Okay, that means let's say after node one it will go to the node two let's say node two will try to replace this uh B to this C. Okay.

And whenever it will reach to the end and here you will get the final name MC. Right. But it's not like that. It is replacing all of the previous information. Still the previous information is available.

Okay. Still the previous information is available. Okay. So this information I we call it as a intermediate intermediate. Okay.

Intermediate state. Okay. We call it as intermediate state. And this is called final state. Okay, final state.

That means the specialty of persistence is it will capture your intermediate state. State state as well and the final state as well. Okay, it's not like that. Every time you'll get the final state definitely intermediate state would be available uh after each and every super step execution. Okay.

Let's say in future uh your application will crash here. Let's say node one it will crash or let's say node two it will crash. Okay, that time it's not necessary. Whenever you will restart your application, it will execute from the beginning. Okay, it's not like that because it has the intermediate state and it has already has the information.

Okay, so what it will do? It will re able to resume. Okay, it will able to resume your application from node one or node two because it has captured the intermediate state. Okay, so this is called actually fault tolerance. I already told you about this, right?

fault tolerance in my introductory session I already told you about fault tolerance right that means whenever your application get crashes it not it's not necessary to re-execute application from the beginning okay you can execute your application wherever your application got crashes let's say this is crash point okay or let's say this is crash point wherever your crash point happens it will resume the application from here itself okay I hope you get it so this is the specialty of This persistence uh if you see these kinds of question in the interview what is the specialty of persistence that time you can tell it can also save the information uh of the intermediate state along with the final state okay I hope you get it and if you go to the uh uh real time let's say application let's say if I go to the chart GPT okay chart GPT also using this kinds of persistence concept so in chat GPT what you can do you can either create a new conversation okay new chat either you can continue with your old chat, right? Either you can continue with your old chat. Let's say if I want to continue some kinds of old chat, I can continue here. Let's say this is my old chat as you can see, right? I can continue here.

So, let's say what is the final code? See, it will basically uh reusing my older state. See and it is continuing the conversation. Okay. And even I can also start a new conversation here.

Okay. If I start a new conversation that means my new state would be created and one by one this uh super step will be executed and each and every okay step this snapshot would be captured. It will be updated in the state. Okay. So without this state you can't create this kinds of application.

Definitely uh for this kinds of advanced agentic chatbot you need this state and this state is already sorry um uh you need this kinds of persistence concept and this persistence is already okay integrated inside lang graph. Okay and with the help of that you can handle this kinds of fall tolerance in a very easiest manner. Okay, I hope you got it guys. I've given you the example with the real world example as well like chart GPT. So charge GPS are also using this kinds of persistence in the back end.

So in charge GPT what is happening whatever conversation you are doing okay whatever conversation you are doing uh this kinds of information is getting saved uh okay uh in the state and they're using persistence concept here definitely and they're storing this kinds of information um in a database okay they're not using any kinds of local uh storage service instead of that they're using some kinds of database and from the database itself this information is getting okay fetched okay Whenever you are opening any kinds of old conversation, you will be able to see whatever uh message you have done here. So the this information is coming from the database. Okay, I hope you clear guys. Now guys, this definition would be pretty much clear uh like uh what is happening inside persistence. Uh now let's try to understand another uh concept here.

As you can see, it works by using a checkp pointer to automatically capture the snapshot of the uh graph states. Okay, at every step. Now let's try to understand what is this uh checkpointer exactly. So here I have taken another example guys. As you can see checkpointer is uh in inside of persistence.

See checkpointer is nothing but uh you can consider this checkpointer is kinds of uh it's kinds of tracking uh tracking functionality. Tracking functionality means each and every super step whenever it is executing and whatever update we are making inside the state that time checkpointer will be able to capture those informations in the uh state right in the state means it will be able to capture those information and it will save inside the uh persistence memory okay so let's try to understand this concept in detail so what I'm going to do I'm going to open up my blackboard and here let me make you understand see what I told Okay. Uh whenever we uh give any kinds of state to a graph. Okay. Uh so what will happen?

It will execute the nodes one by one. As you can see we are having lots of nodes here. And uh you can see the age connection. This is the age connection. And whenever you are doing this kinds of age uh age connection uh and age execution that means after start to uh sorry um from start to node one here we are get doing a execution and this execution we call it as a super step right I already told you about super step right.

So when whenever you are having this kinds of super step okay whenever you are having this kinds of super state uh after that you will basically set a checkpoint okay set a checkpoint that means whenever we are passing a initial state to the start that time one checkpoint would be available here checkpoint uh checkpoint one okay let's say this is our checkpoint one then [snorts] u after doing this uh superstep execution there would be again a update so there would be another Checkpoint let's say this is checkpoint two and you here you are having multiple nodes okay as parallel so this is one execution this is another execution this is another execution we combine all of the execution and we will be calling as a another super step another super step right and uh after this super step there would be another checkpoint and checkpoint three. Okay. And at the last uh because here we are doing another superstep execution and I'm getting the final response. Okay. Here also another checkpoint would be available.

Checkpoint let's say four. Okay. And every checkpoint will capture the updated state. Let's say after this start to node one whatever update will be happening in this state this checkpointer will capture that information. It will save in the persistence memory.

Okay, persistence memory it will save either you are using local local storage that means your RAM either you you are using any kinds of database okay database it will store there okay whenever it is uh storing that means it is not replacing the value instead of that it is merging that means it is adding the information adding the information and we call it as a reducer concept I think you know that reducer That means whenever we are using this kinds of persistence concept definitely we have to use the reducer okay reducer concept we'll be continuously adding the informations instead of replacing the old one okay I hope you get it guys okay then uh this kinds of uh checkpoint we have in every uh super step and whenever any kinds of update would be happen in the state it will capture the information and you'll be getting a final snapshot final let's say state at the last checkpoint and this will like store at the last. Okay, but you will be able to see the previous update as well in the state. Okay, this is how this particular checkp pointer is working. I hope you got it right. To get the like updated data in the state, we use this kinds of checkpointter and the checkpointer work is to capture this information in the storage service.

This is the work of a checkpointer. That's why in the definition itself I think you see the definition in the definition itself it is telling it works by using a checkpoint to automatically capture snapshot of a graph state at every step. Okay. Because we're using every step execution here. I hope you get it guys.

Okay. Now let's try to understand this checkpointer concept through an example. Let's say I'll take the same graph execution here. So let's say here I will define a state. Let's say I'll define a state here.

Uh the state variable I'll take number. Okay. Number. So this number will be a list of integer. List of integer.

Okay. And here we are using add operation. Why we are using add operation? Because we are using reducer concept. I think you know that.

Okay. And uh this uh this number would be a list list of numbers and all of the number would be integer. Okay. So let's say initially whenever I will pass this number pass this number to the uh graph initially let's say the value is one. Okay.

The value is one. So I told you each and every uh super step will be having a checkp pointer. Let's say I can define all of the checkpointer definitely uh at the first node there would be a checkpointter let's say CP1 then here also we'll be having a checkpointer CP2 here also we'll be having a checkpointer CP 3 and here we are having let's say CP 4 we are having all the checkp pointer so what will happen uh yeah so whenever it will execute it will go to the node one. Okay, let's say node one update um update this value. Let's say this number, it will update uh let's say two.

Okay, two. It will return two. So what will happen? Um now the number will become like that. So in this list list so initially the number was I'll denote with n.

N means number. Initially it was one right one and now it has updated uh two. So instead of replacing the previous one it will add the number at the last. Okay this is the concept of the reducer. Okay and this is called your intermediate state.

Now we got the intermediate state. Now it will go to the next node execution and here also you are having a check pointer. Now let's say this generates uh single number. Let's say it will generate three. This will generate four and this will generate five.

So what will happen again? The number should be like that 1 2 then this uh three will come four will come and five will come. So three four and five. Okay. Then it will save this information to the memory.

Okay. Every time it will save this information to the memory because checkp pointer is saving the information to the memory. either you are using local memory or any kinds of database. Okay, it will try to save that particular state. Then it will go to the last one that mean checkp pointer um checkpo pointer four uh let's say uh this returns the final result and here you haven't done any kinds of update.

So what would be the final okay final number final number should be 1 2 3 4 and five then this final state would be also saved okay in the database. Okay, that's how we are not only getting the updated state and instead of that we are also getting the intermediate state. How? Because of the checkp pointer. Okay, now I think this part is clear to all of you guys.

So guys, we have understood about this uh persistence. Uh we have understood the persistence then then we have also understood what is checkpointer and how it works. Okay. Now let's try to understand another important concept as you can see organizing them into unique and uh retrievable traits. Okay.

Now let's try to understand what is this trades. Okay. Trades is also a concept of persistence. So in my previous uh uh part guys that mean in the part one I already told you about the trades right? We added the trades uh with the help of trades actually we can separate out each and every let's say chat.

Now let's say if you are doing um chat in trade one that means in trade two you won't be able to see that particular chat or in trade whatever uh chat you are doing in trade one you won't be able to see in inside trade two. So this kinds of thing I think I already showed you if you haven't checked that please try to check check my previous part guys. So here let's try to understand this trading concept as you can see trades in part persistence we have already taken an example here. So I'm going to open it up. So see here what is happening let's say here we have taken two trades let's say this is trade this is trade one and this is trade sorry this would be trade trade one and this is trade two okay now in trade one as you can see I have um I have updated some kinds of state okay so here would be one actually I missed out.

Yeah. So you can see um let's say here we got one then after node two execution we got one two okay and so on like I already showed you this example before right yeah now I have taken the same example but I updated let's say another state number let's say here I started from six then node after node one execution I got 6 7 then 6 7 8 9 10 okay then 6 7 8 9 10 this is the final number so see what is happening here although I am executing ing this graph two time okay two times but in a different trades so for the first time I have given a separate number and for the second time I have given another number so it is not replacing the previous information as you can see previous information is remaining same because it is running in a different trade and here trade ID is different it is also running the same graph but it is running in the another trade okay I hope you got this concept so if I uh give give you one real time demo guys if I go to the chart GPT. So in charge GPT also I think you understand let's say whenever we do chart operation right uh it will basically creates a trades let's say this is a trades this is another trades okay that's why we are having different different trades okay let's say if I show you let's say this is the different different trades let's say this is another trades okay this is another traits that means this information you won't be able to see in this particular trades Right? And whatever information you are having, you won't be able to see in this particular trades. Right?

These two trades are completely different. And whenever you are creating this kinds of real time agentic chatbot or agentic application definitely you have to take care this particular traits otherwise what will happen it will be getting the previous context as well. Okay. and I will be able to separate out my chat whenever let's say this inform uh this application uh is using by multiple person or let's say by me only I won't be able to uh separate out my chat informations okay everything will be combining in one particular trades and this is not good right so that's why we create this particular trades and now we can also create another trades by click on new chart now if you do any kinds of conversation see it will create another trades automatically here. See, new chart has created and this is another traits.

Okay. So, we'll also able to see uh how we can add this kinds of uh trading uh how we can add this kinds of let's say uh realtime trading inside our chatbot also. Although I have shown you the trades but I hardcoded the trade one and trade two right u in my previous demo but I will show you okay whenever you are creating this kinds of chatbot uh in a user interface also how we can add uh like chart GPT okay these kinds of trading I will also able to show you so now I think you understood about the trades guys what is trades exactly trades is basically uh it stores the informations with a trade ID let's say whenever you are using any kinds of database or your local storage it doesn't matter let's say whenever you are using local storage that means your RAM that time what is happening in the RAM only it is creating a separate ID trade ID okay that means it is taking a separate space inside a RAM and for trade two it is taking another separate space in the RAM although it is executing the same graph but it is executing in a two different place but in database what is happening I know you know that in database we create a table right inside a table we can create a another column called uh trade id okay trade ID let's say if trade ID one all of the information would be saved about the trade ID in this particular row itself let's see if trade is equal to two all of this information would be saved related trade two here so whenever I need trade one I will try to fetch the trade one whenever I need trade two I will fetch the trade two okay that's how the things work actually basically it saves the same information but in a different different threads to separate out my each of the that's a state or each of the charts. Okay, I hope you get it guys. So guys, we have understood the theoretical concept of persistence in line graph.

Now let's try to see the code example. Okay, for this I will create a simple sequential workflow here. So this is the graph I have taken. As you can see this is the this is our workflow. So here basically we'll try to um see um um see example.

In this example, first of all, we'll try to generate a joke of a topic. Let's say here we'll pass a topic. Let's say we will pass any kinds of topic. Let's say I passed football. So, first of all, what will happen?

Uh here we'll create a node and this node will try to generate a joke on top of that topic. Let's say it will generate a joke on football. Then after that, we'll pass this uh joke to another nodes called gen um uh exp. Basically uh this will uh generate the explanation of that particular joke. Let's say the joke we have generated we want to generate the explanation of that particular joke.

Then this um workflow will be end. And to make this uh graph guys we need a state. So I already prepared the state. As you can see we named it a joke state. We are inheriting with the type dict and uh we have taken the state.

First of all we need a topic. Then whatever joke it will generate joke would be there. Then explanation. Okay that means the three variable we have taken. I think this is pretty much clear.

So I have already written the code. As you can see this is the code. So first of all let's import all of the necessary library. We are importing state graph start type d chat openi load env only the new things. I have imported this inmemory saber from lang graph checkpoint dot memory in memory saber.

Okay. So this is what your uh persistence uh like uh persistence memory that means the checkp pointer like where you want to save this state. So here we're using inmemory. Inmemory means it will save the information inside your RAM. You can also use any kinds of database.

We'll also see database in future but as of now just to show you the demo, we'll be using our RAM. So let's import all of the necessary library. Okay. Then we'll try to load the environment variable because there I have my open API key. I already set my open API key here.

Then after that we'll try to define a large language model. Then we'll define the state. The same state I showed you here. We are defining the state. Then we'll be writing the nodes.

Okay. So first of all we have created the graph as you can see. Then we are adding the nodes. First node is generate joke. Second node is uh generate explanation.

So generate nodes sorry generate jokes and generate explanation. So these two function I have to write separately because this is going to be my node. So this is the generate joke uh nodes. As you can see it will take this state and it will generate the joke and it will update that joke state and this particular uh nodes will try to generate the explanation. Here we have given the prompt.

So it will take the joke from this state and it will generate the explanation and it will update the explanation. Okay. So let's try to define all of them. H so after that we are uh defining the graph. So as you can see we are adding the nodes.

After that we have to do the edge connection. As you can see as connection start to gen start to generate joke then generate joke to generate explanation generate joke to generate explanation then generate explanation to end generate explanation to end. This is the connection. Now if you're using this persistence concept you have to define a checkpointer. So here we are defining the checkpoint and we are defining the inmemory server and if you're using any kinds of database you have to define the database uh class here.

This will become my checkpointter. Now we'll whenever we'll try to compile the graph we'll pass this particular checkp pointer okay uh in this particular parameter. Now basically by this code you are telling your line graph um graph to use this persistence concept that means whatever state you are having okay whatever state update it will do whether it's intermediate or final it will try to save all of the information in this particular memory okay I hope you get it now let's try to compile the graph done now let me show you uh how we can execute this workflow to execute this workflow you need to define a configuration okay you need to define a configuration and in the configuration you have to define the trades. I already told you okay trades is important whenever you are using persistent concept definitely you have to pass the trade and each and every trade will store your informations in a separate uh separate space in the memory okay if you're using a memory it will use a separate space if you're using a database it will use this particular trade ID to store those information basically in trade one whatever conversation you are doing you won't be able to see in trade two or in trade two whatever conversation you are doing you won't be able to see in trade one okay that's how you can create as much as trade you can like the chat GPT we saw the example right so we are preparing the configuration there is a parameter called configurable you have to define as a dictionary then you have to define the trade ID so let's say we have given one then we are invoking the workflow we are passing let's say topic is equal to football let's say uh here the topic should be the football and it will generate a joke on top of the football okay then we are passing the configuration here now let's execute Okay guys, so here I'm getting an error rate remit uh limit error. I think my openi credits is over.

Uh so what I can do? Maybe I can use um other model. So let's use uh another model. Maybe I can use Gemini. Gemini maybe I can use uh this model uh freely.

Okay, for some request. So what I'm going to do guys uh quickly um You can simply go to the chart GPT I have already done. Let me show you see. So I go to the chat GPT then I given my code let's say this is the code I'm using and can you change the model to Gemini uh uh model to Gemini open a credit is over. Now it has suggested okay that's how you have to use the Gemini model.

First of all you have to install this library langen uh Google geni. So let's try to add inside our requirement. So I've already added inside my requirement. Now let me install that. So pip install r requirement.txt.

Yeah, that's how you can use any model. Okay, model doesn't matter either you can use open model, gemini model, open router provider, anything you can use. Once it is done then I'll try to simply uh see the next step. I have to collect my Google API key. So and we have to add inside the environment variable.

So let's try to do that. So this is my environment variable. So here I'll try to add my Google API key. And where you will get the API key? You have to go to the Google uh AI studio.

Google AI Studio. So left hand side you will be able to see the API key option. Now let's try to generate the API key. I already have some API key here. Maybe I can delete.

Okay. You want to create a new one. Click on create API key. Gemini API key. You can select your project if you have any project.

Let's I'll select my project and create the API key. Once done, let's copy this API key and I'll try to paste it here. Done. Okay. Now let's try to Yeah.

Now let let me check. So if you want to do that first of all you have to import this line instead of open AI you will import this lang chain Google geni import chat Google generative let's import load the environment variable then you have to uh replace this okay replace this uh model definition with uh uh Here I'm using Gemini 1.5 flash. I think this is the free model, free to use model and this is the temperature parameter. Now let's define.

Okay, now I think it's fine. Now everything is good. Now I'll come here or let's try to uh execute all the cell again otherwise I think I might get some issue. I'll define the graph. Now let's invoke this workflow.

Okay, here I'm getting a client error. Uh okay. This model not found is uh during the task with name joke ID. Okay, let me check this model not found. I can try with this pro model.

Okay, this is also not found. Maybe I can try with this 2.5 plus. I think this should work. Yeah, 1.5

I think it is deprecated from the uh API. You have to use 2.5. Now see we are getting the output that means 2.5 is working.

Okay. You have to use this 2.5 flash. Okay. Now see here is the topic we have given and this is the joke I got and this is the explanation.

Okay. We are getting from this particular joke. It's working fine. Okay. Now if you want to see this state right?

If you want to see your state uh because this state got saved in the memory you have to call this function get state and you have to pass the configuration that means our trade ID configuration trade one configuration. Now if execute now see this is the snapshot this is your state you can see the topic you can see the joke you can see the explanation and some other metadata informations are available here. Okay. Now if you want to see the entire uh like uh intermediate state as well as the final state you have to execute this function get state history story and again you have to pass the configuration that means trade one. Now if I execute this now see guys you are getting all of the intermediate state as well as the final state.

Okay. Now the last one you can see this is the last last uh like that means the final state and the first one this is the first uh state first intermediate state. Now if I show you this graph guys. So how many um checkpoint you have here. See you have one checkpoint 2 3 and four.

So that means four output we are getting. So this is the first checkpoint output. So initially whenever we pass the topic we didn't have any kinds of joke. Uh then uh uh explanation. Okay we didn't have anything.

You can see initially this was only running the uh start node and there is nothing. Okay. Then we executed the second node that means the second checkpoint. In second checkpoint we passed the we only passed the topic. Okay.

And that time we didn't have any kinds of joke. You can see we didn't have any kinds of joke or uh this explanation. Okay. You can see this was nothing. Then at the third third uh you can see checkpoint it was uh it has generated the joke.

Okay. Uh that time explanation was not available. Okay. You can see uh topic was there, joke was also there. Okay, joke was also there but explanation was not there.

You can you can see explanation is completely empty. It it was not there. Right? Then whenever we executed the last node that means we uh got the checkpoint for that time explanation was available. You can see topics is available, joke is available, explanation is also available.

Okay, that's how you will be able to see the final snapshot as well as the intermediate snapshot of this state. Okay, this is amazing, right? And that's how your persistence is working. And this is super important guys. Just trust me, this is super important concept whenever you are implementing any kinds of agentic AI application.

That's why uh in my first part the application I started guys agentic chatbot. So there I use this particular concept this persistence concept. So there also we created this checkpoint. I think you remember we created a checkpoint but here I used this memory saber. I was saving everything in my RAM but later on I will also show you how we can add the database as well.

Okay. Because I told you we'll be going step by step so that I can teach you each and everything. Okay. I hope you clear. So now I'll get back to my code.

Yeah. Now let's uh let me show you one thing this uh uh trading concept. Let's say if I right now give this trade ID is equal to two. Right. That means uh completely one another trade would be created another block would be created in the memory and in that particular memory it will save all the informations.

Now see we are invoking with another topic called cricket. Now it will generate uh generate the joke on top of the cricket but in a different rate. Let me show you. Okay. If you're using free model it might take some time.

Now you can see this is the topic and this is the joke and this is the explanation we are getting on top of cricket. If you want to see the state final state final snapshot this is the final snapshot. And if you want to see the all the intermediate state as well as the final state you have to execute this line. Now you can see this is for football. Okay.

Now the best part is that if I change this configuration anytime let's say I want to get my uh I want to get my um uh football. Sorry not football. Okay this is configuration one pass. Sorry, I have to give configuration two. Now if I give configuration two, now see this is for cricket here also I have to pass the configuration two because this is my uh uh trade two right now if I give configuration one.

So this is my trade one that means cricket sorry football. Now if I give you trade two now this is cricket. Okay see all of the state is different right now because it is saving inside different different trade. Okay I hope you get it guys. So from this persistence guys we got some benefit definitely.

So let's try to define the benefit benefit of persistence. So the first benefit we got the short-term memory. I think you already saw the short-term memory, right? uh we have implemented because it is saving the information in this state okay in a database and in my previous code example also the chatbot I created this was also able to remember my informations okay this is called short-term memory we can implement okay with the help of this persistence now the second one um benefit you will be getting called this fault tolerance fault tolerance Okay, I already told you about this fault tolerance. Fault tolerant means I think here I showed you somewhere.

Yeah. So let's say um if uh your application got crashes um um from any any particular nodes instead of executing your application from the beginning you can resume the application uh from the same uh same crash point um itself. Okay, let's say node one your application got crashes. From node one itself you can execute your application. Okay, for this I will show you a practical demo.

I think after that you will be able to um understand. Then uh this persistent helps us to implement this hl that means human in the loop concept. Then there is another one called time travel. Okay time travel we'll also see the example itself. Now uh we have al already seen the shortterm memory example.

Uh even going forward also I'll use this concept in my application. Okay. Uh you already understood this concept. Now let's try to understand this fault tolerance like how we can resume the application whenever it got crashes. Okay.

So let's see the fault uh tolerance uh example. Um like I will show you a code example how it works. For this here I have taken uh this particular workflow. uh it's a like very uh basic dummy workflow I have taken I generated from uh this uh workflow uh from chart GPT. So here uh what I have done guys I have um uh taken actually three step one step two step three.

So what is fault tolerance? I told you fall tolerance means uh let's say uh at step two let's say you got crash okay crash your application. So instead of uh instead of running from the beginning whenever you you are resumeuming your application instead of starting from beginning so what you can do you can start from step two itself okay because I have all of the intermediate state data okay till uh step one so I don't need to execute from step uh uh sorry uh step uh from the first step again I will execute from step two okay so this is called fault tolerance so this example we'll try to see in a code example So here what I have done guys here uh manually just I have uh taken up uh like time I am using time module in Python and here I will wait for 30 seconds okay and in 30 seconds what I'm going to do I'm going to just do a manual keyboard interruption and I will just crash my application here okay and I'll show you how we can resume your application from step to itself okay that means wherever your application will get crashed from here itself it will try to uh from here itself it will try restart the application. Okay, this part I'll show you for this. What I have done guys, I have written a code u in Google Collab.

So why I'm writing in Google Collab? Because in my VS code uh I was not able to uh I was not able to interrupt this uh sale. Okay, it was taking lots of time that's why I have uh copied this code on my Google Collab. So I already connected the notebook and I will share this notebook with you guys. So here what I'm going to do guys I'm going to import all of the necessary library then here for this particular um um graph I have defined all of the state I need like I need input step one step two okay and I uh inherited with the type D then here I have defined all of the step one step two step three you can see all of the step I have defined step one step two step three only in step two guys here I am uh just taking this time dots sleep I will wait for 30 seconds.

Okay. And here I'm only just doing the print statement. I'm just doing like a step one executed and return the step. Okay. And update the state.

And step two only I'm just doing this uh waiting operation. 30 secondond will wait. And in between I'll just try to crash my um the cell. And step three also I'm just only doing the print statement. Okay.

This is a dummy code I generated from CH GPT. Now let's execute this cell also. Now here we are building the graph. As you can see we are taking the graph and we are adding all of the node one by one. Then we are doing the edge connection.

Okay, then we are taking the checkp pointer in memory saber. Then we are just compiling the graph and we're giving the check pointer. Done. Now here guys, uh in the t set block I am invoking my um you can see graph and I am just doing some print statement. Okay.

So you can see I'm giving um uh input is equal to start because here I told you we are only doing uh by very basic workflow execution. That's why I have just given some dummy value here. And here we are giving the trade also that means the configuration. I think you know in persistence you have to give that. Then in exception we are uh also printing kernel manually interrupt crash simulated.

Okay. Now let's execute. Now see it will wait for 30 second. In between I'll just try to um stop the kernel. Okay.

Now see kernel stop that means my application got crashed. Now if I show you my state as you can see uh step one done. Okay. Step one executed perfectly. Uh perfectly it's done.

Now whenever it was running a step two right there is nothing. You can see step two didn't completed because here it got crashed. Now I will rerun this particular workflow again and you will see that instead of running from the beginning step one it will run from step two. So again what I'm doing guys I'm invoking the graph and as of now the input I'm only giving this none. Okay.

Why I'm giving the none? Because uh if you're uh uh doing the fault tolerance instead of see previously I was giving my input but right now I want I don't want to start from the beginning. I want to start where it got crashed. That's why I have to pass the none. Okay then we are giving the trade again and we are giving the same trade.

Now let's execute. Now you'll see that it is running from the step two. As you can see it is not running from the step one. It is running from the step two. And after waiting for 30 seconds you will be able to see the final output.

Let me show you. 30 second you have to wait. Now see execution is done. Now we're getting the final step. You can see step two is also done.

Now if you want to see the state as you can see step one is done. Step two is also done. Okay. So that's how guys fault tolerance works with the help of this persistence. I hope you get it guys.

That's how you can resume. Okay, you can resume your any kinds of workflow whenever it got crashes in production. Okay, I hope you clear guys. Now let's try to understand this hit that means human in the loop. Uh like how persistent helps us to implement this human in the loop.

See uh for this u let's take a simple example and try to understand this one because I'm not going to show you as a code example for this human in the loop. I'm going to create a dedicated video. See let's say I want to generate a LinkedIn post okay or let's say Facebook post first of all I have to take a topic okay topic name from the user then it will go to the next um nodes it will basically generate let's say this uh Facebook post okay once it generated the Facebook posts then uh I want actually uh it will wait for the human verification let's say it will wait for the human verification let's say if I verify by post is completely fine. That time I'll give the permission just try to post this particular uh post to the Facebook platform. For this maybe we can use a API provider Facebook API provider and we can basically post this uh sorry here I will yeah uh basically here we we we can post this particular post on the Facebook.

So maybe I can draw it uh perfectly. So topic then Facebook post then here it will wait H I T L human in the loop then it will post this uh post this uh let's say post to the Facebook platform. Okay. Now you can see here uh whenever we'll try to build this workflow right whenever we try to build this workflow so that time user will give a topic name it's completely fine from the topic itself your Facebook post would be generated then here itself it will wait for the human verification okay here it will wait for the human verification so that time uh human can give this particular verification in 1 minute 30 seconds 1 day 2 day okay it doesn't matter or after 1 month also okay based on the user let's say uh choice user preferences Okay. So it's not like that your entire workflow should be running.

Let's say user want to give this uh uh permission after 2 days. It's not like that you have to run your entire workflow 2 days. Okay. And you have to wait for the user verification. Otherwise what will happen if you are continuously running uh you are ending up with like your hosting cost right?

I don't want that computation cost. I don't want that. So what will happen this uh fault uh sorry this persistence that means uh you have learned about this fault tolerance right so here basically fault tolerance concept would be applied that time automatically this particular uh execution would be interrupt okay interrupt it this execution would be interrupt interrupt would be it would be stopped okay then human will come and give the let's say feedback let's say he has accepted this particular post that time this workflow will again re-execute and instead of running from the beginning okay instead of running from the beginning what it will do it will start from here only that means the post is accepted now it will run the next workflow which is post okay the next note which is post instead of running from the beginning okay and how it is remembering because it has the persistence concept because all the intermediate data it has also saved okay so whenever it will get the new data that time from here only it will start the example I showed you right now fall tolerance it will work in the same way. Okay, I hope you got it guys. That's why this percentage is also required whenever you are using whenever you are imple implementing this hit concept that is human in the loop concept.

Okay, I hope you cleared. Now guys let's try to understand the last benefit uh which is time table. Okay. Uh the concept looks interesting uh even this is also interesting inside this um uh langraph uh inside the persistence. Let's try to understand what is time table exactly.

Okay. So see here I have already taken the code example. Uh I will just show you okay how things are working. So I think remember we just created this um this um um joke generator generator actually workflow right we created this joke generator workflow. So in tribe table actually what you can do uh you can actually uh go to the each and every um nodes and you can see their execution.

Okay. So here see let's say this is our workflow we created previously right now uh here I showed you all of the execution all of the snapshot all of the like state update right all of the intermediate and final now let's say I want to go to a particular um particular let's say checkpoint let's say I want to go in this particular checkpoint okay where I only pass the uh where I only pass the let's say topic is equal to cricket so what I will do I'll just do workflow get state And here you have to pass the configure configuration. So here this is was my uh trade two right that means configuration two. I'm passing my configuration two. That's why you're giving the trade two here because in configuration I was giving the trade two.

Then here you have something called checkpoint ID. So here you have to give the checkpoint ID. Now you can see every snapshot is having a checkpoint ID. So here if you just go right side here you can see the checkpoint ID. You just need to copy this checkpoint ID and you have to provide it here.

Okay. Once you do that now if you execute this okay you will be able to see that it will only return you that particular snapshot uh let's say output that particular state only okay now you can ask me why it is required and uh how it is helpful see whenever you are creating any kinds of complex workflow and you want to do the debugging operation that time this concept is required okay this thing you won't be using frequently whenever you want to perform some kinds of debugging you want to see each and every node execution that time this time travel you can use okay now you can see the exact same thing you are getting here. Now let's say I want to see the after that uh let's say this this uh snapshot. Okay. So I'll give this particular ID.

So if I go to the right side you will have the checkpoint ID. You just need to copy that and here I have already passed that. Okay. Now I already executed. You can see here I'm getting topic is equal to cricket and this is the joke and uh here I got the explanation.

Okay. Now if I show you the entire uh get uh state story. Now see initially it was four. Now two more uh snapshot is created because I did the time table. Okay.

So this is the first one. There I only got the uh topic and here is the second one. Okay. Now let's try to see another concept which is update state. Okay.

U like let's say here I'm having this particular node right and each and every node is updating some kinds of state right? Now if you want you can also manually update your state. Let's say your workflow has generated some state state. Okay. But you want to update let's say initially I have g given cricket topic is equal to cricket but right now I want to let's say debug with uh tennis.

Okay. So what I will do I'll just write uh workflow update state and here also you need to pass the configuration that means your trade ID and you have to give the checkpoint ID. Now let's say uh at the very first checkpoint this was the checkpoint right there I give it the cricket topic is equal to cricket. So I'll copy this uh checkpoint ID. Okay, I'll copy the checkpoint ID and you have to provide the checkpoint ID here.

Okay, after that here you have to pass the topic. Topic is equal to tennis I have given. Okay, this is a dictionary. Now if you execute, you will see that this particular uh state would be updated. Now if you again execute the workflow, now you'll see that another state would be created.

Now here topic is equal to tennis. Okay, so that's how you can do the debugging operation. If you want you can update your state even you can do the time travel through your entire state. Okay, this is also possible. And here I already updated your fall tolerance code in the same notebook itself.

Okay. So that you can copy paste in the Google collab guys. So yes guys this is the concept uh we have understood inside persistence and by this video itself you have now enough informations like how much persistence important uh importance uh is like whenever we are creating this kinds of agent application and how persistence is helping us without persistence actually what will happen. Okay, we have understood each and everything. Now I think you don't have any kinds of question.

Okay, that's why um in my first part guys, I added this persistence concept. I added this checkpointter concept. Okay, now I think this part is pretty much clear guys. Okay, so that's how guys we'll be implementing the chatbot um in detail. I will try to make this particular chatbot more advanced.

Okay, aentic chatbot more advanced. I'll try to add all of the concept one by one by explaining this kinds of concept separately. Okay. So we have created our basic uh skeleton basic uh agentic chatbot workflow. So here you can perform any kinds of chat operation right now.

So let's see if I uh give a message u generate a blog about let's say python. So if I send this prompt now see it is able to generate the block. Okay. So we have already created this kinds of uh skeleton this kinds of workflow like chat workflow and everything is working fine. Now in this video guys I'm going to um just deep dive into this streaming like what this streaming is and why it is required and we'll also try to understand if we don't use this kinds of streaming features inside our agentic chatbot or any other agentic application you are creating.

So what should be the issue? Okay. So guys uh we'll try to continue with our discussion of the streaming features inside uh agentic chatbot and if you are using langraph guys uh by default inside langraph the streaming features is available. Okay uh with the help of that you can easily create the streaming features. So for this you can go to the documentation of this langraph.

So there they have given some code example. Okay. But let me first of all show you my code example. Okay. Okay.

Then after that you can go through the entire documentation. Okay. And you can understand about the streaming. Okay. Yeah.

So guys see if I not using the streaming features. So how my chatbot will look like? First of all let me show you. So guys as you can see this is the code we have already written uh for this uh agentic chatbot. And this is our uh first initial workflow we have created.

Okay. Uh this is the chatbot workflow we have created. And here if you just go to the last part. So here I already discussed about the streaming. Okay, how to add the streaming features but yeah I think in the first part you might have uh some kinds of confusion like how we have added this particular stream uh stream features here.

So in this particular video I'm going to clarify each and everything then I think this would be more clear. Okay. So here what I'm going to do guys uh let me show you the non-streaming um like features first of all. So I think this code is also common. Initially I also created this code and you remember there I'm not using any kinds of streaming features.

Okay. So what I'm doing I'm just generating the response after that I was um like uh waiting for the entire response. Once I got the response I was just showing on the streamlit user interface. So if I execute this particular file let me show you. So I'll stop my app.py

and I will execute this nonstream.py. So I'll just write streamlit. Okay, streamlit run non stream.pfy.

Now if I hit enter, so this will load my application. Now here let's see if I give the same prompt generate a blog about okay about let's say I'll give um machine learning now see if I give this prompt now see here we have to wait right we have to wait uh till the execution now see so here I think you have observed uh we had to wait uh unless and until this output got generated here. Uh so let's say if you're generating uh some more uh let's say content here some more big content that time it will take some time maybe it can take let's say 30 seconds 60 seconds okay it depends upon your uh output or the prompt you are giving let's say you are running an agent and that that agent is taking time it is using some kinds of tool okay so uh in between actually it will do lots of work and you have to wait for the execution so this is not good right uh this is not good uh user experience. So if I open chart GPT okay if I open chart GPT in chart GPT if you give any kinds of prompt let's say I will give the same prompt in the chart GPT okay you'll see that chart GPT also will give you some kinds of streaming response see this is giving you streaming response one by one right and this is more interactive right this is more interactive because we don't need to wait for the entire execution to be completed okay whether it is using any kinds of tool whether it is uh doing the reasoning operation it doesn't matter But I'm able to see my output token by token. Okay.

So this is good user experience here. But inside this particular application this is not good experience. So if I uh give this kinds of prompt so what is happening? It is taking some time. Right.

That's I'll give right now deep learning. See it's taking lots of time. So this is not a good experience. Okay. So that's why streaming features is required.

Okay. Streaming features is required. Now let's try to understand what is streaming exactly and why it is important inside our application development. So guys first of all let's try to understand uh what is streaming. So here I have already written a definition in LLM.

Streaming means the model start sending tokens uh that means word as soon as they they are generated instead of waiting for the entire response to be ready before returning it. Okay. See what happens whenever we are using any kinds of large language model, it generates the output as token by token or word by word. Okay. So whenever let's say we invoke any kinds of large language model, let's say this is our LLM and we are giving some kinds of prompt here and we get a response here.

Okay. So what you can do either you can get this response in one shot that means you have to wait uh for the entire output to be generated. Okay for this we use something called invoke function. Okay invok function I think you already know that we are using okay so far. So inbox what it does it will wait for the entire output to be generated but llm will try to generate the output as token by token.

Let's say it is generating something. So first of all uh one token will come then another token will come another token will come okay that's how it will complete the entire execution okay that that's how it will complete the entire execution then you will be able to see the response but in streaming actually what we do we use something called stream function instead of uh invoke we use dot stream function uh this is already default inside lang graph whenever we are defining any kinds of graph object right and uh you remember we we are doing the invoking operations. So instead of invoking operation we have to perform dot stream operation. So if you do dot stream operation so what will happen that time you will be getting this particular output as a token by token or word by word as soon as they are generated. Okay.

Instead of waiting for the entire response to be ready before returning it. Okay. So this is what actually your streaming is. I think you already saw inside chart GPT. Okay.

Chart GPT it was generating token by token. Let me show you again. So maybe I can give another prompt. So I'll give let's say generate a blog about deep learning. Now see it will generate the output token by token.

You can see token by token it is generating. Okay. Now I think this uh definition is pretty much clear. Now let's try to understand uh why this uh streaming is required. Okay.

You can see the first point faster response time and low drop off rates. Okay. I think by this uh point itself you can understand what I'm trying to say uh faster time time uh uh response time is let's say whenever I'm using any kinds of chatbot let's say I'm using chat GPT okay I'm using chart GPT or any other thing u so there I definitely need a faster response so if it is not giving faster response that time like uh I won't be getting interest right to use this particular application because nowadays time is expensive Okay, time is expensive and and nowadays people don't have that much of time so that they will wait for the entire execution. Okay, that is taking 1 minute to run. So they don't have that much of time.

They will wait and they will get the uh let's say entire output. Okay, so they need a faster response. So definitely faster response is required whenever you are creating any kinds of application whether you are creating chatbot whether you are creating AI agents okay anything you are creating faster response is required otherwise what will happen there would be a drop off rates okay drop up rate means people will leave your application okay let's say if it is taking 1 minute to run so definitely I'll leave your application okay I'll leave your application I will look for some other application which can give me faster response so that's why uh if it is faster response time that means low drop off rates. Okay, low drop of rate means people will not leave your application. They will be continuously using like chart GPT people are using Delhi, right?

Because it is having the faster response because of the streaming features. Okay, we know that LLM takes some time to generate the entire output. But we have to handle it smartly instead of waiting for the entire let's say output to be generated. Whatever token it is generating okay one by one we'll show to the user so that they will see something in the screen. Okay, this is what we have understood in the first point.

Now the second point you can understand guys mimics the human-like conversation, build trust, feel alive and keep the user engaged. Okay, see whenever you are doing any kinds of conversation with any kinds of agent or chatbot or whatever you are doing the conversation. So definitely uh there some kinds of engagement should be there. Let's say if this application is taking 1 minute to run, right? and you have to wait for the execution.

So definitely I can't tell this is like a human-like conversation. Let's say you are talking with someone. Let's say this is you. Okay, this is you and this is someone. You are talking with someone, right?

And if you're asking something and let's say this person is taking 1 minute to give you the response. So definitely you will not feel like uh interest, you will not feel engaged. Okay, you will uh you will not be able to build a trust with that particular person. Okay. Uh I can give you another example.

Let's say I think you know uh nowadays people are using lots of uh uh hardware assistant right hardware assistant means like Amazon Alexa. Amazon Alexa then Google Home Mini. Okay Google Home many people are using that right? So this is kinds of personal assistant system and what we do we use this particular assistant system so that we can speak with uh them right speak with them and we can uh do lots of task. Now let's see if you are talking with your uh personal assistant, you are talking with your let's say Google Home Mini.

Okay, you are talking with your Google Home Mini and let's say it is giving you the response after 1 minute. So definitely you will not feel engaged, you will not u feel alive, you will not feel uh like uh you are not going to build a trust okay with that particular device. So that's why mimic human like conversation it is required. So whenever I will talk with uh my let's say bot or let's say agents so I'll feel like okay I'm talking with the human okay instantly I'm getting the response and the response is engaging as well okay like chat GPT if you u if you're using chat GPT I think you know that this um engagement then alive trust is super important right and we we found inside that particular chatbot right that's why we are using continuously so that's why this is super important then important for multimodel UIs okay so Whenever you are using multimodel and you are creating a user interface so this is also required there. Okay.

Sometimes you will be generating some kinds of image and whenever you are generating the image that time you can show like we okay we are generating the image we are taking this particular let's say color or there should be a image window continuously it will tell okay we are generating something. That's why you have to show something. Streaming means you have to show something on the screen. Okay? Instead of uh just keep waiting the user here.

Then better UX uh uh UX for long output such as code. So whenever you are generating any kinds of code, let's say you created a agent that generates the code. So instead of waiting for the entire code generation, you can uh show the streaming. Okay? Like it is uh importing, it is defining the model, it is creating the architecture.

So one by one you can show it here. Okay. So this is another user experience we get. Then you can see uh you can uh cancel midway savings uh tokens. That means whenever let's say you are uh chatting with your agents or chatbot and uh you are generating a long form content right and let's say you found uh some kinds of content useful and you don't need uh um like uh the remaining content.

So what you can do you can stop you can cancel the midway execution uh to save the token because what happens whenever LLM generates the output it generates as a token right and whenever you're using any kinds of provider let's say open AI or Gemini it charge based on the tokens like how much token you are giving as an input and how much token your model is returning as an output okay to based on the token count it will charge you so let's say I don't need uh some unnecessary information So definitely I can uh stop the execution and I can save my tokens. Okay, this is only possible whenever you are adding these kinds of streaming features. So if you are adding like one short oneshot output that time this is not possible. Okay, then you can inter uh interl UI updates uh uh example show thinking show tool result okay etc. So whenever we'll be creating any kinds of agents so definitely it will be using tools right and whenever it is using tools that mean uh that execution will take some time.

First of all tool will be executed and this will fetch the uh informations then it will pass to the LLM. So it's taking some time right that time instead of waiting I can show something in the user interface. Let's say it is right now using this particular tool and uh this tool is uh facing this kinds of information. Okay I can just show this kinds of output to the user so that user feels like okay now my uh application are using some kinds of tools uh so that it will generate the final outputs. user will wait but if it is if you are not showing that so what will happen user will think like okay my application got hang so definitely they will leave your application okay so that's why this streaming is super important and we need the streaming whenever we are getting this kinds of agentic system guys now we have already understood this uh streaming now let's try to understand through the code although I have showed you the code uh implementation before so let me show you so this is the code implementation I showed you but in this video let me show you how things are working.

Okay, how we are adding this kinds of streaming features. So for this uh I think you know we have already written this um aentic chatbot back end. So in the back end I already created the entire workflow. So this is our workflow we created and this is our chatbot object we created. Okay, this is the graph.

So what I can do maybe I can uh show you uh I will create another file. Let's say I'm going to name it as test.py. So inside that I'm going to first of all import my uh import my chatbot from agentic back end. So from agentic chatbot back end we are importing chatbot.

Now see if I'm not using this uh uh if I'm not using u like uh streaming that time I was using inboke. I think you remember I was using inboke and we also need to import this library as well. Yeah. Human message and base message we have to also import H. So let me check again.

Then I I need to also pass the configuration as well. So let me copy the configuration. Config should be also passed here. So I'll also import the define the configuration because we're using persistence here. Okay, we have to pass the trade and everything.

I think you know that. Now we'll try to replace with that. Yeah. Now this is the code guys. So basically we are using inboke here and if you're using inboke so that means you have to wait for the entire execution to be completed.

Let me show you now. Let's say if I stop the execution. Python test.py Now see uh we have to wait for the execution. Maybe I can show you with another question.

Generate a blog about Python programming. Now you'll be able to observe. Now see okay you have to wait for the entire execution. So this is not good. Okay now we have to add the streaming features here.

So here instead of using invoke uh we'll be using dot stream. So you can write like that chatbot dot stream. Okay stream. Now stream uh takes some argument. uh first of all you have to provide uh the message okay I'll try to provide the message yeah I'll try to provide the message uh now let's say I'll give the same message generate uh block line graph or let's say machine learning.

Okay, this is the message. Now the second parameter you have to provide the configuration. Okay, and the third uh parameter you have to provide uh the stream mode. Okay. Now there are multiple stream mode are available.

If I go to the documentation as you can see we have update values messes. Okay, custom. Uh so here I want to print the message only. So that's why I'll be using stream mode is equal to message. Okay, because I want to show show my message streaming.

Okay, whatever um output I'm getting from my lm, I want to show show this. Okay, that's why we're using this. Now, once it is done, now if I let's say um show you the result. See this stream will return two things. One is the message chunk.

Okay, message chunk that means the token. Okay, token output and it will also give you some kinds of metadata. Okay, metadata. But I don't need the metadata. I only need the message chunk and metadata.

Okay, so basically this returns a generator object. Let me show you. So I'll give you example response. Now if I print the response. Now if I execute this code python test.py.

So this will give you a generator object as you can see. Okay. Stream generator object. And you already studied inside Python. If we are getting the generator object, I can use any kinds of iterator to get the output.

And what is the iterator? We can use for loop here. Okay. Uh for loop will try to iterate the output one by one here. Okay.

Instead of getting everything in one shot, it will take one by one. So for this I will just write a for loop. So now I can write like that. Instead of uh going through the response, maybe I can write the for loop here only. I think that would be amazing.

So for uh it will return two things I told you. One is the message chunk and it will return the metadata. Okay. In chatbot stream okay now I'll give this one H. Yeah.

Now here I'll just write a condition if uh let's say message message chunk message chunk um dot content okay I will extract the content only okay if there is a content sorry content content I'll just try to print this content so print message chunk dot content. Okay. And here I will give some other parameter like end is equal to this empty string and uh and I will give this splash is equal to true. Okay, these two things you have to give. If you check the documentation, they have written the same thing.

Okay, now let me show you how this output would be generated. Now I again I'll execute my test.py. Now see it is giving you token by token as a streaming output. Okay, I think you saw the difference and that's how we can um implement the streaming features inside lang graph.

Okay, I hope you cleared. Now the same thing uh you have to also do in the user interface because user interface uh we created this should also show as a streaming output and how we have done guys uh I think I already written the code. Let me show you. See it is available in the app.py.

So here is the code guys. Okay, we written already. Now we are using something called um this one write stream here from streamllet we're using write stream. So if you go to the streaml documentation as you can see stream it has having a chat element. So it is having multiple chat element like chat input chat message start container and there is another one called write stream.

Okay. If you see the right stream so they have already written like how to um actually write this particular use this particular right stream. Okay. So we are using this write stream here. Let me show you.

We're using this write stream. So inside that we have written the same code. We are um instead of doing the invoking operation, we're doing the streaming operation. We're giving the input config and stream. And we are running the for loop.

It is returning two things. Message chunks and metadata. We are only taking the message chunks. Okay. And once we got the message trans what we doing guys we are just writing the stream on the uh streaml streaml user interface and once everything is done we are updating inside this uh message story inside uh streaml session state.

Okay this is a simple code we have written now I think this code is clear guys. Okay how I have written. So I think many people has the confusion how these things are working. Now I think this is clear. Now let me show you the final execution.

I will clear I'll run my app.py. So streaml run app.py. So this is our app.

Now I'll give generate generate let's say code for image classification in Python. Now see okay see streaming output we are getting. So yes guys uh this is all about from this video. I hope you got it. Uh what is the streaming and why it is required and why we have implemented inside our chatbot.

So if you check my uh agentic chatbot guys so far we implemented u till here. So here we can perform any kinds of chat operation right now. Okay. And uh you can see it's working and it is also giving you some kinds of streaming response like charge GPT right. So in charge GPT what happens guys?

Uh in charge GPT you can resume your conversation with your old trades. Let's say I did some kinds of conversation previously. I can continue anytime. These are the conversations. So let's say this was my previous trades right?

So if I open this particular trades I'll be able to see all of my conversation story. Okay. And I can uh resume my chat from here only. Okay. I can resume my chat from here only right now like that I can go to any another trades let's say I will go to this uh the this trades okay so from here only I can do my conversation so this is called trading okay with the help of this trading we can separate out uh each and every topic let's say message okay let's say right now I want to do a conversation related uh uh let's say deep learning let's say I need another uh new session for another topic.

Let's say I want to do the conversation regarding let's say NLP. It's like that. Okay. Instead of doing all of the conversation in a single trade in a single session, you can create multiple trades. Okay.

And you can do the conversation anytime. You can come here, you can see the older conversation as well with a different different trades. But this kinds of feature is not available inside our agentic chatbot. So in this video what I'm going to do guys I'm going to implement this particular features so that uh you can also get your older trades uh and you can also see all of the uh old trades conversation as well and anytime you can continue your conversation from there only. Okay.

So these kinds of features we'll try to add in this particular agentic chatbot in this video. So make sure guys you watch this video till the end. don't miss anything and if you found this content useful please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like and please try to share it with your friends and family. So instead of talking too much guys let's start the implementation and I'm going to show you how we can add this trading features inside this agentic chatbot. So guys before starting the development first of all I want to show you the final result final demo uh like what are the uh features we are going to add in this particular agentic chatbot.

So as you can see we already added this uh trading features inside our aentic chatbot. Previously uh it was a simple chatbot only. Okay there we didn't have any kinds of uh trading features like uh I can't see my older trades right uh it was not there but in the new update as you can see here we have added a separate section. So from here only you can go to your previous conversation. So let's say here I'm doing a conversation.

Let's say I'm asking what is Python, right? Uh let's say I will ask my name is Buppy and I'll tell what is Python. Now you can see Python is a highle programming language and blah blah blah. Now if I ask what is my name? Now it is telling your name is BP.

Okay. So this is a conversation we have done in this particular trades. As you can see we are using uh unique uh uh ID right to save this particular uh conversation story in this particular trades. Now what you can do like the chart GPT you can start a new conversation here. So I will click on new chart.

Now see it will give me a completely new traits here. Now here if I ask what is my name? Okay what is my name? You'll see that I'm sorry I'm a assistant. I do not have access your personal information.

Now if I ask my name is Alex. what is ML? Now see it is giving you the response. Now if I ask what is my name? Now it will tell your name is Alex.

Okay. Now see this this particular conversation is completely separate from your previous conversation. Now I can go to the previous conversation anytime. Okay. Where I did like my name is By what is Python?

Now here I can continue the conversation. Let's say now I'll tell I want to see hello world program. Now see it is giving you the hello world program because we did the conversation related Python. Okay. And here we are doing the conversation uh with the uh help of Buppy.

Okay. So here Buppy is doing the conversation. Now even I can go to my previous conversation as well. So this is my previous conversation. This one my previous conversation.

Now here you can anytime uh resume the conversation. Let's say um how it helps in AI. See how machine learning helps in AI. It is uh telling you each and everything. Okay.

So that's how you can create different different trades and you can see your older conversation as well like chart GPT. So chart GPT does the same thing. It also using trading concept and every time whenever you are doing the chatting operation it is continuously saving your conversation history in a one particular trades and you can uh start new conversation anytime but the older conversation will remain same. Okay. So this kinds of thing guys we have added inside this particular agentic chatbot.

Now throughout the entire video I'm going to show you the implementation part. So guys uh this was our uh previous code we have already written. So as you can see this was our previous app and it doesn't have any kinds of uh uh trading related uh uh code although I added the trading as you can see I added the trading but it was hardcoded. So only I was using trade one for all the conversation. Okay that's why this application was simple.

Now I'm going to use the same code and we'll be writing the trading features inside this agentic chatbot. So what I can do instead of uh giving the name to app.py maybe I can give another name just for your reference. So let's say u um whenever you want to refer this particular simple code only that time you will be able to get this code from here. Okay.

So I can also replace the code in my uh app.py pi but uh uh I think you won't be able to get the previous uh code that time. So that's why I'm going to create a new file. So first of all, let me rename it. So this is let's say simple app.

Okay, this is simple app we created. Now I'm going to create another file. I'm going to name name it as app uh trade. Okay, that means uh this uh code has the trading uh trading code. Okay, trading related code, trading related features.

Now what I can do, I can copy the same code as it is here. Okay. Yeah. And here this back end code will remain same. The back end code we have written this code will remain same here.

You don't need to change anything. The change would be applied in the front end part only. Okay? because in the back end we are only returning the chatbot uh this uh graph object. Okay.

So here what I'm going to do guys first of all I need some more library. So let me import. So I need u so here I need u u id. So with the help of this u u id I'll try to generate unique ID so that I can separate out my each and every trades. Okay instead of doing the hard coding.

So every time I will generate a unique ID and I'm going to create my trades. Okay. uh first I'm going to create uh one function that will generate unique uh unique uh ID okay unique user ID because every time I need this unique user ID for this particular trading right I already showed you that part so for this let's create a function so this is the function guys I have already created yeah so this function what it does it u generates unique ID uh unique user ID every uh whenever you will execute this function it will give you unique user ID. So after getting this unique user ID uh what I want to do guys I want to um I want to add this uh unique ID inside my trades. Okay.

So for this u I can create another function um called add trades. So what this add trades will do uh basically it will add a new trades ID to the conversation list. Okay. So basically this will get the trade ID and where you will get the trade ID we will get from this particular function. First of all it will check this trade ID it is available in the session state or not.

Okay that means uh stream session state or not. Uh we'll try to save uh with the help of this chat traits um like key. So if it is not there it will uh try to set my uh trade ID the trade ID it will generate. Okay. So this is a simple function we have created because whenever you will try to initialize your application for the first time there it won't be having any kinds of chat trades right so that time one new trades should be created completely new trades should be created and it will try to append there and with that particular trades only we'll do the conversation then later on if user wants they can create the trades okay as per their requirement now you can see this uh chat trades is not available uh So we have to also create that.

So if you just go below. So I think remember we created um message story previously. So here only I'll try to add another one. So after message so we'll just try to write this uh chat threads. Okay.

As you can see if chat traits not in session state it will create a empty chat traits. Okay. And this will become a list. And right now we'll be able to we'll be able to um append that particular trades because now this chat trades session is created. Okay.

Here only I will also try to add the comments in my previous code as well. So that later on whenever you are uh revising this code I think it would it will be helpful for you. Okay. By seeing the comments only you can understand what this code is doing. Okay.

You can see this uh this code actually creates the message story when the app runs for the first time. Okay, I already created previously I think you remember. So once it is done now let me uh add uh the user interface because if you go to the chat GP left hand side you will be able to see all of your uh conversation okay all of the threads. So we'll try to create the same thing here. So for this let me just create a sidebar first of all.

So here I'll just try to add a sidebar with the help of streamllet. So I already commented out this is that uh sidebar trading features display the sidebar title. So stidebar.title I just name it as my conversations. Now if I execute my code okay if I execute my code you will be able to see that.

system streamllet run uh app trade.py. Okay, this file we are executing. Now if I show you my code, so as you can see guys, this is our uh sidebar we created. So anytime you can open and close it uh like the chart GPT chart GPT also has the same thing.

Okay, this is the sidebar. Now here only we'll be adding our trading. Okay. So for this uh let me just uh show you my updated code what I have done. Um I can show you step by step.

I think that would be uh best. So what I can do I can just uh quickly show you. So I'll just uh remove these are the code. Okay. My old code and I'm going to show you my updated code.

I think that would be amazing. I'll just try to remove all of the code. [clears throat] So, first uh we'll be adding some utility functions. First of all, generate uh trade ID. I already told you it will generate the trade ID every time.

And another function I have written uh this will basically add the trade ID where to the session state. Okay. But we have to create the session state. So, let's create all the session state. I'll just try to add all of the session state.

So this is my message story session uh session state and this is for my chat uh session state. Okay, chat traits. Okay, that mean this this one. and um um I'm going to create a sidebar here. Sidebar here.

Okay. So, this is my sidebar. Now, if I go to my application again, if I refresh now, see it looks like that. Okay. Don't worry about this chat input feature.

I'm going to add it. Uh just let me update my uh this code first of all, then I'm going to add. Okay, that that will remain same like we did the previously. Right now, what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to add a new button here. So, I think you remember chat GP also has a button.

If you click on this new chat button, it will start a new conversation for you and you will be able to see the old uh trades as well. So, these kinds of features we'll try to add here. So, this is the code. I'm going to tell you about this reset chat what this reset chat will do. But let's try to understand.

Uh see this uh creates a button for starting a new conversation. So there would be a button stidebar dot button new chart. And if you click on new chart, see what will happen in chart GPT. Let's say uh let's say I'm inside a trades. Let's say I'm inside this particular trades.

Okay, I'm inside this particular trades. Now once I click on new chart, you'll see that one new window will come and all of the previous chart history will be clean up. Right? So for this kind uh this reason I'm also going to write a function called recent reset chat. So whenever user will take the new chat all of the previous conversation would be removed.

So for this let's create another function here. I'm going to name it as um reset chat. So after this function maybe I can add okay reset chat. So what it it is doing you can see uh first of all it will u basically generate a new trade id with the help of this function and it will store in the trade ID. The trade ID uh we created uh session state I think session state trade ID is not created.

So let me create it quickly. So this is my trade ID. Okay. If trade ID not in session state uh it will create a trade ID and it will take a trade ID from this particular function. Okay, unique trade ID.

Now it is resetting and uh what it is doing it is uh setting a new trade ID. Then after that all of the message would be empty. We you can see we are giving empty list. Then after that we are adding this particular trade ID in my session state. Okay, you can see we are using this add trade function and we are adding this trade ID the current trade ID in the session state because whenever I'm inside this particular trade okay I'm inside this this particular trade so all of the conversation should be saved in this particular trades only that's why this thing we are doing so every time we have to track this trade trade ID all right now uh let's say if I go to my application if I refresh now you'll be able to the uh see this new chat.

Okay. Now, if I click on this new chat, so it will basically run this code. It will basically run this code and all of the recent uh uh I mean recent conversation would be removed. Okay. And uh uh we have to write this st.

If you are doing the reset chat operation, this is recommended. So basically this this will uh return the streaml app to update uh update the interface. Okay. So basically what is happening uh whenever you are doing this uh new chat operation it is resetting after getting the resetting operation it is giving you the new window. Okay.

So whenever you are getting the new window st. Return. Okay. This is recommended. If you check the documentation, you'll be able to see that.

Okay. Now let's try to add the chat feature. Uh I'll just try to add the updated chat feature. So I already written the code guys. Let me show you.

So this is the code and this is the same code guys. Uh only just few update I have done. So here we're taking a chat input from the user. Okay. And whenever user is giving their input, first of all we are appending to the message story.

The same thing we did our uh previous code as well. So message story. Uh after that uh we are setting this is a user conversation and content is user input. Okay. And why we are doing this?

Because I want to save my conversation story and this is the format to save the conversation story. First of all, you have to define uh what is the role of this conversation. This is user and what is the content of that. Okay. After this, we are showing this conversation in the streamlit user interface.

For this, we're taking a chat message. I think remember there would be a um there would be a icon. Okay. User icon. So, we are setting that this is a user icon and this is the user conversation.

Okay. And here guys, we are defining the configuration right now. Okay. This is the persistence configuration. This is the trading configuration.

Config is equal to configurable. Now trade ID is equal to ST dot session state trade ID. Now we are not taking the hardcoded trade ID. Instead of that see previously we are taking the hardcoded trade ID. We are only giving trade one.

But right now there would be a multiple trade. User can create the trades right. So we are taking it from the session state and already session state we have created here. The session state it is already created. Uh session state uh what is that?

Yeah, s state trade ID. Now I think trade ID it is available. Yeah, you can see trade ID is available. And how we are getting the trade ID? It is generating by the UI ID.

Okay, from here only it is getting generated. Okay, I hope you get it now. Yeah, from here actually we are showing the user uh sorry assistant message. As you can see we are taking this S3 uh chat message. Uh we are taking this is assistant reply.

After that we are uh taking the write stream function. I told you in my previous video how stream it streaming works right how we can show the streaming response. So inside that we are generating the responses from our chatbot object. The chatbot we have imported from the back end. Okay as you can see this is the same code guys there is no chance we are using after that whatever message chunk we are getting we are continuously uh writing with the help of write stream function.

Okay. And here we're passing the configuration and we are giving stream mode is equal to masses. Okay. And here we're getting one u suggestion. I have to import this AI message.

So let's import it quickly. I'll just try to import this AI message after human message AI message. Okay. Because this streaming response should be AI message here. Okay.

That's why I'm telling if is instance message chunk if it is like message chunk that means we are getting AI AI reply right so that's why telling this should be IM message so this will only uh show the IM message here then we are saving the complete assistant response in this stream session state in the message story so this code is common I think you already know that yeah this is pretty much clear so after uh this uh part is done guys now what I'm going to do I'm going to simply execute my app. Refresh. Now see guys, you are getting this window. Now if I do the chat operation, let's say hi. See, I'm getting the response.

Now I'll tell my name is puppy. Now see previous uh message is getting replaced because I haven't added this code here. I think remember previously also I added this code and this uh loading the conversation history. Okay, we have to load the conversation story every time. So let's load that before the user input.

So every time it will load the conversation story message and it will uh write in the stream that user interface as a uh human role and assistant role. Okay, because we are running a for loops every time it will looping through the role. First of all user role will come then assistant role then user role then assistant role and their content. Now let me refresh and again try. So hello my name is Buffy.

Okay. Now nice to meet you Buffy. Now see we are able to see the previous conversation but right now what I have to do so let's say if I click on a new chart okay new chart will is coming okay it's completely fine but I am not able to see my older chart that means older trades so now we'll be adding the code related older trades so you can also see the older trades so what I can do guys u I can show you my updated code I already created for this here I can write So this is the code guys I have written display all the conversation trades in reverse order and why I have to uh show in the reverse order. See every time what is happening if you create new trades right? If you create new trades so your uh your u new trades is coming uh new trait is coming at the last.

Okay. Because by default Python will add this new traits at the last. Okay. But if you see if I click on new trades every time this new trade should be coming at the recent chart okay at the first uh first uh let's say order. So that's why we are reversing the order.

So if my new chart is getting added at the last if I do the reverse operation that means from the last it will come at the first. Okay I think you understood that's why we're doing the reverse order operation. So this is a list we are just doing the reverse order operation because in this session state we have the chat traits. Okay, in this session state we have the chat trades and this is a list and it will continuously add at the last. Okay, let's see if you click on the add new.

So new chat will add here. New chat will add here, right? And this has your old chat also. But this will show at at the last but I don't want to see at the last because whenever I'm doing the new conversation I want to see in the recent chat operation that means it will come at the first. Okay, that's why we have to do the reverse operation.

So if you perform the reverse operation what will happen this new chat will come here right now okay before the old chat and with the help of that I will be able to make it in the recent conversation. So this is why we are doing this one just a minute let me so this is why we are adding this particular code. So it is going through the entire uh chat trades and uh here we are giving a button because this should be also a clickable object. If I click on this particular traits, it will be able to show my conversation. Okay, that's why we are making it as a button.

ST dot sidebar button. So button uh name should be trade ID only. Even you can also uh you can also uh give any message name if you want. Okay, if you want you can also add any message name and uh the key should be trade ID. So once uh button creation is done, we are again saving this trade ID in our current trade because this is the current trade user will do the conversation and we'll load all of the conversation in this particular traits because if you click here see if I click here it is loading all of the conversation I did previously okay from my memory.

So I will write a function for this called load conversation. So basically this will load all the previous conversation here. So after this uh reset chat maybe I can write this function. So load conversation this will take the trade ID and I think you remember uh from the uh langraph graph we get the state. Okay.

If you call this get state function, it will give you all of the all of the previous conversation. If you want to understand this guys, you have to go through this particular session because here I already explained each and everything. So that's why I'm not going to repeat it again. So this get state function will return you all of the previous conversation. So we are taking all of the conversation and we are only getting the messages.

Okay, from the value itself, we're only getting the messages. Okay, so this particular messages will show here. Then we are taking a empty list here. Then we are going through the messages one by one. Then we are trying to separate out the u user conversation as well as the assistant conversation.

Okay. So we we are using is instance uh function for this. If you pass any message uh it will automatically tell you whether it is human message or let's say AI message. If it is human message role should be set to the user otherwise role should be set to the assistant. Then after that we are adding inside my temporary message list all of the conversation as a role and content.

Then after that we are just updating in my session state and it is uh showing you in the user interface. Okay. Then again we are doing the return operation. Now let me show you. So if I let's say come here refresh.

Now see uh if I do any kinds of conversation if I take a new chat now see guys new new chat is getting created and I can see my previous conversation as well. Now let's see if I do another conversation. Hi done. Now I can go to my previous conversation. See I can go to my previous conversation.

This is the new conversation. This is previous conversation. Okay. So we have added this particular code. And I'm also able to see my conversation history.

Let's see if I've done any kinds of previous conversation. I can see the history because of this code. Okay. This is continuously uh where is that this function load conversation. this loop conversation is continuously fetching the informations because we're running a for uh running a for loop here.

Okay. So every time uh this uh message is getting fetched and one more update we have to do uh every time we have to set the current trade to the conversation list. Okay, for this we'll try to add this particular code. Okay, now I think my application is ready. This is a simple uh code we have written only.

We're just playing with the trade. Okay, trade ID and for this we're using UI ID. We can also make it as a u readable title like chart JP. Chat GPT actually generates readable title uh uh title. So if you are asking any kinds of question, it will generate title instead of giving a trade ID.

We can also do do this particular update. It is also possible. Now let me refresh my app. Okay. So this is the app.

My name is BBY. Okay. So basically this conversation is getting saved inside this particular trade. Okay. In this particular trade it is saving.

Now I love cricket. Okay. Now if I take new conversation now it is coming as a new uh new session again and this particular session is coming at the first and previous was a previous one it is going at the last because we are doing the reverse operation. Now here I'll tell my name is Alex. I love football.

Okay. Now I go I can go to my previous conversation and here I can resume the conversation. What is my uh what is my favorite sport. Okay you can see cricket is the favorite sport. Now I can go to my current trade and here also I can ask what is my name?

Your name is Alex. Okay. So that's how you can create as much as trade as you can. What is transformers? Okay.

So this is uh telling you about the movie but I can ask what is transformers in AI? Okay, now it is telling you what is transformers in AI. Okay, so that's how guys uh like chart JPT we created the trades. Now we can switch to different different trades and I can resume the conversation. So yes guys, that's how we can add this trading features uh like chart JPT.

Now if you want you can also change this name to the actual let's say chat title. If you want you can also add inside this code. So I'll try to u give this part uh as an assignment to you. Maybe you can uh add this functionality in this code. Okay, simply you can go to the chat GPT and you can ask uh I want this particular features how should I add?

You'll be getting the suggestion. Okay, so just try to add uh this update instead of showing you this uh you uh uh unique user ID maybe you can show chat title like chat GPT the way chat GPT shows okay you can also add this particular things. So we have already integrated this uh chat trading. Uh now we are able to uh continue the conversation uh with our previous chat as well. That means right now I can separate out my uh chat trades.

I can create a new conversation. I can continue with my old conversation like chat GPT. So yeah we have already added this uh trading features. So what will happen right now? Let's say if I continue any kinds of conversation.

Let's see here I will give hi my name is BP. Okay. So as you can see it is giving you response uh nice to meet you BP how I can assist you today. Now let's say I want to create a new chat like chat GPT. So what I will do I'll just click on new chat and you can see one new trade has created.

Okay, new um conversation has created. Now here I will tell hi my name is Alex. See hello Alex how I can assist you today now I can go to my previous conversation where I told my name is BPI even I can continue with my um the current conversation I did right so that's how you can create as much as session you can okay but I think you have observed one thing uh which is if I refresh the application okay let's say if I refresh the application so see my previous conversation is getting erased. Okay, previous conversation is getting removed. So whenever you are refreshing, okay, whenever you are refreshing, that means your RAM is getting cleared.

Okay, and all of the conversation is getting erased. And if you close your application as well, let's say if I disconnect from my terminal, so what will happen uh from the RAM itself, it will be removed and again you will be able to see the new chat here. You won't be able to see the older conversation. This is the problem. So yeah uh today in this particular video guys we'll try to understand how we can add the database features inside the agentic chatbot uh so that uh whenever you are refreshing right your agentic chatbot uh you will be able to see the old conversation right now this is the problem.

So right now if you perform conversation with your chatbot and uh if you are creating different different let's say chat traits so if you refresh your application or if you close your application it will be removed from the RAM right so these kinds of things we have to fix. So that's how guys we'll try to add uh uh new features inside this agentic chatbot and we'll try to make this agentic chatbot more advanced and uh we'll be learning this particular project. Okay. So if you found my content useful guys please try to subscribe to my channel and please share it with your friends and family and please support me guys. Uh if you support me so definitely I will be bringing this kinds of content more okay on my channel.

So uh instead of talking too much guys, let's start with the implementation and uh here uh in this video guys, I'm going to show you how we can integrate database functionality in the persistence memory. So guys, I have already shared the source code with you. It is already available in the video description. So if you open up my previous code guys, I have already written this code as you remember. So there I uh tried to uh uh integrate this trading features inside our agentic chatbot and this is the code we have written right.

So this is the entire code and uh the change we have done in the front end uh because you can see this is the front end uh uh front end file and we had another file which is the back end. Okay, in the back end itself I had my um like let's say uh aentic chatbot back end. So here I created the chat node then the uh graph and ages. Okay, each and everything I initialized it here and I was returning as a checkpoint uh sorry chatbot uh graph object. So here uh if you see in this particular backend file here I was using this memory saver okay from the uh checkpoint check checkpo pointer lang graph checkpo pointer so I was importing lang graph dot checkpoint dot memory import in memory saver so if you're using this uh memory saver that means what is happening uh you are storing all of the conversation in the RAM and whenever you are refreshing or closing your terminal it is getting erased okay because RAM is a temporary memory now we have to make it as permanent okay For this we have to use some kinds of database.

Now if you visit this lang graph documentation lang graph documentation um uh you will be u you'll be finding like uh uh some database they are suggesting whenever you are creating uh this kinds of persistence memory. So uh if you check the langraph documentation there you will be getting some kinds of database like SQLite database they are suggesting. So skillite database when you can use whenever you are creating the prototype right as of now we are learning uh we are trying to implement this agentic chatbot. So we are in the learning phase maybe we can utilize the SQLite database because this is completely free to use and SQLite database actually basically it will create the instance inside your local storage. Okay.

But uh you can also utilize any production uh grade database like postgress is there then um some other database are also there. Okay, you can also utilize that. So going forward whenever we'll try to create production grade actually agentic uh chatbot uh that time I'll try to use these are the database but right now we are in the learning phase. So we'll try to use some kinds of prototype based database. Okay, I can utilize SQLite database because this is this would be lightweight for me and I don't need to take uh any kinds of subscription plan for that.

Right? So that's why I'll continue with the SQLite database. So if you uh go to the SQLite documentation SQLite documentation um so this is the SQLite documentation guys. So this is uh basically a database. Uh this is a database actually you can utilize uh with the help of python and uh if you're using this langraph guys lang graph also has the connection with SQLite.

Okay for this you have to install one library uh this library uh langraph checkpoint SQLite. Okay. So you have to install this particular library. If you install this library you will be able to use this SQLite uh with your langraph. You can also separately install this SQL light if you are only using Python programming that time separately you can utilize but here we want to utilize with the help of this langraph okay that's why lang graph connection is also there langraph SDK is also there someone I think has created this and published on the pi and we are able to use this um package inside our development okay if you check the langraph documentation guys uh here in the memory section as you can see add short-term memory that means this is the persistence memory as you can see short-term memory trade level persistence.

Okay. So here as of now we use this memory saber uh database uh sorry memory saber actually stories uh basically this stores your uh conversation in the RAM and uh you can see uh they are also suggesting for the production. So for production use either you can use postgrace a postgrace it is also production grade database and you can create a postgrace server either you can create a local uh server local host server either you can create a cloud-based servers okay so um any kinds of cloud you can set up this postgrace either you can use um like render either you can use uh AWS GCP anywhere you can set up this uh uh postgra server and you can connect with your langraph okay this is possible so uh That's how you can also use MongoDB. Uh you can also connect with MongoDB. You can also connect with radius.

You can also connect with Oracle. Okay, that's how it is having different different database connection. But whenever we are creating prototype, uh I think this SQL light is fine for us because we can u set up inside our um local storage only. Okay, I don't need to take any kinds of separate server for that. Okay, that's why I'm using this SQLite.

Uh so uh database doesn't matter. You can use any kinds of database. Uh anything will work. But only you just need to know the um like connection. Okay, integration how we can integrate the database.

Okay, right now I'm integrating the SQLite. Maybe you can also integrate any other database. Only you just need to get this connection string. Okay, let's see if you're uh setting up this database in a server. You just need to get this connection string.

Okay, if you get this connection string, you can check the documentation and you can copy this code and you can change it any time. Okay, it's up to you. So here the main change guys I have to do in the back end file because in the back end file I am using this memory saber and instead of memory saber I have to use my uh this one uh I have to use my um um database. Okay so for this uh I have to first of all install this library uh where is that uh yeah the install this library. So I'll copy this command or I can copy the name and I will add inside my requirements.

Now let's install it here install at requirement.txt. So for me it is already satisfied because I installed it previously but for you it may take some time. So once installation is complete guys uh I'll open up my backend file and in the back end itself I'll try to change that change that. So here what I'm going to do um I'm going to um should I change in the same file or should I create a new file.

uh if I change in the same file then you will be able to uh you won't be able to get the older code. So what I can do maybe I can't um I can create another file. Okay. So I'll create a same file. I'll just rename it aentic chatbot um back end here.

I'll just try to add DB back end. Okay, DB back end means uh it has the database integration. Okay. Uh that's how you will be able to see the previous code as well. Okay.

Yeah, I think this is fine. Now here uh instead of this memory saber, we have to import this uh SQLite saber. So from lang graph checkpoint here you have a uh class called SQLite. Okay. And instead of memory server, we have to import SQLite.

SQLite saber. Okay, SQLite saber. So you have to import that. So once it is done now, I'll just go below and uh here you can see I created a checkpoint object and I use this memory saber. Instead of memory saber, I will use my SQLite saber.

SQLite saber. Okay, this class. Now this SQLite saber takes a connection object. Now you have to initialize the connection object. Database connection object.

Basically you will be connecting with the SQLite uh database. So for this uh you have to import this SQLite library. import SQLite 3. Okay. SQLite 3.

So this is already available inside Python. Then after that here I will create a connection object. So to create the connection object guys uh you just need to initialize this SQLite 3. Then there is a function you have to call called connect. Okay connect and inside that you have to give a first parameter which is database.

You have to initialize the database. Okay. So here basically this SQLite creates the database object inside your local storage only. That means inside your project folder only it will create a database. Okay.

Uh it will create a DB file. So you have to give the DB file name. So here I'm going to name this file as chatbot DB. Okay. And uh here you have to give another parameter which is check same trade is equal to false.

Okay. Why we have to give this particular parameter? Because I think you remember we are using the trading concept, right? Tra uh chat trading concept. So every time uh user uh is creating separate trades and they are doing the conversation and uh by default actually scaleite doesn't support uh actually multi-rading that means you can't uh apply the trading uh you can't create a different trades in this Qite once you have created one particular session you have to continue uh the uh the same execution in that particular session only okay by default this parameter basically it's true right but if you make it as false then SQLite will try to give you the access for the trading concept.

That means you can do the multiple trading chart. Okay, that means you can store uh your checkpoint in a multiple trades. Okay, this will uh basically allow that particular option. That's why we have given uh check uh same trades is equal to false. Okay, I hope you cleared.

So this is basically here you will be getting a connection object. So I'm going to store inside a variable. Let's say this is connection object. Now this connection object you have to pass inside this SQL lightsaber. Okay, you have to pass inside this SQ lightsaber.

So once you have done that uh now you will be getting the checkpoint. Okay. Now this checkpoint is not a simple checkpoint. It will not store your conversation. It will not store your checkpoint inside the RAM.

Okay. Instead of that it will save the conversation or checkpoint inside a storage service inside a database storage which is chatbot DB. Although this storage service will create inside your uh computer storage only. But this is not storing inside a RAM. Okay.

it will store as a file and we know that unless and until we are not uh deleting the file this file will be available inside my computer. If I turn off my computer as well this file will remain same. Okay, this is the main benefit here. So once we have done that guys uh the same code you have to write here. Uh no need to change anything.

Now let me show you whether it's working or not. So here uh maybe I can test this file. So for this let's do the invoke operation. uh so here uh what I'm going to do guys I'm going to just uh do the invoke operation so response is equal to yeah so I have uh written like that so I just created a config because you know that we're using persistence memory and we have to pass the config whenever we're doing the invoke operation so here uh by default I have taken this default rate I have just done hard coding operation and we are invoking and we're giving the message hello how are you or let's say I'll just give uh my name is BP. Okay.

And we're passing the configuration and this will give you the response. We'll try to print that as well. Okay. Now see if I execute what will happen. Uh you'll be able to see one chatbot.

DB file would be created here. So Python um agentic chatbot DB backend, right? DB backend.py. If I execute, see chatbot.

DV has created and we are getting the response as you can see I given my name is BP and my AI message that means my uh agent has replied hello BP how I can assist you today and some other let's say metadata informations we are getting okay now you can see one uh chatbot uh DB has created you can also visualize that okay it is also possible for this you have to install one extension called SQite viewer SQLite VR. Okay, I have already installed this uh extension inside my VS code. Uh if you don't have just try to uh install that and you can see this is the um this is the publisher Florian uh clam clamper. Uh make sure you install the same version. Okay, once you have done that uh you just need to double click on this uh chatbot DB and you will be able to see this uh checkpoint.

It has saved in the memory as you can see uh sorry not memory in the database as you can see. Okay. Now you can see it has uh stored my trade uh checkpoint and this is the trade ID. Okay. We have given default trade as you remember we have given uh what is that chatbot back end.

Okay. Not this one. Yeah this one we have given the default trade. Okay. Now you can see default rate.

Now you can ask me why this uh three three time it is coming because as per our workflow guys the workflow we have created it has three checkpoint uh uh one checkpoint at the start uh start position uh second checkpoint in the uh chat node position and other one is the end position okay I think I already told you about this right uh in my uh this video uh persistence video I already told you about that right so please go through the persistence video if you don't understand the checkpointer concept like how many checkpointer uh would be available uh in which node it would be available each and everything I have discussed here. So here we are having uh three layer okay three layer inside uh this uh uh sorry three three node inside our uh agentic chatbot that's why three time this uh um checkpoint is getting created and all of the checkpoint ID as well as the checkpoint uh some meta information is also available okay and if you want to see the checkpoint guys directly you can click here so if I click here you'll be able to see the data now this data uh it stores basically in a binary format it's not readable properly but I think some of the message you can still able to understand like my name is BP okay I have given uh now let me show you whether it is able to uh store my checkpoint inside my database or not so let's say if I re-execute my um back end uh whether I will be able to see my old uh old conversation or not let's say I given my name is BP okay so this uh uh this checkpoint would be available or not okay so For this maybe I can just give a separate name here. Let's say Alex I will give. And uh what you can do you can also change the trade ID if you want. Let's say I will give default trade one.

Okay. Now if I reexecute my back end. Okay. Now if I open my database um I have to refresh this. Okay.

Now see another trade got created and still my previous trade is available here. Okay, previous trade is available and in the response also you can see my name is Alex and this is a separate trade it is coming. Okay, so that's how guys we have seen it is able to store my checkpoints. It is able to store my conversation inside my database. Okay, amazing.

Now uh this is ready. Now we have to add uh we have to integrate this thing inside our front end app. Uh because right now we tested inside the back end file only but I have to add inside my front end. So what I'm going to do guys I will open up my front end. So this is the front end uh app trade or maybe I can create another same file.

I'll just try to copy and paste and I'll just rename it app uh DB. Okay. So with the help of that you can understand um like this is uh this is actually database, this is trading, this is simple app. Okay. You can understand.

So DB means this this has the uh database uh actually update. Now see here you don't need to change uh uh I mean um uh in in all the code only just change you have to do uh here in the chat uh uh chat traits okay so whenever I was uh actually creating this uh session state in the uh streaml right there I was uh using simple list only okay and whenever you are using simple list that time what is happening if I am refreshing my application and it is re-executing from the beginning and this particular ular uh list is getting created again and all of the data we had inside the list it was getting erased. Okay, this is this was the problem. So instead of uh taking this uh simple list here. So here I have to uh connect my database.

Connect my database means in the back end I am already storing my checkpoint inside my database inside my SQLite database. So what I'm going to do uh instead of uh instead of actually uh u instead of actually giving a simple list here I'll try to load my uh all of the trades okay from my database only and I will just try to provide a list here. Okay. So for this uh in my backend code I'll just try to do a simple uh simple modification. I'll remove this code.

It's not required. So here I'll just do a simple modification. Uh let me show you the modification. Yeah. So here I'll just try to write a function here.

I'm going to name it as uh get uh all trades. Okay. Get all trades. So here uh I'll just try to um first of all show you this one. uh see uh first of all I will write a script then I'll just try to convert to a function otherwise I think you might get some difficulties so here uh first of all I'll write my checkpoint h checkpoint now in see checkpoint object is nothing but it's a database object right now we are using SQL lightsaber so it has a function the function name is list okay list so if you give uh give this function call this function list And uh if you execute so what will happen basically it will return you uh how many trades right now you are having inside the database but inside this list param uh list function you have to provide a parameter either you can tell okay I need uh I need let's say information about my default trades one so you have to give this name here okay you have to give this name here why is that uh here you have to give this name here you can give the trade name here but I don't want to give the trade name any specific trade trade name I want to get all of the trade right for this you have to provide none here so basically we're telling I don't need any specific trade I need all of the trade informations okay now see this will return you uh this will return you the trades trades okay uh I'll give equal sign now if I print that okay okay print that print all of my trades Now let's execute this file again.

Okay. So this is uh giving you a generator object and you know that if you're getting a generator object so what you can do you can run a for loop on top of that. So for uh checkpoint in checkpoint or let's say trade or let's say I'll just write right trade in trades. Okay. uh once you have done that or you can directly write uh uh write like that let's say instead of writing two line I can directly run a for loop for for checkpoint in checkpointer I think this is also checkpoint right yeah checkpoint in checkpoint list okay then after that um uh what I'm going to do I'm going to just uh print my checkpoint both name is same.

Okay. So what I can do I can maybe write like that security. Okay. That means checkpoint. Now if I reexecute now see guys uh here we are getting all of the trade right now it is available inside my uh inside my database as you can see and uh here we are getting lots of trades because if I open my chatbot we are getting uh six trades right now and why six six trades because every time if you execute the um execute the graph it will generate three three checkpoint why I told you because our uh How would actually workflow having three checkpoints?

So in every conversation, every execution three checkpoint would be available. Okay, three checkpoint would be available. So this was the first trade and this was the second trade. We executed two times that six six times is available. Okay, so all of the six trades you are getting here.

Okay, but uh here I uh whenever I will extract that so this would be a kinds of duplicates to us. I I will only track the unique trades here. Okay, let's say here I how many unique trades I'm having. uh default trade one and default trade only two units okay otherwise everything is repetitive one so I'll also try to handle this part as well so once we are getting all of these uh this uh this actually checkpoints now uh from the checkpoint only I only need this um config config now if I reexecute my terminal now I'm getting the config only okay now from the config I I need this trade ID only. First of all, I need to go to the configurable.

So this is a uh this is actually dictionary right dictionary. So I will give the key configurable. Now again we are getting another dictionary and here we have the trade ID. So I only need to extract the trade ID. Now see I'm getting all of the trade but uh I'm getting repetitive trades.

Okay, same uh same actually name again and again but I only need the unique one. So for this I think you know um set right? Set inside Python. So what what set does sets basically um will give you the unique uh unique actually name. So here I'll take a set.

I'll just try to create empty sets and I'm going to name it as all trades. Okay. And whenever I'm getting my trades, I'll just try to add inside my trades. Sorry. Uh I'm going to add inside my um set.

So there is a add function we can use for this. H then uh I'll just try to print my alls right now. Now if I execute now see I'm only getting trade one and my trades. Okay. Uh that means the unique one.

Now I have to provide as a list. Okay. I have to uh give as a list here because here um uh the session state we created it it it takes a list right but here I'm getting a dictionary. As you can see here I'm getting a dictionary. I'm uh returning as a dictionary.

So what I can do I can convert it to the list. So instead of uh printing um this I will just try do the type type conversion operation just try to convert to the list. Now if I execute now see it is a list right now. Okay. Now simply I'll just I'll just try to write inside a function.

So I'm going to uh name this function as def get all traits. Okay. And all of the code I'm going to write inside that. Okay. Instead of printing, I'll just uh do the return operation.

So everything is fine. Now this function basically will return you uh all the threads okay from the database itself. So now uh here uh in the app DB whenever you are importing this chatbot right uh so right now we have to import from the agentic chatbot DB back end. Okay instead of the simple uh aentic chatbot back end because we are using DB DB back end right now we have to import chatbot as well as the get all trades. Okay, this function we have to import.

Now, simply you just need to call this function here. Whenever you are uh initializing this uh chat threads, instead of giving the simple uh list empty list, you will give this function name. Okay. So, what this function will do, it will get all of the trades and it will store in line inside my chat threads. Okay.

So, this particular um code is uh sorry, this particular uh data is coming from my back end from my database. Okay, that's how. So if you restart your application as well, it will not uh effect on my app because every time this function is getting executed from my back end and it has the connection with my checkpointer and checkpointer is connected with my database, right? Chatbot db. So every time it will open the chatbot db and it will get how many trades you are having only this part will return here.

Okay, this part will return here and after that we are just passing it here. That means if I'm refreshing my page, if I'm closing the application, it doesn't matter. Every time I'm extracting my trades, I'm getting my trades, I'm facing my trades from my database only. But previously, I was doing inside my memory because I was using simple list. And simple list only creates the instance inside the RAM.

Okay. And if you refresh your RAM would be getting cleared. I hope you got the concept guys. Okay. Now let's try to execute and see whether it's working or not.

So here I'll open up my terminal. Clear. Then I'll just try to run my app. So streaml run app db.py.

Now see guys uh you you can already see uh I already created some trades right here. Uh manually I created some trades and these trades is also getting uh load here. You can see I did some conversation like Alex then my name is BP and this is the current trade right now. So what I can do maybe I can delete my database and do start a new conversation. I'll just try to delete it.

Okay, it will not getting delete because it is running in the app right now. I can try delete some temporary file also came. I'll just try to delete. Okay, now I'll freshly execute my app. H.

Now let's do the conversation. Hi, my name is By a teacher. Okay, great. Now I'll create a new chat. I'll tell, hi, my name is Alex.

I am a learner. Okay, done. Now if I uh click my previous uh conversation, now you can see this is my previous conversation and this is my current conversation. Now the best part is that if I refresh my app, right? See, still this conversation remains same.

Okay. Now if you also close your app, let's say I will close my app from my terminal. See it's closed. Okay. And I closed my application.

Okay. Okay, I close my application. Now if I restart my application, see if I restart my application. Now, still it will be able to load my previous conversation. And anytime I can continue the conversation, let's say here, I'll just try to continue the conversation.

Who am I? See, it is uh giving you you are Alex, a learner who is seeking knowledge and growth blah blah blah. Okay. Now I can also do the conversation here only. Who am I?

See, you are BYP, you are a teacher, you are you enjoy helping students learn and grow in their knowledge and skills. Okay. So yes guys uh that's how actually we can add the permanent persistence memory uh right now inside our agentic chatbot and now this is like more powerful uh actually it will not erase your conversation. It will not erase your checkpoint if you restart your application like chat GP like if I open my chat GPT right anytime and I can anytime I can see my previous chat previous trades as well okay if I close the app also if I turn off my computer also if I disconnect my internet connection also still these are the things would be common these are the things would be available because they're using p permanent persistence memory okay they're using some kinds of database whether they're using postgrace whether they're using MongoDB doesn't matter But they're using some kinds of database because of that this thing is permanent like our application. Okay, I hope you are getting it guys.

Okay. So yes guys, that's how we can uh slowly slowly make this particular chatbot more advanced and uh in my next video uh I'm going to show you some more uh advanced features guys. Uh we uh will be adding inside this aentic chatbot and we'll try to make it more powerful. Okay. And for this guys please try to complete all of this video uh if you want to uh uh implement this kinds of project because going forward I have lots of plan I will be bringing lots of project here.

Okay. So for this definitely you have to understand all of this concept. Okay. So yes guys this is all about from this video. I hope you liked it and you have understood the entire implementation.

If you found my content useful please try to subscribe to my channel, hit the like and please share it with your friends and family. And all of the code I will share in my description from there you can download. So guys in this video we'll be learning one very important and interesting concept uh called observability. So I think you have already heard of these kinds of word like observability monitoring tracing okay of agentic application or any kinds of GNI powered application. See we use this observability monitoring tracing not only in agentic application uh but also we use this kinds of concept in any kinds of LM powered application.

So whenever you are implementing any kinds of LLM powered application with the help of lang chain or lang graph or any kinds of framework this observability monitoring tracing is super important there okay without that you can't actually debug monitor and evaluate your application this is not possible so for this observability guys we can use one uh very interesting and powerful tool called lang okay so what is this langismith langismith is a uh observability monitoring uh tool uh it is created by langin and uh with the help of that actually we can monitor any kinds of lm powered application whether it's agenti whether it's any kinds of rack system okay any kinds of application we can monitor here real time we can monitor here okay so first of all let me give you the idea what is this langismith is and why it is required then um we'll try to see the practical demo how we can observe how we can monitor our entire agentic chatbot with the help of this languid. Okay, each and every integration [snorts] I'm going to show you guys and trust me guys uh if you learn this concept I think uh uh it would be very helpful for you whenever you are creating production grade uh uh agent application because in productions uh whenever you are creating this kinds of system there would be lots of bugs there would be lots of issues and uh you can trace everything in a single platform with the help of this lang this is super important guys so as you can see guys uh langismith is a debugging monitoring and uh evaluation platform for application uh builts with LLM and AI agents. It is made by Langchen team but it can also work with application that do not use langen. Okay. So I already told you this langismith is uh let's say it is developed by Langchen but if you are not using any uh lang let's say framework inside your application development still you can use this lang with other framework integration as well.

Okay it has all kinds of integration. So let's try to understand why this is useful. So whenever uh you are creating any kinds of chatbot or any kinds of let's say agentic powered application or any kinds of LM powered application there you perform some kinds of step some kinds of operation right let's say user can sends the questions then in between you can um construct the prompt then you can perform the LM call if you're implementing any kinds of agents that will use any kinds of tool or database okay then it can also use memory and checkpointer for the retriever then it can give you the final responses. So that means in between there are some hidden operations are happening but this is not visible to you. Okay.

If you're writing only the code if you're not monitoring the entire uh if you're not let's say tracing the entire application this part is invisible to you. Okay. So that's why you can see lang is a debugging monitoring and evaluation platform for application building built with large language model or AI agents. Okay. because inside all of this application this hidden operation happens.

Okay, this hidden operation happens. So if you're using Langismith so what will happen? Um Langismith uh records this complete execution as a trace. That means whatever execution you are doing here. Okay, Langismith records this complete execution as a trace.

Okay, it will u u record all of the execution as a trace allowing you to inspect every step including inputs, outputs, error, execution time, token uses, tool calls and model behavior. Okay, this is super important guys. Uh I think by the definition itself you can understand whatever hidden operation you are executing okay whatever things are happening in between everything l speed can record as a trace okay in that platform itself okay so that anytime you can see the input output errors execution time token uses tool call model behavior each and everything should be visible to you in a single platform okay now as you can see for your langraph agentic chatbot langismith can help you that means the application we are developing right now. So here uh this langismith can help us for uh finding why an agent selected the wrong tool. Let's say uh you are running your agents and it has selected a wrong tool.

It is giving you some kinds of other responses but you don't know why okay why it is uh giving you this kinds of output why it is selecting the wrong tool. If you want to see the step-by-step execution like after user query prompt construction lm call which tool it has selected okay based on the prompt or lm call. Okay, if you want to understand these things, you have to first of all monitor, trace your entire application. Okay, monitoring is important. Any kinds of application whether creating MLDDL, CB, whatever project you are creating, monitoring, monitoring is super important.

If you cannot monitor your application, that means in production you will be finding difficulties for sure. Okay, that's why application monitoring is super important and for this Langmith is a very powerful tools we'll be using. Okay. So that's why find uh why an agent selected the wrong tool. Uh we can easily understand with the help of Langismith.

Then inspect the exact prompt sent to the uh model. That means uh you can see like whether this palm con prompt construction is happening in a good way or not. That prompt you are constructing um whether it is right or not. It is going to the LM or not. Okay.

Each and everything you can inspect here. Then debug failed nodes in a langraph workflow. That means if any of the nodes uh let's say failed during the execution you can easily monitor inside the langismith dashboard. Then measures responses latency and token cost. So that means if u some of the model is taking much time you can uh see like how much time it is taking why it is taking the time and how much token token actually it is uh spending okay to give you the response each and everything you can monitor.

Then review conversations and multi-trren trades. That means you can uh review the construction uh sorry conversation uh review conversation and multi uh trend trades. That means you can see the entire conversation even you can see the trades conversation. Trade conversation means I think you know we have integrated the trades inside our aentic chatbot. Now user can create different different trades.

User can create different different charts right. So you can see the trades as well. Not only the single conversation, you can also see the trades wise. Okay, this is also possible. I will also show you this part.

Then compare different prompts or model versions. You can also compare different prompts or model versions. Then you can evaluate chatbot uh quality before and after the deployment. Okay, that means all of these uh things you will be getting u inside this lang and it will help you uh for this kinds of work. Okay, if you are using this uh this inside your application development.

So I think um apart from this there is nothing uh you can monitor inside your application. If you can monitor these are the thing I think u your uh application should be production ready and you won't be having any kinds of problem okay going forward. So now we'll try to see guys this language speed in practical that means the application we have created uh this code is already available in my description from there you can get uh get the code guys I think you remember we created a uh agentic uh chatbot okay and uh in my last video I showed you how we can integrate database features okay so that it can uh it can have the permanent persistence memory okay so first of all let me show you the application guys we have developed so guys uh this is our agentic chatbot we have developed so far and uh we can perform any kinds of chat operation. Let's say if I give a prompt uh give me a road map to learn okay ML. So see this is giving you the detailed road map and uh you can see the previous trades as well.

You can also continue the conversation with the previous trades you had here and this is your current trades. Okay. And if you refresh your application still this uh uh previous conversation will remain same because we have added the permanent memory here with the help of database. Okay. So in this particular video I already explained this concept.

If you haven't checked that guys please try to go through this recording. So see guys uh here we have performed a conversation. It's completely fine. But uh this application doesn't have any kinds of observability or monitoring uh connection. Okay.

So I can't monitor this application like in the back end. What is happening? Let's say uh if I deploy this application in production server so I don't have any kinds of platform there I can continuously monitor my application what is happening how much token it is uh taking okay or let's say any of the nodes is giving you any kinds of errors so I can't see these kinds of let's say uh issues right so for this we can utilize this langismith platform so you have to visit uh smith.langchen.com langchen.com.

So if you visit this website guys, this is the langid platform. So first of all here what you have to do, you have to create an account. Okay. So here you just need to create an account guys. You can use your Google, GitHub, discord, anything you can uh use and you can create an account.

So I already have an account guys. I will just try to login. So once you log guys, you will be able to see this kinds of dashboard. So this is your language dashboard. And previously I uh already created some of the project here.

I already uh traced some of my project that's why it's coming here. But if you are using for the first time, you won't be able to see this kinds of uh like project name here or tracing name here. Okay. So first of all guys, if you want to use this uh langismith inside your uh application, you just need to collect a API key. Okay.

And this is super easy to use. You don't need to write uh like uh any kinds of code if you want to use this lang guys. Only you just need to add some of the environment variables and automatically this langismith will start tracing your application. Okay, I'll show you this part. So if you want to get the u um API key, so what you have to do, you just need to uh go to the API section.

So I think API is available in the settings and uh here is the API key guys. Okay. Now previously I already created some API key. What I will do? I just try to remove some of the API key so that I can create a new one.

H So I'll create a new API key. So you can give the name. So let's say I'll give the name of u uh agentic chatbot. So everything just keep it as it as it is. Okay.

Don't need to change anything. Now just create the API key. So once you have created the API key just try to copy and you have to add this API key in the environment variable. Okay. So let's say this is our app.

Uh so this application we have created guys. This is the code I think you remember in my previous uh video previous part. So now you just need to open this env file. Um after that here you have to add uh some of the environment variable. Let me show you.

So these things you have to add here. Yeah. So see these things will common for all the project you will be creating going forward. Only you just need to change the project name. So see first of all you have to provide languid tracing uh this parameter is equal to true.

Okay that means you are uh allowing your as uh allowing your langis to trace your entire application. Whenever you are executing your application lang will automatically start tracing your application. It will automatically start monitoring your application. That's why this parameter you have to give as true. Then you are telling what should be the endpoint that means after tracing it the data it will get okay the let's say information it will get where it will save those information okay it needs an endpoint so endpoint is langismith platform I'm giving you have to save everything in the langismith platform that means inside this particular platform this is the dashboard right so this is what actually we're doing then you have to pass the API key now to authenticate with your dashboard you need a API key so what I will do I'll just copy this API And here you have to provide the API key and make sure you don't share this API key with anyone otherwise they will be able to uh use your platform.

Okay. Then you have to provide the langismith project name. Okay. Because every time whenever you will execute for the first time it will create a project. Right?

Inside the project it will start tracing all of the execution. So project is important. So here I'm giving agentic chatbot project. Okay. If you're creating any other project you can change the name as per your requirement.

Once it is done, you just need to save this file and no need to change anywhere. Okay, no need to change anywhere. I can uh re-execute my app again. So I'll stop the execution. Clear and let's re-execute my app.

Streamlitly run my app.py. Okay. So once you have done now what I will do uh here I already saved this uh API key. H so it's done.

Now I'll go to the uh homepage. Yeah. Now let's execute my app. See my application is running right now. Now here again I will give the prompt.

Let's say I'll give hi my name is By plan to learn AI. I'll send it now. See it is giving you some kinds of response. Okay. Now once I go to my platform.

Okay. Once I go to my platform and if I refresh here. So see this agentic chatbot project is created few seconds ago. See automatically it has created. I didn't uh change anything inside my code.

Okay. Now if I go inside that now inside the project guys you will be able to see your trace. Okay. So this is our first trace. That means we have executed uh only one time.

We have gi a single prompt. That's why that's why one trace came and by default this trace name will be taken as lang graph because we are using lang graph and now if I click on the uh this trace our first trace so whatever message you have given as an input you will be able to see and whatever uh output you got from your AI even you will be also able to see okay and this is also coming as a chatbot interface okay this is like very interesting then there is a option called details so you have to click on details okay if you click on details you will be able to see all of the details that means you have executed your langraph and it has a chat node. I think you remember uh we are using a chat node if you can see uh our entire application workflow. So this is the chat node inside chat node we are using u lm right we are using a large language model uh openi model and we are using gpt 3.5 turbo model because I used a default model there okay and by default GP3.5

turbo would be available now everything you can see which model which node you are executing okay each and everything is visible now you can see the input and output you got here you can even see the attribute okay all of the attribute metadata version everything is visible here. And if you hover on each and every let's say step here, you you will be able to see the um uh let's say estimated token cost. You can see token cost and uh how many how much token actually it used. Okay, how much token it used for input, output, total. Okay, each and everything you would be able to see that.

Okay, that's how you can see the each and every execution of your application. If you're using multiple LM calls, you'll be able to see the multiple LM. You can see the prompt. Okay. Each and everything should be available here.

Okay. Now let's say if I do for the second time what I will do let's say I will give another message. Um let's say how much time it will take. Now I got a response. Now if I again go to my um dashboard.

Now see another trace has created. Okay. because this is my second run. Now if I go to this trace and you'll be able to again see the uh conversation okay so how much time it will take based on that you got the entire output then you'll be able to also see the uh token okay like input token output token okay total token each and everything would be available here now even you can also switch to your previous uh trans as well so if I go to my previous trans this is the first trans this is the second trans okay everything you can see even you can see the name so this is tr one and this is tr too. Okay.

So that's how everything would be available and even if you zoom out here so you'll be able to see some other information right side like start time latency like how much time it took to execute then whether you are using any data set or not then tokens cost okay first tokens then metadata langmith endpoint okay and everything you will be able to see. So yes that's how you can utilize this uh lang platform uh only you just need to add those uh three to four things in the environment variable and tracing would be uh automatically uh happening okay inside this particular dashboard but one issue I think you have observed here which is that let's say here let's say if I create a new trades okay let's say I create a new trades and if I do the conversation let's say I will give hi I am bi let's say this is completely new trades. Okay. But if I go to my um dashboard that means language dashboard. So as you can see in the same um I mean trace only it has created my uh my current execution that means the current trace the uh execution we have done right now.

So see uh here I given I uh my name is BPI and hello I can assist you today. Okay. So that's how actually it is uh uh it is not separating my trades instead of that it is saving everything inside a single trace only. So here if you want to separate your trades guys uh it is also possible because Langismith by default has this uh trading uh features here. So if you want to separate out uh each and every trades okay the trades you are maintaining here.

So it is possible for this inside the code you have to only modifi uh modify one particular line. Let me show you. So this code only you just need to modify. See here uh I was uh writing the configuration. In the configuration I was only giving the trade ID.

Okay. Uh and we are passing this configuration whenever we are executing the uh chatbot whenever we're invoking the chatbot. Okay. Now instead of that you have to write this configuration. Okay.

Some other information you need to also pass this metadata and the runtime. Okay. So run name see every time this run name is coming as a lang graph by by default name but you can change this run name if you want. You can give any kinds of run name. Let's say I give I'll give chat trace.

Okay, you can also give any other name. And if you pass this configuration guys, right now this uh trading would be uh trading would be applied. That means all of the trades individual trades would be saved in the trades. Okay, let me show you. So I'll remove this configuration right now.

This is not required. I'll use my new one. Okay, new configuration. Yeah, so let me show you the fresh execution. So for this I'll remove my uh I'll remove my let's say project.

So here just go to the tracing and select your project and just try to delete the project. Okay, done. Now I will re-execute my code. So let's say here uh I'll give a message. Hi, my name is Buppy.

Okay, done. So this is uh this is the trade guys. Uh I just uh start the conversation. Now if I come here, see my project has created. If I go inside that.

So first trace has created the uh the name of the trace is chat trace because we changed the name and this is the conversation we have done. Okay. Now let's say I will give another message. Uh I will create a new trades here and I'll perform another message. Let's say I am Alex.

Now if I come here now if I go to the trades now guys you can see trades has created. Okay. Now this is the trades. This was my first trace. Uh there I performed.

Hello my name is BPY. Okay. How I can assist you today. Now let's say if I give another message um I need um I need a plan to learn Python. Now if I go to my trades.

So see inside the same trace uh inside the same trade there is uh two trans right now. Um now if I go to this uh trades as you can see the first I given hi my name is BP uh how and it it has given you hello BP how I can assist you today. Now in the second trace uh you can see I given I need a plan to learn Python and uh it has given you the plan. Okay that means in a single trade now it is storing multiple trans that means multiple conversation. Previously I also did for Alex.

See Alex is also available here. Uh yeah, you can see the Alex. Uh but it takes some time guys. I think it takes uh 10 to 20 seconds to update in the trades. Okay, that's why initially whenever I showed you uh this information was not updated.

Now see here also whenever I did let's say Alex, right? Uh this is the Alex Alex conversation. Uh this is Alex conversation. I'm Alex. I need a plan to learn Python.

As you can see I am Alex and here I given you I need a plan to learn Python. Okay. So that's how guys every uh trades you will be creating all of the trades would be available inside the trades or whatever conversation you'll be doing it would be saving as a run. Now let me show you another let's execution let's say in the Alex only I'll tell how much time it will take. Now this is my third run.

Okay. Now if I come here. So you have to wait for some time then this TR would be updated here. Now see it got updated run three. Now if I click here now this is the turn three guys and here I asked how much time it will take and this is the answer I got.

Okay. So that's how guys you can separate out the trades uh by adding this line of code only. You just need to update your configuration and everything will remain same. Okay. So that's how guys with help of Langismith we can continuously monitor our application.

we can continuously trace our application. Lots of thing we can perform with the help of this languid. Going forward also I'll be using this uh tool okay in my project development and I will also show you some other advantage we can utilize from this lang language speed itself. Okay. So all the code I'm going to uh upload in my GitHub and give the link in the description from there you can get and please try to practice in your system and do let me know if you have any question.

So yes guys, this is all about it and if you found my content useful, please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like. In this video, I'm going to uh explain one very important concept, one very important features inside our agentic chatbot which is tools. If you are implementing any kinds of agentic system, this tools is very much important. Without tools, an AI agent cannot perform any kinds of action. With the help of this tools integration, we can make our AI agents more smarter and intelligence and powerful.

So far the application we have created, it doesn't have any kinds of tool. It can only use the large language model and give you some kinds of response. So if I show you my application guys, so this is the application guys. So far we have developed. Uh this is our agentic chatbot with lang graph we have developed so far and we have added lots of feature in this particular uh application.

We saw how we can create the uh basic workflow of our agentic chatbot. We saw how we can add the streaming features. We saw how to add the trading features. Okay. Uh we saw how to add the persistence memory.

Um even how to integrate the database with that. Even in my last video, I showed you how we can add the observability tool to monitor the entire application. And we created a dashboard. Uh this is the lang dashboard guys. And here continuously we're tracing our um like conversation.

So this is the application guys. And the problem with this application is let's say if you are asking any kinds of uh question uh which is latest uh which is not available in the large language model that time this particular chatbot will not uh able to give you the response. So let's say here we are telling hello uh tell me about Python. So if I give this prompt it will be able to give you the response. So see guys it is uh able to give you the response and why it is able to give you the response about the Python because uh this Python information is already available in the LLM knowledge base.

Okay. So the model we are using uh every model has a knowledge cutoff date and the model we are using this model got trained till 2022 uh I think till December it uh this model got trained and that time actually python information was available in the internet that's why it is able to generate the response but let's say if you are asking anything which is latest information this information is not available in the knowledge base that time your chatbot will fail now let's ask about a latest uh information uh uh into my chatbot. So here I will tell u give me all the latest news for [snorts] today's now see it is telling I understand you are looking for the very latest news. However, uh as an AI, I don't have realtime access to the live news feed and my knowledge cutoff is a specific point in time typically a few month ago. Okay, this means I cannot provide with you today's uh minuteby minutes uh news headlines.

Okay, to uh get most current news, I highly recommend checking reput uh reputable news sources directly. Okay, and blah blah blah. That means this chatbot is directly telling you okay I don't have the access to the latest data okay because this this is using a large language model and this large language model has a knowledge cut off date okay I think uh till uh 2022 or 2024 I don't know but uh till the date actually they have trained this model and uh um actually in that period of time whatever news were available in the internet uh this has the information okay but if you are asking anything which is latest this model will not able to give you the response. Okay. So this is the problem right now even uh if if you uh want to perform like other things as well.

Let's say if you want to let's say uh see the stock market analysis report. Okay the latest stock market analysis report. This model won't be able to give you the response. So let me give you another demo. So tell me the latest stock of Apple.

So as you can see as an AI I do have access uh to real time live stock market data. Stock uh prices uh fluctu fluctuate uh consistently uh throughout the trading day. Okay. and my knowledge cutoff means any specific price I could I could uh give you would be outdated almost im uh immediately. Okay, that means it is not able to give you the realtime information about this stock.

And if you're asking anything, let's say you are asking about the current weather. Okay, let's say I'm asking about tell me the tell me the current weather in let's say New York. So see it is telling you again I don't have realtime access to the live uh weather data. Okay. So this is the problem with our uh agentic chatbot we have created so far because it doesn't have any kinds of tool.

Okay. So tool means uh it is kinds of function it is kinds of API okay it is kinds of let's say uh different different tools that my agent can use to get the latest information or perform any kinds of action. Okay. So let's say if I go to the chat GPT and if I ask the same question, Chad GPT will be able to give me the response. Okay.

So let's say I will copy the same question. Um I'll copy this question and if I ask in the chart GPT see chart GPT will be using some kinds of tool in action. See see just try to notice here now see it is searching over the internet. Okay. You see it is searching over the internet and it is finding different different latest news and once it has collected all the latest news then it will refine that particular news and it will give me all of the see news for today's okay and the reference uh reference URL as well like where it got uh it referred that particular headline where uh it uh referred that news okay each and everything it is giving me now let's say if I asking uh this question as well tell me the latest stock of Apple again it will be using some kinds of tool see it is using some kinds of tool and after that it will give you the response see it is using this stock market analysis tool and it is giving you the real time Apple um stock stock stock data okay then you can also ask um about the weather information again it will be able to give you the response because it has the uh current weather tools as well in the back end with the help of that particular tool.

It is real time searching the uh current weather information in New York and it will give you the uh weather see. Okay. So this is called actually tool in action. Okay. So whenever you are creating the agentic system it should have lots of tool.

Okay. And wherever it needs any kinds of tool it will automatically decide and it will select that particular tool. Let's say here I was asking about the news right that time to get the latest news what what I have to do I have to perform the internet search operation I have to perform the Google search operation so here it is using some kinds of search tool okay with the help of the search tool it is giving you all kinds of latest information latest news then I asked about the latest stock of Apple okay now it is using the stock market uh actually tool with the help of this tool actually it is getting the real time uh real time actually um the uh real time actually stock of Apple and it is giving you the response. So it is using some kinds of stock stock price or stock related tools in the back end. Now again I asked about the weather.

So here it is using a weather tool. Okay, with the help of weather tool it is hitting some kinds of uh API of the weather and it is getting real time this weather information. Okay, the given uh location we are giving. Okay, so that's how things are working. So that's how chart GPT uh has lots of tool connection.

Okay, not only three to four tools, it has lots of tool connection. So you can ask any kinds of question whether it's a latest news, whether it's any kinds of outdated news, whether you want to perform any kinds of task. Okay, everything it can perform because it has the tool and without this tool it can perform the action. Okay, I hope you get it. So these kinds of things we will be also integrating inside our agentic chatbot.

So whenever we are asking this kinds of question, my agentic chatbot will be also able to give you the response. It will be also able to use this kinds of tool and perform the action. Okay. So yeah, in this particular video, we'll be learning this concept guys. We'll try to see how we can integrate the tools inside our agentic chatbot.

And trust me, this is very important concept. If you are implementing any kinds of agentic uh powered application, you have to use the tool. Okay, there are lots of tools are available over the internet, over the market. Uh as per your requirement, you can select the tools and you can integrate inside your uh chatbot or whatever application you are developing and you can even create your custom tools. It is also possible.

I'll show you both of them. Okay. So guys before I discuss about the tools concept the tools uh integration uh inside our agentic chatbot first of all I want to show you the demo like after adding this tools how my aentic chatbot will work. So I already integrated the tools inside my aentic chatbot this is the updated version. First of all let me show you the demo.

So see this is the uh updated application. Now if I ask uh the these kinds of question let's say I will give u give me the latest news in AI. Okay. Now if I send this prompt you will be able to see uh it it will use some kinds of tool. Okay.

So see it is using tably search tool. So with help of tably search tool it is searching over the internet uh about the latest news in AI and this will give you the response. See this is giving you the response. See so all of the latest news it has given me okay from different different uh paper different different publication it has given me all the latest news in AI. Even you can see the um like tools uh tools action as you can see internally it is using some kinds of uh URL some kinds of let's say uh resources and it is giving you this kinds of information even in charge also you'll be able to see this uh uh uh this back end execution okay this is also possible so every like said tools execution you'll be able to see if you want you can also open it and you can see okay so this kinds of thing we have also um implemented inside our agentic chatbot And throughout this entire video guys, I'm going to show you how we can develop these things.

Okay, how we can add this particular tools integration inside our aentic chatbot. Now let me ask another question. Let's say here I will tell um um calculate okay um this number. Okay. So let's say this is my expression.

I want to do a mathematical calculation and inside this aentic chatbot I I am using a a tool called calculator tool. So with the help of this calculator tool you can calculate any kinds of complex let's say expression any kinds of complex uh let's say um u equation you can calculate here. Now if I send this now you will see that it will be using calculator tool. Okay. Now with the help of this calculator it is calculating the entire uh let's say number and it is giving you the response.

So any kinds of complex math problem you can give it will be able to perform that. Okay. So once it is done let me show you another demo. Then I have given another prompt. Tell me the latest stock price of Apple.

Again you can see it is using some kinds of tool. It is using stock uh price uh tool and it is uh able to give you the latest stock price of Apple. Okay. Even you can also ask the stock related any other companies let's say stock price of Google. So stock price of Google.

Now see it is using get stock price uh tool and it is able to give you the latest stock price of Google is uh that much. Okay. So yes guys that's how our entire uh agentic system is working right now and we are we have already integrated uh uh some tools okay inside our agentic chatbot that's why it is performing like chart GPT but chart GPT is having lots of uh tools guys um if you want you can also integrate lots of tools inside your application this part I will leave it to you first of all let me show you the entire development then you can uh you can improve this application a lot so first of all uh I'll be discussing about the tools guys what is tools uh why tools is required then I'm going to show you the implementation. So guys first of all let's try to understand about the tools what is tools exactly and why it is required and how tools works. Okay.

So as you can see uh in agentic AI tools are external functions APIs database or any kinds of service that an uh AI agent can use to perform actions beyond generating the text. Okay. So previously the application we created guys this agentic uh application the previous version application that means in my previous video uh it was only able to generate the text okay uh if you give any kinds of let's say prompt based on the prompt if this information is available in the knowledge base of the model it is able to generate some kinds of text okay but with the help of these tools an agent can um agent can perform action okay like I showed you right now right I uh I uh per I did different different prompting in my agent. I asked about the stock price. I uh asked about the latest news.

Then I asked to calculate u some kinds of mathematical equation and it was performing some kinds of action with the help of some third party tools. Okay. So that's why our agent can perform any kinds of actions. Okay. Uh using the tool beyond the text generation.

So our agent cannot only generate the text. Okay. It can also perform some kinds of action with the help of this tool. So this is very much important. So a normal LM can only respond based on this knowledge and the information in in the prompt.

Okay. An AI agent works with tool and it can search, calculate, retrieve the data, execute code, update database or interact with other systems as well. Okay. So by this definition itself I think you can understand what is tools exactly and why these tools is super important. Okay.

So with the help of tools you can perform any kinds of searching operation, calculate operation, retrieve data operation. You can even execute any kinds of code. Okay. I think inside GPT you can execute the code. You can debug your code.

Okay. How it is happening? Because it is using some kinds of tool and that tool actually it is working with the Python interpreter. Okay. So in the Python interpreter or any other let's say program you are using it is using that particular interpreter.

It is executing the code. It is reviewing your code. It is finding the bugs inside your code and it is giving you the final response. Okay. this is the problem inside your code.

So everything is happening with the help of this particular tools. Okay. So they're using these kinds of tool external tools and they are performing this kinds of operation. Okay. I hope you get it.

Now let's try to understand a simple example. Suppose a user asked what is the current weather in Texas. Okay. The agent does not know the live weather uh by itself. Now it can call a weather tool.

Okay. Let's say you have uh already integrated the weather tools inside your agents. Now your agents will automatically decide which tool to call. Now you are asking about the weather. So definitely it will let's say uh hit this get weather tools.

Okay. It will use this get a weather tool and you are asking for Texas. Okay. So that's how the location you are giving it will find the weather okay of that particular location. Then the tool returns the current weather and the agent uses that result to answer the user.

Okay. So that's how the entire system works. Now some common tools in agenti. So you can see web search tools can be used a lot whenever you are creating this kinds of agentic application with the help of you can perform search operation over the uh internet and you can get the current information. Then calculator tool okay I think you saw the calculator tool you can perform any kinds of complex mathematical operation.

Okay then database tool you can even reads and writes data inside your database or any other let's say storage service these uh tools can be also used inside your aentic chatbot. then rag retriever tools. Okay, searches do uh searches over the documents or vector database. We'll uh in future we'll also try to add this uh tools inside our aentic chart but we'll also add the uh functionality. Okay, I'll show you this part as well.

So this is also important things like inside GPT you can upload any kinds of documents right and in the document you can perform the uh you can perform the search operation you can perform the query operation how it is happening because it has the rag retriever tool then you can use python tool with the help of python tool you can execute the code analyze the data okay everything is possible you can even use email tool with the help of email you can read email you can draft your email you can send the email okay so everything is possible even in charge GPT or Google Gemini you can connect your email. Okay. Even from there only you can send the email. This is also possible. And how it is happening?

Because it is using email tool. Then calendar tool you can use. You can even access your calendar. You can use different different API tool like uh you can use weather API tool, finance API tool, CRM API tool, any kinds of payment system API tool. Any kinds of API you can connect with your aentic chatbot.

Okay. Aenti system. Then custom businesses tool. Let's say if you have some custom uh businesses okay if you want to integrate that particular tool let's say you can create the tickets you can check the inventory you can generate the reports okay you can update the customer records everything is possible here so these are the common tool guys you can integrate inside your aentic system okay apart from that there are lots of tools are available you can search over the internet okay there are thousands of thousands tools are available whatever you need okay you just try to integrate inside your project itself okay very simple then How two calling works guys? As you can see the typical workflow is the user gives a request first of all then the agent understand the goal.

Let's say uh previously I showed you some kinds of uh action right? I asked about the uh stock price of Google. So this is my user request. Okay. My agent understand the goal.

What is the goal? It has to understand the sorry it has to get the latest stock of the Apple. Okay. Or Google. Then the agent decided whether uh whether a tool is required.

Then our agent was understanding okay to give this particular answer whether I need to use any kinds of tool or not. So in this scenario definitely it has to use the tool because inside the LLM uh the default LLM it doesn't have this kinds of information. Definitely it has to use the tool. Okay. So the agents will decide okay it has to use the tool.

It it needs the tool requirement. Okay. Then it selects the appropriate tool because inside my application there are multiple tools I have added. Now which tool to call? Okay, which tool to use?

Because here I ask different different uh question, right? And uh for each and every question uh it uh it should use different different tools. Okay, it it's not like that for all the questions it will be using one specific tool. Okay, because question might be different, prompt might be different. First of all, it has to understand the goal based on the goal.

It will automatically select the specific tool it requires. Okay, that's why uh it selects the appropriate tools. Then it generates the tool arguments. Okay, tool argument means that here we are asking about let's say give me the latest news in AI. So what will happen?

Uh it will search this uh this particular word in the internet. Okay, because it is using tably search tool, right? And you know tably search tool uh uh what it does? It does the internet search operation. The way you search the Google, right?

Uh it will be using tably search and it will perform the search operation. Okay? And this will give you the latest uh information of that. So that's why uh this uh uh it generates the tool argument. Okay.

Let's say whenever you are giving any kinds of uh let's say equation let's say calculate calculate this number with this number now it will be using calculated tool okay see and what is the uh tool argument here this expression okay this expression is the tool argument right now and it is calculating that and it is you are able to see the response okay then tool execution in action that means tool will execute and uh this will give you the response and this response the result is return it to the agent. That means whatever responses you will be getting from the tools. Okay. Uh sometimes these responses won't be readable to the user. Okay.

So that's why what you have to do you have to send this response to the large language model again that means your agent again and agent will try to refine that particular output and you will be able to see the final result. Then the last one the agent uh produces the final responses. Okay, that means once my tool execution is complete and whatever output we are getting from the tools we'll try to pass to the agents and agents will try to refine that particular output. Okay, and this will generate the final uh responses to the user. So that's why the agents produces the final responses.

Okay, example you are asking let's say what is uh uh 25% of uh 8,500. Now agent decide u you have it has to use calculated tool. Okay. Now it will perform the tool call. Now this is the calculation it has to do, right?

Uh this is the expression it has to calculate. So after calculating this will uh uh your let's say uh uh tool has generated this output. Uh let's say this is the final response. But if I show this response to the user, user won't be able to understand in a in a good way. Okay.

So I have to generate some kinds of readable response. So again I will send this particular result to my agent. Now agent will try to refine this out uh let's say answer and it will generate a uh final responses. You can see now agent is uh generating 25% of 8,500 is 2,125. Okay.

Now this is more readable than this one. Okay. So that's why this this step is super important and whenever you are using any kinds of tool whenever your agent is calling any kinds of tool so this eight step it is following. Okay. And we'll also follow this a step eight step to implement tools integration inside our uh AI agents.

Okay, this is the entire idea guys. So now guys, I think pretty much clear how the tools works and what is tools exactly and in the chart GP also how chart GP works and whenever you are asking any kinds of realtime question how it is able to give you the response because it has the tools connection. Okay, lots of tools connection because of that you are able to see the latest information or any kinds of action you can perform here. Now let's uh start the implementation guys. I will show you the entire implementation how we can add the tools inside our aentic chatbot.

So guys, first of all, let's try to understand the workflow. Uh after adding this tool node inside our workflow, how our workflow will look like and how it will work. So as you can see uh this is the first workflow we have created so far. So this workflow has only one particular node which is chat node. So basically if user is giving any kinds of uh input it is going it uh going to the chat node and chat node is giving some kinds of output and the right side you can see this is the updated workflow uh we'll be creating inside this video.

Uh basically we'll be adding our tools node here. So as you can see this is the updated workflow. So here uh you if user gives any kinds of input uh it will go to the chat node and here actually we'll be using something called tool condition function. Okay, there is a function called tool condition function. So here I have already written what is this tool condition function.

it uh function does it's a uh tool condition. It's a uh pre-built conditional age function that helps your graph to decide should the flow go to the tool node uh next or back to the lm. Okay, that means whatever input user is giving. Okay, let's say if user is asking tell me about Python. So I think you know that inside large language model this information is already available.

So in this scenario your agent doesn't need to call the tool, right? It can only use this chat node and give the response and the response will go to the end directly. Right? But if user is asking tell me the latest news in AI in 2026. Okay.

This information is not available inside the large language model knowledge base that time your tool condition okay tool condition function will decide okay now it has to use some kinds of tool that means this kinds of question will redirect to the tool nodes. Okay. So this is how this uh two condition works. That's why you can see the definition. So this uh two condition is a pre-built conditional age function.

Okay, I think I already told you about conditional uh conditional workflow. Okay, how conditional workflow works. If you haven't checked that, please try to check my previous video. So conditional ages function that helps your graph to decide should the flow go to the tool nodes. Okay, or back to the lm.

Okay, now I think you got it what will happen here. Okay, now here we have added this tool. So this tool we call it as a tool nodes. Okay. Inside this graph this tool is a call we call it as a tool nodes.

So tool nodes is also a pre-built node inside langraph. Okay. So as you can see in lang graph tool node is a pre-built node type that acts as a bridge between your graph and external tools. Okay. That means inside tool nodes you can use any kinds of function APIs utilities etc.

So as you can see normally in langraph you would write a node function yourself. Okay it takes a state and return the state. So far we have written like that. But a tool node is a readym made node that knows how to handle a list of lang tools. That means this tool nodes you don't need to write separately.

Okay. This is already pre-built inside langraph. You just need to define that. Okay as a node and it will automatically okay. it will automatically handle uh like uh the list of the tools you will be adding inside this tool nodes.

Okay. Then it uh its job listen for tools calls from the LLM like let's say user wants to search something on the internet about the latest information or let's say he or she wants to get the weather information. So automatically this uh uh tools node will decide which tool to use because it has the list of the tools. Okay. automatically based on the input user input it will decide which uh tool to use and automatically route the request to the correct tools okay that means if user is asking about latest information in AI it will be using search tool let's say if user is using uh if user wants to uh know about the current weather okay so that time it will redirect to the get weather tool that's how it will route the request to the correct tool then pass the tool's output back to the graph okay so that's how the system works okay that means whenever you will pass any kinds of input.

First of all, this tools condition will decide whether it has to use the any tool or not or whether it has to use the default large language model to generate the response. Okay. But if it needs any kinds of let's say tool uh tool functionality that time it will automatically route to these tool nodes. Okay. And tool nodes will try to decide which tool to use for what kinds of uh input.

Okay. Now I think you are pretty much clear with this particular workflow and this workflow we'll try to develop inside our system. Okay. So for this first of all uh I'm going to show you a notebook experiment guys. We'll try to write everything in a Jupyter notebook.

Uh we'll try to understand the entire tools concept there. Then we'll try to um integrate inside our agentic chatbot we have created so far. So here what I have done guys as you can see left hand side I created a notebook folder and inside that I already kept my previous notebook. I showed you right so this is the previous notebook I created uh at the very first time right uh there I showed you the chatbot workflow we created this workflow and this was the simple workflow so here I created another notebook called tools demo now if I open it up so you can see this is the tools uh demo uh related code so here uh basically I'm going to explain this code like how we have to add these tools inside our workflow and how we can uh how we can uh practically test that okay so once everything is working fine then we'll try to integrate inside our development and here I already added that documentation the documentation I showed you tools documentation if I click here so this is the documentation guys I already showed you this documentation right so this documentation reference I already given in this particular notebook you can refer it here now here first of all I'm going to select my environment so let's select my environment so this is the environment now first of all we'll import all the necessary library so as you can see we are importing um state graph of start end from lang graph then type dict annotated so these are the things are common I think you are pretty much familiar with this now base model human [clears throat] masses and one thing guys I have done uh actually my openi API key is over okay u uh my limit is over that's why I am using u like u gemini model and if you want to use gemini model so that time you can import this library called chat google generative AI from lang google ji Okay. And for this you have to install one library.

So this is the library guys. Langen Google generate. Okay. And this specific version I have installed in my uh uh in my environment. Okay.

So again you just need to open your environment and just write pip install r requirement.txt. Okay. If you do that it will automatically install this uh library inside your environment. So I have already done that.

So let me open it up. So see this is the alternative way to use uh any kinds of large language model if you don't have open API key or if your API key limit is over that time you can use these are the freeto use large language model okay uh but if you want to use open API key guys you can refer my previous notebook I think in previous notebook I used the open API key here I used this open AI model okay chat open AI model only this part you just need to change okay h uh and one more thing you have to collect which is uh uh like Gemini API key that means Google API key and how you will get this Google API key. So for this you have to go to the uh Google AI studio. Okay this particular website and here you can click on get started. Now left hand side you will see this API key option get API key.

I'll just click on get API key. Now from here you just need to create an API key. Okay, I already created the API key. So I can copy and I can simply paste it here. Okay, so make sure you collect your own API key guys.

I'm going to remove my API key after this recording. So don't use my API key. Try to create your own API key from here. Okay, once you have created the API key, then you will be able to execute this notebook. Then I'm importing this uh add message from graph itself.

Then load env to load my involvement variable. Then uh I'm importing some other additional library as you can see from langraph pre-built. I'm importing this tool node. Okay, I think I already told you about tool nodes, right? So here in this demo I told told you about the tool nodes.

So this tool nodes will uh basically help you to uh tool nodes will basically help you to uh uh so yeah I think this is the tool node. Yeah, tool node. So this particular tool node. Okay, so this tool node will help you to um define your nodes. Okay, that means tool nodes and you don't need to write this tool node separately.

This is already pre-built inside Langraph. Okay, that's why we're importing from pre-built. Then there is another function called tool condition. So this function I told you. So this tool condition we also need to add as a conditional ages.

So basically this function will decide whether it has to use the tool or it has to use the simple LM call. Okay. So this is also a pre-built function inside langraph. We'll be importing that. Then I need this tab search.

So tabularly search is a internet search tool. With the help of that you can perform the internet search operation. Let's see if user is asking any kinds of latest informations uh like chat GPT I showed you. Okay. Previously the demo I showed you if user is asking about latest uh information um uh anything which is let's say completely latest and available over the internet.

So with the help of tably search we can uh get this informations. Okay. And if you're using tably search tool guys you have to install uh these two library lang tabi and tably python. Okay. So these two library you have to install and this is the specific version I'm installing in this project.

Now what you have to do you just need to simply write pip install hyphen requirement.txt. Okay. If you do that it will install all of the necessary library inside your okay inside your environment. Okay.

So these two libraries required if you're using taberts tool then uh we'll be importing these tools. Okay. Right now we have to create the tools. Okay. And whenever you want to create your custom function okay let's say custom function as a tool that time this tools has uh has to be uh imported with the help of this tool we'll be creating a decorator and this decorator will be uh will be represent my function as a tool okay I'll show you this part how to do that then request and math module okay so these are the input you have to uh you have to write inside your code done right now first of all let me load the environment variable so I have loaded my environment variable model.

Okay. Now here I'm initializing my uh model guys. So as you can see here I'm initializing Germany 2.5 flash model and this is the creativity parameter. I think you already know about and this is your LLM object.

And if you want to use OpenAI large language model here this is very much simple only you just need to write chat open AI. Okay. And if you want to use Gemini model you have to use this particular code. Okay. And if you want to use any other provider as well simply just try to change here.

You can go to the chat GP and you can ask okay I want to use grock model let's say Grock meta model or open uh I want to use open router provider and I want to this this model okay so this particular code will uh change uh and you will get this code from the charge or any kinds of documentation you can change it anytime here okay so this will my large language model this will uh this will be my large language model okay now we'll be initializing the uh tably search okay so tably search is a internet search tool I already told you about right and to use this tably search tool you need a API key okay so for this what you have to do you have to go to this tably website tab you just need to write tab API key go to the first website and just try to uh continue with your Google okay so here you will be getting your API key if you don't have API key try to create from here so you just need to create here give the name let's say I'll give demo and simply create the API key. Okay, once you have created just try to copy this API key and uh you have to place inside your environment variable. So here you just need to create another key called table API key and here you just need to paste your API key. That's it. Okay, I already have my API key.

I'm not going to change it here. Uh okay, so API key is also collected. Now see this is our first uh tools actually we have defined. So tab is it's a like a tool inside like aentic AI if you are creating against ai project. So tab is a tool by default it's a tool.

So you don't need to give this particular decorator sign. So you just need to create an object of tably search. So inside the tably search you just need to give maximum result like how many uh result you need whenever it will search uh do the search operation. Let's say it has searched for uh latest AI news. Okay.

in 2026 it will search maximum in five website. Okay, five website and it will give you the response. Okay, I think previously I showed you this part. I think I created lang chain agent right there I showed you how to use the tab search right. Uh then topic topic basically I want to search the general uh topic related search operation and search depth advance.

Okay, so this kinds of parameter you have to pass inside table search and this will give you a search tool object. Okay, and then you have to create this object. So this will become your first tool. Then the next tool guys I have created here called calculator tool. So you can see I have written a custom function.

So just try to ignore this part. Let's say as of now I haven't added this decorator. So let's say I'll remove this decorator. First of all you have to write a custom function. So see this is the custom function I have written.

So here I'm using math module and here I if you are passing any kinds of expression right any kinds of mathematical expression. So this function will be able to calculate uh that expression and it will give you the result and if any exception is occurring it will raise the exception. Now let's if you want to uh create any kinds of custom function as a tool only you just need to give this particular decorator this decorator add the red tool and this tool we have already imported here as you can see from langen course tools tools. Okay now this will become a tools. Okay now this will become a tool object.

Now you can use this tool inside your agents. So this is super simple guys. Okay. And this is very much interesting. You can create any kinds of uh like Python custom function and you can convert it as a tool and you can use it inside your AI agent.

It's not like that. Always you have to use the predefined tools. Okay. It's not like that because I I can write any kinds of custom function okay for my work and that has to be my tools. Okay.

That has to work with uh work work like my tools. So I can do that. This kinds of customization is also available inside line graph. Now as you can see this is my second tool calculator tool. Now the third tool I created get stock price.

So let's say if you if user is asking about any kind of stock price about Apple, Tesla or Google whatever. So this uh tool will be working that time and it will give me real time stock data. Okay. So as you can see again I written a custom function. So this will basically take any kinds of company name uh example Apple, Tesla or whatever.

And here I'm using a website. As you can see this is the website alphavantage.co. Okay, this is the website. So in this website basically uh this is the uh API endpoint of this website and to hit this API endpoint I you need a API key.

Okay, so let me show you this website first of all. So this is the website guys. So this website has all of the stock related realtime data. Okay. Restock market data uh stock market data API for LM uh and u LLM and any other let's say uh uh application you are implementing.

Okay. So here basically you just need to collect an API key. So to collect the API key so there is a option get free API key. I'll click here. Now you just need to give your organization name.

Let's say I'll give DS with BP. And you just need to also pass your email. Let's say I'll pass my email. And once it is done just try to click on get free API key. Okay.

So this is your API key. Just try to copy that and don't share this API key guys and try to use your API key on API key. Okay. And here you just need to paste this API key. Okay.

Now this will become your this will become your um API endpoint. See now here you just need to pass a symbol only. Let's say I'll give apple. Um okay u I'll pass like that. See now this is giving you this stock data related apple okay real time you are getting a JSON response so that's how we are using this uh uh website guys that's how we are using this API and to hit this API endpoint I'm using request module inside Python we are passing this URL and it is giving you the result some response and we are returning that okay to the LLM so this is our next tool I have used here so in this uh like demo Now guys, I only use three tools.

You can add uh like more tools here if you want. You can add like get current weather informations. You can add uh let's say um emailing tool. You can add let's say Google drive tool. Any kinds of tool you can add.

All you just need to go to the chart GPT and ask like okay I need to use this tool. Uh how to write that particular function? This is a simple Python function you need to write. Okay. So just for uh just to show you guys I used only three tools in this particular project.

uh but you can add you can feel free to add more tools here okay anytime let's say uh let me show you another example let's say if I go to the chart GPT and if I let's say ask I want to add a tool in my agent that will fetch weather or given location real time. Give me a Python function. So see this is the get current weather tool. Okay. Now simply you just need to copy this code and here it is telling what to install here.

Okay. And uh it is telling uh this uh API key you also need because it is using open weather API I think. So let me copy this function as it is uh just I'm I'm showing you okay how to add uh different different tools. Okay. You can take the help from chart GPT anytime and you can create this kinds of custom function.

So let's say here I'm going to add another tool. This is my tool. Okay. Get current weather tool. It will take a location and based on the location actually it will u uh give you the realtime information.

So here I need to import this operating system library import OS H. So and it needs an API key. Okay, open weather API key. So how you will get this open weather API key? You can copy this key and search on Google.

So this is the weather API. Get API key. So this is the website guys it is using get API key. Now you just need to first of all sign in I think first of all I'll create an account. Okay.

I think I don't have any account. I'll give the password. I'll confirm all of these things and let's create the account. Okay, email is already taken. Uh okay, previously I think I already used this email.

So let me sign in and see whether it's working or not. Okay guys, let me login. I think I don't I am having some issue. First of all, let me login with this website. So guys, as you can see, I have successfully signed up uh in this website.

Uh basically, I I forget my password. Okay. And now I changed my password and now I'm able to uh visit this website. Okay. First of all, you just need to create an account here.

Then once you have done uh here you will see one option called API key and here is your API key. Okay. So you just need to um create an API key. Let's create an API key. I'll give the name let's say agent generate.

Uh this is your API key. Let's copy that. And uh here you have to write it inside your environment variable and this should be the key name. Okay, open weather API. So that's how you can collect the API and now it will work.

So I will re-execute from the beginning. So here I have added another function that will basically fetch the real-time weather information. Then uh here what you have to do guys you have to make a tool list. So here you just need to pass all of the object one by one. First of all, uh I created search tool, right?

So I'll give the search tool. Then I created calculator. Okay, calculator. Then I created get stock price. Then uh I created this uh current weather.

this function I'll pass here. Okay. So that's how uh let's say whatever tools you are creating you you just need to make a tools list. Okay. You have to give one by one.

All the tool list you have to give one by one. Okay. Just try to remember. Let's say you are creating 10 different tools you have to give 10 different list here. Once it is done you have to uh do the bind operation with your LM.

That means you just need to uh tell your LM. Okay. Now you have the tool. So that's why I'm not going to use the simple LM right now. Uh so the LLM object we have created this completely fine.

This is completely fine. Okay. Now we just need to bind this tool with the LLM. So here there is a function called bind tools and inside that you have to pass all of the list of the tools. And now you'll be using this object lm with tools.

Okay. Now let's bind that tool. Then now we are defining the state. I think the same state you remember we created previously this state. No change.

Let's define that. Now this is our chat node guys. I think you remember we created this chat node. And here we need to create another additional node called tool nodes. Okay, I told you about this tool nodes right in this my uh excalator file.

You can see this is the node. Additionally, we are adding this particular node and this is a predefined node. Okay, you don't need to separately write that. So here we are using this tool node function. I think we have imported this tool node and inside that we are passing the tool.

Okay, tools list of the tools we have and this will become your tool nodes. Let's define both of the nodes. Now, once it is done guys, now we'll try to create the graph. Now we are using uh state graph and we are passing the state. Now we are adding the nodes.

The first node we are adding which is chat node. Okay, we are adding the chat node as you can see. Then the second node we are adding the tool node. You can see the tool node. Okay, we are adding this tool node.

So both node we have added. Now we have to the age connection. Now how my age connection will look like. As you can see first of all start to chat node. So start to chat node then chat node itself will have a conditional edges with the tool condition.

I think okay I think I told you about this one chat node will have a two condition. Okay edge connection. Basically this tool condition will decide whether it has to call the tool or whe whether it has to use the default large language model. So that's why this connection would like uh will look like that. So you will be using add additional conditional edges and from chat node to tool condition.

Okay. Now this tool condition will decide whether it has to use any kinds of tools or not. Okay. Then here you just need to write another age connection tools to chat node. Okay.

Why you have to write this one? Let me show you. If I let's say don't give this line. Let's say I'll comment this line. So what will happen?

Let's try to see. Let's say I have uh added my chat node and tool condition. Now if I show you compile and show you my graph. So that's how my graph looks like. Okay.

And this is similar to this particular graph. Okay. And one thing I think you have observed here I'm not using the simple LLM. Okay. Right now I'm using LLM with tools.

So that means this object because here I did the bind operation with my tools. Okay. So make sure you add this line otherwise it will not work. Okay. So many people uh do this mistake.

So basically they use the simple LLM and uh they they feel like okay it is not using the tool. So that's why this object has to be called here. Now let me show you my execution. So now uh here we are giving a message. So first of all I'm giving hello and you know like uh uh for the hello actually it doesn't need any kinds of tool right.

So this will my regular chat. So it is telling hello how I can uh help you today. Now here I'm asking another question. Let's say what is uh uh this particular expression. Okay.

uh what would be the result of this expression mathematical expression and now it will use the tool okay because it has the calculator tool I think you know so previously we created the calculator tool so this is the calculator tool right it will uh use that particular tool let's execute see this is the result it has given me okay now here I will ask another question what is the new movie released in 2026 now again it will use the tool see new movie released in 2026 and all of the URL it has also given it has referred see this is the different different website uh my tool has referred that means I'm using tably search tool right and it has so my tably tool uh did the internet search operation and it found the latest movies okay as you can see and it has given me all of the title of the latest movies as you can see. Okay. See, but here the output we are seeing. See this output is not properly readable. Uh this output has also some metadata information.

Okay. So if I give this kinds of output to the user, so user will confuse okay what to read. So that's why uh I have to pass this output to the agent again. That's why I told you in my file itself. Okay.

So you can see uh our tools listen for the uh uh tool calls okay and once let's say it perform any kinds of tool calls uh then it automatically route to that particular correct tool then pass the tools output back to the graph okay why it has to pass this output back to the graph because of that because this output is not readable so again what I will do this output I'll try to pass to the the output we are getting see right now this is our architecture so whatever output we are getting from the tools it is getting ended Okay, now we have to again give this output output to the chat node. Okay, if I pass this output to the chat node, chat node will try to refine this output and it will generate a readable output for me. Okay, so that's why I have to do little modification inside my architecture. So let me show you. So here uh I'll just try to add this line.

Okay, basically the tools output you are getting okay, you are again sending to the chat node. Okay, this is the modification you only only just need to do. Now let me again execute. Uh okay. So I have to execute from the beginning.

Now that's how your structure will look like. See right now we are not returning the tools output. Instead of that the tools output we are getting we are again sending to the chat node. Okay. And chat node will refine the output and it will go to the end node.

Now let me show you my output. Now see again uh this will this is using tool see now see the result guys okay see the uh response previously it was only giving this number but right now this giving the result of this equation is this this is more readable right because right now the output we are getting from the tools we again passing to the chat node and chat node is doing the refinement. Now here I'm asking what is the new movies released in 2026. Okay. Now if I send this prompt so this is the response I'm getting.

Here are some new movies release scheduled uh for this date. Okay. And you can see all of the movie it has given me. Uh again this is a list. Okay.

Uh so what I can do I can get the um get the output. Now I just need to get this text. Now see that's how you can extract the final result. Now see this is more readable. Okay this is more readable.

I hope you get it guys. Okay. Now let me show you another question. Uh first find out the stock price of Apple using get stock price tool. Then uh use the calculator tool to find how much it will take to purchase uh 50 shares.

Okay. Now these kinds of question I'm asking. Let's see whether it is able to use my tool or not. Now see again I'm getting the result and if you want to get the text you can extract from here. Okay, the stock price of AF is that much and to purchase 50 uh 50 shares it would cost around that that much of money.

So, okay, now I think you saw it is able to use the tools right now and this is not a simple chatbot. Okay, this has the tool connection. It can perform any kinds of action. Even you can also ask about the realtime uh weather information. Let me also ask what is the current weather in let's say New York.

The kind of weather in New York. Uh New York is moderate rain with the temperature that uh this is the temperature and feeling like uh uh see this is the temperature uh humidity and the pressure. Okay. Each and everything it is giving you. Okay.

So yeah guys our uh system is working perfectly. Now we'll be um integrating inside our agentic chatbot. This is the complete notebook experiment I showed you and you have already understood the concept. Okay. Uh how to add the tools and uh I mean how to add the tools and how we can write our custom tools as well.

Each and everything I showed you. So guys, now we'll try to add inside our project. So here what I can do uh I can simply create a separate file so that you can refer all of the previous code as well. So I'm going to create a file here. I'm going to name it as let's say this name agentic chatbot tool back end.py

file. Okay. And inside that I'm going to copy all of my backend code I had. Okay. The same code you just need to copy paste here.

Same code. H. And here I'll do the modification. And again uh I just uh uh finished my open API key limit. That's why I'm using this uh Gemini model.

Okay. But if you have your open API key, you can uncomment this line and comment this line. Okay. So, alternative approach I showed you here. So now here I'm going to first of all import all of the necessary library from my notebook.

Just import all of this necessary library. Okay. After that we are loading the environment variable. It's completely fine. Then if you have open AP you can unccomment this.

that I don't have. I'll be using Gemini model. So once uh model uh initialization is done. So let me comment also so that it would be easy for you to remember. So this is the LLM definition.

Now we'll try to define the tools. Okay. So here we'll try to define all of the tool. The tools we have created here. Okay.

All of the tools we'll try to define here. So let's copy all of the tools. So here I copy pasted all of the tools. So first tools I had my search tool tab search tool. Second tool I had my calculated tool.

Third tool I had my stock price and the fourth tool I created this weather. I'll also copy this one. Copy and paste it here. Okay, some error is coming. Uh, okay.

Now it is solved. Uh, the problem was that I just copied till here. Okay. Uh, the last part was uh not copied. Uh, now I think this is fine.

Okay, now this is fine. But here I have to import another uh things which is this any. Okay. So any and ways import now from typing I will import this any. So in the tools also I have to do the same thing.

Fine. Now uh I think everything is good. Uh this is my calculator. This is my get stock. This is my current weather tool.

And this is my chart state. This is my chat state. So here let me comment. This is my chat state. Now I'll define my nodes.

same notes only. Okay, one more thing I just forget to do. I just need to do the tool bind operation. I think you remember here. We just need to bind this tool.

Let's do that. So before initializing the state, I will just bind this tool. Let me comment here. Bind tools to lm. Now the state definition is also done.

Now I'll define my chat nodes. So this is the chat node and the change I have done instead of calling the uh simple llm I'm calling llm with tools. Okay, this object now I'll define my second node which is tool node. Okay, tool node. So I think remember here also I did the same thing tool nodes.

Okay. Now uh this this is my uh connector that means my checkp pointer for the persistence memory checkp pointer. Uh this part I already taught you. Okay. Um this is common for all.

Now we'll try to define the graph. Okay. We'll try to define the graph. So as you can see this is our graph. If we are adding the nodes where this is the edge connection we are using the tools condition and at the last we are just doing this uh this uh edge connection as well that means whatever tool output we'll be getting we'll try to send it to the chat node that means in the same tools demo.ip

IP 1B file I showed you the same thing okay I just copy pasted the code only okay nothing change the same code I copy pasted that's it once it is done I think this function you remember this is the helper function for this streamlend we used okay uh this that means uh with this function we are getting the traits okay for this streaml we created I think in my previous video I think remember so yes guys this is the modification we have to do in the back endpy now uh everything is fine I think let me check H everything is fine now we are ready to uh test inside our front end as well so now I'll just write another front end file so here I'll copy this file as it is and the last file was the DB right yeah last file was the DB so I'll just copy and paste it and I'll just rename it app tool.py. Okay. So, it has the DB with tools uh tools code as well. Okay.

Now, here the change you just need to do which is um yeah if you don't change it's completely fine. You can use it as it is. Okay. uh there won't be any kinds of problem but one uh I think UI update you won't be able to see I think at uh whenever I show you my application for the first time right as a demo that time you saw whenever I was executing my agent it was showing it is using some kinds of tool okay see right now if I uh ex execute my app so what will happen let me show you first of all okay one more uh just modification you have to do uh this import okay uh previously I'm importing from agentic chatbot DB back end now I have to import from agentic chatbot tool back end. Okay, so this update only and make sure you have your uh langismith uh langismith uh environment variable that means uh the langismith API key and everything because uh it will trace everything in the langismith.

Let me open my langismith platform. And uh let me execute uh completely fresh. So what I can do I can delete this one. I can delete this project and let me execute completely fresh. And now I will execute my app my app tool.py.

Okay, this file stream let run app tool.py Fine. Now this is our chatbot. Now let's give the prompt. I'll give hello.

See it's working. Now I'll give um tell me the latest news in AI see right now you are getting the output like that but you didn't see it is using the tool okay which tool it is using but previously in the demo itself you saw it is using some kinds of tool even in the chart also if you're asking you will be able to uh see some tool calling. Okay, some tool calling is happening, right? So let's say if I ask the same question in chart JPT, you'll see some kinds of tool calling is happening. See here, it will tell like okay, I'll search for the internet.

See searching for the internet. It is using some kinds of search tool. So I want to also see this kinds of uh interface. Uh whenever my agent is using the tool, I'll be able to see that okay, this is using some kinds of tool. Okay.

So if you want to see that you just need to do little bit UI update. So in the streamllet app you just need to do some little bit modification. So here uh itself you just need to do the modification. Let me show you. H So here you just need [clears throat] to do the modification whenever you are uh sending the user input right and whenever you are uh just hitting the uh agent that means here here you just need to do the modification.

So what I have done guys, I just given this code to the chart GPT and I asked I just need to see this uh tool progress uh tool progress on my user interface whenever it will use any kinds of tool just try to do the UI update. So then again chart GPT given me this code. Let me show you GPT given me this particular code. So from here um everything needs to be changed this part. So this is the update uh chat GP given me guys.

So right now uh basically it will automatically understand whenever it will uh use any kinds of tool that time you will able to see in the user interface. Okay. So this code you don't need to remember guys. uh you have charg you have gemini anytime you can do the modification inside at the UI interface because this functionality is completely user interface uh let's say update okay so as a aenti engineer this is not your task there are some front- end developer they will take care this part okay I need to import one tool uh things which is tool messes uh here only tool masses okay that's it now this is the updated code now if I execute this code let me show show you what will happen. So I'll reexecute my app.

Now if I ask the same question, tell me tell me the latest news in here. Now you will see that it will be using some kinds of tool. Now see it is using tably search tool and it is uh doing the realtime search operation and the response it is uh generating it is again giving to the chat nodes and chat node is refining the output. Okay, now you are able to see the okay uh refinement result and you can also see the tool execution that means in the behind the tool what is exe what the execution is happening this is also available okay like charg you can also see the uh behind execution process like what the website it has referred and everything you will be able to also see here okay this also possible now let me ask another question I'll tell um calculate this number. Now you'll see that it will use my calculator tool.

See calculated tool done. Okay. Now here I will ask now here I will give another prompt. Uh what is the current weather in New York? Uh okay guys, one problem I found it is not able to use my uh current weather tools.

Okay, why if I show you the code, see whenever I did the bind operation, right? So here I didn't add my uh current weather tool here. So this is the problem. So what I will do? I'll just try to copy that code.

Uh that's why I'm telling why it's not working. Uh yeah. So I'll copy this code as it is and paste it here. Okay. Now I think it should work.

Let's see. I'll reexecute my app. Now here you can ask the same question. What is the current weather in New York or any other city? Now see it is using get current weather tool and this is the current weather in New York right now.

Okay. And you can also ask any other question as well. Tell me give me all the movie list. in 20 26. See it is using table rule and it will realtime search over the internet and this will give you the result.

See this is the entire result. I'm getting all the latest movie information I'm getting here. Amazing. Right now my uh aentic chatbot is working like chart GPT. So chart GPT has this kinds of tool as well.

That's why it is giving you realtime informations. Okay. And our chatbot is also working in that way. Now if I open up my um uh Langmith dashboard. So if I go to my project now here all of the trades has executed.

Even you can see trade wise. Okay. Trade wise you can see. Now let's I will see this particular trades. I will open it up and you can see the execution.

Now here you can see guys I have added the tool and automatically this tools has integrated inside my language dashboard as well. Now see this is my chat node. Okay. And uh whenever you given this message it will go to the chat node. Chat node will uh hit the invoke the LLM and LLM has the tool condition integrated.

Okay. Now tool condition has decided. Okay. It has to use the get current weather tool because what was the question? The question was what is the current uh weather in New York.

So it will go to the tools condition. Tool condition will decide okay it has to use the tool and which tool it will call get current weather tool. Okay. This tool it will call. Now tool condition will try to redirect this this thing to the tool nodes.

Okay. And now tool nodes will uh select this get current weather tool and uh what would be the location Newark. And if you pass this network to the get weather uh get weather function, this will return you the current weather information in New York. You can see this is the output. Okay.

And this output we are sending again to the chat node. Okay. You can see say again sending to the chat node. Now this is the input as well as the user input we are sending it and AI is generating this refine output. Okay.

So that's how the entire system is working right now. Okay. Now I think you can see guys what is the use of lang as well because in the lang itself you can debug everything after which note which node is executing whether it is able to select the right tool or not okay so that's how you can understand each and everything I hope it is clear guys okay so yes guys uh this is all about of our agentic chatbot now uh this aentic chatbot is uh not a simple chatbot okay this has the tool connection it it can perform different different actions now uh I can tell this is more advanc advanced agentic chatbot we have created. Now uh some other functionality also needs to be added in this agentic chatbot. We'll also try to add the RG functionality that is you can upload any kinds of document you can apart from the chat operation.

So yes this is all about from this implementation. I hope you liked it. So if you like this implementation guys please try to subscribe to my channel and share this video with your friends friends and family. So guys uh this is our agentic chatbot we have developed so far and we have integrated lots of features with this agentic chatbot. Now this is not a simple chatbot right now.

This has uh like um uh conversation um like uh trades. It has uh tool integrations. It has streaming features. Even it has the persistence memory with the permanent database. Okay.

So this is not a simple chatbot right now. Now the functionality I have added here this RG functionality that means rag functionality. Now in this chatbot in this aentic chatbot you can upload any kinds of documents. Okay. And you can start uh doing the conversation on top of that like chat GP.

Okay. So, chart GPT also has the same features. If I show you the chart GPT. So, in chart GPT also you can upload any kinds of documents and you can perform chat on top of that. So, first of all, let's see our application.

Okay. So, here let's say I will upload a documents. Let's say this is the documents I will upload. So, this is a research paper actually I published um uh this research paper. So, as you can see this is the paper guys.

The paper name is um development of multiple combined regression method for rainfall measurement. Okay. So here you can see I was uh I was the author. Okay. So I contributed in this paper.

So this paper covers uh about the uh rainfall measurement. Okay. Uh by uh by using some regression methods. Okay. You can go through the paper.

This is also available on the research gate. Okay. Now what I'll do I'll just upload this paper on my aentic chatbot. I'll select this paper. I will upload it.

See it is uh getting uploaded and it is processing. Okay. So once it is done now see here you can see the successful message. Now I can perform the chat operation. Now I'll just ask what is rainfall measurement based on the uploaded PDF.

Now see it is using my rack tool. Okay. So internally I created a rack tool. It is utilizing my rack tool and it is giving you some kinds of response. As you can see the document highlight that uh predicting the amount of rainfall recorded in millimeter uh is uh crucial.

It it uh notes that uh conventional methods for forecast uh for for seeing rainfall using equipment based on climate coordinate uh coordinations like temperature, humidity and weights are not productive. Okay. Instead of uh instead the paper process using the machine learning uh pro uh procedure and specifically predictive regression analysis technique. Okay. So yes uh if you go through the paper guys you will be able to see the same things this paper paper covers actually we proposed some regression method for this uh rainfall measurement technique.

Okay. Now we can you can also ask any other things like say what is the methology uh methodology of this paper in methodology. Okay. Now I'll send this prompt. Now see it is again using the rag tool and it is uh it is giving you the entire methodology uh we have written in the paper.

You can see uh this is the entire methodology. So if you go through our paper methodology you will able to see the same things we are discussing there. Okay. So that means like chart GPT we are able to upload any kinds of documents. Okay.

And we can perform the conversation. So in charge also you can try you can upload your documentation. Okay. And you can do the conversation on top of that. And we have also integrated the uh tracing features with our agentic chatbot.

That means it will continuously monitor our agentic chatbot. Okay. And we are continuously tracing the execution on the Langismith platform guys. As you can see these are all of my trace. Okay.

And you can monitor the entire trace entire let's say application uh in this Langismith dashboard only. Okay. So this part I also showed uh in my playlist uh just go through and check that that how we can add this langismith functionality inside our um application. Okay. So yes uh this is the features guys I have added uh inside our agentic chatbot and trust me this is uh very much important whenever you are creating aentic system.

Nowadays all the agentic uh applications are you uh applications are having this kinds of RG functionality that means uh you not only you can um do the conversation with the tools and the um default large language model instead of that you can upload your private documents and you can continue the conversation on top of that okay everything is possible here so uh yes guys this is the application and apart from that this application uh can also um handle different different conversation let's say if I'm asking Tell me the latest. Okay. Latest news uh of FIFA. Okay. 2026 did uh Brazil on the game.

Now see this is the question. This is the latest information I'm asking and my agentic chatbot will be using some kinds of search tool and it will give me the response. Now see it is using tably search tool. I already told you about what is tab right and it is doing the internet search tool. Uh it is doing the internet search and it is giving you the realtime response as you can see.

Yeah. So this is the answer. In the FIFA World Cup 2026 a group C match which ended in a one by one draw. Okay. Then uh Venicius Junior scored Brazil in this uh simulated game.

Okay. So this was the like match guys. If you have already watched that Brazil match, you saw like uh this was a draw match actually and this uh Venicius Junior actually scored um uh one goal for the Brazil. So yes guys that's how our agentic uh chatbot works and uh you can upload any kinds of documents right now and you can uh start the conversation on top of that apart from that whatever functionality we have created so far whatever tools we have integrated so far it will be working like a same right so now let's start implementing this uh functionality inside our agentic chatbot but before that first of all I want to give you the idea about uh rag what is retable augmented generation techniques and uh why it is useful. Okay.

And how this system works. Okay. First of all, we'll try to understand then we'll start the development guys. So guys uh as you can see uh rag in aentic chatbot it's a very important features uh not only in agentic chatbot uh whenever you are working with the uh generative AI technology especially with the large language model this rag is very important uh like component of that. uh if you have already studied about JNA I think you already work with rag concept right so rag helps us actually in three majors uh uh actually field one is the outdated knowledge so I think you know whatever large language model you are using it has a knowledge cut off right so if I'm talking about the let's say GPT 4 or GPT 3.5

right uh it has a knowledge cut off till 2021 uh this model got trained And after that actually whatever um new data came in the internet this model doesn't have the access to that data right because it has a knowledge cutoff that means if you are asking anything regarding after that date this model won't be able to give you the response. So it's not like that again you have to fine-tune that model okay on the new data because finetuning at the end it's a costly task. uh for this you need a good um instance, you need good infrastructure, you need lots of money, you need you need lots of data, right? So that's why researcher introduced the rack concept and with the help of rag actually you can give external data to the large language model as a knowledge base and your LM will be able to generate the response uh you are asking about the latest information you have already given right so this is the concept of the rag so that's why if if your model has outdated knowledge that time rag is very important for that and only things you have to create a detail knowledge base, okay, with your custom data. Now, the second thing is the private data.

Okay, so what is private data? Uh private data means let's say um uh just I showed you one example. I uploaded my paper, right? I uploaded my research paper. So this research paper is my private data and I want to perform some conversation on on top of my private data.

I want to understand about my private data. Not only research paper, you can upload any kinds of private documents of yourself. You can upload about your life story. You can upload about your let's say any kinds of inventory list. Okay.

Anything you can upload and you can perform the conversation on top of that. Okay. So this private data actually is not available in the LLM. Okay. The default LLM we are using.

So that's why uh we have to create this rack technique so that I can upload any kinds of private documents and I can start uh doing the conversation on top of that. Okay. I can ask anything. I can get any kinds of feedback from my um like chatbot. Then the third is the hallucination.

Hallucination uh happens let's say whenever uh you are uh asking your agent uh uh to do something. Let's say you are asking give me some um give me some let's say uh research topic link. Okay. Uh for that particular topic let's say this topic your u um agentic uh chatbot doesn't know right. uh let's say this is completely new topic uh this is not available uh in the um in the large language model knowledge base so that time what will happen uh it might generate some wrong URL right it might generate some wrong URL and if you go to the URL you will be able to see this URL is not working this research article is not working right so instead of what you can do maybe you can uh give some of the uh resources okay you can give some of the document uh to your agentic chatbot uh as a external knowledge and you and uh tell like okay now refer this uh actually knowledge and you can generate some um like research topics or let's say URL okay on top of that so that time actually your LLM will not do the hallucination but if you are not doing that uh there is a possibility your um chatbot will do the hallucination okay uh it might generate something wrong information for you so that's why this RZ technique is super important whenever you are creating this kinds of system that's why nowadays all of the application you have seen like charg GPT, Gemini.

Okay. Uh these are the application are using this uh RA concept in their um application. Uh that means you can upload any kinds of documents. Okay. PDF whatever and you can perform the conversation on top of that.

Now let's try to understand how this uh rag works. So this rag came from actually in context learning techniques. So in in context learning what happens. So this is the like highle diagram of this in context learning. So here we not only pass a query okay to the large lang based model uh with the help of with this query we also give some kinds of external context okay then we prepare a prompt and this prompt will try to send to the large language model and large language model will uh generate some kinds of response now let's try to see this part in action so what I'm going to do I'm going to give you one example let's say uh here you are asking about your um let's say paper so I uploaded one paper I you remember called rainfall measurement paper.

So if I ask directly this question okay to my large language model let's say here I'm using very old large language model and this large language model trained till let's say 2019 okay and if you see my paper guys this paper I published around 2021 okay so this paper information definitely it's not available inside my large language model so if I'm asking about this uh let's say paper let's say tell me about this rainfall measurement paper okay rainfall rainfall paper. Okay, let's say I'm asking my large language model. This is my entire prompt. I'm passing to the large language model. That time large language model will definitely not uh provide the response because it doesn't have the information.

Okay. So in in context learning what happens instead of giving the direct query you can also pass the context. Context means here you can give the entire paper. Okay. You can pass the entire paper.

Okay. you can extract all of the uh content or you can directly uh give the paper okay as a context and you can combine a prompt. Let's say uh tell me about rainfall uh measurement paper and here is the uh here is the paper content. Okay, content and you are already passing the paper here, right? You're already passing the paper here.

That means you are giving the query as well. Okay, you are also giving the paper. Okay, then you are asking tell me about the rainfall measurement. Now your LLM has the context as well as the query. Now it can generate the response.

Okay, you are ask uh it it can generate the response the question you are asking by using this particular context. Okay. In real life also let's say if I'm asking you anything which is completely new and let's say if you don't don't know that information if you don't know that let's say question that time you will directly say okay I don't know but if I give you some kinds of context let's say I will ask about uh tell me about um let's say uh Brazil team okay uh so what you will do um if I give you some context let's say if I give you list of the uh Brazil uh player uh uh let's say name list then you'll be able to uh give me okay these are the player players are available in Brazil team right it's it's like that that means you are not only giving the query but also you are providing the answer that means the context okay the entire paper now is referring that paper and it is generating the question you are asking let's say you are asking about rainfall measurement it will be able to uh understand about the rainfall measurement from the paper and it will give you some kinds of refined response so that's how in context learning works okay but the problem with in context learning is so let's say here the paper I'm uploading it might have lots of content right it might have lots of content content means if you see the paper all of the words you can consider as a token right and if you count all of the token uh there is a chance this token okay number of token um might increase than your uh input length of the model input limit of lm okay so every model has a input input limit right uh token limit if you open any kinds of model right uh in uh Google you will see that it has a input limit token limit let's say uh the model we are using this model can take uh 1,000 okay 1,000 token input at a time but if you're passing uh the entire paper let's say the paper token I have counted it is around 5,000 token okay 5,000 token that time definitely this token is um um bigger than your input token limit that time that would be an error. Okay, there would be some kinds of input error. That means you can't pass uh that many of token as an input to the model.

Okay, so this was the problem with the in context learning. So that's why from the in context learning one concept has introduced the concept name is rag. Okay, so in rag actually what we do instead of giving the entire documents directly we perform something called chunking we perform something called splitting. Okay, we uh divide our entire content in a different chunk, different split and we pass this uh different chunk, okay, one by one to the model. So this is the like updated architecture as you can see.

Let's say here I am having an entire documents. First of all, we'll try to uh extract all of the content from the document itself. Okay, we'll load the documents and we'll extract all of the content from the documents as you can see. Okay, and once it is done, we'll try to perform some kinds of chunking operation. We also call it as a speeder text splitter.

Split means let's say this is my entire docs, right? This is my entire content and I'll just try to create a different different chunk. I'll try to divide this content okay in a different different part. This is called text splitter. Okay.

Now let's say if your original documents it is around 5,000 token. Okay. Now after doing this splitter or chunking every uh every let's say chunk will have let's say 1,000 token. Okay. 1,000 token.

That's how you can create five uh five actually chunk here or let's say four chunk here or six chunk here. It's completely up to you. Okay. But it uh this input should be uh less than your model input. So once you have created the chunk then you will be using some kinds of embedding model.

I think you know about embedding model. What embedding model does? Basically embedding model we use to convert our text to the number because the large language model we are using right it can't take directly the English text as an input. Okay. Okay, internally because this is some kinds of mathematical equation.

So we have to convert as a number, right? We'll be using this embedding model and we'll generate some kinds of vector embedding. This is called vector embedding, right? This called vector embedding. Now this vector embedding we have to store somewhere.

This is called actually vector database and we call also call it as a vector store. Okay, especially in rag uh you will be using vector database not a traditional normal database. Okay, here you have to use vector database because there's a concept called similarity search or semantic search you have to perform and this is only possible in vector database only right then you'll be storing all of this vector in the vector database okay now this will become your knowledge base this will become your knowledge base guys okay now this knowledge base we have to connect with our large language model right now okay now this part actually we perform the retar operation that means if user is asking about a question about the let's say the paper I have uploaded rainfall measurement so First of all, this question will go to the knowledge base. Okay, because knowledge base has all of the okay all of the uh information about the rainfall measurement because I have uploaded the entire paper. It is available here, right?

So then uh this retriever it will go here and it will perform a semantic source operation and it will only extract that part which is required for the query. Let's say here I'm asking about what is rainfall measurement. But if you open the paper instead of rainfall measurement, it it has lots of like uh see topic. It has the related works. It has the methodology.

Okay. Then it has some comparison. It has some data set introduction. Okay. It has some diagram pre-processing section.

So I don't need all of the information. I only need that part where it covers what is rainfall measurement exactly. Okay. So with the help of the similarity search, it will only found that information. Okay.

Which is you are asking in the query and it will give you that particular uh relevant response. So here you can see this question will go to the knowledge base and knowledge base will return some relevant response based on the query you are asking most relevant chunk okay we call it as a most relevant chunk or context then you are combining the query also here you can see the query you are also combining then you are preparing the final prompt that means you can you are combining this query with the prompt let's say uh uh this my query is what is rainfall measurement and you got the rainfall measurement answer now we are combining the prompt uh what is tell me about rainfall measure measurement and here is the context then you are generating a entire prompt and this prompt you are passing to the LLM. Now LM has the query as well as the context. Okay, the question you are asking then LLM will try to read that it will understand and it will refine some kinds of uh final response and it will uh show you this particular response. Okay, so that's how the entire RG system works.

Okay, so this is the better version of the in context learning because in context learning we pass the entire documents. Okay, and what is the problem with the entire documents? because it has a input limit. But here uh if you are giving let's say thousands of thousands token input as well, it doesn't matter because it perform the chunking operation. It perform the splitting operation and all of the entire documents would be splitted into different chunk and it will store in the vector database.

Then you can perform any kinds of uh ret operation. Okay, similarity search operation and you can perform this kinds of question and answer on top of your private documents. So that's how this RG system works guys. Okay, I hope this part is clear to all of you. Now, we'll try to implement this system guys inside our aentic chatbot.

But before that, I want to show you the notebook experiment. Okay, like uh let's say I will uh show you the step-by-step procedure how we can implement this. Okay, with our uh agentic chatbot uh because we are using langraph how we can do it with the help of langraph. I'll show you the entire experiment and once our experiment is working then I'll try to integrate inside our actual code. So guys uh as you can see this is our entire code and this code I have already uploaded in my GitHub and link is given in the description.

So here in the notebook folder guys I added another notebook called rag demo. Okay just open this notebook and here I already written all of this code uh required to implement this functionality right instead of writing from scratch because it will take lots of time instead of that maybe I can go through my implementation right. So here just try to select your environment. After that uh first of all you have to import all the necessary libraries. Okay.

So here I have already imported all the necessary libraries guys. As you can see open AI open embeddings. Okay. Even I have also um imported this uh Google generate. uh because uh if you don't have openi API key if you don't have openi let's say uh provider that time you can use uh alternative uh way uh for running this project you can use gemini model and gemini model by default you will be getting some free uh free access okay you can use that particular model so that's why I'm importing this uh gemini and if you want to use this gemini you have to import this chat Google generate functionality and I have already installed this in my requirement as you can see this uh this library I have already installed there apart from that you have to also uh import this Google generate API embeddings because I don't have uh open AAI embedding model right I don't have open API key that time I can use uh Gemini embedding model okay so that's why both I have imported let's say whichever you have you can use them okay then load ENB pi PDF loader see if you are implementing RG that time this thing is required if you are uploading the PDF document that time from langen community you can uh import this pi PDF loader this is already available in document loaded and for this you have to install some library like uh langen community uh then you have to install fire CPU fire is a vector database okay apart from fi actually there are some other vector database are available like uh web is there chromad is there pine cone is there okay maybe in future project we'll try to use but uh in this project I'm going to use fires okay fs vector database and fires is a in um in storage database that means uh it will create uh the database inside your uh uh computer.

Okay, inside your computer computer um hard drive and uh there are some cloud-based uh uh vector database are available like web 8 is there then pine cone is there you can store all of your vectors in cloud okay this part I will also show you later on then pipe vdf you have to also install because uh we'll be uploading PDF documents here so in this project guys uh only just to show you I I'll be considering the PDF documents but if you want you can also upload docs format you can upload excel format okay this part you can go through the simply length documentation Okay, there you will try to see how to load the documents, how to load the Excel documents. Okay, each and everything they have given. But here I'm going to only consider PDF documents. Then one another uh library you have to install called langent text splitter. And this langent text splitter we'll be using for this uh for this actually chunking operation.

Okay. Uh from the entire document will perform different different chunk right and with the help of this langent text splitter will be doing this particular part. And here I have already specified the version. These are the version you have to install. And how to install?

Open your terminal and just execute pip installer requirement.txt. Okay, if you do that it will install in your system. Okay, so I have already installed all of the necessary library guys. I don't need to install again.

But if you're doing it for the first time, you have to install these other library. Okay, I mean all the comment I have also given in my readmi.mmd file. So once it is done guys, let's import all of the necessary library. You can see I'm importing this uh recursive character text splitter from langent text splitter and with the help of that we'll be performing the chunking.

Then uh we are also importing a vector database. It is also available inside langen community vector store. I'm importing fires. Okay. And fires has implemented by meta team.

Okay. By Facebook uh this uh vector database has implemented. Then um we are importing tools graph then annotated type dick. These are the things are common add messages, human message based messages. Okay.

And from lang graph we are also importing some pre-built uh let's say node like tool node and tool condition. So these are the things are common. Okay. So this is our entire import. Let's import them one by one.

So see guys I have imported successfully. Now we have to load the environment variable. So as you can see we already have the environment variable here. And here I have already added all of my API key. Uh I used TA API key.

I used open weather API key, Google API key. Okay. And this API key I collected from Google AI studio. If you want to use Gemini model. So in my previous video guys, I showed you showed you this part.

Okay. How to collect all the API key. Uh you can go through that recording. Then from Langmith tracing guys, we have added these three uh four things. And here you have to pass the LSmith API key as well from the lang platform.

Okay. So these are the credential you need. Now let's load all of them. Now if you're if you are already having this open API key you can uncomment this line and you can use uh open API model open AI model and if you don't have open AIP key if you have only Gemini key that time you can use this definition okay so here we are using Gemini model so let's load the Gemini model now we'll try to uh load my paper okay one of my documents so here I already kept my documents my paper that means this paper I already uh I already copied in the folder Okay, you can use any other documents as well. So this is the name of the PDF.

So I have to load this particular PDF. Now for loading it, I'm using PI PDF loader because this is a PDF file. Now let's load that. Okay. So once you do the loaded dotload operation, you will be able to see the entire documents.

Now let me show you the entire documents. So this is the documents. Now by default langen loads uh your documents into document format, okay, as a page by page. So how many page this is having? I think this uh PDF is having 15 pages.

Okay. 15 pages content I have extracted. Okay. And you can see some metadatas are available but the main part is that the content. So let me show you uh here is the content page content.

Okay. And in the past content you will have all of the uh text. Okay. I have in my PDF uh and these are some meta information. Now we'll try to perform this this operation.

That means we have extracted the entire document. Now we have to perform the chunking guys. Okay. we have to perform the chunking. Now this part actually performs the chunking operation.

We are importing recursive character explainer and here we are defining the chunk size. Okay, that means each of the chunk will have how many token. Okay, here we have defined each of the chunk will have 1,000 token. Okay, uh and there is a um another parameter you have to provide called chunk overlap. This chunk overlap basically uh means that uh there it has to add some overlapping.

Okay, over overlappinging means let's say let's say it is uh it is extracting 1,000 token. Okay, let's say till here you have 1,000 token. Okay. Now, next again it will create another chunk, right? Uh let's say from here it will start.

But if there is a chunk overlap, let's say 200, what it will do? It will go back 200 word. Let's say 200 word uh starts here, then it will create uh again uh 1,000 tokens from here. Okay, that means from your previous chunk, okay, there is a overlap I am creating so that my model can understand, okay, after this token, after this let's say chunk, this chunk is starting. Okay, so that's why this overlapping is important.

And this is the concept of rag. Okay, I already covered in my um YouTube channel. There is a dedicated generative playlist I'm having. You can go through that playlist. There I covered this rank concept in detail.

Okay, you can understand these are the concept there. Then after that we are splitting the documents. We are passing the entire documents and you can see we are creating the chunk. Now total I got 44 chunks here. Okay, that means I got 44 chunks here.

Okay. By divide uh by um doing the splitting of my entire content. Okay. And each of the chunk will have 1,000 token because our chunk size was 1,000 token. And this this is completely hyperparameter number.

You can also change this number as per your requirement. Now guys, we'll be u defining the embedding model right now. And here if you have openi uh API guys, you can execute this code. uh this code actually loads the openi embedding model and it stores in the files uh vector database but if you don't have openi you can execute this code and this code uses gemini embedding model here we you can see I'm using this gemini importing model and we're storing our vectors okay you are storing our vectors inside my files vector database okay files vector database and for this this is the code files from document and you have to give all of the chunk and your embedding model as well okay now if you execute this code now See here you will be able to see um one uh one database but uh this is only visible if you write this line. Huh?

Vector store save local. Okay. And here you have to give the name. Now if I execute again now see it has created the files database here. Okay.

In your computer. Okay. Okay, that's why I told you this is a incomputer database. It will store inside your computer storage. Okay, now we'll uh see the vector store.

So this is the object of the files vector store. Now we'll just try to create a uh retriever. Okay, retriever means if you want to perform this semantic s operation, you have to create a retriever of the entire database you have created because user will give a question and this question will first of all go to the vector tree. It will uh extract the most relevant chunk and it will combine your query. Then it will prepare a prompt.

Okay, for this operation, you have to create this retriever object. How to get the retriever object? You just need to write vector store as ret. Okay, uh then here you have to provide the search type. And here we'll be using similarity search operation.

And the search keyword is four. That means it will extract four relevant response at a time. Okay. Let's say if you're asking about what is rainfall measurement, it will go to the vector store and four relevant chunk it will try to extract. Okay.

So this is the parameter. If you make it as five, it will extract five chunk. It will if you uh give let's say two it will only extract uh two chunks. Okay, that's how this things works. Now we'll try to create the retr.

So once ret is created guys now these things we want to integrate inside of agentic chatbot and agentic chatbot if you're using rag concept you have to uh you have to actually create a tool of your entire rag you have created right but in simple rag we don't create the tool we just directly perform uh the question and answer on my retriever with my large language model okay but here we we have created agentic chatbot and aentic chatbot works with the tool so guys uh as you can see I have uh written this retriever functionality as a tool and this is the function I have created and I made it as a custom tool. So before uh showing you this one first of all I want to show you how retr works. Let's execute retr independently. So I'll copy this one uh retinvoke and here let's pass a query. I'll give uh what is rainfall measurement.

Okay. Now see this will uh return you uh this will return you actually four relevant information see four relevant information why because this s keyword you have set it as four this k parameter is four right now that's why four relevant response it is giving you see these are my four relevant chunk I am getting about the rainfall measurement now this will go to the my and this will go to the my uh query uh that means I'll add the query here and we'll prepare a prompt and this will go to the lm now lm has the context as well as the question and lm will able to generate the final response for me okay so that's how this uh uh this system is working okay that's how this ret is working now have to make it as a tool because here we are creating a aentic chatbot and agentic chatbot works with a tool okay now here you can see I have written the same thing just in a function it will take the query. I'm doing the invoke operation. Whatever documents I'm getting, first of all, I'm checking if uh document not found. So no no relevant information was found and if it is found then I'm extracting the u documents.

So here you can see some metadata information are available. So from this metadata I'm uh extracting the document sources. Okay, sources means which PDF it is uh referring. You can see here there is a section called source title is there, source is there. You can see source.

Okay. So that's how I'm extracting. These are the meta information page and content. So these information I'm extracting and we are joining in this u um like um list and we are returning it. That's it.

Okay. So this is the function I have written and we made it as a tool because this is our custom function and if you want to make it as a custom function u as a tool then you have to use this length and tools. Okay. Decorator there. Uh we have already learned it learned this previously right.

So this is my tool right now and I named it as a rack tool. Now further step will be same that means we'll be adding the tools inside a list and we'll try to bind that with our large language model. So you can see I'm binding binding my large language model with my tools. Execute. First of all I'll execute this code then execute this.

Okay. Now we have to define the state. Now this is our state and see here I haven't added other tools because I want to only show you the rag functionality that's why I'm only using one tool but in my actual code I have also some other tool like calculator web search tool then uh weather tool then stock market tool okay I think remember then this is our nodes so in the node itself I'm using my lm with the tools okay this particular u updated one and here is another node which is tool node now here I am defining my graph structure and we are adding the edges And I think this part you already know how to add the tool nodes and tool conditions there. Now finally this is our graph and this graph we also saw in my previous implementation. Now guys we'll try to invoke our uh chatbot.

Now see this is our regular message here. I'm just doing um chatbot.invoke. I'm giving a message hello. And for this it doesn't need any kinds of rack tool.

Uh it will generate the answer from the large language model only. Hello. I'm here to uh answer your question about the PDF document. Okay. Now uh here I'm uh passing my uh here I'm passing my prompt as you can see.

So here I'll just try to tell um using the PDF u notes explain about the rainfall measurement technique in a conscious way. Okay. Now you'll see that uh it will use the rack tool and it will retrieve the information from the knowledge base and it is giving you the final response. As you can see, the provided documents primarily discuss rainfall prediction techniques using machine learning regression analysis rather than uh detailing specifically uh specific rainfall measurement techniques. Okay.

And blah blah blah. Now if I only want to get the text, I'll just extract the text from here. Now see this is now final answer guys I'm getting. Okay. So that's how guys now we can perform any kinds of chat operation on my PDF I have loaded here.

Okay. That means this architecture we have implemented in my notebook. Okay. I hope you clear guys. Now we'll try to uh add this functionality okay inside our app.

So as you can see this is our app we created so far. Uh this was this was our final app. Uh final app I think last app we created this one app tool. Okay we integrated the tool. Okay.

Now what I'm going to do guys I'm going to add this uh rag features with our actual application and we'll try to conclude this particular video. So guys uh we have seen the entire notebook experiment of the rag like how uh how to implement the rag functionality inside our aentic chatbot and main thing we have learned this tool right now we have to create this uh retriever as a tool and uh this tool we'll be using inside our aentic chatbot. So now guys we'll be integrating this features inside our actual agentic chatbot we have created so far. Now this was the last file I created apptools.py.

Okay, this was the front end and the back end was uh this one aentic chatbot tools back end. Okay, this was my back end code. Now here what I'm going to do, I'm going to create u create another file. Maybe I can make a copy of this file. Copy.

And I'm going to just paste it now. I'll just rename it. Okay, instead of tool back end, I'll give rag back end. Okay, I I'm keeping my old code as well so that you can get a reference. Okay, you can um you will have this code so that in future whenever you are practicing all of the code will remain same.

Uh so agentic chatbot rag backend.py. Okay. So this is my updated code. Updated back end I'm going to write here.

Okay. And in this code I'll just do the modification. And for front end also uh I'll just create another one this app tool. Right. Instead of app tool, I'll copy and I'll paste it first of all.

Then let's rename it. Instead of tool, I'm going to give rag.py. Okay. Now, first of all, let's uh update our back end.

So, I'll open my back end. And here update would be first of all we'll uh import all the necessary library whatever we have imported in my notebook. So this is my updated library guys as you can see pipdf loader recursive character splitter google generative uh yeah embedding okay files and all we are importing everything right then after that we'll be uh we'll be just loading our embedding model. So after large language model definition we'll just try to load our embedding model. Okay the embedding model I was using in my notebook.

So here I think remember I was using this embedding model. Okay let me close some of the file. This file this file also this file. Now after that we'll just write a function. Uh this function will basically u take a PDF file and it will extract the documents.

It will perform the chunking and after chunking it will store all of the chunk in my vector database. Okay that means this step I perform right this step I perform. Okay separately I'll just do inside a function. So let me show you this function I have already written after this embedding model. Just a minute.

Uh here I have defined this model two times. Right? Okay. So I have to remove So what I can do I can remove and rewrite again. Okay, now I think it's fine.

Now I have imported all the necessary library. This is my model. This is my embedding function. Sorry, this is my embedding model. Now we'll just write this function.

So this is the function. I named it in this track document. This will take a file path and we are defining the database path that means it will create a folder called uh files database. Inside that uh all of the vector would be saved. Now we are loading the like file extracting the document performing the chunking operation.

You can see chunking operation. After that we're storing everything in the files vector database and then we are saving this database inside our local. Okay. So this is the function we'll be using and this function we have to use from the front end. So whenever I'll upload any file from the front end that time I have to execute this function and this function will create my knowledge base.

Okay. This knowledge base should be created. Okay. Now I'll just write another function for the retriever. Okay.

So this function what it does basically it loads your uh vector database. Okay. That means the database we are creating knowledge base we are creating. First of all it will load with the help of files.load local we'll be loading this and we'll pass the embedding model.

And there is another parameter you have to provide called allow dangerous dialization is equal to true. Then we'll create the ret again. So vector store as retr. We are giving the similarity s and this k parameter like that. Okay.

This this part we are doing. Then we are creating the ret object. Now with the help of this retr object I'll be able to perform the inbuck operation. That means I'll be able to do the source operation. Similarity s operation.

Okay. Now we'll just write our rag tool. React tool as a function. So this is our act to guys. As you can see we created the same same function.

We copy pasted the same function from here. Okay this one. Now this will take the query. We are doing the first of all we're getting the ret. We're calling this function.

Get retr. This will give me my ret object. I will do the invoke operation. Whatever document I will get I'll extract all of the content from here. Okay.

Then I will return it. That's it. It's coming. Now after that we'll be defining all of our tools as it is. Okay, this will remain same.

You don't need to change anything. Our search tool, our calculator tool, then our get stock price tool, then our get current uh current weather information tool. Everything will remain same. Only the change I have to do here. Okay.

Here I have to add another tool which is my rag tool rag tool the function I have created okay this one this function I have to pass as a tool then we are doing the bind operations then we are defining the state and one more change we'll be doing inside our chat node uh now this is a simple chat node we created previously it doesn't have any kind of system prompt. Now we'll add a system prompt here. Let me show you my updated notes I have created. So this is my updated notes guys. Okay.

So here I added a detail system prompt as you can see. Uh this is my system message. Um has you are a helpful agentic chatbot with access to several tools. Use tools uh you uh tool uses instruction. Use rack tool for a question about uploaded PDF or documents.

Always retrieve relevant documents content before answering the PDF related questions. Use search tool for current events, recent information or or informations that requires the internet search. Use calculator uh tools for mathematical calculation. Do not calculate complex expression manually when calculator is available. Then get stock use whenever user asking about any kind of a stock price and get weather whenever user is asking about latest weather informations and answer general questions directly.

uh when no tools is required do not invent informations from the uploaded documents. If the user ask about the PDF but no documents is available ask them to upload the PDF. Okay. After receiving a tool result provide a clear and helpful final answer. So that's how guys we defined a clear system message to our chatbot right now.

Okay. So every aentic chatbot you will see it has a message. Okay. Okay, it has a prompt system uh system we call it as a system prompt and with the system prompt basically it uh performs all the operation that means whenever you are asking anything uh inside a chatbot okay it uh it works like a step by step how it works because it has a proper system prompt and this thing you have to provide okay so far we haven't given but now we have given a detailed system prompt because now we have made it more advanced now I want my chatbot to be work like a professional way okay that's why we have we have added this entire system prompt Now in the message you will give the system prompt as well as the state message user is giving then we are invoking it and whatever response we are getting just returning it. Okay.

So this is a simple modification you have to do inside your chat node and all of the node will remain same your tool node then we are defining my checkpointter SQLite database. Then this is our graph. Okay. All the graph definition everything will remain same. No need to change anything.

As well as my helper function for streaml front end this will also remain same. Okay. So this is the change guys you have to do in the back end file. Okay. So this is the change you have to do in the back end file.

Let me check whether anything is required or not. I think everything is fine. Okay fine. Now I have to change my front end. Now what I will do?

I'll just try to open my front end app rag.py. Now see what I have done guys. I just copied my existing front-end code to chat GPT and I asked I need a document uploader function features on my uh chatbot. So try to create uh streaml uh user interface for that.

Okay. So then I got this code. Let me show you. This is the updated code I got. This is the updated code I got.

So basically this has the document upload features. Okay. So if you don't know about front end design and all don't need to worry. So this is the work of a front- end developer. So I also took the help from charg uh created this front end.

But only the change you have to do here. Okay. First of all you have to change this uh import operation that means right now we are importing from agentic chatbot rag back end. So from aentic chatbot rag back end. Okay, we are importing chatbot.

Then get all threads. Uh get all threads. Okay, this one and uh we are also importing ingest rack documents. Okay, that means this function this function I need whenever I will upload any kinds of documents on my streaml. So this function will be executed and my vector store would be ready.

Okay, that time then everything will remain same only the change here it has done. Let me show you. See this is the new code it has added. If you if you compare with your previous code so this part has changed. Okay.

So here in the uploaded um section that mean in in the user input section it has added another one called uploaded file. So basically here it is taking a PDF file upload and uh we are taking this PDF file we saving as a temporary file. Then we are calling this in just drag documents. We are passing inside this function. Okay.

And this function is creating my knowledge base. this knowledge base will be created. That means this uh uh vector store would be created. Once my vector store is created, now you'll be able to perform the chart operation. Again, we are uh taking the user input and doing the chart operation.

Okay, that means all the code are common. Only that pass uh that part is changed. Okay, that means upload document part is changed. Now, let me show you my updated uh front end how it look like. So streamllet run app rag.py.

So as you can see this is my updated front end. Now we can perform the chat operation. Now let's perform the simple chat initially. So let's say I'll give hello I am BP and this is happen happening in a like new trades. Okay, completely new trades and internally it is also tracing our application.

Okay, it is also tracing our application with the help of linesmith. Now I'll give uh tell me about let's say Python. So this is a simple chart. So it is telling you about Python. Okay.

Now here I will ask uh what is what is the answer of this equation. Let's say I'll give a mathematical equation. I'll see it will use my calculator tool. See calculator tool it is using and this is the final result I'm getting. Okay.

Now I'll ask uh what is the current weather in let's say Dhaka. Now it will use my get current weather tool and this is the current weather in Dhaka right now. Okay. And now I will ask about the latest information. Tell me the latest news.

Okay. Latest news of FIFA. FIFA World Cup 2026. Now see it is using tab search tool and here is the answer I got. Okay about the FIFA World Cup.

Okay. Now I will ask uh I will upload a documents. Let's say I'll upload documents the same documents. Let's say I'll upload my paper. My paper got uploaded.

Now I'll tell uh tell me about rainfall measurement uh based on the PDF loaded. Now see it is using rack tool and it is giving you the entire response about the rainfall measurement. Okay, this amazing. Now I'll tell her tell me about the abstract paper. Now see again it is using rag tool and this is giving you the inter abstruction.

Okay. Now I'll ask uh who is Bier Ahmed Bi mentioned in the paper. Now again it is using react tool and now it is telling Bkt Ahmed Bi is one of the six author of the paper development of multiple combined regression method for reinforce measurement. And uh here is the address and email address. Okay.

Amazing, right? So that's how guys our agentic chatbot right now it's working and it has it has lots of advanced feature right now and the current one we have added this rag functionality. Now you can upload any kinds of document and you can perform the conversation on top of that. Okay. Like chat GPT like chat GPT also you can upload any kinds of documents.

Okay. And you can start doing the conversation here. Okay. This is also possible. And one more thing I want to show you.

So if I go to my langispit right now. So if I go to my trades. So I'll go to this trades and here all the conversation I have done. So the last conversation I did uh this one. Now if I go to the two condition okay I'm happy.

I think last conversation was that. Okay. This one. Yeah. Now you can see here uh whenever I did the conversation first of all it it went to the chat node then large language model then um it was redirected to the tool condition tool condition was selected the tool now it selected the rack tool okay and inside rack tool we are using this vector search ret operation okay and with the help of that it is doing the vector search and it found actually four relevant response you can see okay from my knowledge base and this four relevant response went to my chat nodes again that means my llm with the prompt and then uh it was generating the final response.

Okay. So that's how this entire system is working and in the Langmith platform itself you can monitor the entire system. Okay. This is the best part of this uh of this actually application is. So yes guys uh this is the um like uh chatbot we have created so far.

This is our agentic chatbot we have created so far and everything is working fine and all the codes I will be sharing in my description section. from there you can check it out and uh let me know how this uh learning is okay whether you are able to learn uh the agent TKI concept from my playlist or not. So if you found my content useful guys please try to subscribe to my channel and share this with your friends and family okay your support is required. So if you're supporting me guys, I'll get lots of motivation to bring this kinds of content. Okay.

In this video, we'll be learning one very interesting concept called human in the loop HIT L inside our agentic chatbot with the help of Langraph. If you are following my entire playlist guys from the beginning, I think you remember uh in my introduction uh video, I already talked about this HITL that means human in the loop concept. uh that means uh this is the uh component of an AI agent. Whenever you are implementing any kinds of AI agents uh whenever you need any sensitive task, you need this HITL concept that means human in the loop concept. Okay.

Uh so in this video guys, we'll try to uh learn this entire HITL concept. We'll also see the practical and we'll also try to integrate this functionality inside our agentic chatbot. So before I start this uh implementation guys, first of all I want to show you the demo how this uh hit uh looks like and uh after adding this inside our agentic chatbot how uh it is going to work. Okay, we'll try to see the demo after seeing the demo we'll try to understand this concept in a theoretical manner then we'll see the practical implementation as well. So guys this is our agentic chatbot that's how this chatbot looks like.

So right now you can upload any kinds of document and you can start a conversation okay on top of your documents this is possible. So let's try to test our chatbot and I already integrated this hit with this agentic chatbot. I'm first of all going to um show you the demo then after that we'll try to see the practical development. So here uh you can perform the simple chat operation. Let's say if I give hello so your chatbot will return something.

See hello can help you today. Now we'll ask uh what is the what is the current weather in Dhaka you will see that it will be using uh different different tools okay that means it will use uh weather tools and it will give me current weather informations okay uh given any kinds of location even you can upload any kinds of documents let's say I will upload one of my documents ments. Let's I will upload these documents. Okay. Okay.

Now this is uh one of my resume I have uploaded. Now I'll ask some question on top of this uh PDF. So tell me about Boktier Ahmed By based on the PDF. Okay. Upload it.

Now we'll see that it will be using rag tool and it is giving you the entire uh entire actually introduction of bkirhmed bpi is a data scientist over 5 years of uh working experience in the field of generative loops autonomous AI system okay and blah blah blah you can see the entire summary uh of me okay so that's how guys uh you can perform any kinds of conversation uh on any kinds of documents okay now here let me show you this uh hit functionality I have added added in this agentic chatbot. So basically here I have added this hit for one sensitive task. Okay, sensitive task means I think you know that uh with the help of this agentic chatbot I can see any kinds of stock price, right? So let's say if I asking uh let's say what is the stock price of Apple? Okay.

So I think you know that it has a tool uh that tool actually real time f the stock prices. Okay. Given any kinds of company. So if I let's say send this prompt you'll see that it will use that tool using get stock price tool. Okay.

And this is the current uh stock price we are getting of the Apple. Now I want to perform a sensitive task with this uh aentic chatbot. Basically I want to purchase a stock of Apple. Okay. I want to let's say purchase 10 stock of Apple.

Now this task required actually human observation that means human approval. It's not like that you want um you are giving your agents uh the 100% authority to perform all of the task. It's not like that because there are some sensitive things you have to monitor okay manually and this is this needs actually human approval. So here let's see if I am asking to my agents uh purchase okay purchase let's say 10 stock of apple okay let's say I'm asking this question and this is a sensitive task and for this you will see that it will ask for human approval okay now if I send this prompt Now see it is asking for the human approval. Human approval required.

Approve buying 10 shares of Apple. Yes or no? Do you want to give me the permission? Um if you want I can buy. So for this you have to provide yes otherwise you can reject this particular uh approval.

Okay. So let's see if I am giving yes. I will approach this approve this purchase. Now you'll see that it will use my purchase stock tool and it will purchase the shares of the Apple. Okay.

Now if I'm again asking this thing let's say um purchase 10 stock of Google. Now see again it is asking for human approval. Now right now let's say if I'm rejecting the purchase you'll see that it will not purchase that. Okay your request to purchase 10 shares of Google was declined. Okay.

So this is called actually HITL that means human in the loop. Uh basically if you have already used any kinds of agentic system guys. Okay. Uh you will see that this kinds of functionality they are having they will ask for human approval. Uh if you are already using any kinds of code editor also like uh um this uh anti-gravity or cursor AI.

Okay. There also you will see that whenever you want to generate something generate some code or if you want to create any project you will it will ask for the human permission. Okay. If it required that time you if you are giving the permission okay that time actually it will perform all of the task otherwise it will decline that okay so this functionality guys we have integrated inside our agentic chatbot and now this chatbot is super advanced okay now it can do all of the task and uh uh you can actually integrate this not only in this stock price purchase uh but also you can integrate uh these things in any kinds of let's say task you are performing. I'll show you okay how to do that.

And uh you can uh feel free to add uh so many tools here. Okay. Uh so many autonomous tool you can add here. Let's say you want to send automatically email you can add the emailing tool. If you want to uh check uh your Google drive, okay, how many files are present and if you want to upload any file so you can also add these kinds of tools.

Okay, I already talked about the tools and this video is already available over my channel. You can see that. Okay, how to add different different tools. So yes guys uh this is the demo of this u u hitl human in the loop. Now we'll try to see this human in the loop u uh what is this human in the loop?

Okay why it is required in a theoretical manner then I'm going to show you the practical implementation of that. So guys if you are completely new to my channel and if you haven't subscribed yet please try to subscribe to my channel. Uh if you found my content useful uh please support me if uh if I get your support. So definitely I will get lots of motivation and I will bring this kinds of content more. So please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like and please try to share this with your friends and family as well.

So guys first of all let's try to understand what is this HITL is. As you can see from from the definition itself, HITL that means human in the loop is a design approach in agentic systems where a human actively participates at critical points of the AI workflow uh either to supervise, approve, correct or guide the model's output. Okay. So this is the concept actually it's required whenever you are performing any kinds of uh sensitive task. Whenever you are performing any kinds of let's say very critical task that time this HITL is required and if you are creating this kinds of agentic system I think you know that where you need to exactly add this HITL feature because inside agentic project actually there would be multiple kinds of task let's say uh here uh inside our chatbot we have added different different task let's say our chatbot can perform internet source operation it can give you the weather information okay so for these kinds of task actually I don't need this hit features.

Okay. But let's say I showed you one demo. I need to purchase a stock price. This is a critical and sensitive task. Okay.

And definitely needs human approval. Otherwise, if I give the full authority to my AI agents, uh it it may actually uh do something wrong. Okay. Let's say uh I will tell uh please purchase 10 shares of Apple. Okay.

So, what it can do? It can let's say purchase 20 shares of Apple. Okay. uh it can let's say spend more money okay of me so that's why this human uh uh in the loop is required in this kinds of critical task that's how inside an agentic AI project there would be multiple uh like scenario uh you might need to add this HITL okay it's not necessary to add this HL to all of your features all of your task okay wherever you feel like okay this is required for me you can add add it there okay so that's why you can see this HL L it's a design approach in AI agentic AI system. Okay, where a human actively part participates at a critical point of the AI workflow.

Okay, that means this is your completely uh your design uh philosophy here. Okay, you will be designing this kinds of HITL uh functionality inside your project. Now you can see think of a HLTL uh as putting a human checkpoints inside an AI pipeline uh so that important decisions are not made automate autonomously by the model. Okay, that is what I told you. So whenever you need this kinds of uh critical task handling uh you are not going to give the full authority to your uh agent.

So that time it will not automatically take the decision okay uh by your agent that time you will be available okay in this particular loop and if you approve that particular task uh this will perform otherwise this will not perform okay this is what actually this definition says now you can see why exist uh as I already told you to help agentic system that means whenever you are creating any kind of agentic system so to help the agentic system you need this kinds of hitl for an example let's say you want to imple element an agent uh that will uh prepare a post okay that will prepare a LinkedIn post and uh it will uh post over the LinkedIn platform okay so here to create the LinkedIn post it doesn't need any kinds of human approval but whenever it will post that uh let's say on the LinkedIn platform that time this human approval is required because human will review the entire post if the post is fine then they will approve this post and this post would be published list over the Ling platform. Okay. So here basically this HITL helping the agentic system. Okay. Uh to perform the complete task.

Okay. Uh I think you can understand what I'm trying to say. Then the second to add the accountability. Accountability means let's say I already told you agentic system can make mistake. So let's say if you are telling I need to purchase 20 stock of Apple.

Okay. So there is a possibility your agent will uh your agent will uh will try to purchase let's say four 40 stock of Apple. Okay. So there is a problem right? So before purchasing that stock first of all you will try to review that whether uh the amount you want to purchase it is fine or not.

The price uh Apple is having for the stock it is fine or not. If everything goes fine then you will try to give the approval otherwise you will try to reject. Okay. So that's why this uh HITL is exist. Uh it will help you to help the agentic system and uh to add the accountability as well.

Okay. Now you can see HITL ensures accuracy definitely uh if you are implementing this HITL inside your agents uh there would be uh higher accuracy inside your agentic system. Um otherwise uh there are some problem. I think I have already explained that okay what would be the problem. uh so if you are adding this one so definitely accuracy will increase inside your agentic system that's why in charge GPT Google gemini whatever agentic system you are using all of the applications are having this kinds of hit functionality okay in charge also maybe you have observed uh it will tell you okay uh do I need to perform the uh perform this task or not okay if you give yes then it will perform otherwise it will not perform okay then safety definitely safety is required uh as I already given you one example that stock price uh purchase this demo.

So there let's say if I'm not giving this kinds of hits features that that times that is a possibility our agents will purchase more stock which I which I don't need. Okay. So definitely this is one kinds of safety. Then the next thing uh is ethical alignment. Let's say um if you are doing a task that have some kinds of ethical alignment.

Let's say we are preparing a post for the LinkedIn and that post should not have any kinds of let's say sexual content or let's say abusive content. Uh so uh that time actually you can have this kinds of ethics. Um you can uh basically review that and uh if you approve that kinds of content uh then your agent uh agent will basically uh post that otherwise it will not post that. That means if your content is having this kinds of uh uh these kinds of uh sexual and abusive content you will reject and uh if if it doesn't have that that time you will try to approve that. Okay.

So these kinds of ethical alignment um also ensures this HITL then better user experience as I already told you um if you are adding these kinds of things so definitely there would be better user experience uh as you already observed inside our app right so it was giving some kinds of uh approved uh let's say input and if you're approving that the task was happening if you are not approving the task was not happening so this is kinds of better user experience okay you are providing with the help of this HITL then some common HITL patterns as you can see action approval patterns approve reject before execution uh as I already told uh showed you one demo right so basically whenever you want to perform any task and uh if it needs any kinds of action so here you you can perform with the help of this HITL you can approve or reject uh before the execution then output review and edit pattern so maybe you have seen um any kinds of uh uh block generation let's say agent so what it does basically it generates some kinds of output then it It's for the human review. Okay. Uh human review and edit. So if they review and edit and approve this kinds of output then it will finalize that otherwise it will not finalize that. Then ambiguity clarification pattern.

So sometimes your agent is asking let's say uh your your agent is getting confused right. Let's say you are asking your agent schedule a meeting on Friday. So let's say in this week also you have the Friday and next week also you have the Friday. So that time your agent needs a clarification. Now which Friday it needs to schedule the meeting.

So again it will ask you uh actually I'm a little bit confused which Friday you are u like talking about this Friday or the next Friday. So this is called ambiguity clarification pattern. Then escalation pattern let's say sometimes what happens in some kinds of chatbot. So it uh talks with the customer and when it feels like okay it cannot handle this kinds of scenario it will redirect to the actual actually um actual owner of that uh company and they will basically handle this kinds of scenario. Okay, this is called escalation pattern and that can be also implemented with the help of this HITL.

Okay, so yes uh this is the entire idea of this uh HITL. I think you have understood. Now uh we'll try to see how this HITL works. Okay. Uh in a practical uh way.

First of all, I will uh I will show you this uh diagram wise how this hit will work. So for this here I have taken an example. So here I have taken a basic workflow guys. As you can see this workflow you can consider this is a post generation workflow. Let's say uh you can generate any kinds of LinkedIn post.

So you can see uh it has the start node. First of all, user will pass a topic and if submits the topic, it will go to the um your langraph workflow. Okay. And it will execute the start node. Then it will uh perform the resource operation of that particular topic.

And once it found the content, it will prepare the content. And here it will uh post that particular content over the LinkedIn. But here we'll try to add this hit feature. Okay? Because before posting that definitely it needs the human approval.

It will ask me whether I have to post or not. Okay? So if I review that, if I approve that then it will post otherwise it will not post then this workflow is getting ended. So let's try to understand this agit um with this particular example. So see what is happening.

Let's say you are passing a topic name here. Let's see what topic uh you are passing a topic name of machine learning. Let's say ML. Let me take this color. Let's giving ML topic.

Okay. So this ML topic you are submitting here and it will go to your langraph workflow. So this is the lang graph workflow we have created let's say. So first of all here it will prepare a state. I think you know that we have to prepare a state right.

And here what would be the state? State would be the topic and as well as the draft that means draft post it is generating. Okay. So it will uh first of all uh invoke this uh uh workflow and it will go to the research node and research node will perform the research operation. It will try to find ML related uh latest uh let's say information and it will prepare a post.

Okay. Once post is prepared then here we'll try to add this HITL feature. Okay. Hi TL feature. Human in the loop features.

Okay. Now how human in the loop feature works. Let me give you as a highle uh like uh high level idea. Uh definitely we'll try to see in practical manner how to write in the code. But I will give you this one highle code diagram how it will work.

Okay. So see whenever you are implementing this HITL inside any kinds of node right uh that time you will be using one function called interrupt okay this is already available inside langraph uh inside langraph actually this hit implementation is super easy so there is a function called inter in uh interrupt okay interrupt interrupt function okay so once you will use this interrupt function this execution will pause here okay this execution will pause here unless and until you are not giving any kinds of input. So let's say here I I'll take a variable called decision. Decision decision is equal to okay interrupt. Now here user will pass something.

Let's say if user pass this decision decision is equal is equal to yes that time post will happen. Okay. Else it will reject. Okay. So this is the highle code diagram you can understand.

That's how actually lang graph will work. Okay. So here we'll try to use uh one function called interrupt and this function will basically pause the execution unless and until human not human is not giving any kinds of input. Okay. Now you can define your input like what kinds of input you need from the user.

This kinds of functionality also you can add here. Okay. Then after getting the input you can uh execute your workflow. And one more thing which is very important whenever you are implementing this HITL you have to add the checkpointer. Okay, you have to add the persistence memory.

Uh we we have already seen the persistence memory. Okay. Uh persistent memory basically saves all of your state right inside a memory whether you can use any uh inmemory saver that means in in your RAM or any kinds of permanent database you have to use that because whenever it will perform the pause operation right uh let's say here it is performing the pause operation so to execute it again let's say whenever user is giving the input okay after getting the input this will execute right so whenever it will execute it's not like that it will execute from the beginning it will execute while it has passed that particular execution and how it will understand by seeing the state because state is saving all of the information and where it is getting loaded it is getting loaded in the database okay in the persistent memory and from the persistent memory it will load that and it will see that okay I stopped in the post uh nodes and now I have to continue from the post node instead of continuing from the beginning okay that's why the checkpointer you have to define the state uh persistence memory you have to define whenever you are implementing this hit concept inside langraph Okay, line graph it is super important. Okay, I hope you clear guys. So that's how this uh HITL will hit will work um in practical and uh you can implement this HITL in any kinds of node.

Okay, any kinds of node or any kinds of tool you are using you can define that. We'll try to see that. And one more thing whenever you are uh giving this input right uh let's say this interrupt is waiting for the human input and whatever input you are passing let's say here you are passing this yes input okay so this yes input will consider as a command okay it will consider as a command uh so this command actually will u uh go to the again your uh let's say node that means your chat node and uh if uh your chat node is getting this yes command that time it actually it will uh it will uh feel like okay now user wants to post that okay then your posting will be happening okay so that uh that means this command is required a command keyword is required whenever you are using this interrupt function and whatever let's say user input you are getting uh you have to store in the command okay now this thing I will also show you in the code uh I think by seeing the code I think this concept would be more clear in your mind right but before uh the code uh implementation I have given you high table overview so that whenever I will explain the code you won't be having any kinds of confusion. Now guys, we'll try to implement this hitl with the help of lang graph. Uh for this actually first of all we'll try to see a simple example.

Uh I think you remember uh the aentic chatbot uh we are creating so far. Uh from the very beginning I have taken this simple workflow. Okay. So this workflow has one node which is chat node. So if you basically give a input uh it will generate the output of that uh given input and you will be able to see the output of that.

Okay. So here uh what I'm going to do guys I'm going to add a simple uh simple actually example of this HITL. So basically here whatever input is coming right in this particular node. So here we'll just try to add a HITL feature. Okay HITL feature.

So here we'll try to first of all uh ask the user do you want to really ask the question okay uh do you want to really ask the questions to the model if user sends yes okay I want to perform then the answer would be generated otherwise answer won't be generated okay it it looks like very funny but just to make you understand actually I have taken this example first of all let's try to see the HITL implementation with this very simple example then I'm going to show you with the advanced example as well we'll uh we'll use our agent NTI code the code we have implemented so far and we'll try to integrate this uh things okay there but before that I want to show you the implementation part how it can be done that's why this uh example I'll be taking okay so I think you have understood what I want to do so whatever question is coming first of all here we'll just try to add a hit feature uh it will ask for the human review do you want to really ask the question if user gives yes then um this question would be uh going to the chat node and user will be able to see the output Otherwise user won't be able to see the output. Okay, this is the implementation we'll try to do. Now for this here I already prepared a notebook. So inside notebooks folder I already kept uh kept a notebook as you can see demo. Let's open it up.

Okay. So I think uh this code is pretty much common. I have taken the same uh this uh this example. I think you know that I created a simple chat workflow. Okay.

I copy pasted the same code and I added this HITL functionality there. Okay. So first of all here we are importing all the necessary library. As you can see here we have taken both model. If you don't have openi you can use uh gemini model.

For this we are using this uh this library and uh some other library we're also importing. And uh we are also importing the checkpointter because I I already told you if you are implementing this hil you need this uh persistence memory. Okay. Then uh one new import I have done which is this from langraph types I have imported interrupt function and command. Okay.

Because I already told you uh here if you want to add any kinds of HTL HITL functionality you need this interrupt function. Okay. So this should be interrupt sorry there should be a T. Okay interrupt function. So this interrupt function is required.

So with the help of this interrupt you will try to pause the execution and you will take the input from the user and this input will basically become your command. Okay. So you can see this command is also required. Then load envirated and the base message. So let's import all of the necessary library and make sure inside your environment variable all of the key are present.

Okay, whatever key we're using so far. Now let's load the environment variable and after that here I don't have open API key that's why I'll be using Gemini model and for this I already collected my Google API key. Let's uh initialize my model and here we are preparing the state guys. As you can see this is our state the same state we're using and here you can see in this chat note we have added this interrupt functionality that means HITL functionality okay that means here okay here we have added this HITL functionality so if you want to add this functionality you have to use this interrupt function I already told you you can see inside chat node see this is what this was our previous chat node right now this is the update I have done so here I am I'm using this interrupt function and in this interrupt function you have to give some like uh u metadata That means the first mate you have to give the type. So type should be approval.

Reason model is about to answer a question. Okay. Then question whatever question user is asking this question you have to pass in the question section and the instruction. Okay. Approve this question yes or no.

That means this instruction user will be able to see. Okay. Once he will execute the node this this message actually would be visible to the user. Do you want to approve this question? Yes or no.

Okay. If user pass yes then this question would be going to the chat node and user will able to see the output and if he sends let's say no and that time it will be rejected. Now here we are checking you can see decision okay decision and here we'll try to expect a parameter expect a key called approve okay so if this approve is is equal to is equal to no let's see if user has given no that time I'll simply return the uh message okay that should be the AI message no approved okay not approved if user gives yes that means I'll simply invoke my large name base model I'll pass the message and user will be able to see the output So this is the simple things you have to add and the main thing here the interrupt as well as the command okay command uh functionality I'll show you the command where to add but here we are basically using the interrupt to pause the execution here okay and from the front end size that mean from the front end side that means from the user side we'll get this approved okay approved key I'll show you this part now let's execute this note now here we are building the entire graph guys you can see we're taking the graph we are adding the node we have only have one node We are doing the edge connection and we are preparing the checkpointer. So here just to show you I am using this inmemory server checkpointter and we are building the entire graph. Okay and we're passing the checkpointer and that's how your workflow looks like.

Okay. So this is the same workflow. Now to execute the workflow guys you need uh this uh config you need this thread. I think remember if you are using persistence memory you need this thread. So here I created a dummy thread and we are initializing a input explain the gradient descent in a very simple terms.

Okay, this is let's say our user input. So this input will uh invoke with this uh workflow we have created and the workflow object is app. So you can see we're invoking this input and we're passing the configuration. Now let's execute. Now see guys here you will uh get one result.

Uh this is the result. Okay. Uh you can see this is the result you are getting. So here you can see this is the human message explain the gradient descent in a very simple term. And whenever uh it is going to the chat node there we added that hit.

Okay that means here the interruption is happening. It is pausing the execution. Okay you can see you cannot see any kinds of output. Okay the model output you cannot see unless and until you are not providing any kinds of input. Now if you want to provide the input.

So first of all let me show you the interrupt message. So this is the interrupt message you can see and this is the interaction uh instruction approve this question yes or no and some other metadata we have provided this is also coming here. Okay now what I'll do guys I'll take the user input. So here I am preparing the user input. I'm showing the same message to the user and here I'm taking yes or no from the user.

Okay. So let's say this is my user input. So now user is giving let's say yes. Okay. Uh uh let's say user wants to see the message.

Uh that means the output. Now if I give yes. Now inside uh user input what will be present? Yes. Okay.

It will present yes. Now how this present uh uh how this uh input we have to return to the uh hit as a command. Okay. Now right now you can see we are again invoking this uh workflow. But right now inside invoke uh functionality we are giving this command keyword.

Okay. We are giving this command keyword. Inside that we're telling resume is equal to approved. So you have to pass a dictionary. You can see we're giving approved and user input.

Okay, so that means approved should be user input. So that's why here I have written this condition. Uh where is that? Yeah, if decision approved because it uh this approved uh key is getting created newly, right? If approved is equal to is equal to uh no, that means it will reject otherwise it will approve that.

So that is what actually we're doing here. Okay, that that is what we are doing here. Then we are again passing the configuration and we are again invoking our workflow. Okay. Now one error I'm getting.

Okay. So guys uh we are getting this error because uh inside our env we haven't set our environment variable yet. Okay. Uh so let's try to set all of my environment variable. All of the key.

So this is my updated key I have uh added here. Now let me save and let me re-execute this notebook. Okay. So again what I will do I'll just try to execute from the beginning. So let me restart.

Now let's execute all of this code. Now interrupt uh interrupt message we're getting. Now we're taking the user. Let's say user is passing yes. Now we'll try to invoke this workflow again.

Now see this execution is complete. Now we'll see the final message. You can see this is the final message we're getting about the gradient descent. But let's say if user is giving no that time what will happen. Let's say again I will execute this uh code.

user is giving no okay I have to re-execute from beginning because here I have running as a cell by cell right that's why now I'll give no if I execute my final uh final result now you'll see the output now you can see not approved because user has given Okay. So that's how guys you can add this HITL uh features inside any of your node. Okay. It's not necessary to add inside your node. Always you can also add this inside the tools.

Okay. This part I will also show you uh after this demo. Okay. So yes guys, this is how we can um add this HITL and we have seen the simple demo. Now let's try to see the advanced example with our agentic chatbot we have created so far.

And this is the uh this is the actually workflow we have created. I can remember uh because uh inside our workflow we are using some kinds of tools right and uh this is our workflow final workflow and this code we have already written as you can see this is the code we have written in my previous uh video if you haven't checked that please try to go through the recording so here actually I added the rag functionality and we added uh lots of tool here previously right you can see we have added lots of tool now guys first of all uh I want to show you uh this this uh agentic chatbot execution without using HITL. Okay, let's say if I'm not using HITL, uh what will happen that time? Let's try to see an example. So here I'm going to create a file.

I'm going to name it as chatbot. Chatbot without HITL human in the loop. Okay. So after seeing that we'll try to add the HITL and we'll see the benefit of that. Okay.

So chatbot without HITL. So what I'll do? So the code I have written the previous code that means the rag back end. Uh I think you have seen my previous video. I'll copy this entire code as it is.

And here I'm going to paste it. Okay. So here I'm not going to change anything only the things I have to add um a new tool here. Okay. So here I going to add a new tool.

So I think you remember um in this particular in this particular chatbot the sensitive uh the sensitive part is the stock price. Okay let's consider the stock price. So here we are getting the stock price right given any kinds of company. So here we'll try to add a new tool. So that tool will basically uh purchase the stock for me.

So here I have written a simple uh dummy let's say uh tool. So uh it will it will only do the print statement that means return statement but in actual chatbot definitely uh here you have to use some kinds of API that API will uh connect the uh Apple let's say stock company and uh it will purchase the stock for you but just to show you here I have taken a dummy function so this function what it does it takes the symbol as well as the quantity like how how much quantity you want to purchase and which company you want to purchase and based on that it will give you some kinds of success statement. Let's say you have successfully purchased this uh stock. Okay. So this thing I have converted as a tool and I named it as a purchase stock.

Okay. Purchase stock tool. Now what I have to do uh I have added a new tool and this tool I have to add inside my tool list. So I'll go below and here I have to add this tool. The tool name is par stock.

Okay. Then we are binding this tool. Everything will remain common. No need to change anything. Uh just a minute let me check.

Huh. So everything is fine. We have added this in the list. Now I will go below to list. Uh this is my checkp pointer.

We are using SQLite database and we are creating the entire graph. And this is our helper function. It's completely fine. But here at the last I will add a simple CLI code. Okay, this is my simple CLI code.

Basically I want to execute this file. Okay, in my uh terminal. Okay, that's why I have added this code. First of all, I am printing some message. That means this is a chatbot CLA.

And here I have taken a demo trade. Okay, because if you know that if I want to uh because you know that if I want to execute my chatbot uh workflow, I need this trade. So that's why I created a demo trade and here I'm running a while loop. Okay, in this while loop I'm taking the user user input from the user and if user is giving let's say exit or quite I'm telling goodbye and breaking the loop otherwise I'm taking the user input. Okay, and preparing inside my state then we are invoking our chatbot.

Okay, we are passing the trade ID then whatever response we are getting we are just printing uh in the terminal. So this is a simple CLI code I have written. Okay, just to execute my entire workflow. Now let me show you how this thing will work. So I will open up my terminal and I will execute this file chatbot without HITL.

I'll just write Python chatbot without HITL. Okay. Now see if I execute now see it is uh asking for the input. Let's say here I will give hello. It's giving hello, how I can help you?

Today I will ask uh what is the stock price of Apple? Now it will use that get stock price tool and it will extract the uh stock price of the Apple. Now see the stock price of Apple is uh okay that much. Now I'll tell uh purchase Okay. Purchase 10 stock of Apple.

Okay. Now see if I uh if I send this prompt, it will directly purchase the stock. It will use that tool, right? Uh like a purchase stock tool and it will purchase the stock. And here you can see the message.

I have successfully placed the order to purchase 10 stock of Apple. Now see here it is not asking any kinds of user input. Right? Although this is a sensitive task we are performing but it is not asking any kinds of input. So there is a possibility it may do some mistake right?

Instead of purchasing 10 stock maybe it can purchase 20 stock right let's say instead of pinging purchasing um stock in Apple it will purchase the stock in Google. Okay. So these kinds of mistake my agent can perform. I think you know this is completely large language model and it can perform any kinds of wrong uh wrong task. It can do hallucination.

I think you know that right? It's not always perfect. So here definitely I need a human approval here. Okay. If I want to perform this kinds of sensitive and critical task.

So this is the execution you have seen without HITL and this is the problem here. Okay. Right now I'm going to show you if I add this HITL with this chatbot what will happen right now? Let's try to see. So I will exit this terminal H.

Now here I'm going to create another file and I'm going to name it as chatbot. Chatbot uh with HITL. Okay. And here what I'm going to do I'm going to I'm going to copy paste the same code okay from my previous file and I'm going to paste it here and the modification I will do here in this particular tool. Okay in this particular tool uh this um stock price tool.

Okay. Yeah. So here I'll do the modification. Why here I will do the modification? Because in this tool only I need the human approval.

Okay. Whenever user is asking to purchase a stock right that time here only I need to perform the interrupt operation and whenever user is giving okay you just need to purchase it user is giving yes uh yes command that time this tool will execute otherwise this tool will not execute okay it will not purchase the stock for me. So for this I'll do a simple modification. See instead of this this function I have modified with this function. Now just try to see okay and most of the code I think this is common to you because I already explained previously.

Okay in that uh simple demo right here I'm using interrupt function and uh here I just done a check statement here. Okay now I have to import this uh interrupt function as and common function. So let's import it as well. I'll import it here from langraph types. I'm importing interrupt and command.

And I will go to my tool again. So this is the tool. Okay. Yeah. So see here I'm not adding this hit inside my chat node.

Okay. Here I don't need to add inside my chat node because here I'm using a tool lots of tool okay and inside only get uh sorry purchase stock price in that tool only I need this HITL functionality okay always remember whenever you are using tools and you are creating this kinds of advanc advanc application right in chat node you don't need to add it you will be adding inside the tool that means with the tool you are performing some kinds of task you are performing some kinds of action and there this hit should be integrated okay not in chat node but in my previous example the simple example I have given you just to show you I added the hit in my chat node okay I hope you cleared now inside tools only I will add this functionality so this is the code for that I'll close some of the window chat with htl okay now this is the uh this is the tool guys I have written uh this is the update I have done so here Whenever it will uh use this uh use this tool that means my agent will use this tool that time you will uh it will see the interrupt function here and it will pause the execution here okay and user will able to see one message approve buying uh that means what how much how much quantity user will provide let's say user is provide uh 10 10 stock okay I want to purchase 10 stock of Apple so this 10 will come here so 10 shares of symbol means the company okay that's I'm giving Apple so apple will come here so do you want to purchase it yes or no. Okay, user will see this message. Okay, in interrupt only you can directly show the message. Then once user will pass this yes and no, it will store inside the decision.

Okay, and right now I'm not storing inside uh as a dictionary. But previously the previous example I showed you right in the notebook in the notebook here I was storing as a dictionary. Okay, that's why I was uh checking the condition like that because here I was passing as a dictionary. Okay, I was passing as a dictionary but right now here I'm taking as a simple string. Okay, yes or no.

So here I'm checking if this decision is a string and I'm doing the lower operation. If it is yes, then I'm returning this statement. Starter should be success message purchased order placed for quantity shares of symbol. Okay, uh symbol uh should be symbol and quantity should be quantity. That means here I'm giving a success message.

Your uh order has been placed. Okay, let's see you have successfully purchased the stock. Otherwise if user is giving no. Okay. In the else block you can see purchase of shares of the symbol was declined by the human.

Okay. And strategies canled right now. Okay. So this kinds of statement we have written inside our tool. Okay.

And this thing you have to follow if you want to implement this HITL in any kinds of tool or any kinds of task you are implementing going forward. Okay. Now I want to give a task. Instead of purchase stock maybe you can add another tool that will perform some kinds of sensitive and critical task. Okay.

And in that task you just might need to add this hit functionality. Okay. This should be your task after this implementation. Just try to make this aentic chatboard more advanced. You can u add some more advanced task which needs human approval and you can add this functionality here.

Okay. Now this this is the update I have done. Now the next update you have to do next update if I go below already this tool is added inside the tool I don't need to add now your chat node will also remain same no need to add anything uh only this CLI CLI code you have to change okay right now uh user is giving the uh user is giving the interruption message that means the command so this thing you have to add uh take from the user So here this is the CLI code I have written because this this CLI doesn't have any um HITL input right now this has the HITL input so again the same loop I have written print statement demo trade while loop I'm taking the user input if user is giving exit and quite I'm like just breaking the loop then uh I'm preparing my state okay with the help of user input then I'm invoking my workflow okay and I'm passing my trade now we'll check this uh interrupt let's say whenever you are invoking the workflow and user is given let's say hello that time just let me know whether this interrupt interrupt uh interrupt will happen or not definitely there won't be any kinds of interrupt when interrupt will happen whenever you will ask purchase 10 stock or let's say purchase any stock of any company Right? That time that tool will be executed. I can okay uh that means our purchase tool will be executed and whenever that tool will be executed that time this interruption okay you will get the interruption that means you will get something in the interruption variable okay otherwise you will not get anything in the interruption variable that's why we're checking if interruption variable has something that means if interruption happens definitely some message you will get okay in the interrupt interrupt variable if you got the message that time you will feel like okay there right now there is interruption has happen inside my code then it will ask the human okay so what is the interruption okay you will show this prompt you can see I'm showing this prompt as a hit message okay whether uh he has to approved or uh uh approved or not so this thing I will take inside my decision I'm taking the input from the user your decision okay I'm just making it as lower then whatever decision user is giving I'm again reinvoking my ch chatbot okay and right now I'm giving the command and we are giving this resume parameter is equal to our decision okay which we are giving as a command then we are passing the configuration again and whatever result we are getting we are showing the message and we are also printing in the terminal so this is a simple code I have written now let me show you the execution so again I will open up my terminal and right now I'll execute this chatbot with hittl now see here I will give Hello.

Hello. How how I can help you today? I will tell what is the stock of Apple? Stock price of Apple. Now see this is the stock price of the Apple as you can see.

Now I'll tell purchase okay 20 stock of Apple. Okay purchase uh 20 stock of Apple. Now it will use that purchase tool right and there would be interruption that will uh basically happen the interruption that means hitl will apply uh in that particular tool and it will ask for the human input. Now hi uh TL has been triggered and it is asking for the human improve improved approved buying 20 shares of Apple. Do you want to approve?

Yes or no. So here I will tell yes I want to purchase it. Now if I execute this code you'll see that I have successfully purchased an order to purchase 20 shares of Apple. That means uh this tool has been executed and uh this tool has purchased the shares for you. Okay.

Of the Apple. Now again if I let's say reexecute this code let's say um purchase let's say purchase 20 stock of Google now again it is asking for the human approval approved buying 20 shares of Google yes or no. Now if I let's say give no now it will decline okay declined so you can see I'm sorry your request was purchase 20 shares of Google was declined because you've given no okay right now just tell me which one is better okay for this kinds of sensitive task this kinds of critical task without HITL or with HITL definitely with HITL it is more accurate and more secured okay secured version of our agentic chatbot okay now guys I think you have got it how to integrate this HITL inside our agentic chatbot. Okay. Now guys, uh let's try to add this functionality inside our user interface.

So what I have done guys, I just copy pasted the same code. Okay. I just copy pasted the same code and I uh given to the chart GPT and I asked I just need to add this HITL uh uh HITL functionality on my user interface and charge GPT has given me one updated code. Let me show you. Only you just need to uh update inside your front end.

So maybe I'll create a separate file of the front end. Let's I'll tell it as app hi ll okay.py and this is the updated code I got from the chgpd guys. Again if you don't know about the front- end design no need to worry there are some front-end developer um uh in your uh would be in your company. So they will handle this kinds of scenario.

Okay. But uh again if you don't know you can take the help from chat GPT and this is the updated version of our front end. Okay this has the uh hit u that means approval uh user interface. Okay that means the uh uh first time I showed you a demo right it was asking for a human approval yes or no button. So it has added that particular functionality here.

Okay. Otherwise my back end code will remain same. There won't be any kinds of change. So what I'll do again I'll create another file here. Let's say um I'll copy the name and I'll create a new file.

I'm going to name it as agentic chatbot hitl backend. Hitl backend. Okay. Backend.py sorry back end.py.

Okay. And whatever code I have written inside chatbot with HITL I'll just try to copy paste as it is. Okay. So here from here I just need to copy chatbot with HITL. I'll just try to copy the same code and I'll paste inside my aentic chatbot.

HITL backend.py. Okay. And uh no need to change anything only. You just need to remove this line.

Okay. This CLA is not required. I'll just uh remove that code and everything will remain as it is. H now uh here in this app hit you just need to change this import. Okay.

So now the import is agentic chatbot HITL back end. So agentic chatbot hit back end. Okay. So from here we're importing all the functionality and this is the updated code. Now let me execute and show you this execution.

So here I'll stop the execution. Clear and I will run streamlit run uh app hl. Okay. Now this is your interface. Okay.

The same interface I think you saw. Now here you can perform any kinds of chat operation. Tell me the latest news uh in AI. You will see that it will use some kinds of search tool. So see it is using tably search tool and it will give you the uh latest news in AI.

You can see uh this is the latest new uh news I got and this is the news of Andropics. Okay, latest news. Now here I will ask u um I will try to check my HITL code uh HITL functionality. So here I'll tell uh what is the latest or let's say what is the stock price of Apple. It is using my get stock price and it is giving you the latest uh uh stock price of Apple.

Now we tell purchase purchase let's say 20 stock of Apple. Now you'll see that it will ask for the human verification. Now see human approval is required and this is the user interface uh we have added with the help of charge GPT. Now if I approve this purchase now you see it will use purchase tool and it will purchase that uh that shares for me. You can see your order to purchase 20 shares of Apple has been placed successfully.

Okay. Now if I let's say give another one uh process 20 stock of let's say Google. Now again it will ask for the human verification. Okay. Now if I reject this purchase now see it will tell your request to purchase 20 shares of Google was declined.

Okay. So that's how this system is working right now and we have successfully added this hit functionality inside our agentic chatbot and you can also see the live tracing on the lang lang platform. You can go to the trades and you can open up your trades and you can see all of the execution. Okay. Now you can see guys uh it hit your hit functionality.

This is also available here. Okay, you can see that. So guys, our agentic chatbot is ready and we have added all of the functionality. Okay, we have discussed previously in my introduction video in my um theoretical video. Okay, I think remember if you are following this playlist from the beginning, I think you know that we have already explained about all of the core component of agentic application.

We have added all of these core component inside our aentic application and now this is like more advanced. Now the only part is left uh the deployment part. Uh in my next video guys I'm going to show you how we can deploy this uh agentic chatbot. Okay over the cloud platform and I'm not going to show you the simple deployment. I'm going to show you the CI/CD deployment.

Okay that means continuous integration and continuous uh delivery. So there I will try to set up the entire CI/CD pipeline and we'll try to deploy this project over the um AWS cloud. Okay. Uh I'm going to show you another deployment on the render cloud. Render is another cloud and there you can also do the deployment.

Uh first of all I'm going to show the AWS deployment. Then I'm going to show you the render deployment as well. Okay means right now this uh bot is running on my local host. This agentic chatbot is running on my local host and it cannot access um by any kinds of people, right? You can only execute this bot.

But let's say if you want to make it live right uh if you want to make make it live to the entire world that time you have to deploy this application. So this uh uh deployment part I'm going to show you in my next video guys. So yes guys this is all about and I hope you liked my content guys. If you like my content please try to subscribe to my channel and hit the like and please try to comment in the comment section if you have any question. Uh in this video I'm going to show you the uh final deployment of that identic chatbot.

So guys, as I already told you here, we'll be doing something called CI/CD deployment, right? And I already told you what is uh CI/CD full form. It's continuous integration, continuous delivery or deployment, right? So inside continuous integration, continuous delivery, what happens? Let's say you are the developer.

Okay, let's say you are the developer. So what is your task? Your task is to develop a project in the development let's say environment. So development environment means like your local system. Let's say you are using your laptop or computer.

Let's say local computer. Okay, local computer. Fine. Then what we are doing? I think you remember we are committing this code to the GitHub, right?

We are doing the code management. I think remember that means that means whenever I was adding some new feature, I was pushing this code to the GitHub. Yes or no? Okay. With the help of G client, we are pushing the code in the GitHub GitHub server.

Now what happens actually let's say after deployment so this is called actually development server or I can write uh this is actually development environment okay development environment so after implementing this project what we have to do we have to deploy this project yes or no let's say um somehow you have deployed this project on the AWS cloud let's say this is your AWS cloud fine so let's say you have deployed this project to the AWS cloud manually manually you just created a let's say instance there you create uh you just took a machine there a KC2 machine and you manually deployed this project now it will give you some endpoint okay endpoint so with the help of this endpoint any of the user okay user can access your application now let's say after 4 month or let's say 6 month you want to add some more features in this let's say uh application Let's say you are deploying medical chatbot. Let's say you want to add some more data. You want to add some more knowledge base and you want to add some more features in this application. Then what you have to do? You have to again develop this let's say features in your code.

Then what you will be doing again you'll be deploying this application to the as cloud. Now just try to see whenever you are deploying the project for the second time. Let's say this is the first time you have deployed then you are trying to deploy for the second time. Then what you have to do? First of all, you have to stop this application in the AWS.

Okay, stop this application. Then you'll be uploading your updated code. Then this code will reflect to the endpoint. Then user will able to access that. Now let's say in between whenever you stop this AWS server, let's say your uh application, let's say it took 3 hours.

It took 3 hours to change the entire source code. That means uh change the entire features, okay, of your application. So what will happen? 3 hours user won't be able to access your application. So they will come your website and they will see server error.

Okay, server error actually they will get. So if user is getting this kinds of experience so definitely it would be a negative let's say uh effect okay on your application. So next time actually they are not going to use your application yes or no. Let's say if charg is down for the uh let's say 3 hours definitely people will move to the Google b or any other let's say software whatever actually we are having. Okay.

So now see chart GP is also updating their let's say application day by day. But did you ever observe this server is down? No even not seeing this server is down but still they're able to make the changes in their application. How? Because they are following something called CI/CD approach.

Continuous integration, continuous delivery. That means this application is keep on running but in the back end they're pushing their source code. They're pushing their let's say new features and this feature is automatically getting updated. Okay. So this is collected CI/CD that means you are not going to deploy this application manual.

Instead of that what you have to do you have to follow the CI/CD. That means what will happen? Let's say you have changed something in your code. You will push the code to the GitHub. Okay.

GitHub will automatically uh let's say deploy your code to the AWS cloud. It will automatically push your code to the AWS cloud and your endpoint would be automatically updated. Okay. automatically updated so that if user is using your application okay they won't be filling any kinds of let's say server down issue okay server down issue actually they won't be failing got it so this is what actually uh we have to do that means we'll be creating the entire pipeline entire let's say CI/CD pipeline so we'll be just pushing the code in our GitHub and GitHub will automatically trigger uh this uh action and my code will update it to the AWS cloud and AWS will update the endpoint okay now see the automated process we'll be doing now whenever we we'll let's say push our code to the GitHub GitHub will automatically trigger how it will trigger for this you have to use some CI/CD tool okay CI/CD tool CI/CD automation tool so here there are different kinds of CI/CD tool so the first tool you can use something called GitHub action okay GitHub action you can use then you can use something called genkins okay genkins then you can use something called circleci so these actually three famous tool actually we are having in the market right now so people are using more this GitHub action because GitHub action you don't need to set up anything. It is already set up everything in the GitHub.

But if you're using Genkins and CircleCI you have to set up this server manually. Okay. So here we'll be using GitHub action because it is already inbuilt with the GitHub. We don't need to set up anything. Going forward I will also show you how we can uh let's say use Genkins CircleCI.

These are the services as well. Fine. So yes guys this is the complete uh highle architecture of our deployment. So guys uh here you can see this is our application code and uh we have written actually so many files but uh if you see the final files here which is this app hittl and this uh agentic chatbot hittl back end okay because this was our last uh last update we have done right so instead of like uh deploying all of these file guys uh what I'm going to do I'm only going to copy the final file okay the final code and I'm going to create a new uh folder and inside that I'm going to keep these are the code okay uh just to explain you all the concept guys I have kept all of my previous code and this is not required actually to run my final uh project so my final project is uh right now this app um app hittl let me show you so let's say if I execute this one streamlit uh run app hittl okay.py Pi.

Now you'll see that uh my agentic chatbot uh application will be opening. So guys as you can see this is our application we have u implemented so far. So here uh what I'm going to do uh instead of moving all of these file I'm only going to take my final file which is this uh front end app hit and my back end which is agentic chart. HITL back end. Okay.

Apart from that I need this requirement.xt txt file. Uh yeah, so I think if I have these are the file then I'll be able to run my final application and I also need this file because inside that you have all of the credential. So what I can do I can maybe create a new folder here and uh let's create this folder or I'll just create a GitHub repository. Okay, because here we have to do the CI/CD deployment and for this first of all uh you have to create a GitHub repo and you have to uh push all of your code, okay, in that particular repository.

So what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to open up my GitHub. So here what I'm going to do, I'm going to create a new repository. Let's name it as uh aentic chatbot. Okay. Aentic chatbot using lang graph lang graph.

Okay. Now uh what I'm going to do I'm going to simply add a readmi file. Then I'm going to take this g ignode here. I'm using python programming. Let's select the python.

Uh you can also take any kinds of license. Let's take this apache license. You can also take any other license is completely fine. Now let's create the repository. Okay.

Once repo is created, uh click on this code and copy this link address and open up your uh local folder. Inside that open up your terminal. Okay. You can also open up your git bash. It's completely fine.

Now here simply write get clone and paste your uh URL you have copied from the GitHub and clone this repository here. Okay. Now you can see I have successfully cloned this repository. So now what I'm going to do I'm going to simply redirect this folder. So cd aentic chatbot using lang graph.

Okay. Now I'm inside this particular folder. If I show you see I'm inside this particular folder right now. Now here I have to move my code file. Okay, my final code file.

So what is my final code file? I'll take this appl then uh this agentic chatbot hit back end as well as this env file and I need this requirement.txt. Okay. Yeah, I think these are the file I need only.

Now I'll copy this and I'll try to paste inside this uh new uh folder I have created. Okay. Now if I open up with my uh Visual Code Studio, let me open up. So this is my Okay, this is my old code. Now I'll try to open it with my Visual Code Studio.

Yeah. So you can see guys, this is my uh final code. Okay, I have copied from my previous code. Yeah, this is my final version of the code. Now uh what I can do, I can maybe rename these are the file instead of keeping this file name like that, I can rename it.

So first of all let's try to change this backend file name. So here let's rename it. So here I'm only going to name this file as backend.py. Okay backend.py

and this app hit I'm going to name it as only app.py. Okay app.py. Now make sure uh whenever you uh you have renamed this file you also need to uh change the import.

Okay. So it has automatically changed because I'm using one extension that extension automatically will uh like uh trigger uh whenever I'm changing any kinds of file name. It will automatically change that uh input in my other file as well. Now you can see I'm importing all everything and it's coming one warning because I have to select my original environment which is langraph test. Okay, this environment now I think everything is fine.

Okay, now here uh what I have to do guys, I have to uh I have to um let me check again. Huh. So everything is fine. Let me show you whether it's working or not. So what I can do I can stop my previous execution and let's open up my new terminal.

Now I'll execute this app. So cond list. So this is the name of the environment. I'll copy and I'll just write conduct activate my environment. Now after that let's execute my app.py.

So streamllet run app.py Pi. Now see this is the application. Now let's uh test this application. Uh see right now you can't see any uh any of my old trades because completely right now I have copied my uh chatbot in a new uh new actually folder.

Okay. And right now all of the execution will be happening from the beginning. So let me test this chatbot whether it's working or not. So here I'll pass hello. See it's working.

Okay. Hello, I can uh help you today. That means everything is fine. That means uh this is our final code we can utilize right now for the deployment. Now guys, let me write all the deployment step actually we'll be following for this CI/CD deployment.

Um let me write here this is the [clears throat] this is the entire step. Okay, you can see this is this enter step I have already prepared for this deployment. So let me open the preview. Yeah, now you can see here. So see this is a streaml app and uh we have to deploy the streamlit app over the AWS cloud as a CI/CD and for CI/CD tool-wise we'll be using GitHub actions.

Okay. And GitHub action is already uh already actually let's say uh built-in CI/CD like uh tool. You don't need to set up this GitHub action server separately. This is already running on the GitHub. Okay, you just need to um you just need to actually configure that GitHub actions by adding some commands.

Okay, by adding some commands inside a file. We call it as a CI/CD. ML file. This file I'm also going to show you how you can write that. But as you can see, this is the deployment step we'll be following.

First of all, we'll try to build the Docker image of our source code. Okay. uh we'll try to dockerize entire for source code. Then we'll try to push this docker image to the docker hub. Okay.

Then I'm going to launch a EC2 machine on AWS server. Uh then I'm going to pull my Docker image. Okay. From the Docker hub to EC2. Then I'm going to launch my um like image.

That means I'm going to execute my application as a Docker container inside EC2 machine. Okay. Then I'll do some port mapping. Then you'll be able to access your application. Okay.

uh from the remote URL. Now for this Docker knowledge is definitely required and I am expecting you are already familiar with Docker but if you don't know about Docker and all so don't worry I have a complete uh like let's say tutorial on my channel as you can see I have a complete um video ultimate MLOps full course in a one video. So this is around 11 uh almost 12 hours of recording and this course covers everything about the MLOps. uh I have already covered Linux. Okay.

Then um some other tools as well. You can see in the description section. See lots of like MLOps tools I have covered. And here we'll be seeing uh one section uh I think from this uh hour itself you can uh start watching uh docker concept. Okay.

You can see the docker concept I have also covered in this particular course itself. Now if you are completely new to the docker and if you want to learn the docker okay how do works and why do required I'm going to suggest you go through this recording. I'm going to add this uh video in my description. From there you can check it out. Okay, you don't need to watch from the beginning.

Maybe you can only complete the docker part at least so that you can um you can u see the deployment part. Okay, you can um understand like how doer is helping for the CI/CD deployment and all. Okay. So yeah, this is the requirement. Then uh here I have added this step.

First of all, we have to login to the AWS console. Then we'll be creating the IM user. Okay. Then after creating the IM user, we'll try to set the policy. Then we'll try to create the EC2 uh machine.

Okay, we'll be taking open Ubuntu instance. After that, we'll try to open the EC2 instance and we'll try to set up uh docker there. Okay, because by default in the EC2 there won't be any kinds of docker. You have to set up it. Once the setup is complete, then uh you will be um able to set the port.

Okay, that means by default streaml runs on port number 8501. Okay, so we'll try to do the port mapping. Then we'll try to set up our entire project as a self-hosted runner. That means we'll try to connect our AWS with our GitHub. That means once let's say we will try to push something in the GitHub automatically my CI/CD pipeline will trigger and all of the new changes will be available over my AWS.

Okay, that means automatically my deployment will be happening. So these kinds of pipeline we have to create by creating the self-ostraed runner. Okay, I'm going to also show you how to create that. Then once everything is complete then I'll try to uh like set up all of my secret. Okay.

So you can see uh if you want to run this project you need these are the secret. Uh apart from that some additional secret is also required like um registry docker username docker password. Okay. Image name AWS access key ID as secret key uh secret access key. Okay as region.

So these are the thing additionally you need because if you want to uh authenticate with AWS account uh programmatically you need these are the credential. Okay. I will try to create this credential as well. I'm going to show you okay how to do do that and I am going to push my uh uh docker image uh to the docker hub for this docker credential is also required and you should have also account in the docker hub and uh after that whatever credential I'm having I think you already know that these are the credential I need to execute my entire agents okay like if you're using openi model you can set the open api key tab API key open weather google okay if you're using gemini you can set the google api key lang smmith lang smith endpoint lang smmith API then lang speedit project. Okay.

So yeah, this is the step guys we'll be following for uh deployment. Okay, for this CI/CD deployment now first of all guys here I'm going to create a docker file. So let's create a docker file here. So to dockerize your entire application you need this docker file. Okay.

And inside this docker file you have to write some docker related command. Now what are the command you have to write. So this is the command guys and this thing you will be able to understand uh from that particular video I suggested you because in that video I have covered like what is this uh uh beige image okay uh what is this environment what is this working directory okay each and everything I have explained there if you are completely new to the docker first of all try to complete that recording I think that would be easy for you okay but if you're already familiar with docker and you know that these are the command we need to create uh the docker image that means to containerize entire our application Right. So yeah, we are setting this um command inside the docker file and here you can see we have to install the requirement.txt.

Okay, we're also uh installing in this particular command. Uh and I have already commented out. See now this uh part you need uh to prevent python cache file and enable immediate uh container logs. Okay. Then this code you need to build the essential supports package that required uh compilations.

then lib uh gum gum one is a commonly required by fire CPU that means here I am using fire CPU for the vector database right that's why this library you also need to install okay whenever you are upgrading this machine then you need this requirement txt um it has to copy in the root folder then um you can see uh we will be installing this requirement txt and this is the command we are writing then we are copying all of our source code inside the root directory. Then we're exposing the port and by default streamllet runs on port number 8501. We're exposing the port and this is the final command to launch the streamlit server. Okay. So yeah, this is the docker file and with this docker file you need another file which is dot docker ignore ignore.

Okay. So inside this dot uh docker ignic node uh you have to write some of the unnecessary files and folder which you don't need to uh integrate inside uh your docker image let's say if you have your virtual environment okay in this particular folder itself that uh you don't need okay whenever you are creating the docker file right so that time you can ignore this one so that means whatever file and folder you will be keeping inside dot docker ignore it will ignore during building the docker image okay like uh this get ignore and you know get ignore what it does it ignores the files and folder whatever you will be adding inside this get ignore okay so that it won't be pushing inside our um github repositories okay so these are the things uh actually I don't need inside my um docker image that's why I'm ignoring inside dot uh do docker ignore so once it is done uh then I'll try to add this cicdl file for the github actions acd deployment so for this you have to create a folder the folder name should be github Okay. So this is the folder name we usually use and this folder name you don't need to change. If you are changing it will not work. So by default if you're using u this uh GitHub actions for this deployment you have to create this dot GitHub folder.

Inside that I'm uh you will be creating another folder called workflows. Okay workflows. Make sure you are using the same name otherwise it will not work. Okay workflows. And inside this workflows you will be creating a file called cicd dot yml uh okay yl okay this is a yl file inside that you have to mention all of the command you need for the cicd deployment okay now just verify whether everything is fine or not inside github workflows and cic.ml

file is available okay now guys uh what I'm going to do um I'm going to maybe close this file this is not required. Yeah, I'm going to open up my new code. Yeah, now what I'm going to do guys, I'm going to add all of the CI/CD related command and these are the CI/CD related command you will be getting in the internet itself. Okay. Uh you can simply search I want to perform um CI/CD deployment.

Okay. Uh on AWS and I have a streaml application for that. I need this uh CI/CD. ML file. So you will be able to see this YML file is available okay over the internet you don't need to memorize it you will be getting this thing in the internet only and if you have the chart GPT gemini simply you can open the chart GP and Gemini you can ask okay I need a CI/CDML file commands uh I have to do this deployment okay streamllet app on the AWS as a CI/CD so I have already prepared the CICDML command so let me show you so this is the uh command and most of the command you can see this is a Linux command uh if you are completely new to the Linux command So again in my MLOps course okay on my YouTube channel I already covered the Linux okay relaxated command you can see uh Linux is also covered okay you can go through the Linux video as well to understand how this command works okay so yes uh this is the like uh uh structured command you need to execute uh whenever you want to perform CI/CD with the help of GitHub actions so first of all you have to define a name of your application so here I have given streamlit AWS CICD you can change the name anytime Then on push okay that means if you're pushing on the main branch that means right now I have the GitHub right this is the GitHub and here I am using main branch that means whatever push I'm going to do on my main branch this pipeline will trigger okay only it will ignore if you're changing the readmi file because readmi is not a feature okay readmi is kinds of file there I just try to write some metadata for my project right so if I'm changing anything in my readmi that time our cd pipeline should not be triggered that's why path not ignore we are writing readmi file otherwise if you're changing in any file this pipeline will start okay this cd pipeline will start and your deployment will be happening then uh we are giving some other like uh parameter as well like workflow dispatch concurrency okay permissions we are giving each and everything and this is already uh I mean uh predefined actually workflows you have to write if you're using this uh GitHub actions for the CI/CD deployment okay this is not our code So CI/CD uh uh with the GitHub actions documentation if you check so they have written these are the commands should be added inside your CIC dol.

Now here the main thing is the jobs. So here first of all continuous integration will be happening inside continuous integration we are just only eing the command. Okay we are taking a Ubuntu instance and we are only eing the command. Then the second step we are building and pushing the image to the docker hub. So here first of all we are verifying with the uh docker hub account.

So make sure you have the Docker Hub account. So if you don't have you can create. So simply search for DockerHub. Okay, Docker Hub. Go to the first website and make sure you have a account here.

Okay, I already have the account that's why it it got login. Okay, but if you don't have account guys, please try to create an account. So let's say I will sign out. So here you can sign up. Okay, sign up.

You can fill your information. After filling you will be able to create the account. So I already have the account. I'll just try to sign up. sign in.

So this is my email and password. I'm going to sign in with my Docker Hub. Okay. And this is how your Docker Hub will look like. Okay.

Previously I already pushed some of the image that's why it's available. But for you it would be completely empty. Okay. So Docker Hub is a service that you can store all of your Docker image. Okay.

You are creating. You can also use AWS ECR service but this is fine. Uh I can use Docker Hub also. It's completely fine. Okay.

Okay, in AWS also to store your docker image there is a service called AWS ECR elastic container registry. Okay, you can also use that this one but I'm going to use docker hub for this particular project. Maybe in future I'm also going to show you that elastic container registry how to use that because I want to uh minimize my cloud cost that's why I'm using these are the free uh free to use actually hub okay to push my image and uh yeah so here you can see we are authenticating with the docker hub and after that we are building the image okay we are building our docker image then after building we are pushing this image to the docker hub then once my uh second step done Then it will start the third step. There you will try to deploy your image to AWS EC2 instance. Okay.

As a self hosted runner. For this this is the command. So it will again authenticate with your docker hub and it will uh take that image and it will run on your EC2 instance. Okay. And to run your app you need some credential.

I think you remember you need Google API key API key open a open weather API. Okay. So whatever let's say API you have used right you have to write all of the API here. You can see uh what is that? Yeah, but you are not going to directly give the value.

So this value you'll be reading from the secret. Okay, we call it as a GitHub secret. I'm going also going to show you how to add this secret. But make sure whatever API key you are using, you have to write here. Okay, and here we are checking all of the API keys are available or not.

If not available, we are uh just uh like launching a message called secret is missing. Okay. Then uh this is the code and finally we are running our docker image and it is starting the server. Okay. And some other necessary command we are also running.

Okay. Everything will be running in that docker video I have already given you. Okay. In my MLOps course. Now this is the cicd.

Mamel file guys you need for this uh deployment. Now everything is ready. Now let's try to create the server. Okay. Server means I will follow this step.

Okay. First of all here what I'm going to do? I'm going to login with my AWS console. So let's try to login. I already logged in with my AWS console.

Make sure you have the AWS account. If you don't have the account guys, please try to create one account. I already logged in with my AWS console and that's how your console looks like. Now here the first thing you have to search for the IM user. Okay, IM user that means identity access management.

Um then I will go to the IM user section and here you have to create an user. Okay, let's create a user. So I'm going to name it as uh let's say agentic. Okay, agentic user. You can give any name it's up to you.

Now I'll click on next. Then you have to add the policies. Okay. And which policies you have to add. So here I think I have already written.

Uh yeah. So after login to the console we are creating the IM user and this is the policy you have to add. Okay. AD Amazon EC2 full access. So here uh let me check again.

Amazon EC2 full access. Okay. Huh? Because you only need the EC2 instance. Okay.

So I'll copy this and uh here I'm going to search it here. Okay. Okay. So, Amazon EC2 full access. I'll provide this access and I'll click on next.

Okay. See why we are giving this permission because in my AWS account there are lots of services we are having right [snorts] and it's not like that I'm going to give all of the services access to my um like project to my code. Instead of that I'm only going to give the access the service actually I'm using otherwise there is a possibility uh it might use some other service and I will end up with lots of cost right? But I don't need that. So that's why I am only giving the access the services I'm using.

So here I'll be using EC2 instance. EC2 is a virtual machine inside AWS. Okay. Once it is done, let's create the user. Okay.

So some error is coming. The specific username is invalid. Must contain. Okay. So I think the name we have given this is not uh okay.

There I have given a space, right? But it should not be having any kind of a space. So I'll give this hyphen sign. Now let's click on next. Now I'll provide this um Amazon EC2 full access.

Click on next. Everything is fine. Create the user. Okay. So my user creation is done.

Now I'll go inside the user and there is a option called security credential. Just try to click here and uh here you will see this one access keys. Okay. Now I'll click on this create access keys. Now select this command line interface CLI and just do the confirmation.

Okay. Once everything is done, now click on the next. Then I will uh click on this create access keys. Okay. Now this is our access keys and secret access keys.

Guys, you need to authenticate with your AWS because I'm going to access my AWS account from my Python code, right? Um uh from my actually GitHub actions. Uh that's why this credential is required. Okay. Now you can download as a CSV file as well.

Let's try to download this thing. I need later on. Now this service is creation done. Okay. Now this this is creation done.

Um we have successfully created the IM user and we have given the policy and we collected our access key and secret access key. Now the next step you have to create the EC2 machine Ubuntu machine. Okay. Now let's do that. I will go to my home and here I will search for uh EC2 instance.

Okay. Let's open this EC2 instance. And EC2 instance is a virtual uh virtual computer service. Okay. Inside AWS.

Now I'll just try to click on launch instance. Uh launch without a walk through. Okay. Now you have to give a name. So I'll give aentic.

Okay. Agentic chatbot machine. Okay. You can give any name. It's up to you.

And make sure you select this Ubuntu instance. Okay. There are some other instances available like Mac OS, Windows, Red Hat. But I will take this Ubuntu instance because this is the most used instance whenever you are doing the production grade deployment. Now once it is done you can uh select the instance type that means how much memory how much CPU you need.

You can select the configuration here. So for this project at least 4 GB RAM is required. Okay. And I'm going to take 2 vcpu. I think this T2 medium is fine for me.

Okay. But if you are creating a heavy project that needs lots of computation that time you can also take some bigger instance as well. Some bigger instance are also available like 32 GB memory 16 GB memory. Okay you can see everything is available. Now I'll take this T2 medium.

Okay this is fine for me. Now here you have to create a key value pair uh key pair. Now you can give the name. I'll give aentic. Let's create the key.

And once it is created you can select it from here. Okay. agentic huh this one so this uh key you need whenever let's say you want to access your uh this EC2 machine from any third party tools like putty and mobile extreme that time it is required but for our case we'll try to launch in the uh same uh Google chrome only okay there uh you can launch the uh terminal okay your uh easy to inst terminal this is also possible now here you have to uh check mark these two option allow https and allow http traffic from the internet and here you can take the storage at least try to take 32GB storage and uh everything is fine no need to change anything simply launch the instance okay so I'll go below and click on view all instance now see my instance has created and it is running okay make sure it is running otherwise you can keep on refreshing this page now simply I'll click on my instance ID and here you will get one option call this connect button. Okay, but before connect button I think you remember what I told you. I told you to do the port mapping as you can see.

Uh okay, port mapping I think we can also do do later on but you can do the port mapping right now. Uh if you want just do the port mapping otherwise we'll do do it later on. Okay. So simply I'm going to connect my instance. Okay.

So there is a connect button. Just try to click on the connect button and uh make sure you select everything as default. If you want to connect this uh this uh let's say EC2 instance from any third partyy tool that time you can use HSS client and you can use mobile extreme putty. These are the tools to connect. Okay.

But I'm going to connect from my uh same AWS CLI only. I'm going to simply click on connect. Now see in a different tab it will open up your this uh EC2 instance terminal. Okay. This will be your uh Linux terminal and there you have to execute all the command to set up your entire server.

Okay. Now see this is the Linux server we are getting guys that's cleared and for this you need some idea about Linux command Ubuntu Ubuntu operating system and this thing I have already covered in my ultimate MLOps full course okay there I have already covered about the Linux you can study about that okay for the deployment guys you need little bit of understanding MLOps if you know about MLOps it would be easy for you to do the deployment now guys what I'm going to do I'm going to set up all of the uh all of the package I need here So for this I mention all of the command as you can see. Uh first of all you have to upgrade your machine. So for this just copy this command and execute it here. Right click and paste and execute.

Then I'll copy the next one. See you just need to copy this command one after one and just execute inside the terminal. Done. Now I'll coph paste this second command. So see this is a completely new create newly created machine and here you have to upgrade the package manager.

Okay. So we are upgrading and for this we're using pseudo get upgrade this command. Now I'll give yes permission and upgrade this machine and that's how your production server looks like. Okay. That's why you you may be heard of in production you need to know about Linux.

Okay. because every production server they're using Linux especially the Ubuntu instance okay they're using now this is also done I will clear the terminal now let me see the next command next command you have this um you have to install this docker okay now to install the docker this is the command first of all let's download the docker there's a hs file you have to download. Then after that we'll try to install. I'll copy this command one by one. paste the next command.

And this is the last command you have to execute. Now see docker successfully got installed inside our Linux instance. You can check it. For this you can run this command docker version. So you'll see that Docker is running right now.

Okay. But previously Docker was missing. Okay. I can maybe close my local local host execution. Let's close it.

Uh terminal is also running. I'll stop it. H. So fine. Uh we have successfully installed Docker.

Now the next step I have to uh configure my EC2 as a self-hosted runner. For this just open up your GitHub and go to the settings. Okay. Make sure you are using your GitHub, okay? Not my GitHub.

Go to the settings and uh left hand side you will see one option called uh actions. Now go to the runner. Okay. Here just try to select this new self-hosted runner and you will see this Linux uh operating system. Just try to select that and uh these are the command you have to execute inside your EC2 instance.

I'll copy the first command and execute in the terminal. Then I'll copy the second command. I'll execute in my terminal. I'll copy the third command and let's execute it here. That means you are connecting your AWS with your GitHub.

Okay, that means whatever change you will uh let's say push in your GitHub automatically uh this will be um uh this will be like let's say available inside your AWS. Uh then I'll copy the last command and execute. Okay, so two more command you have to execute. So inside configure this command. Now see GitHub action is getting initialized and it is it is already connected with my GitHub.

Now here it is asking for the internal name of the runner group. I don't need to give any runner group name. I'll simply press enter. Then it is telling enter the name of the runner. So here make sure you give the same name self-enhosted.

Okay. That means in this uh YML file I think you remember here you have given this name okay continuous deployment you have given ransom self hosted you have to give the same name here self-en hosted okay so make sure you are giving the same name otherwise it will not work now I'll press enter now it is asking uh there would be any following labels uh I don't need any label I will skip it press enter then it is telling enter the name of the work working folder I'm going to again press enter okay now it's Now simply you have to copy this last command and you have to execute and you will be able to see that uh your u AWS will be connected to your GitHub. See connected to the GitHub and listening for the jobs. Now you can test it here. So simply you can again click on the runners.

Now see your self-hosted runner it is already idle. That means your AWS is connected with your GitHub and it is listening for the jobs. Now right now if you push anything in your uh in your let's say repository right if you push any any code automatically it will get deployed over the AWS um AWS cloud okay how because you have written this YML file and inside this YML file all the commands are available for the deployment operations okay but one more thing I have to do which is this secret credential I have to add other without this secret it will it will not work okay so definitely this secret needs to be added so let's add the secret Now if you see the last step uh last step is that you have to add the secret key in the GitHub actions. Okay. So let's do that.

I'll go to the GitHub again. Go to the settings. Left hand side you will see one option called secret and variable and go to this action section. Okay. Now here you have to create a new repository secret.

So first of all you have to create this registry. Registry should be docker.io because we are using docker hub. So make sure this is the key name and this is the value name. Okay.

Inside secret you have to give the value and add the secret. Okay. Done. You can see we have added this uh secret. Now I'll uh create another one new repository secret and I'll do it for the next one.

I'll add my docker username. So what is what is my docker username? If you go to my docker hub. So this is my hub. If you just click on my account here, you will be able to see the username.

Okay. So make sure you check your username in your docker hub and copy the same name and give it here. Now the next thing I have to add the docker password that means docker hub password. So make sure you are giving your docker hub password. Okay.

So let me give my password guys. So this is uh this is like secret password. I don't want to show you. So that's why I'm going to pause the video after adding the password. I'm going to show you the next step.

So yeah guys I have successfully set my docker password. Okay. So that's how you have to add all of the secret inside this secret variable. Now let's try to add the next one the image name. So image name I'm going to let's say give the same name like aentic chatbot.

So with this name actually your docker image would be created. Okay. You can also change this name as per your requirement. I I have given aentic chatbot. Now let's add this secret.

Now next I have this AWS access key ID. Now why you will get this AWS access key ID? I think remember we downloaded one CSV file. Okay, this CSV file. Let's open it up.

I'll open in my Notepad++. So this is the secret and secret access key. So first of all, let's copy this access key ID. So before this comma, this is your access key ID. Okay, I'll copy and paste it here.

And make sure you don't share this credential with anyone otherwise they will be able to access your account. Okay, I'm going to remove after this recording. Don't use my one. Okay, try to use your one. Now AWS access key is done.

Now let next I'm going to add AWS secret access key secret access key. Okay, now where you get the secret address key? So this part is your secret address key. Okay, that means after this comma whatever you have this is your secret access key. Let's copy and paste it here.

Done. Now next you have the AWS region. So right now I'm inside you will see that I'm inside US East one region North Virginia US East one. Okay. If you're in other region you can give this name.

Okay. But right now I'm inside US East one. I will give the same name here. Why is that? Yeah.

Let's copy. So all the command I have given in my readmi file you can check from there guys. Done. Now next I have to add the open API key. If you're using open API key guys you have to add the open API key.

Okay. And make sure you add your value here. So I'm using Google Gemini model because I don't have open API key. So that's why I'm not going to pass my open API key. But I just showed you, okay, how to add your open API key.

So make sure you pass your open API key here. Okay. Now here I'm using Google API key. That means I'm using Gemini model. I'll be using my Google API key instead of OpenAI.

You can also remove this part if you are not using OpenAI. But I have showed you if you're using OpenAI, you can add it. Add this. Now I'm going to add the table API key. Tablely and where is your table API key?

It is available inside your environment variable. So this is your table API key. Let's copy and give it here. Then next you have this um open weather API key. Just copy my open open weather API key from this env.

Okay. Now next I have to add after open weather Google API key. So here I have my Google Google API key. Now next you have this lang smmith tracing because we're also using lang lang smmith for monitoring our entire application right to trace all of the execution and this secret would be true. You can also verify from your environment.

So tracing should be true. Okay. And don't give any quotation. Okay. Quotation you don't need to give.

Now next [clears throat] I have this Langmith endpoint. This is the end point. Now next I have this lang API key. And here is your lang API key. Done.

Now next you have this lang project name. Okay, that's how whatever API key you are using you have to add inside the secret. Okay, that's how you have to prepare the secret variable. So what is the name? Aentic AI project agentic chatbot project.

This is name I think I was using even you can also open up your language platform. You can verify Yeah. So, aentic chatbot project. Okay. If you want to create a new one, you can also create an uh uh it's completely fine.

But here I'm tracing all of my execution. All right. So, all of the secret I have added guys. Uh let me check if I'm having anything else. No, I think everything is added.

Okay. Now, see all of the secret we have added. So, right now this secret is not visible uh to the public. Okay. So, this is available inside my account inside my secret.

Okay. and my application will pick up from this particular secret only. That's why everywhere I have given secret dot your API name or let's say key name. Okay. So that's how you don't need to expose your API key u I mean to the audience.

Just try to make sure you are adding inside the secret. Okay. This is super important. Now everything is done. Now we are ready for the deployment.

So right now our server is connected. My GitHub is connected. My self-hosted runner runner is running. Everything is done. Now simply I'm going to push the changes.

Okay. Now let's try to push the changes. I'll commit the changes. So here I'm going to open up my terminal. I'm going to write g add.

So see these are the file I'm going to push. Yeah. So everything is fine. But let's let's delete these are the file. This is actually created uh because I have executed this uh project right.

And it has created the persistence memory. But I want to delete it. Okay. I want to like push completely new new project okay to the cloud. So I'll delete this at the file.

So everything is fine. [clears throat] Now let me push the changes. So I'll open up my terminal. I'll just write g add space dot then get commit type m uh I'll give let's say updated and I'll just write get push origin main. Now push is done.

Now if I go to my GitHub. Okay. Now see everything is updated in my GitHub and your workflows is running. Okay. You can go to the action and you can see your first comet is running.

This is your first uh attempt to the CI/CD deployment. Okay. And this is a one-time setup guys. This uh setup you have to do one time and going forward you don't need to do this setup. Okay.

Going forward you will only just try to change your upgrade and automatically it will be getting deployed. Now see three-step it is running continuous integration building and pushing image uh push docker image and deploying to the AWS EC2. So continuous integration is already completed. Now building and pushing image is running. Okay.

So right now my image is getting builded. Okay. You can see it is setting everything all the package and everything. So this process may take some time. Let's wait.

Now see requirement got installed successfully. After that it will push the image to the docker hub. Now you can see in the docker hub I don't have any kinds of image name with the help of agentic chatbot. Okay. Now you'll see that after some times this image would be available.

Everything is happening automatically guys. Okay. Because I have set up the entire server. I have written that YL file and all of this command is available. So everything would be automatically.

This is the beauty of CI/CD deployment. Only one time effort. Okay. One time configuration, one time setup and rest of the life you can enjoy. And that's how production deployment happens.

Um, whatever application you can see, right? Everything is connected with CI/CD pipeline and that's how they're setting up the server. You can also use any other cloud like GCP, Azure. Uh, it's completely fine. The step will remain same.

Maybe some functionality would be different. Okay. In that cloud. Now see uh build and push is complete. See the green tick mark that means complete.

Now deploying this image to the AWS EC2. Now it is pulling the image and it will run on my EC2 instance. Okay. See all the three steps are complete. All the three steps are getting green tick mark.

That means everything is fine. There is no error inside our workflow. Okay. We have successfully uh deployed. Now I will go to my instance and there you will see one option called public DNS.

Okay. Just try to copy this URL and paste over the new tab. And if I execute, see uh right now this uh application uh is not going to open because we haven't done the port mapping. Okay, port mapping is required because by default our application is running on port number 8501. Okay, so we have to do the port mapping.

So to perform the port mapping, you can go back to your instance and there is a option called security. Just go to the security. There is option called security groups. I'll click on security groups. And here you will see one option called edit inbound rules.

Okay. Now here you can see your uh port number is not defined here. That means 850 uh 0 um 8501 is not defined here. So just try to add the rules and port number you have to write 8501. Okay.

This is the port of streaml. You can also verify in the cicd. Mamel at the last whenever you are running your image, right? So there you said that yeah see you are doing the port mapping to 8501. This is the port.

Okay. By default stream application runs port uh 8501. Now you have to select this 00. Okay. Uh that means you can access from anywhere and simply save this rules.

Done. Now I'll go to this instance again. Instance ID. Now I'll copy this public DNS again. Okay.

And make sure after this URL you are you are giving this uh clone port number 8501. Okay 8501. Now if I execute I'll see your application will be running and this is completely live right now. Okay. Now if I share this URL with anyone they will be able to access my agent.

See this is running on the AWS server right now and this is completely live. Okay. Now you can purchase any kinds of domain name. Okay. Uh then you can change this name with your domain name.

On domain name this is also possible. Okay. But if you know till here I think it's completely fine. Uh the domain uh part I think this will take care by the front- end developer. So right now our chatbot is running live.

Okay. We can test whether it's working or not. So let's say I will give hello. See how I can help you today. Then I have given another message.

I am BP. Now it is telling nice to meet you bi. Now it'll tell tell me the current weather. Okay. In Dhaka.

Now see it is using my get weather uh tool and it is giving you the kind of weather in Dhaka. Now we'll ask uh uh latest news uh in FIFA. Now see it is using tably search tool and this is giving you the latest news on FIFA. Okay. So this is the latest news you're getting.

Now you can ask any other thing. Let's say you can ask about the um stock price. Tell me tell me the stock price of Apple. Okay, this is the current stock price of Apple. Now you can also purchase any stock.

So you can just write purchase uh let's say 20 stock of Apple. Okay. Now again we have added this HITL features that means that means human in the loop. It will ask for the human verification. Now see asking for the human verification.

Now if I approve now my share would be purchased. Okay. Now you can even upload any kinds of document. You can start the conversation. You can also create a new trades.

This is also possible. Let's say I have created a new trades. Okay. Now here I will ask upload any kinds of documents. Let's I will upload my resume and I will ask tell me about Bir Ahmed Bi based on the PDF uploaded.

Now see it is using rag tool and it is giving you about myself. Okay. Based on the resume I'm having. Okay. So that means everything is working fine and this is completely live right now.

You can share this URL with your friends and family. They'll be able to use that. Okay. So amazing guys. We have seen how to perform the deployment.

Now the u I mean good part I want to show you about the CI/CD deployment is that now let's see in future if you want to add any new change here. Okay let's say if you want to add any new features you don't need to manually let's say uh set up everything again in the cloud server. Okay, you don't need to manually copy paste your code and set up everything. Only you just need to change and upload inside your GitHub. Automatically this deployment will be happening.

Let me show you. Let's say in this app.py um let's say right now let me show you one like a small features. Okay, I'll be adding here. Let's I'll refresh my app.

H. So right now you can see it is agentic chat but with langraph. Okay, let's say I want to add a emoji here. Okay, let's say I want to add a emoji. So what I'm going to do, I'll go I'll go to that part that I'm creating this title.

I think here I'm creating the title right here. So let's say I'm going to add a emoji. So simply let's add an emoji. So let's say I'm going to add this uh this robotic emoji. Okay.

So I'm going to add this robotic emoji. Refresh. And uh yeah, save it. And now we have to commit it again. Okay.

You have to commit your change again. So let's commit our change again. So I'll just write get add space dot get commit hyphen m let's say I'll give new feature addit okay and get push origin main now push is done now again I I'll go to the GitHub and I will see that your pipeline will automatically uh get triggered. Now see again action is running. I'll go to the action.

Now see new feature added. This pipeline is running again. Okay. And this version is having a new update. Okay.

Again it will build the docker image. Push the docker image to the docker hub. So you can see in the docker hub itself you will see your application that is your image. See aentic chatbot. So right now it is having only uh one image.

Okay. And it is uploading the next image here. So let's wait. See again all of the execution is happening. And you don't need to do anything.

Okay. And still your server is live. See if you refresh here, if you start the conversation, it will run. Okay. It will not uh it will not actually shut down.

Okay. But if you're not creating CI/CD pipeline that time there is a possibility it will get shut down. Okay. And user will feel uh this application is not working and then you may lose your user. Right?

So that's why CST is required in the back end all of the deployment is happening but you are not going to uh you are not going to see anything right now. If I come here see deployment is uh completed. Now if I come here now if I refresh my application now see that new update has added here. Now see this uh emoji has been added here. Okay.

So this is called actually CI/CD deployment and that's how you can continuously add new features without shut down your application. Okay, without let's say stopping your application and this is what actually we use inside the industry inside the production deployment. Okay, I hope everything is clear guys. So if you found this content useful, please try to subscribe to my channel and share this video with your friends friends and family and please try to like on my video guys. Okay.

And if you have any question, please try to comment in the comment section. Uh I would like to see your comment and I would like to see your opinion. Okay. Whether um this playlist is helpful or not because I have covered each and everything. I have implemented the project.

I showed you the end to end implement uh end to end deployment. Everything I showed you. Okay. And lots of things are coming as well. So guys, yeah, we have seen the deployment.

Now we will see that how we can uh terminate all of the server because if you keep on running it, it will charge you. So let's say once uh we have deployed everything, our learning is over. Now I'm going to show you how we can stop the server. Okay, let's say you want to stop the server, how to do that. So for this, okay, one more thing I want to show you that say if I close this terminal, okay, if I close this terminal also, still my application will be working.

Okay, see still my application is working. Okay. So now if you want to uh let's let's say delete this instance first of all you have to select it. Then there is a option called instance state and there you will see called terminate and delete instance. Okay.

So if you do terminate and delete it will delete uh everything. Okay. But if you stop it it will stop again. You can restart it but I'm going to delete everything because my learning is over. Uh I'm going to terminate and delete.

Now after some time it will be uh deleted. Okay. Now you have to delete your IM user as well. So let's go to the IM user. Left hand side IM user is available.

Select the IM user and delete it from here. Deactive the keys and just write confirm. So it will be deleted. Okay. If you want you can also delete your uh docker image you have uploaded in your hub.

Okay. This is also possible. You can also delete here. But I'll keep this uh uh image. Okay.

in my docker repository so that later on I can use it anytime. Okay. So yes guys that's how we can do the CI/CD deployment and we have completed our deployment. Okay. So right now you can see our application will not run because I have deleted all the instance and this is offline right now.

So see this is offline right now. Okay. So yeah you can try I will share all the resources all the code in my description. From there you can try and please try to support my channel guys. If you support me definitely I will bring this kinds of content more in future.

So yes uh this is all about for this uh deployment I have showed you on the uh AWS cloud. Now in the next video I'm going to show you how we can deploy this project over the render cloud. Okay, render is another cloud there you can also uh deploy this project as a CI/CD. So what is render? Render is a cloud platform.

So there you can deploy any kinds of web application. Okay. uh this is the like a very fastest uh and uh very easy to use cloud platform. So here you don't need to do so many configuration. Okay.

Uh with some few clicks actually you can do the deployment. I'm going to show you okay how to do that and um definitely for this you have to create one account on render and render is not completely free but they have a free instance. In that free instance you can at least deploy some application. Okay. But if you want to do the production grade deployment okay with some uh higher infrastructure and higher instance that time you have to take the subscription.

Okay. But I think uh uh this is fine um as a learning purpose and uh just to uh just to actually live our app okay just to test our app we'll be using the free instance. So free instance is having like very low configuration like machine and I think this is completely fine for us so we can manage that. Okay. So if you found my content useful guys please do uh try to subscribe to my channel and please try to share and please try to hit the like.

uh I need your support if you provide the support guys so I can bring this kinds of content more in future. So uh well let's start with the deployment guys. First of all here you have to create an account. If you don't have account guys please try to create an account with your Google um uh Google address. You can create your account.

So I already have the account. I'll just try to sign in. So here I'll just try to sign in with my Google. So after sign in guys you will be able to see this kinds of interface. So this is the rendered dashboard and previously I deployed some app that's why it's coming okay like that but for you it would be completely empty.

So here uh what I have to do guys uh first of all I have to uh I have to actually commit my code to the GitHub. Okay. And uh in my previous deployment video I already pushed this code in my GitHub. So this is already available in my GitHub repo. As you can see this is the repository we created aentic chatbot using langraph.

So we can utilize that and one best part is that if you're using render so render uh it is already having the CI/CD integrated you don't need to set up the CI/CD separately okay like we did in on AWS right here CI/CD uh it is included okay only you just need to connect your repository and automatically this CI/CD uh pipeline would be created you don't need to manually create that that part I'm going to show you so first of all um here just try to copy this URL Okay, copy your GitHub URL and in on render you will see one option called new. Okay, just click on new and here is a service called web service. Okay, just click on web service and uh here you can see G provider is available. Okay, just try to paste your URL. Okay, or you can go to this public uh g repository and you can provide the URL.

Okay, and if you want you can also pass your existing let's say docker image. So I think you remember uh in my last video I like pushed my uh docker image in my docker hub. So you can also provide that image URL that uh and with the help of that you can also perform the deployment. You can also use your GitHub to do the deployment. Okay.

But make sure you have this docker file here. So I already have the docker file and pre uh in my last video I already created this docker file. So docker file should be available. Okay. So we have the docker file.

It's completely fine. Now simply what I'm going to do I'm going to just paste this URL here and I'll just connect this repository. Okay, once you have connected, you can provide the name the name you want to provide uh for this deployment. But I will keep the same name and the language you have to select the docker. Okay, if you don't have the docker, you can also select the simple python.

But I have the docker. I'll try to select the docker. Okay, language. Then everything will remain same as it is. No need to change anything.

And here in the instance type, see they have some plan. You can take the plan as per your requirement. If you have let's say very high configuration project that needs lots of computation that time you can take these are the like uh plan but uh we'll be using this u free plan for the hobby project. Okay just to show you I'm using this free plan and it is having 512 MB RAM and uh 0.1 CPU core.

Okay, it is uh it would be a little bit slow lagging but uh just to I mean make our project live it's completely fine because nowadays none of the cloud provides the free uh free let's say instance right to uh do the deployment but at least they're providing I think this is fine for us right so I'll select this free instance then here you have to set all of your environment variable uh you have inside your project so I think remember inside our project these are the environment variable is required so try to set one by one so uh I'm not using openi so I will not set the open I'll select set from tably so tably API key here you have to give the value okay then the next one you have this open weather API key that's how I'll try to add all of the environment variable I have here you can also upload your NV file that will also load but let's try to add like that Google API key because I'm using Gemini model. Now next I have this languid tracing Smith endpoint then uh Langmith API then we have Langmith project. So yeah, all of the API key has set successfully. Now uh in adv advanc part, you don't need to do anything. uh just keep it same as it is.

Now let's try to deploy our web service. Okay. Now it will start building your docker. Okay. Uh all of the setup everything will uh uh going on here.

So we have to wait for some times. Okay. So this will set up and prepare everything and once this starter should be live, you'll be able to access your application. Now let's wait guys. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to pause the video once this u um docker building is complete then I will come back.

So as you can see guys our application is live right now and all of the um setup has complete successfully. Now we can access this application. So this is the URL. Just try to copy this URL and open in a new tab. So you'll be able to see that your application will open.

Yeah. So it has loaded my application. So this is our agentic chatbot. Now let's test this chatbot. Uh let me zoom out so that you can see the entire screen.

Yeah. So now let's uh test this chatbot. So here I will give hi. So see it's giving you hello I can assist you. Now I'll tell um what is the current weather in Bengaluru.

So this is the current weather in Bengaluru. Now I will ask tell me the latest score of FIFA. Okay. Today. Yeah.

So this is the score it has given. Now you can um you can check about this um stock price. What is the stock price of Google? Okay. So the API I was using uh so the rate rate limit has been uh over.

Okay. So I have to create another API key. It's completely fine. Now let me test uh with my documents upload. So I'll just try to provide my resume and ask who is Btier Ahmed Bi based on the PDF uploaded.

Now it is giving you the entire uh answer about me, right? So yeah uh it's working perfectly. So only the issue we found uh our uh API key we're using right for this stock price uh this has been I think limit is over. So I have to create an uh another API key and I have to set there uh because we are using the free one right and free one definitely has some limitation that's completely fine. Yeah.

So it's working fine. Then you can also create a new trades. Okay. You can create a new trades and you can uh again do the conversation. Let's say hi I am Alex.

Okay. See everything is working fine. Okay. Now this application is completely live. You can share this with your friends and family.

They will be able to access your application and uh this will not uh charge you. Okay. Because this is running completely on the free instance and uh that's how you can deploy any kinds of project. Okay. Uh just for the uh testing purpose.

Okay. But if you want to do the production grade deployment that time just try to make sure you are taking the subscription plan. Now guys uh one best part uh I will show you uh which is this uh CI/CD. Okay. Uh that means if you are changing something inside your code and if you are again committing to the GitHub, so what will happen?

So let's say right now uh here I have an emoji. Okay. So I want to remove this emoji. Uh as of now let's try to consider this is our features. Okay.

We are adding inside this chatbot. Uh where is that part? Yeah. So here so let's say I will delete this uh emoji. Okay.

And I will uh again push my changes to the GitHub. So let's say app file updated. Now I'll push the changes. Done. Now if I go to my GitHub, see this comet is over.

Okay. Um have file added. Uh now here if I come to this uh uh I mean render and if I go to this event. So you have to go to this event and there is a option called manual deploy. Just try to click here.

Okay. And there is a option called deploy last commit. Okay. So you can also like make it as automated. There is a setting you can turn on that.

Uh but if you just click here deploy latest commit. Now if I let's say deploy latest commit. So you'll see that uh automatically um my new features should be added. See still my application is running. See still my application is running and my deployment is going on.

Okay. So that's how they have integrated this inbuilt CI/CD uh and all of this. Okay. Whatever we have learned in my previous deployment. So here uh you don't need uh that much of configuration only few clicks you can do the deployment.

Okay. So this is the best part uh on this render cloud. Uh let's see. So see our application is live. Now if I go to my application refresh.

So see this emoji got removed. Okay. So that's how uh we can add uh our new features. uh and you just need to commit the code on GitHub and you can uh just uh trigger that pipeline. Okay.

And you can also make it automated. There is a settings you can run on. So yes guys uh that's how we can do the deployment. Now I'll show you how we can delete the instance. Okay.

Let's say this project I have deployed. Now how we can delete this instance. Okay. So for this you just need to go to the settings and go below there is a option called delete web service and you have to copy this command and give it here and delete the web service. Okay.

So if you delete it so this service would be deleted and your application would be offline. Okay. So yeah that's how we can do that. So if you found my content useful guys please try to support me and this is my LinkedIn profile. Uh if you want to connect me guys, you can connect on my LinkedIn.

You can follow me on LinkedIn and uh please let me know how you are enjoying this uh complete list. If you found this useful, so please try to tag me on LinkedIn. Okay, I'll happy to see that and just try to implement uh something from your end and please try to tag me. So if you are tagging me on LinkedIn, I would be happy to see your work and definitely I will put my uh feedback and comments. Okay.

So guys, as you know, I started a complete agenti playlist on my YouTube channel and uh I completed our first orchestration framework which is langraph. So we have studied uh about this langraph in depth. We have seen each and every component of langraph. Even I showed you one amazing uh end toend project implementation which is one agentic chatbot. If you haven't uh checked those uh videos guys, this is already available in my playlist guys.

It is already available on my YouTube channel uh DS with BP. So all the recordings are available uh you can go through all of these recording. Okay. Uh then I told you uh after completing like our uh first orchestration framework we'll be implementing some amazing project. Okay.

And one project we have already developed in this uh playlist itself. Okay. So as you can see uh our first project was around uh uh 8 plus hours of recording. uh we have uh implemented the entire agentic chartbot with the help of lang graph database languid tools rag hittl AWS and render. So guys uh in this video what I'm going to do uh I'm going to utilize the same concept we have learned so far inside our agenti playlist and we'll be implementing one very interesting and amazing project in this video.

Okay. And in this video, we are not only going to develop this project. Uh we'll also show you how we can uh deploy this project over the cloud platform as a CI/CD. Okay. That means first of all, we'll try to implement the entire project uh completely end to end.

Then after implementing, I will also show you how we can deploy this project and we'll be using CI/CD pipeline for that. So the project name is BPGpt. So [gasps] this sounds uh seems to be funny but uh yes actually I'm going to implement uh one uh project here called buppy GPT and this would be kinds of your chart GPT. So basically we'll try to recreate this chat GPT okay uh with our own workflow. So I think you have already used chat GPT right uh chat GPT uh it's an agentic AI chatbot.

So here you can perform the chat operation you can upload your documents. Okay. Then you can also activate the voice mode. Then um you can see the conversation trades. Okay.

Then it has also connected with different different tools like you can perform realtime source operation. You can uh solve complex math problem. You can generate the codes. Okay. Each and everything you can do here.

So yes uh in this video guys we'll be developing our own chat GPT. So I already named it as BPGT. So let me uh show you first of all the application demo how this application uh will work and how this application uh will look like. Then after that we'll start the development guys. So as you can see guys uh this is the application we'll be developing named buppy GPT.

You can give any name okay as per your needs. I have given buppy GPT and I think first time someone is creating uh chat GPT with the Gemini model. [laughter] Why I I have used Gemini model because uh I wanted to use free resources. Um I I didn't wanted to use the paid one. Uh I could have used the open AI model here.

But for openi model you need open subscription but uh there are many learners they don't have the open key that's why I thought let's try to integrate any free model. Okay, open source model and uh Gemini actually you can use freely. Okay, there are some free limits you can utilize that. But if you want you can also integrate any other model. You can also integrate OpenAI model.

It's completely up to you. Okay. But the main things here we have to learn this uh concept like um the way they have created the chart GPT. Okay. You can see all the functionality like tradings the documents uploaded this model selection.

Okay. Then uh you can also uh open this V voice mode. You can uh uh give your voice and automatically your voice would be recognized and you can perform the chat operation here. Okay. And it has also connected with different different tools.

But here I tried to integrate u actually few tools here um uh because um here I want to uh show you okay uh this uh project implementation. So you can add as much as tool you can okay you can add all kinds of tool. I already um told you about the tool in my playlist. I think you remember right if you go through the playlist I already discussed about the tool. So you can uh integrate as much as tool you can okay whatever tool you need but I added few tools here just to show you the working demo.

Now first of all uh let me show you the working demo how this will work and one thing guys I think you have seen uh in charge GPT you can also create the account you can login with different account okay this is a full fully stack application but here we avoided this part we didn't added any kinds of account fun u I mean login functionality here we just uh created the interface okay of the charge apt I think this is fine uh for learning purpose this is completely fine if you want you can also uh use full stack uh let's say framework you can also create uh this kinds of account functionality and all. Okay, this is completely up to you. So yes guys this is the interface as you can see it has the trading features that means you can switch between any of the trades and and you can see the older conversation you have done even you can also create a new conversation you can upload any kinds of documents you can select your model okay then you can also activate the voice mode uh if you want to speak with your chat u GPT okay and here I have also given some suggestion you can also see that okay I think you can't see uh the interface because of my video so what I can do I and turn off my video. Now I think you can see the full uh application. So here is the voice mode and everything, right?

So guys, now let's uh test our BPGPT. Okay. Uh I'll provide some prompt. Let's say first of all I'll tell hi um I am BP here. So as you can see it is giving hello BY.

It's nice to meet you. How I can assist you today? So tell tell me about gradient descent in simpler word. Now it is telling you about gradient descent. Now I will ask something um something about latest information.

So I will give this prompt. What was the score today for Argentina in FIFA World Cup? So let's see. Now you can see it is using realtime web search tool and it will find out the latest information. So you can see based on the website result Argentina defeated uh Austria two by zero in FIFA World Cup match today.

Leonel Messi scored both goal making him uh the alltime legend leading scorer in World Cup history. Okay, I think if you have already watched the la last match of Argentina, you'll see that uh um this was happened. Okay, last match. Last match. So yeah, it's working uh fine.

You can also switch uh any other model if you want. Okay. Let's say I will take this um pro model. Okay. Now I ask something.

Let's say uh I want to do some calculation. Let's say what is the result of so I'll give a complex mathematics here. Now you can see it is using calculated tool and it will solve that. Now you can see this is the result. Okay.

Now here what I can do I can upload any kinds of documents. So let's say here I will upload uh any kinds of documents. Let's say I upload my resume and I can do the conversation here. Now see it's getting uploaded. Now you can see you can ask the question about the document and I'll tell uh who is Bier Ahmed Baki based on PDF.

Now you can see it is using document search tool and uh this will use my document to give the response. So this is the rag features you have in this kinds of agenti chatbot. Now you can see based on the provided PDF Ber Ahmed B is a data scientist with five years of working experience specializing generative AI. Okay. And it he is um and you can see it is telling each and everything about me.

Okay. Now you can also continue the conversation. Uh how many projects he has done? Give me all the name. Okay.

Okay, you can see based on the documents uh BP uh has worked with uh uh worked on four main project as you can see these are the project actually I have mentioned in that resume okay amazing it's working great now you can uh see it has also voice mode I can also activate the voice mode and I can um ask something let's say tell me about Python programming and give me the hello world program. See tell me about Python programming and give me the hello world program. Now if I send this prompt see it's giving you the entire response okay with the hello world program as well. Okay. So yes uh that's how guys uh chart GPT works.

Uh even in charge GPT also you can give this kinds of prompt and it will be working. But yes u charg is like a very u very actually advanced uh agentic application because u inside that they have added so many functionality okay deep resource and all but again yeah we have just tried to create recreated that um application here okay by focusing on some major component okay whatever we have learned so far I think this is very much interesting okay if you want you can also upgrade uh this project as per your requirement And you can add uh new new features like chart GP okay if you want and uh going forward I'm also going to create some other project as well uh so that you will be learning some more concept okay so yes guys this is the entire demo of the application we have seen and throughout the entire implementation guys we'll try to uh recreate uh this uh application okay I think this would be fun so make sure you watch this video till the end and uh if you found my content useful please try to subscribe to my channel and uh share this video with your friends and family. Now I'm also going to show you the memory features. Uh I also educated the memory here. That means it can remember my previous conversation.

So I think you remember uh at the very first I told uh yes uh my name is BP. Okay. Like hi I'm Buppy here. So let's see whether it is able to remember my name or not. So what is my name?

So as you can see you introduced yourself as a buppy earlier is it correct? Yes. Okay. Now uh I will remember that uh it's nice to chat with you. That means it has also long-term memory integration.

If you uh want your chatbot to remember something, it will remember. Okay. This will save that information in the long-term u memory. Okay. uh this thing will also try to add with a database.

So yes guys uh that's how uh you can implement this uh this amazing u agenti chatbot uh named bgptt or you can give any kinds of name if you want like chat gpt and if you go to the homepage here also you can um directly give something let's say I'll give u search the latest uh so if you click here uh it will automatically come search the web uh for latest EI news okay so you can directly send this prompt Okay, that's how I added some prompt here. Summarize the uploaded documents. Save something to the memory. Use calculated tool. Okay, if you want, you can also give some more suggestion here.

Okay, it's completely up to you. So guys, now we'll start the development of BGPT. uh before starting the development first of all I want to show you the highle um architecture diagram like what are the component we'll be implementing in this um uh in this project so as you have seen u this has already one front end server um it is running on basically um HTML CSS and JavaScript so the entire front end you can see right I have created with the help of HTML CSS and JavaScript uh if you want you can also use any front- end framework like NexJS, React, okay, it's completely up to you. But again, if you don't know about front- end development, it's completely fine. There would be a separate team for that.

They will try to design this front end. But okay, for you and if you don't know about HTML, CSS, Javcape, don't worry. This thing you can easily generate from uh chat GPT even you can also generate from puppy GPT if you want. Um so you just try to ask I need this kinds of interface it will create you can use that readym made template and you can uh edit okay uh as per your requirement uh but chart GPT actually they're using some kinds of front- end framework uh for this kinds of user interface so every application has this kinds of front- end server okay then it is connected uh with a backend uh server and the backend framework wise we're use we'll be using here fast API that means the application we have created it is running on fast API. Okay.

And fast API is a production ready uh backend framework you can use. Uh we'll be also using fast API here. Okay. We'll try to handle all of the get request, post request, everything with the help of fast API. Charg also running on some kinds of u backend server.

Okay. Maybe they have used fast API. We don't know that. Then uh you can see uh this backend server is connected with a workflow. Okay.

That means some agentic workflow. So here we'll be using langraph to implement this entire workflow. Um I think charg they might be using any other agentic framework. Okay. Um I don't know which framework they're using but here we'll be using this langraph because we have completed lang graph so far inside our playlist.

Okay. We'll try to use the langraph for the entire aentic workflow. Okay. We'll try to create our entire agents. Um we'll try to create the nodes.

We'll try to create the tools. Okay. each and everything we'll try to create with the help of edge uh lang graph. Then this uh workflow will be connected with lots of tools okay like uh we'll be using some separate tools we'll be using rag tools okay for document search we'll be using memory tools as you saw it has also remembered okay my conversation even you can also retrieve the old conversation how it is happening with help of memory tools then some external uh API tools will be using like web search tool okay um then uh if you want you can also integate uh current weather informations okay it's and everything you can integrate here. then it will have one node tools uh tools node then uh it has also database connection that means uh for the I think if you have already understood about this uh langraph it has a concept of state okay the state uh uh checkpointter saving we have to use some kinds of database and here we'll be using SQLite database okay for this state tracking and uh for long-term uh long-term conversation storage we'll be using SQL uh alchemy okay uh this will store basically my um um like long-term conversation in that particular database and whatever state information we are having we'll try to save inside this scale database and for rag pipeline guys we'll be using chromb vector database and we'll try to generate the vector embeddings and here we have used gemini embeddings uh because gemini is free to use uh you can also use any other embedding model it's up to you okay with the help of Gemini embeddings we'll try to generate the embeddings and we'll store in the chrom and it's it's not necessary to use the chrom if you want you can also use fires pine cone but pine cone is a paid one you have to take the subscription then you will be able to use that then web also wit is also there it is also like a paid one so in this project I tried to use all the services as free okay that's why I'm using chromb okay chrom is in storage vector database that you can store all of your vectors then some external APIs we'll be using like tab API okay then Google gemini API for the lm and embeddings and if you want you can also integrate any other API as well here Okay.

So yes, this is the highle architecture of this um BPGT. Now we'll try to follow this architecture. We'll try to develop each and every component in detail. So first of all uh we'll be creating a GitHub repository for this project. Uh so here I will open up my GitHub.

Let's create a new repository here. I'll create a new repository. Um, I'm going to name it as uh Buppy GPT. Buppy GPT then uh here I will make it as public repo and add the readmi file. I'll also add the git ignore and here we'll be using python and license.

You can take any license. I'll take this Apache license. Okay. Now let's create the repository here. Okay.

Once you have created uh this repository, now just click on code, copy this link. Make sure you copy the HTTP link and uh open up your local folder. And here let's try to clone that. So get clone paste the URL. Okay.

So cloning is complete. Now I'll go inside that. So cd b gpt. Okay. Now I'm inside this folder and here I'm going to open up my um I'm going to open up my uh VS code.

So let's open up my VS code. So this is my VS code. Let me zoom everything is fine. Yeah. So here the first thing guys uh what I have to do I have to create a virtual environment and uh after creating we have to um install some of the library for this project then we'll be creating the folder stack set.

So let's do it uh quickly and uh if you are uh implementing this project guys um I have implemented uh a similar kinds of agentic chatbot in my previous project. Uh if you go through that recording uh all of the concept I explained in detail like tools rag okay then um memory each and everything I explain in detail. So if you are completing that uh video it would be easy for you to implement this project. Okay, if you're completely new but if you already watch that video, if you already know these are the concept then it will be easy for you. So here I'm not going to focus on the theoretical explanation.

Instead of that I'm more going to focus on the practical development because I'm expecting you are already familiar with those concept. Okay. So yeah make sure if you [clears throat] are completely new go through that uh previous recording. Okay. I have on my playlist.

Now >> [gasps] >> uh here the first thing we'll be creating the um creating the environment. So let's create the environment. So how to run BPG? Yeah. First of all, you have to clone the repository.

Okay. Then after that you have to create the environment. Yeah. So you have to navigate the project directory first. Then you have to create the environment.

So all of this step I'm writing so that it would be easy for you uh to set up okay later on create virtual environment. So to create environment you need to run this command. So ponda create hyphen n bgptt python is equal to we'll be using python 3.11 and hyphen y we're giving the yes permission. Then once involvement is created, we have to activate the environment then we have to install the requirements.

Okay, once requirement installation done then you'll be running the app.py. Okay, app.py should be our endpoint here. So now let's uh refer this uh file and install everything one by one.

Okay. So, first of all, we have already inside my bgptt folder and I'll create the environment here. So, I'll copy this command. Open up my terminal. Let's create the environment.

Then we we have to activate that. This is the command. Okay, activation is complete. Now here uh we have to add a requirement file requirement.txt file inside that we'll be mentioning all of the requirement we need here.

So I already prepared all of the requirement guys. with the specific version I will be installing here. See these are the requirement I need for this project. I need fast API for the backend server and to run the fast API you need uon then ginga okay and then python multipart. So these are the dependency of fast api then python.enb

I need for environment management that means uh whatever api I'm going to mention I'm going to mention inside this dot env file. Okay. Then uh I'll be installing the orchestration framework like lang chain. Then we'll be using gemini model. For this you have to install this langen google ji.

Then lang chain core. Then we'll be in uh using lang graph orchestration framework for this agent workflow. Then langent text splitter. I need uh I will be integrating feature rag feature. And to parse our documents we need that.

Then lang graph checkp pointer skqli. That means uh to save this uh persistence memory I need SQLite um saber. Okay. Then langent chroma I need uh because for vector database I'll be using chromb. Then chromad you have to install pi pdf.

Here we'll be only considering the pdf document. But if you want you can also use uh like docs file. You can also use excel file. Okay. This part you can add simply go to the length documentation.

You will able to see that. Then langent tab. So internet search operation will be using tably search. Okay. Then tab python.

This is the dependency for langent tab and SQL um alchemy we'll be using for this uh long-term uh conversation storage. Okay. We'll be creating a database and there we'll try to save everything. Okay. So yes uh these are the requirements I need.

Now we have to install this requirement and this is the command for that. Let's copy and uh we'll install everything here. Let's wait. This process may take some time. So in between what I can do I can collect all of the API key I need uh for this development.

So here uh what I'm going to do I'm going to first of all collect the uh Gemini API. Okay, this is available inside Google AI studio. Go to the Google AI studio and uh here we'll just click on get started and left hand side you will see this API key. And here you have to create an API key. Okay.

So I already have my API key. I'll just copy that. If you don't have you just try to create from here. Okay. So after that you just need to add it here.

So this is my Google API key. Okay. This is my Google API key I collected. And don't use my API key guys. I'll be removing after this recording.

And once it is done then you have to mention the Google model which model you want you want to use as default. Okay. Let's see if user is not selecting the model that means the by default model I'll be using Gemini 2.5 flash model. Okay.

And this model has some free access limit you can use that. Okay. So we'll be adding this model. If you want to use any other model you can simply do do that. Okay.

You can go to the chat GP. You can ask I want to use this model. What should be the model name? You can use that. Then the next uh API key I need for internet search operation because as you see uh we'll be integrating the tools.

Okay. And for real time search operation we need a tool called tably search. So tab search uh needs the API key. So let's collect that API key as well. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to search for tably API key.

Okay. Now let's open this. Here you have to login with your account. Let's login with my account. And here you have the API key.

Okay. So previously I already created the API key. I'll just try to copy. But if you don't have just create from here. So let's add the table API key here.

Table API key. Okay. Yes. Now uh tab is also done. Now what I have done guys uh for this development I also integrated lang here that means I can continuously monitor my chatbot the bub pgbt.

Okay we are tracing on langsmith platform. Let's log in my lang. So if you don't have the account just create an account in lang. You can continue with your Google. Okay.

So here you can see uh we created a aentic chatbot test. So here uh we are tracing everything. Okay. Whatever chat we have done here it is tracing everything. You can monitor from here.

Okay. You can monitor from here. Even you can also see the trades. Okay. You can also see the trades different different trades.

Okay. Everything is visible. So we'll be integrating the this lang also uh inside this uh project. So for this you need lang langsmith API key. Okay.

So where you will get this API key? It is available in settings API key. Okay. Now just create an API key. So I already created my API key.

I'll just try to use that. So for langid tracing guys you need to add this four four variable here. Okay. The first thing langid tracing is equal to would be true. Then lang endpoint um this is the endpoint api smith.langjen.com

then lang API key. So this is the API key I have given and here you have to give the project name. So here I'll give let's say bpg bgt. So this is the project. Okay you can give any name.

Uh so it will basically create that name here uh that name here and it will trace all of the informations there. Okay. So yeah so these are the API key as of now I need uh for this uh project but if you want you can also use uh any other API key you can use realtime weather uh weather let's say API key to get the weather information you want you can also use any kind of stock price u uh stock price API key if you want to get the latest stock okay of any company. So this thing I have already added inside my previous uh uh chatbot. So this part I want to uh I want to leave it to you.

I want you to integrate these are the features okay inside this uh puppy GPT. So just try to add realtime weather information s and uh real time stock price. Okay these are the thing just try to add and for this you can use any any other open open source let's say API provider for that. So yes these are my environment variable. Now let me see my installation is complete or not.

Yeah. So, installation is completed. There is no error. Okay. It's completely fine.

So, yeah. Now, uh what I'm going to do, I'm going to just push the changes. Okay. So, here you can just write requirement requirements and uh API addit. Now if I go to my GitHub refresh see everything is up to date.

Now uh what I have to do guys I have to create the uh folder structure um what whatever folders and file you need I'll just try to create then I'll just uh uh implement all of the component one by one. So now let's uh create the files and folder I need. So first of all I need the files here called agent.py. So here I'm going to write my agent workflow.

Then I'll be creating another file called tool.py. So here I will be writing all of the tools. Okay tools functionality. Then I need another one called rag.py.

So here I'm going to write all of the um rag related code that means document uploader vector store everything. Then I'm going to create another file called database dopy. So here uh we'll just try to write all of the code related database. Okay, database integration. Then I need um anything else.

Okay, I need my endpoint which is app.py. Okay, so this is going to be my endpoint, my first API endpoint. And uh for HTML and CSS, I need a folder called template templates. Okay, inside that I'm going to create a file called index html.

Okay, so inside that we'll be writing all of the HTML, CSS, JavaScript related code in a single file. Okay. And if you don't know about HTML is completely fine. Even uh I also took the help from chat GPT to generate my user interface. The user interface you have seen.

Okay. This user interface. So yes uh as of now this thing is required and uh if I need anything I'll just try to create later on. Okay. Now you can again commit the changes like folders and Why had it so folders and file added?

Okay. Now, first of all, guys, uh what I'm going to do, I'm going to create my agent workflow. So, let's create the agent workflow. I'll just try to close this out the file. So I'll open up my agent.py

and here we'll be creating our agent workflow with the help of lang graph. So let's import some necessary library. We'll import all the necessary library and here make sure you select your environment which is this one bpg. Okay. And now this error would be removed.

Now here we are importing operating system SQLite uh path from path lib then env because we need to load these environment variable then certify you need uh why certify is required because see sometimes if you're using Windows operating system there would be some kinds of path related error. Okay to prevent that this is the safer code you have to add. Let me show you. So this code you have to add okay west.in environment SSL uh cert file okay uh certified wire and request ca bundle certified.

You have to add this two line. So if you're using Windows uh operating system uh you won't be getting the error related path issue. So it uh doesn't happen to all the operating system. Sometimes uh in uh in some operating system it happens. Okay.

That's why I added this code just for a safer purpose. That means if you are executing my project in future you won't be having any kinds of problem. But if you're using Linux wind u Mac OS I think this line is not required but still if you keep it will not uh h uh make harm okay in your in your project. So I'll just try to add it to prevent the path issue. Then apart from that I need some other um other libraries as well.

Yeah. So these are the library I need and I think all the libraries are common guys. Uh here I don't need to explain these are the library again. Uh we are using this chat Google generate API for this Gemini model initialization system uh message we're importing from lang chain. Then from lang graph we importing state graph start message state.

Okay then from pre-built we are importing tools node tools condition. Okay. Then checkpoint we're using uh SQLite saber and from um Okay. Okay. So this line I don't need to write as of now because whatever tools I'm going to write I'm going to import here.

Okay. So yes uh these are the like uh import I need as of now. Now what I'm going to do guys first of all I'll just create a directory. Okay. Here I'll just create a directory.

So why directory is required? Because uh I think you know that uh this uh langraph will have a state right? Uh so for our uh for our let's say this uh workflow what would be the state okay state should be the message state that means whatever user is giving the input message and my chatbot is replying uh whatever response so this should be my state okay that means uh if I create the workflow so how my workflow will look like let's try to understand so for this I created a demo excalider file and here I just uh uh created the architecture. So this is the architecture guys. So this is my langraph workflow.

So here uh it will have a chat node and this will have a tool nodes. Okay. So whatever user will give the message it will go to the chat node and chat node will decide uh so here basically we'll be using something called tool condition. This tool condition will decide whether it has to use any kinds of tool for this question or not. If it doesn't need any kinds of tool, it will directly go to the end node.

Otherwise, it will use the tool. Now, it will automatically se select the tools like which tools is required to give the answer and um the response will go to the end node. Okay. So, this is my uh this is my actually uh workflow. Okay.

And what should be the state for this workflow? So, this should be the state. Okay. This should be the chart chat state. That means whatever input user is giving and whatever response it is uh generating.

Okay. this I we have to add in the chat state. So this should be the state. Okay. So yeah.

So if you want to save this state in the uh in the actually physical uh database that time we'll be using SQLite database because if I'm saving uh inside my RAM so if you close your application this would be erased. Okay. But I don't want that. I want uh let's say if I close my application also like chart GP still I'll be able to see all of my chart history and message. Right.

So for this we'll be using SQLite um SQLite database and to save the SQLite database we'll be creating a data folder here. Okay. So inside data folder we'll try to create the database SQLite database and we'll try to save all of the checkpoint there. Okay. So for this uh this uh data folder is required.

So to create the data folder I'm going to use this code. Uh you can see I'm using path library and inside that I'm giving data data folder and I'm using mkdr command to create the data folder. So first of all it will check whether this data folder is available or not. If available it will not create otherwise it will create. That's why I'm giving this parameter exist.

Okay is equal to true. Okay. Yeah. Now uh here we'll just try to define the list of the model uh we want to uh we want to show to the user. Um yeah so these are the model guys I have considered for this project allowed model Gemini 2.5

flash Gemini 2.5 Pro and so on. If you want to use any other model, you just need to um rename this this uh dictionary. And the default model uh if user is not giving any kinds of model, the default model I'm taking Jiny 2.5 plus from the environment variable.

Okay, here we have already set. Yeah, this is for the safer purpose. Okay, let's say if user is not giving any model by chance, that's why you can take the safer uh I mean default model. Okay. Yeah.

So once it is done now we'll try to create a system prompt. So this is the system prompt guys I have prepared. As you can see you are a helpful agent assistant named BGPT similar to chart GPT. You can answer normal question use tools when needed. Okay.

Search uploaded documents using rack tool. Search web for the latest current information using tab search. remember important informations using memory tool okay recall any kinds of old conversation using memory and you can also use calculator for mathematical operation and here I have set some rules okay so that's how we can change this prompt as per your requirement I have given this system prompt now the first thing guys uh here what I'm going to do I'm going to build our agent agent workflow um so let's do that I already written that function. Let me show you. So here I'm not going to write from scratch because this code I have already written from scratch in my previous uh previous project implementation.

So most of the codes are common. There is no new thing we have added yet. That's why I will try to copy paste. So see this is my um function I have written named build agent. So this will take the model name.

Okay. Because to uh to uh create the agent you need the model and uh first of all what I have to do I have to normalize the model and normalize the model name means if user sometimes let's say he is giving um any other name okay let's say it if it is not matching with this name so that type um my code will give me error so make sure whenever you are giving the model ID make sure the ID should be same like that you can go to the Gemini documentation you'll see that they're giving the ID like that. Okay. So, we have to give the same ID. So, if by chance from the front end I'm getting any other different name, I'll just try to normalize that first of all.

So, for this we'll return write a function here called normalize model name. It will take the model name and it will do the normalize. First of all, it will check if not model name use the default model otherwise first of all it will do the strip operation then it will check if model name is not not in allowed model return the default model otherwise return the uh same model user is giving. So this function we are applying here just to um just to what just to do the model name verification the model name it is matching here or not. Okay.

Yeah. So this kinds of simple simple function you have to write inside your code so that your application would be more robust. Okay. Because user can give anything. So you have to handle in the back end.

Now here we are using uh this Gemini model chat Google generative way. We're giving the model temperature streaming is equal to true and we are creating the LM object. Then uh before creating the chat node first of all you remember I think we have to uh bind the tools okay with the lm because here we'll be using the tools right and for this we need list of the tools we'll be creating the tools okay just don't worry I'll create the tools as of now we haven't created so after binding u we'll be using this object lm with tools now here we have written another function called chat node so this is my chat uh chat uh chatbot nodes and here preparing the system message and we are also giving the state Okay. And um um here you can see we are using this uh lm with tools and we are doing the invoking operation and after that we are just returning the message. Okay.

Then the second node we are using the tool tool node that means if you see the architecture so this node is created now we are getting this tool this node. Okay tool node. So once tool node is created we are creating the workflow state uh graph. Uh we are giving the message state. Okay.

And message state is already available inside this langraph. Okay, you don't need to separately write that. It is already inbuilt inside lang graph. If you are creating this kinds of chatbot, you can directly use this message state. I think previous video I already discussed this part.

So message uh state we are taking. Then we are adding the nodes. First of all we have to add the um chat node, right? Then we have to add the tool node. So adding the chat node, then tool nodes.

Okay. Then we are doing the edge connection. First of all start to chatbot. Start to chat chat note. Okay.

Then uh we are using conditional edges. Okay. Conditional edges that means chatbot to tools condition. Chatbot to tool condition. Okay.

That means there would be two condition. Then uh tool condition to chatbot tool condition to chatbot again that means whatever response we'll be getting from the uh tools right this should be refined with my LLM. That means I may again passing to the chat node. So yeah this is the connection and now we have to give the persistence memory which is my uh SQLite. So here we are already creating the data folder.

I think remember this data folder. So inside data folder we are creating a database object called langraph checkpoint.sqlite and skqite is a local uh database. You can create inside your storage only. Okay.

If you want you can also use any remote database as well. Okay. You can set up this this is on any server and you can use that. But again for this uh you need cloud platform like AWS okay then your GCP. So there you can set up the database server.

You can store all of the um uh store all of the uh data but again I'm using the free resources. That's why I'm using the local one. Okay for this you don't need to pay anything. Then same trades is equal to false. So this thing you have to u make and this will become your connection object.

Now you will be initializing the escalate server and this connection object you will pass here and this will become your checkpointter and this checkpo pointer you will be using whenever you will do the workflow compilation. Okay done. So this is what you have to just write for this build agent. Okay. So now guys uh it's done.

Now the next thing we have to prepare the tools. And again I'm telling you guys all of this concept I have completed in my playlist. Okay, just go through one by one all of the concept. You can see tools, rag, okay, aentic, chatbot, workflow, okay, each and everything I have already discussed in my playlist. Just try to go through that.

If you are first time uh in this implementation, uh you might get difficulties for sure. Okay, but if you cover all of this recording, you won't be any kinds of uh you won't be having any kinds of problem. Okay, this is my promise. So that's why I'm telling you I'm not going to focus on the theoretical part. I'm only going to focus on the practical development because theory I have already covered.

Okay. Yes. So yes. So now let's work on the tool. Uh so for tool guys what I'm going to use I'm going to use this tools.py

and inside that I'm going to mention all of the tools I'll be using in this project. So first of all let's import all of the necessary library. Um yeah. So I'll import math module uh env. Then we'll load the environment variable.

Okay. Then here we have imported tools from langen code tools. Then langen tab where importing tab search. Okay. Yeah.

So first of all um here what I'm going to do I'm going to initialize some tools. First of all, I'm going to use this web search tool. Okay, web search tool. So, I'm using tably and here we're giving the some parameter like max result, topic. Okay, search depth.

These are the parameter we're giving and this will become your tool. And here you don't need to use the tool decorator because table is already a tool. Okay, so you don't need to give that. And uh I need other tool as well like I need calculator tool. So this is my calculator tools.

So you can see this is a simple custom function we have written for calculator. It will take any kinds of expression and it will do the um mathematical operation and it will return the result. And if you want to use as a tool I have to use this tool decorator. Okay that means website and calculator we have added. Now we'll be adding some more tools like uh we'll be adding the uh we'll be adding the memory tool that means you can save any kinds of uh uh information if user is giving let's say user is giving remember something okay it will use that memory tool and it will save that information in the long-term memory and for this we have to use the database so we'll be writing that thing as a tool then if you want to search memory that means if you want to get any older conversation which you did long time ago.

It will retrieve from the database. Okay. So again for this we will be writing a tool. Okay. So that's how we'll be writing different different tool and one more tool you need which is this uh um rag tool.

That means if user wants to search something over the documents you can use the rag tool. So this part we'll just try to write but before that we'll be writing another function called trade. This trade is required because here I think you saw we we'll be using the trade right? different different trades. Okay.

Uh user can create different different trades. Okay. And anytime they can switch between another trades. So for this every time we'll be using the trades. So for this here I have written another function called set current trades.

And if user gives any kinds of trade ID here it will try to set that particular trades and this trade will be considered in that particular session. And by default if user is not giving any trades it will be using the default trades. Okay. So this trading concept I also discussed in my playlist. You can go through that.

Now first of all uh what I'm going to do guys I'm going to use the database related database related tools. So for this there is a file I have written called database.py. Let's open it up and uh let me show you all of the function you need here. I already written this code.

Let me show you very simple only the database operation I have written. And here we are using SQL uh alchemy database. Okay, for this you need the knowledge on SQL alchemy. If you don't know, just go through any YouTube video and try to understand SQL alchemy how it works with Python. So here we're importing dead time, path leave, SQL alchemy, you're uh importing create engine, column, integer, string, text, dead time, SQL alchemy, you're importing OM.

Okay. Uh declarative base session maker each and everything you will uh see from the tutorial itself. I'm not going to explain this here because again this is a theoretical concept. You can understand this thing from a YouTube tutorial how SQL Alchemy works. But this is a simple code I have written.

Basically, this uh code will try to connect with SQL Alchemy server. So here we're creating a local server. You can see okay, we'll be creating a local server. If you want you can also install this SQL Alchemy in the remote server. Uh for this again I told you you need to use AWS, GCP or any other cloud provider.

There you can set up that but again uh that would be costly. That's why I'll be using the local one just to show you the free resources. So again uh we are creating the data data folder. Okay data folder why every time we're creating the data folder because if data is not data folder is not there first of all it will create and inside that it will save this uh DB object. Okay.

So every time you need to check okay uh and this parameter you have to provide if already available no need to create otherwise just try to create. Okay. So this is my database URL SQLite clone. uh then you have to give / data folder inside that chatbot memory db this object would be created okay inside that we'll try to save all of the information first of all we're getting the engine okay where we providing the database URL and some connection method then we're getting a session okay after getting the session we are creating some class you can see first of all this class will return you the schema like table name ID trade ID title created at updated okay this is called actually uh schema okay uh database schema Then chat message. For chat message, we are returning the schema like ID, trader, ro content, created at.

Okay, these are the information we'll try to uh save inside chat message. And for long time uh long-term memory that means if user wants to save any kinds of long-term conversation that time we'll try to set ID, trade ID, memory that means the conversation and the created when it it got created. Okay. And the table name should be long-term memory that time. And for chat message that means the regular message whatever message user will perform it will become as a chat message table.

Okay. Now we are initializing the database with this function and this is the function for create or update conversation. So this will take the trade ID and the message. Okay. If you give if you give the message it will update that conversation in the table.

Okay. So you can see here we have written the code for that. Okay. And this code will also help you to prepare these traits. Okay, that means every time you can see whenever user is passing any kinds of message, it is taking the message title and it is only taking the 40 character of that.

So this part I'm doing here. Okay, so from the user message uh first message, I'm taking the first 40 character and I'm preparing a title and I'm showing you inside the trade message. Okay, so this is what actually we have written here in this function. Then once it is done, we are listing all of the conversation. Okay, listing conversation means uh whatever conversation we have here.

Okay, uh we are listing all of the conversation with this with this function. Okay, then save chat messages. Okay, that means if you if user wants to save any kinds of message, so it will be using this function for that. Then if user wants to get any kinds of history, previous history, it will be using this function for that. So it is only doing the database operation.

You can see it is uh uh adding adding the data. It is uh retrieving the data. That's how it's working. If user wants to save any memory any kinds of let's say let's say I I'm telling my chatbot I am BP. Okay.

Try to remember me that time it will use this function. We'll be using this function as a tool. Okay. As a long-term memory that's why we're using this schema that time. Okay.

Now let me go below. And [clears throat] if user wants to search anything uh about the previous uh question that time uh we'll be using this function as a tool that time okay for a long time long-term memory uh concept. So yes uh this is the um database related code guys I have written and we'll be using uh inside our tools right now. Now let me import for these are the functionality first of all. So see from this database I only need to import from database I need to import save memory and search memory.

Okay, save memory I'll be using to save my conversation and search memory I need to uh get my previous conversation. Okay, old conversation. Now these two things I'll be defining as a tool. Let me do that. So here I'll just try to add after calculator remember this okay if u user is asking um just to remember anything it will use this tool that time okay and it will uh take the conversation and it will save inside the memory and for this we're using this save memory this function save memory and we are defining as a tool and uh one formatting we need the recall memory.

If user wants to let's say uh if user is asking about old old conversation let's say if user asking what is my name or what was my hobby that time it will use the equal memory tool and it will search the memory that means in the database it will search the old conversation and it will return that okay so these two things I have used as a tool I hope you get it and one more uh tool I have to create Um one more tool I'll be creating here called uh this rag tool. Just a minute. Yeah, one more tool I need called rag tool. Okay, rag tool you need. Let's say if user is uploading any kinds of documents.

So this document uh um you have stored in the vector database. Okay. And from the vector database you'll be performing the retrieving retrieving operation. That means you will try to retrieve the informations for this. This tools is required.

So let's create this rag tool here. I'm going to open this rag.py. Inside that I'm going to write all of the rag related code. And again this rag related code is uh uh common from my previous implementation.

First of all let's import the necessary libraries. Okay. I'm importing these necessary libraries. Then again I need that environment related um command that means if you are getting the path issue that time this code will help you to prevent that and uh some other library I need these are the library like from langen we're importing chroma chromadb then google generative embeddings we'll be using google genative embeddings model then documents we're importing from lang langen code then recursive character text splitter for the chunking operation. Okay, what is chunking?

What is uh why chunk is required in the lag? Each and everything I have discussed in my rag video. So here, okay, implement rag in aentic chatbot. You can go through that. Yeah.

Then pi PDF reader because we'll be considering the PDF document. But if you want you can also upload any other document as well. Txt, docs. Okay, it's completely up to you. Then doc to text.

Then here we'll be creating two more directory. one is the uploads. Okay, let's say whatever document user is uploading I'll try to store in the uploads folder. Okay, for this you're creating the directory and one more directory you are creating called chromad. Okay, let's say whenever it is creating the vector store, right?

Uh um chromod actually use your local storage to save the information that means the vector store. So that time it will create a chrom directory inside that it will save everything that's two directory we are creating. Then we'll be initializing the embedding model. So this is our embedding model. Okay, we are using Gemini uh Gemini embedding 001 this model.

Now we'll be creating the vector store. So this is our vector store. We are using chromad and this is the name of the collection name aentic chatbot docs. We are giving the embedding model and we are providing the chromadb path here. [sighs] You can use any vector database.

You can use uh pine cone web whatever you want. You can use any vector database. Okay. It's not like that you have to use chrom always. Now here I have written a function.

So this function what it does let me show you this function basically reads the uh reads reads reads a file text okay that means if you provide any file uh it will read read that whether it is a PDF or whether it's it's in a doc format okay so basically uh here uh you can upload txt md pi CSV okay and you can load that but here we are considering the docs and pdf format and uh if you want you can also load these other documents as well. So once it's read everything it will load that like if it is PDF it will use the PDF reader to uh read that documents. Okay. If it is docs it will use the docs uh to text and it will load that. Okay.

And if you want to consider like MDI you can write another other condition as well. Okay. So it will use that and it will uh load that. But here by default I have written a code uh I'm using path read. Okay.

So what it does if you are providing this txt, MD, PI, CSV, it can still load that documents and it can um extract the content from that. Okay. And uh there is exception I have given unsupported file like upload PDF, docs, txt, MD, py or CSV. Uh if user is passing any other file format let's say.pl or any other file that time I'll raise the exception.

Okay. So exception has handling is also required whenever you are doing this kinds of scenario. So yeah this is the function to load the documents. Now uh we'll be writing the final function to create the vector store. So this is the function we'll be using to create the vector store.

As you can see add documents to rag. It will use the file path and the trade ID. Then uh we are doing the chunking operation. We're giving the chunk size and chunk overlap. Creating the chunking.

Then we are um we are taking the page content. Okay. uh that means uh content from the uh documents and we're storing in the vector store. Okay. And we're returning the path.

So this function will basically create the vector store. Okay. Vector database and it will store everything in the vector store. Okay. Now for retrieve operation that means if user is asking anything regarding the documents, it will retrieve the information by using the similarity s.

I think you know every vector database having a similarity source okay operation. So in this function we are doing that. Sorry from rag where user is giving the query as well as the trade and the k parameter. So by default k parameter is four that means four relevant information it will extract from the vector database we are doing the similarity source operation that means retrieve operation after that whatever result we are getting we're just loading inside result and we are returning returning it as a string okay so this is what we are doing inside retive from rag and this function will be using as a tool right now. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to open up my agent sorry tool and here I will try to import that function.

So let's import um the function name is retrieve from rack. So let's import it here. So from rag import retrieve what's the name? Retrieve from Okay, we will be importing here and now we'll just try to create a tool. So here maybe I can create the tool.

So this is the tool name uh search uploaded documents user will give the query and we'll be using retip from rag this function we'll pass the query trade ID and it will give me the relevant answer. Okay, for that query we are using this this code for that. So I think now you have understood like how we have arranged everything how we have prepared all of the tool. Okay, we have created the database tool, we have created the rack tool, we have created the search tool, we have created a calculator tool. Each and every tools are ready.

Okay, now in the agents uh we'll be importing the tools right now. Let's import the tools. So here we'll just write from tools import tools. Um, okay. So, we have to create a tool object.

So, here at the last what I'm going to do, I'm going to just prepare the list of the tools. So, yeah. So you can see this is a list inside that first of all I'm passing the calculator then search uploaded documents remember this recall and web search all the tools we have created we are just passing one by one here okay now if you want to add any other tools in future you can add it here so I'm going to give you a task guys you just try to add the real time where the weather search tool and uh stock price tool okay this tool two tool you can add at least here okay now this thing we are importing here tools now we are using this tool for the bind operation. Okay. Now we are doing the bind operation and our uh workflow is getting created.

Okay. So that means still here everything is fine. Everything is good. Okay. Now uh one thing I will do before the testing see here we are uh building the agent right.

So it's not necessary to build the agents every time whenever you are initializing the chatbot. Okay. because uh if you're building from uh scratch so I mean it will take some time right so instead of that maybe we can create a cache agent cache that means we can build one time and save in the cache and every time whenever it will um reinitialize the chatbot instead of building from again we can uh take the agent from the cache okay so for this this code is required so simply you can write this code so here I created create a dictionary called agent cache uh and we had created a function called get agent. So you will only pass the model okay a model name. So what will happen?

And this will go to the normalize model name function and you will get the correct model name and you are checking if selected model in agent cache okay not in agent cache then you will try to build the agents okay otherwise what you are doing you are taking the existing agent only so you are not building again the agent again and again okay so this thing you can write now we can test whether this uh workflow is working or not so I can open up my rag dot sorry app.py and here I can test it. So I'll just try to import import um from agent agent input get agent. Now agent is equal to get agent. Here you have to pass the model name.

So let's say I'll give the same name. This model name I'll keep. So it will only take the model name I think. Yeah model name. Okay.

Now we can do the invoke operation. Yeah. So we have written this code for testing. Okay. So here we are using the streaming right.

So that's why instead of invoking I'm just doing agent stream and we are giving the human message here and stream will return a uh generator object and for this we are using this for loop and we're uh getting the answer token by token and we're streaming that and uh here is the code. So let's test it whether it's working or not. I will open up my terminal and uh I'll just execute python.py. Now see all the folders are getting created.

Now here we are getting the response as you can see streaming response. So this is the blog about a machine learning we got. See okay that means everything is working fine. And here we are given um like um testing trade just to test the workflow because this workflow needs a trade ID right we we have given a testing trade here in this configuration. Now you can see um all of the folders got created and you can see this is your state uh state actually um state database it is serving inside SQLite and uh this is the chromb um that means the vector database will be creating here and the upload folder as well as of now we haven't uploaded anything that's why it's coming like that now we can ask anything uh that may use any tool let's say I will ask Tell me today's news of AI.

So definitely he will use uh the tool that mean search tool. Let's see. Now see it has uh done the internet search operation with the help of tably and uh it found the result. Okay, regarding the today's uh news of AI and you can see it has referred different different website here. Okay, different different website URL are present.

Okay. So from this URL it has extracted the news and this is what we got in the answer and one best part is that you can also uh see this uh database that that means whatever methods are available inside that. So for this you have to install one extension called SQLite okay viewer. So this extension you have to install. So this is the like author you can install this extension.

I already installed that. Now after installing this, you'll be able to see your data uh data uh sorry database. Now let's double click and you will see that all of the information it has saved here. All of the like checkpoint you can see. Okay.

All of the checkpoint it has saved here with a trade ID as well. And trade ID is nothing but test ID as of now we have given. So now let's uh test the long-term memory as well. That means uh it is able to save my um save uh my long-term memory in my uh conversation database or not. I think you remember we used SQL SQL alchemy database for that right.

Um so if you are um if you are let's say doing any kinds of conversation with your uh chatbot if you want to remember something okay that means the long-term conversation uh it will also remember with the help of this database. So for this we'll test that uh that's why I have given a prompt my name is BP remember that and uh I think you know that in database uh database.py we created a function called save memory okay save memory and this thing I created as a tool now inside tools.py Pi you'll see that this uh remember this uh tools will be using this save memory save memory function okay that means if user is giving any kinds of conversation it will save inside the memory the SQL alchemy memory right and you it will automatically use that tool if user wants to remember something it will use this tool and it will store that conversation uh in the database itself okay we'll try to test this part so for this we are giving this prompt my name is Bumpy remember that and uh if you want to execute first of All you have to initialize the database. Okay, because if you check the database inside that we created a function called uh init DB.

Okay, we have to initialize the database. First of all, database would be created. All the table would be created. Then we'll be able to store that. So let's import it.

So in the app.py from database import db then we'll try to initialize the database. Okay, now I think it will work. Let's test it. I'll open up my terminal.

Clear. I'll execute my app.py. Now you can see that uh memory saved successfully. Got it.

By I remembered your name. Now if I uh go back now you'll see that this database uh database is created. Chatbot memory. This is my SQL alchemy database. Now if I open this okay now you'll be able to see the uh table.

Okay. All the three table has created chat message conversations and long-term memory. And it will save in the long-term memory I think remember in the database. So I think remember whenever it will save something right save memory it will use my long-term memory okay long-term table long-term memory table so in the long-term memory table you'll see that it has saved my information my name is puppy okay so that's how uh it will it is working okay so right now if you are asking let's say what is my name now it will use that uh sorry not here I have to ask it here what is my name. Now it will use that um tool that means this tool again recall memory tool and it will search in the memory that means in the database and uh it will get this information and it will reply that.

Let me show you. Okay. You can see your name is Baki. So it is using your conversation story. Okay.

That means your long-term long-term memory. Yeah. So everything is working fine guys. Uh uh we have already tested and our workflow is working great. Now what we have to do guys?

we have to uh we have to uh create the front end that means the user interface we'll be taking all of the message from the user and we'll try to connect with the back end that means we'll create a fast API server and there we'll try to make the communication okay so to for the front end guys uh here we will be using this HTML uh file index html file inside that we'll be writing all of the HTML CSS JavaScript code whatever you need for this user interface okay the user interface we created And again if you are not familiar with these kinds of HTML, CSS, okay, JavaScript, no need to worry. Even I also took the help from ChatgPT. I already uh generated this template from Chad GPT and ChatgPT written that HTML, CSS, JavaScript code for me. Whatever required for this user interface. Okay.

But uh in your team there would be some kinds of person they will be working on this front- end design part. You don't need to worry about that. So let me show you. This is the code I have generated from chartg guys. Again you don't need to remember this code.

You can take from uh you can generate this code from chartg or gemini whatever you want. So here is the HTML CSS everything I have written in the single file itself. This is the design of that front end. Each and everything you can see color. So this is a big file.

See okay all of the front end uh code I have written here and the see this is the JavaScript code okay so in the JavaScript some um um that means uh backend API is getting triggered as well I'll show you these are the part see this is the entire code we have generated from chat GPT okay chat GPT and one more thing I have done uh I think you saw the voice mode right here is the voice mode see this This void mode you can add two way you can use the Python voice API inside Python I think you know there is a library called speech uh speech recognization library you can use that for this voice voice mode either in already this um uh JavaScript okay JavaScript there is a library uh there is a library called let me show you this voice features Yeah. So here is the code part. So in JavaScript uh there is a already inbuilt library called speech recognization. So we're using this speech recognization library here. Okay.

You can see we're using this speech recognization library and automatically it will use your uh Windows microphone. Okay. And uh it will uh start uh listening you. Okay. And whatever uh speech you will give and it will try to listen it will try to understand and it will try to convert that speech to text.

Okay. So this is already available inside JavaScript. Uh if you have already studied about JavaScript I think you know that this library is available. So you don't need to separately write inside Python. Okay.

You can directly use the JavaScript functionality here. So we have already used the JavaScript functionality and we are doing the speech recognization that means this part. Okay. Now if you click here it will start listening. Okay.

And uh you can uh like um tell something and it will automatically recognize that. So we're using this part here. Okay. So yes, this is the entire HTML, CSS and JavaScript code we have written inside HTML and uh index.html.

And this code you can generate um from chatgi anywhere. Even you can also copy this code and you can give uh give it to the chart GP and you can ask explain this code in a simple manner. You'll see that it will explain like what are the functionality it it has already. Okay. But don't worry this uh front end part um you can implement um uh with any kinds of front- end developer.

You can see it with them. You can um just tell your expectation what kinds of front end you need. They will try to develop for that. But uh uh if you're creating production grade uh like uh application better to use any front- end framework for that like nextjs is there okay in market next JS is there next JS is there react is there okay these are the framework you can use for this kinds of front-end development okay but here uh we are creating this front end with the help of HTML CSS and JavaScript now let me show you how this our design uh will look like. For this uh we'll just write our first API code that means our first API server.

So for this we can write inside our app.py. Let's open it up. And this part we can maybe keep inside our test.py.

Okay. Let's create another file called test.py. I'm not going to delete it. I'm just keeping it just for your reference.

Okay. Now in the app.py, I'll just remove everything. Now let's uh import all the necessary library. Yeah.

So again I will import this ENB where certify and this is for the uh path issue. Okay. We have to add then we'll be importing the fast API related functionality. So you can see we're importing JSON UI ID. I need for this trading.

Okay. every time we need to create a unique trade and for this UI it is required then you click on fast API okay fast API from fast API importing these are the libraries okay and here we'll be showing the streaming response and inside fast API already streaming response function is there you can use that then JSON response then ginger template so these are the things we need and definitely you should have little bit knowledge on fast API okay how fast API works here then um from lang chain we'll be importing these are the functionality so we are importing human message AI message AI message chunk tool message okay so basically we'll be uh doing the verification like what kinds of response we are getting from the workflow whether it is human message AI message okay or AI message some tool message based on that we'll try to filter out the content and uh apart from that I also need to import my agent okay agent From agent we're importing our get agent function. This will return me the agent. Let me close these are the things. Then after that we'll be importing some other functionality from the database.

So from database we're importing init database. Init uh DB save chat message. Okay that means this function save chat message. Then we are importing get chat history. Okay, get chat history.

Then create or update conversation. This function and list conversation. Okay, these are the functionality I need. Then from rag and tools I'll import. So from rag I'll import this add documents to rag.

That means if user is asking any uh uploading any document we'll try to call this function. First of all, it will add the document to the rack. Okay, that means my vector is stored. Then from tools, we are importing send current trade ID because every time I need to create a unique trade ID if user is creating the trades. Okay, so these are the functionality I need to import.

Now let's initialize the first API. So we'll initialize the first API. That's how we can initialize the first API. and we can redirect a folder that means the templates inside templates folder I have my HTML CSS and JavaScript code that's why we are giving this directory then we are again creating these two folder if it is not available uploads and data and we'll be initializing the database my SQL alchemy database okay database should be initialized first of all then let's create the default route so this is our default route okay and here we're using uh asynchronous asynchronous programming is uh because uh instead of running my endpoint uh as a sequence I can run in parallel and this concept I have already told you uh I have already discussed in my playlist you can see a synchronous programming is available you can go through that okay why asynchronous programming is required for AI agents okay uh especially it is already integrated in fast API if you're using fast API you can integrate this asynchronous programming so please go through this session you will understand why asynchronous programming is required I'm not going to explain this part okay again so Yeah, that's why I'm using as keyword and this is my home route. That means my default route.

If user is visiting our uh let's say uh server, you will be able to see that index.html page. Okay, we are rendering that here. Now, let me show you. Let's um render it.

Yeah, we'll try to render. So here we'll uh we'll mention two more things in my environment variable which is the app host and app port or you can also directly write here host should be 0 0.0.0 0 this is my local host at port number I'll give 8 0 8 0 okay now this two part I don't need here it should be app because my file name is app and inside that I'm creating a app app uh object okay now this is my host this is my port and it will reload every time whenever you will change something and with the help of uon we're running the first API server yeah so everything is fine now let me execute and show you. Uh so first of all I'll close my previous application.

Okay, previous application is also running. Now let's clear. [clears throat] Now python app.py. Now I'll give the permission.

It is running on post uh local host port number 80080. Let's open it up. Local host port number 80080. So this is the interface guys. Okay.

We have created uh with the help of chat GPT. Okay. So it has all the button this uh chat input box, document uploader option, this voyage option, then you can select the models from the front end, send the prompt. Okay. So each and everything we have created here.

Now we have to make it as functional. So first of all uh here what I'm going to do I'm going to write more route here. So first of all here what I'm going to do I'm going to write a route that route will fetch all of my previous trades I have done the chat operation. Okay that means uh if you saw like uh previously it is you can see all of the trades previously whatever trades I did the conversation right you can switch between any of the trades you can see that. So this thing I have to fetch for this.

What I can do? I can write a route here. So this is the route after this home route. I'll add this. Okay.

/ conversation. Okay. And this / conversation we are calling inside my JavaScript. Let me show you here. This is the function we have written.

So this will basically call this route. Okay. and it will load all of the conversation conversation trades and it will show in the front end. Okay, now let me show you if I refresh. No chats is available.

Okay, now let me do the chat and let me show you because right now we haven't done any chat operation, right? That's why it's not showing. Okay, this is the first time we are doing right. So first time you won't be able to see the conversation but let let's complete it then I will show you. Okay.

Yeah. Then uh the second thing we have to add which is this uh this one actually this features. So let's say now if I switch to any any let's say um uh trades. So let me run this previous app then I think I can explain better. Yeah now this is running.

Now see if I click on any of the trades right so you'll see that the previous conversation story today I'm able to see that okay that means each of the trades is having a conversation okay so this conversation uh I have to also load for this I'll be creating another route in my first API server so this is the work of fast API right you can create different different route and you can uh hit that a um route anytime okay from your u javascript code or any other code you can hit So here this is the route I have created called history and it will take the trade ID as well. That means which trade you want to uh see the conversation. Okay. You have to give the trade ID. So trade ID.

So basically this will get the story. Okay. How you'll get the history? Because we are using this get history function from the database. Okay.

And previously here you can see for conversation we are using list conversation function. Okay. It will list all of the conversation. So this two function we are using here. Okay.

And this slash story we are calling inside my uh JavaScript. Let me show you. See here we are calling this / story. Okay. First of all you're getting the um traits then we are getting the story and all of the message you are able to see that.

Okay. So this is the function you need here. Done. Now the next functionality I have to write for the upload operation. Let's say if user is uploading any kinds of documents.

If they're uploading any kinds of documents, what will happen? Let's try to do that. So for this I have written this function written this route. This is the route. Okay.

/ upload. So it will uh take the uploaded documents. And after that here we are calling that function. Let me show you. So we are taking the file name.

We're taking the file and we are generating the unique ID of the file. Okay. Then here create and upload the conversation. Okay. Uh so here uh basically we are calling this function just to uh just to save the message that the user has uploaded any documents here.

It will also save in the story that means the database story. We are using this function and here we are using this add rag uh documents to the rag this function. So this function basically will read that documents, process it and it is stored in the vector database. Okay. Then we are returning the response.

So I think you are getting okay what we are doing here. Very simple. Okay. So every time whatever user is doing you have to save in the database. Okay.

All the activity you have to save in the database then you are doing the other stuff. Now we'll do the general conversation like um if user is asking anything this will hit my chat route that means I will be able to see my streaming response. So this is for this this is the function I have written. Okay again I'm using asynchronous because I want to run in parallel. So I named it as chat stream.

So this is the route / chat/stream and uh this thing also you are calling from this JavaScript. Okay, as you can see so JavaScript is hitting that route and uh we are taking the user message trade. Okay, trade we are taking and every time uh whenever let's say uh user is uh clicking on new. Okay, new that means new button that time what will happen a new trade would be created and here we are setting the trade ID that time. So trade we're taking selected model we're taking.

Then we are preparing the user message. We are initializing the agent. As you can see we are calling the get agent function and this will give me the agent. Okay. After that we are updating the conversation in the database.

Then we are saving the chat message as well. That means every time it will save the conversation. Okay. Whatever conversation user is doing or it will set in the chat message. That means in the chat message table here in this table.

Okay. It will save all the conversation. After that we are setting the current trade id. We are preparing the config that means the trade and we are written we have written another function called event generator. Okay.

So here it is using asynchronous. Uh so here basically what we are doing we preparing the human message. Then we are running the stream stream code. You can see we are doing this agent. We are passing all of the input and configuration and we are just showing the answer token by token.

And for this we are using some kinds of utility function like should stream chunk. then SSE data. Okay, these are the things you need. Uh because sometimes whenever you are uh calling any kinds of tool, tool will give you the raw response and this raw response you don't want to show in the front end, right? So for this you have to do the some filter operation.

So this code I have written here. Let me show you. So this is the code. These are the utility function unit. Yeah.

SEC data. Then should stream chunk. So basically it will first of all check whether it a tool to tool response. Okay. Then it is a AI message or not.

Okay. These kinds of things verification it will do. Then it will extract the text from the chunk. That means instead of uh getting the raw message it will only take the content and it will return you. Okay.

So this is what actually we're using in this function. You can see we're using in this function. should stream extract uh from chunk as a token by token then we are showing it in the console and every time we're doing the yield operation okay so if you're using uh asynchronous I think you know what is yield right uh you can go through that recording okay then we are using u past api streaming response function and we're giving this event generator uh function inside that okay so basically this will show my uh response as a streaming one by one token. Yeah. So, yes, uh this is the uh code you just need to write in the first API server, fast API uh endpoint now.

I think everything is ready. Let me see. So, everything is ready. Now, we can test our app. I'll come here.

Refresh. Okay. Now, let's do chat operation. Hi, I am Buppy. Let's send it.

Okay. If you send it, so what will happen? It will hit that this route. Okay. Chat stream route.

So you can see uh hi BP, it's nice to meet you. How I can help you today? And it has also taken the trade. Right now I can create another trade. Again I'll do some message.

Let's say my name is Alex. Okay. Okay. Alex, I have saved your memory. Nice to meet you.

Okay. This is uh another trade. This is another trades. Okay. And if I click here, you can see the conversation here.

Okay. You can see the conversation here. Why it is happening? Because of these two function two um two method. One is uh this last conversation.

it is uh it is actually um filtering out all of the trades you have in the database. Now if I show you my database right the chat memory database now see every time whatever conversation you are doing chat message you are doing yeah so I have refreshed now see this conversation is available so whatever conversation you are doing right hi my name is Buffy okay blah blah blah all the conversation you will see with the trade ID here okay trade ID here and uh here is the conversation and here is the long-term memory okay so that's how we are saving inside our database every Now let's uh test uh any other message that say tell tell me the latest news in AI. So basic uh it will uh use the search tool that time. Let's see see it is using web search tool. and see you are getting the response.

Now let's ask another question. Calculate this. You'll see that it will use calculator to this is the response. Now you can also upload any documents. So if you are uploading right now so it will hit this route upload route / upload this one.

Okay. And it will create the vector store. You can see that vector store would be created and you can perform the chat operation on top of that. Let's upload. Let's have a upload my resume.

Done. Now you can see the uploaded documents as well. It is available in the upload folder. See the document you have uploaded. It is available.

Now we can perform the chart operation. Who is Bier Ahmed Baki on PDF. Now it will use document search that means the rack tool. Okay. Now you can see that the my vector store is created.

So this is my vector store. Okay. So this is the beauty of this um chatbot. Now see it is uh telling about me right? Okay.

Everything is working fine. Now let's test the boys mode whether it's working or not. Um I'll give the permission. How many years of experience Bktier Ahmed Bi is having? Okay, it is not able to recognize my name.

Okay, let me do it again. How many years of experience he is having now? Good. Now, let's send it. Now see based on the uploaded documents bkhmed bi has five plus years of experience.

Amazing. It's working fine. Okay. Even you can do the wise mode as well. Dictate mode as well.

Okay. Now you can select different different model. Let's I'll select this model. Now you can ask anything uh tell me about ML. Now see it is telling you about ML.

Now you can generate code, you can uh do realtime source operation, you can upload your documents, you can use the voice mode, you can create different different trades. Okay. Anything you can do like chat GPT. Okay. So our application is prepared.

Now we have given some suggestion. You can also use this suggestion to prepare a like instance prompt. Okay. Instant prompt. This is also possible.

So yes guys uh that's how we have created the entire system and uh this is uh like a chat GPT application we have created our own chat GP we have created now we can deploy this application over the cloud and we can make it live so that other people can use it and uh my request would be to everyone just try to upgrade this uh application as much as you can just try to add integrate more features okay just try to integrate more features more tool see here I have used few tools right I have used very few tools here. Where's the tools? Here is the tools. Okay, I have used very tool few tools here. You can use as much as tool you can.

Okay, just try to use as much as tool you can and make it like more powerful. Okay, now you can um also test the memory. My f colors is red. is red. Okay.

Now you'll see that it will save this information in the memory. Okay. Now you can ask what is my favorite color. Now it will use the long-term memory to give you the response. Now see your favorite colors is red.

Okay. Now you can also see in the long-term memory you can open this memory. You can go to the long-term memory. Refresh. So you'll see that my favorite color is red.

Okay. Everything is available. Now in the lang also you'll see that it's tracing your execution. Now see GPT. Now all of the trades you can see even the trades as well in which trades how many conversation you have done each and everything you can see here okay all of this thing you can monitor here everything you can debug here okay see everything is available and this monitoring part also I told you in my playlist like how to monitor your AI agents and I already explained about this lang okay you can go through that so yes guys uh everything is working fine uh we are Uh now we'll try to deploy this project over the AWS cloud as a CI/CD.

We'll just try to make it live because right now it's running on local host. Now we'll make it live. We'll try to do the CI/CD deployment here. So guys uh our app is ready. Now we'll be deploying this uh application uh as a CI/CD over the AWS cloud.

But before that let me push all the changes uh because we have um updated all of the component one by one. So simply here I'm going to give um updated all component then I will push the changes and apart from that I also added the deployment step here as you can see uh this is the deployment step we'll be following uh let me show So now if I refresh in my GitHub so see all the codes are updated. Okay. And this is the deployment step guys will be following. So here first of all I will be logging with my AWS console.

Then there I will be creating IM user that means identity access management. After that u uh there we'll just try to um give some of the permission. Okay. like what are the services we'll be using? So here we'll be using EC2 instance and ECR elastic container registry.

So in the elastic container registry we'll try to store our docker image. Okay, because we'll be using docker service here to containerize entire our application and uh we'll try to store in the ECR service. CCR is a um um I mean docker uh image storage service. So there you can store any kinds of docker image. Uh so this is the uh description for the deployment.

First of all, we'll be building the docker image of our source code. Then we'll try to push this docker image to the ECR elastic container registry of AWS service. Then we'll launch our EC2 machine. Uh it should is a virtual machine. Then we'll try to pull uh our image from ECR to EC2.

Then we'll try to run this u docker image as a container. Then we'll do some port mapping. After that uh we'll be able to access the application. And these are the policy we have to provide whenever we'll be creating the im user. Okay.

So this is the entire step guys. I have written all of the command everything whatever you required I just mentioned it here. So you just try to follow this readmi file and we'll try to perform the deployment but uh beforeh doing the deployment guys you need some of the file here. Um let me show you what are the files you need. Yeah.

So the first uh things you need which is the cic.imml. Uh but before that let's create a dockard file first of all. So docker file. Okay.

So we'll be writing this docker file docker file and again uh if you are not familiar with docker uh then if you are not familiar with uh this kinds of mlops concept so on my YouTube channel I already have a complete uh mlops course guys here I have already covered all kinds of mlops tools like docker okay I have also covered linux mlflow dbch and everything but you don't need to cover all of them uh if you are completely new with the docker and all you can go through this recording. I think dockard starts here. Even you will see this u um timing. Okay. Uh this time stamp.

So from here you can uh uh see right where is the docker. Simply you can uh click on the time stamp. You'll be able to see the docker. So just try to learn if you don't know about docker and if you want to understand the docker command just try to go through that recording. So here let's try to add all the docker related command.

So this is our docker file. Okay. And these are the command you have to mention in the docker file. So first of all we're taking the base image and python 3.11 we are using.

Then we're creating the working directory. Then we are setting some environment variable just to prevent some error. Then we are running these are the command and just to upgrade our uh um like Ubuntu instance and u install some tools. Then we're copying the requirement.txt.

We are installing the requirement. TXT. After that we are copying all of the source code in the root directory. We are creating the folders like uploads and data. These two folders we're creating.

Then after that we're exposing the port. We are running our application on port number 80080. So I think you have seen that this is the port. Okay. We are running our application.

Make sure you are giving the same port. If you're changing the port here you have to also change. Then this is the command to run the our app.py server. So you can um app uh so we are um running the app.py.

Inside app.py we are having this app object. Okay. We created this app object. So we are running it here.

Then we're uh giving the host and as well as the put. So this is the docker we have to write. And if you're writing docker you need another file here called dot docker ignore. Inside that you will just write all of these folders and file you don't need whenever you are building the docker image. Okay.

So these are the things I will avoid and that means any kinds of virtual uh environment or these are the file I'll just try to avoid whenever it will build a docker image it's kind of your g ignore. So whenever you are pushing anything in the g github right you are ignoring something in the get ignore these are the files. So same thing you have to write in the docker ignore if you want to ignore anything whenever you are creating the docker image. Okay. Yeah.

Then uh docker uh file is done. Now we'll just try to create a folder. I'm going to name it as GitHub. Inside that you have to create another folder. The folder name should be workflows.

Okay. Just make sure you are giving the same name otherwise it will not work because uh as a CI/CD tool guys here we'll be using GitHub actions. Okay. Uh I told you we'll be using CI/CD approach. So if you are pushing your code to the GitHub automatically it will get deployed over the cloud.

Okay. We'll be creating that pipeline and as a CI/CD tool we'll be using GitHub action and GitHub action it is already available on GitHub. Okay, it is already um um I mean uh pre predefined setup. You don't need to set up the GitHub um um sorry uh this uh GitHub action server separately. It is already running on GitHub.

So that's why you need this folder and workflows and inside that you will be creating a file called CICD yiml yml. Okay. So this is the file. So inside that you will you have to write all the CI/CD related command and these are the command you will be getting from the internet only. If you just search uh GitHub action CI/CD deployment um command you will see this kinds of uh code would be available over the internet.

Even you can also generate from charge GPT. So this is the uh command I have prepared guys. Here I have mentioned all of these step and command you need to perform whenever you are doing the CI/CD. First of all we are giving the name of this workflow. Then whenever you are pushing your code on the main branch that time what will happen this will trigger.

Okay. So in continuous integration what we are doing guys we are authenticating with the AWS account uh with the help of this secret key AWS access keys access uh secret access key and region we are authenticating then we are logging into the Amazon ECR we are building the docker image then we are pushing this docker image to the Amazon ECR. Okay. Then in continuous deployment what what we are doing again we are authenticating with the account our AWS account with this credential then we are logging into the ECR we are pulling that docker image and we are running inside our EC2 machine. Okay so these are the commands I have written guys and you know that to run this application you need some environment variable.

So these are the environment variable you need and all the environment variable I have mentioned here. Okay you can see I need Google API key, Google model, table API, lang. So whatever key you are using make sure you are adding in as environment variable. Okay. And we'll be write reading it from the GitHub um GitHub secrets.

We'll try to add all of this credential in the GitHub secrets because directly I haven't mentioned inside my code. So that's why always secret file should be um written in secrets. Okay, GitHub secrets. So yes uh this is the entire cicd.iml and we'll be using this file for the deployment and uh I'll share all of these resources in the description.

From there you can check it out. And if you want to learn more about this CI/CD. ML and again just try to check that uh MLOPS course there I already discussed about the CI/CD. Okay. So inside CI/CD I already explained that concept you can go through that.

So yeah now uh let's try to follow the pipeline. So if I go to my GitHub. So this is the pipeline. First of all let's login with the AWS console. Make sure you have the AWS account guys.

I already have the account. I'll just try to login. I'll just sign in with my management console. So here you just need to uh give your uh authentication authentication credential that means your email and password. So let's give my email and password and let me login with my AWS console guys.

So this is my AWS uh console guys. Uh uh just try to login and you will be able to see this kinds of interface. So here the first thing uh what we have to do we have to create a IM user. Okay, let's create the IM user. So here just search for IM identity access management and uh here I'll just click on IM user create a new user I'll give the name let's say BPI GPT you can give any name you can attach the policies now here you need these are the policies Amazon EC2 full access and ECR sorry ECR and EC2 elastic container study and EC2 machine.

So this is the service here. I'll just try to search and select uh then I'll just try to add another one. This one and um this one Amazon EC2 full access. Once we have done I'll just click on next. Now see both uh permission I have given.

And why this permission is required? because I want uh I don't want to give the full access to my um to my uh let's say project whenever it will do the deployment uh otherwise um if any mistakes is there it will be using any other services as well okay there is a possibility so to prevent that we're only giving the permission the services we're using from AWS okay now I'll just create the user so user creation is done now I'll click on the user I'll go to the security credential and here you'll see one option call create access key. I'll select the first option command line interface and confirm do the confirmation. Click on next. Now let's create the access key.

So this is our access key and secret access key you need to authenticate your AWS uh account from your Python client. Okay. Now I'll just try to download as a CSV file. Done. And make sure you just keep this file.

Uh I need it later on whenever uh we just uh create the GitHub secret. Okay. I'll just try to open in a Notepad++. So this is the credential. This is your access key ID.

This is your secret access key ID. Okay. Yeah. Perfect. Now let's click on done.

Now the next step we have to follow. Uh we have to create the ECR repo to store the docker image. Now let's create the ECR repo. I'll go to the home and I'll search for ECR elastic container registry. Okay.

So this is a fully managed docker container registry and this is the alter alternative of docker hub. Okay. The docker hub you used right. In docker hub also you can store the docker image here. Uh this service actually has created.

Okay, this is this is the AWS container story. Now I'll just create a new reg. Give the name. I'll give GPT. You can give any name everything just keep it as it is.

Now create this repository. Okay, this is the repository and copy this URI and keep it somewhere. Okay, I need it later on. So maybe in readmi file I'll just try to store here. Okay.

Perfect. Now uh it is also done. Now I'll again click on home and see the next step. Next step is you have to create a EC2 machine Ubuntu instance. Now let's search for EC2 EC2 instance virtual service in cloud.

And here I'll just try to launch an instance. Uh click on launch without walk through. Now give the name. I'll give bi GPT machine again you can give uh any kinds of name here then you have to select this Ubuntu instance okay most of the production server would be Ubuntu and there are some other operating system as well but select the Ubuntu one now here you can uh you can select the instance type okay like uh how much memory how much CPU you need you can select from here so at least here I'll just try to select this four um sorry not this one huh uh 8 GB memory okay this 8 GB memory at least I'll be taking for this project and two CPU cores but if you have a very let's say uh I mean heavy project that time you can use some heavy instance here okay and all the instance how how much it will charge per hour it has already given you estimated cost so I'll select this one once it is done now you can create the key value pair this is optional uh optional means you have to create it if you want to access your EC2 instance from any third party tools like mobile extreme and putty that time it's required so I'll give GPT now let's create the key value here now see one p file would be downloaded this p credential you need whenever you want to use any third party tool but I don't want to use any third partyy tool I'll be using uh this um instance in the same AWS console only I'll tell you how to do that now just try to select these two options allow HTTPS and allow HTTP traffic and uh you can also select your storage like how much storage you need. So I'll take uh 8 GB storage as of now you can increase it okay as per your requirement.

Let's say you can take 32 GB or 16 GB as per your requirement. So here I'll just try to launch the instance now. Click on view instance. Now let's refresh. And you can see our instance is running.

Okay. Now I'll click on this instance. And here you will see one option called connect button. Okay. Just click on connect.

And if you are using any third party tools like mobile extreme and puty that time you can use SSS client to connect that. Okay. These are the command you have to execute. I'll just launch this uh terminal in the same AWS uh console only. Now let's connect that.

Now see it will open a new window and there you will see a Ubuntu terminal and there you have to set up everything. So this is the Ubuntu terminal. Now let's clear. Okay. And if you don't know about Ubuntu again you can refer my course.

So there I already discussed about the Linux operating system. Okay. How to run the Linux command each and everything. So first of all here uh I have already given all of the command. First of all you have to upgrade the machine.

So these are the command you have to execute. Just try to copy and right click and paste and run. So this is a new launched machine and here I have to upgrade and set up all of the requirement tools I need here. Then I'll copy the second command and I'll execute. So I'll give yes permission.

Yeah. So it will upgrade all of the tools. Now here I have to install the docker because initially there is no docker in this instance. So this these are the command you have to execute to install the docker. Okay, let's clear.

Paste. Now I'll copy the next one. Then I'll copy the next one. Paste and run. Then the last command this one.

Okay. So docker is installed successfully. Now you can check it. So docker version. You can see this is the version is running.

Okay. Now the next thing guys uh we have to configure our EC2 as a self-hosted runner. That means we have to connect. Okay. We have to connect our GitHub repo with our AWS uh account.

Okay. So that if you are uh committing any changes okay if you're pushing your code it will automatically deployed over the as cloud. So for this this is the connection we have to build. So for this make sure you are using your GitHub repo guys the same repo you are updating your project not my repo. So let's create another um tab here because I want to refer this command okay from this one.

So now here you have an option called settings. Click on settings and there you will see an option called action and go to the runners. Okay. Now create a new self-hosted runner. Select this Linux and you have to execute these are the command one by one.

Copy and execute in the terminal. So that's how we'll be connecting. Now next command and execute. Then again third command and execute. Done.

Now we have this command done. Now I think uh we have executed all of this command. Now we have to run this configure command. Let's copy this and execute. Now see GitHub action initialized and it has connected to my GitHub.

Now it is asking enter the name of the runner group. I'll press enter simply. Now it is asking enter the name of the runner. Okay. Now name of the runner is self-hosted.

Self-hosted. Okay. Make sure you're giving the same name. I'll copy. And here I'll just try to paste it.

Self-hosted. Then it is telling uh this runner will have any following labels. No. I'll press enter. Then it is telling name of the work folder.

I'll again press enter. Okay. Done. Now the last command you have to execute this one. So if you execute your GitHub would be connected to the AWS.

Now see connected to the GitHub and listening for the jobs. Now if I come to my repo now if I go to the runners again. Now you can see that uh this status is idle. That means my uh AWS is connected with my GitHub. Now if I push anything in my GitHub, it will automatically get triggered that CI/CD pipeline and all of the uh code would be deployed over my as cloud.

But before that we have to set this credential. Okay, these are the secret credential in my GitHub uh GitHub secrets. So let's do that. So for this again uh here you will see one option called secret and variable. Click here and click on this action.

Now here you'll see this repository secret. Just click on new repository secret and here you have to add all the secret one by one. Now first of all you have to add this Google API key or whatever API key you are using you can add here one by one. So this is my Google API key. Let's copy that.

Yeah. A copy and paste it here. Done. Now next I will add my Google model. This the model that's how you have to add all of the secret one by one.

Now API key. Now next you have this langid tracing should be true. Now lang speed end point. This is the end point. Now lang spit API key.

Now next you have this lang project project name. So this is the project name bpg. Done. Now we have to add the AWS related credential. AWS access key.

So why do you have the access key in the CSV file? I think you remember we have already downloaded. Let's copy this access key before the comma till here. I'll copy and paste it. Then next I have AWS secret access key.

And in this file only you have the secret access key after this comma. Okay, whatever values you have just try to add in the secret H. Now next you have this head of this region. So right now I'm inside this region called North Virginia US East one. Okay.

If you're in other region you can give the name. I'll give US East one. Make sure you are writing in same way. US East one. US East one.

Okay. H the secret. Now last I have to add my ECR weapon name. So where do you have the web name? I think remember we copied one URI right here.

So here is the name. Just try to copy after this slash and add it here. Done. Okay. All of these secrets we have added one by one.

Now let's try uh it's time to commit our changes. I'll go to my repo. Now let's commit the changes here. CICD add it. Now push the changes.

Done. Now if I refresh now see my action is running. We workflow is running. Now I'll click on action. Uh I'll open the CI/CD workflow.

Now see continuous integration is running. So it is building the docker image and pushing it to the ECR. All of the execution you'll be able to see. So let's wait. This process may take some time.

building is done. Now it is uh pushing the image to the uh ECR elastic container registry. You can even check in this year. So let's create a new tab and I'll go to the elastic container registry. So this is my registry.

I'll click here. So see the image has been pushed. Okay. Now it is running continuous deployment. Now it will pull that ACR image and it will run on my EC2.

Now see pulling is completed. Now see it will run the docker image as a container. Done. See all of the execution are green that means everything is fine. Now I'll come to my instance and there is a option um URL you will get public DNS.

Just copy this URL and paste it here and execute. See initially this uh application will not open because right now this is running on port number 8080 but we haven't done the port mapping. So if you want to do the port mapping just come here and there is a option called security. Click on security. Go to the security groups and you have one option called edit inbound rules then add the rules and here just try to add port number 8080 okay and just try to okay one more thing you have to add this 0000 that means you can access from anywhere then save the rules then I will go to my instance copy this URL again and at the last I will give port number 80080 okay now if I execute Now see my uh application is running.

Okay. See our uh BGP is running and this is completely live right now. You can share this URL with anyone and they will be able to access. Okay. Now you can purchase any kinds of domain name.

You can also change the domain here. Now let's test whether it's working or not. Okay. Now here I have given hi. It is giving hello how I can assist you uh how I can help you today.

And it has also loaded my previous trades. Uh why? because in my GitHub I already um updated my database right so from database it is loading in the old conversation okay that's why you're able to see that see that now let's uh do the chat operation I'll tell my name is BP see now you can even create a new threads and you can do the conversation but let's continue here now here you can upload your documents your any kinds of documents that I will upload my resume. Okay. Now I'll ask who is book based on PDF.

Now it is using my doc search tool and it is giving you the response. Okay. Now you can open search any latest information, latest news in um Bollywood. Now see realtime s operation it is doing and this is the latest news I got. So yes guys, everything is working fine.

Okay. Now this is completely live and now if I let's say close my uh this uh this window that means this terminal still my application will be working. See. Okay. Now the best part is that uh if you push anything right if you push anything push any new ch uh automatically this pipeline will trigger and all of the new features would be added in in your um deployment server uh without uh let's say stopping your application.

This is the main benefit. Okay. So this is the one time setup and rest of the life you can enjoy. Now here everything is done. Now uh we have seen the deployment.

Now let's try to stop all the instance we have created uh because our landing is over. I don't want to keep it running otherwise it will charge me. And one more thing I want to show you this uh langismith monitoring. So if I go to my lang in bpgpt see the last execution. Okay it has done.

Okay perfect. Now let's try to um terminate everything. So first of all I'll terminate my EC2 instance. So select it and click here instant state and terminate and delete. Okay, if you stop it, it will stop but it will uh it will not delete.

Okay, but I will delete it everything. Terminate and delete. Now see after some times it will delete it and shut down. Once it is done I will search for ECR ECR elastic container history and uh whatever history I created I'll select and delete it. I'll give delete message and confirm.

Then I will delete my IM user as well. Now delete deactive right confirm and delete. Okay. So everything is deleted. Now this server is down.

So see now this uh URL is down because we have deleted everything. So fine guys uh we have done. Um now I'll share this code and everything in the description. Uh from there you can check it out. I will add a beautiful readme here.

Readme let's say uh information uh so that uh you can see all of the commands all of the steps in the readme itself. Okay. Now this was uh the as deployment. Now if you don't have the AWS account guys still you want to deploy this application and you want to test uh for this uh you can use render. Okay there is another one called render.com.

you can use this uh platform and here you can do the deployment. Okay. So for render I already created a video in my playlist as you can see uh deploy aentk chatbot on render for free with docker. You can simply uh check this video and you will be able to deploy this uh project over the render cloud as well. Okay.

So yes uh this is all about guys. I hope you like this uh uh implementation. If you found this uh this implementation useful guys please try to subscribe to my channel. So this is my channel guys. Please try to subscribe.

Uh let's hit uh 100k subscriber as soon as possible and uh I have lots of plan for this channel. I'll bring lots of content related agent MCP okay uh data science. So each and everything would be available in one place and uh if you want to connect me guys this is my LinkedIn profile. So here you can also connect me. You can also follow follow me here.

So definitely um we'll try to keep in touch and if you have any kinds of question you can feel free to reach out here. So guys in this video I'll be developing one end to end multi- aent application with the help of Langraph. So in this video the application I'm going to develop the application name would be Tripate AI. So Tripmetate AI is a multi- aent uh application. Uh here uh you only just need to mention your trip location and this will uh give you the entire uh plan uh with respect to the location uh you are planning for the trip and this will also give you some amazing informations like uh your flights, your hotels.

Okay. Then it will give you the travel itinerary even it will give you the day-to-day plan you will be making whenever you are on a trip. So this is a very much a cool application we'll be developing. Why? because uh we know that all of the uh people out there they are very much interested uh especially in trip especially about the travel.

So let's say whenever we are planning for any travel let's say uh country A to B. So before going to that particular country we just need to make some plans right let's say um if I want to visit that country so which flight I have to take okay after let's say taking the flight um uh in which hotel I have to stay right then uh where I need to visit what are the me uh memorable locations there right even uh what would be my day one plan day two plan let's say I have that much amount of budget so how much money I should spend in day one day two like that. Okay. So this is the major problem um whenever we are planning for any kinds of trips. Okay.

So why not we can create a multi- aent system so that agent will prepare the entire plan for us. Okay. Only just need to give the location. Let's say I want to visit uh let's say uh country A to B. Okay.

I only just provide that much informations to my agent and my agent will prepare everything for me. Okay. Even I can download that particular plan as a PDF file and I can take it on my smartphone anytime and I can visit anywhere. Okay. So this is the system guys we'll be developing throughout the entire video and for this we'll be using some amazing tools and technologies.

Okay. So guys uh first of all I want to show you the application demo how this application looks like and how this application will be uh working. Then after that we'll start the development. Okay. So to implement this uh entire system guys I have used some amazing technology.

I have used a fast API. So it is running on fast API back end. Even I have used HTML, CSS and little bit of JavaScript to design the entire front end. Okay. As you can see this is a beautiful front end I have created.

Then uh for this agent workflow multi- aent workflow I used langraph. Okay. And uh the large language model wise actually I'm using gro actually playground that means gro platform. So from the gro platform guys I'm using llama model. Okay.

metal lama model then uh for the memory persistence memory I'm utilizing postgrace SQL database so if you know postgrace is amazing uh database okay whenever you are implementing this kinds of agentic application so postgrace you can utilize okay uh here uh this postgrace uh supports so many functionality whenever you are implementing this kinds of agents so for our uh persistence memory guys we'll be using postgrace database inside this development and Postgrace I'm not going to use the local Postgress server instead of that I have set up uh this uh Postgress on the render cloud okay my Postgress is running on my render cloud let me show you so this is my Postgress server it is running on render cloud so from here we just connected our application okay so right now this is not local anymore so if you close your local system as well still this uh this application will be running then for the realtime search operation guys uh for finding hotels or for finding uh different different uh itinary for a specific location we'll be using tably okay tably search tool so with the help of that we'll be doing the internet search realtime internet search and we'll try to figure out all of the latest informations about that country okay then uh for the flight information guys we'll be using uh aviation stack uh platform basically they provides a API key with the help of this API key you can get the entire flight informations okay for any kinds of country. So yes, these are my tool to tools and technologies we'll be using for this development and after this development I'm also going to show you how we can deploy this project over the render cloud. Okay. So here we are not only going to develop this project uh even after completing the development I will show you the deployment part as well. So make sure you watch this video till the end and if you found this content useful please try to subscribe to my channel and please try to share this with your friends and family and please guys hit the like and uh I need your support if you are supporting me guys definitely I can bring this kinds of content more and uh yeah it would be amazing okay altogether so please try to subscribe to my channel this should be my request to all of you so yes uh this is how my application interface looks like uh you can see this is a tripmate AI platform a multi- aent Travel planner with Langraph.

So here basically you can plan your perfect trip with AI. You can search flight, discover hotels, generate a complete travel itinerary using multi- aent langraph system. Okay. Now for an example here what you have to give. So here you have a input box.

So basically you can mention uh where to where you want to let's say go for the trip. You just only need to mention let's say here I have given some example. to plan a complete 7 days trip uh 7 days Japan trip from Bangladesh under one uh two two lakhs. Okay, let's say you have two lakhs budget. You can provide this information.

So what I can do? I can copy this information. I can paste it here. Let's say maybe I can tell uh plan a complete 7 days. Let's say here I will give I'll get Nepal tool.

Okay, Nepal trip from Bangladesh under two lakhs. Okay, so let's say this is my uh this is my uh let's say plan for the trip. Now simply you just need to click on generate plans. Now see um after some times you will see the entire plan would be ready. Even you can download this uh down download that plan as a PDF file.

Let me show you. So guys uh as you can see uh it has successfully generated the 7 days Nepal trip from Bangladesh under u two lakhs taka. So as you can see this is the trip summary. Uh we have planned a 7-day uh Nepal trip from Bangladesh that includes a visit to Kathmandu then Pok uh Pokara then uh Chitwan and others exciting uh destinations and blah blah blah you can see. So first of all it has given the flight informations.

Let's say if I want to visit Nepal. First of all, I have to uh I have to go to the Dhaka and Dhaka to Kathmandu. There is a flight and this is the flight information it is giving and the times as well when this flight is available. Okay. Then some hotel suggestion it is giving.

So after you reach to Kathmandu so in which hotel you just need to stay and what would be the cost per night even it is also telling you. Apart from that it is giving you the dayby-day uh itinary. Here is the dayby-day itinary. Day one Dhaka to Kathmandu you will be visiting. Okay.

Uh so it is giving you the entire step. Okay. See then when you reach the Kathmandu so in day two what should be your visit location? It is giving you the entire visit location. Okay.

And what is the entry fee each and everything it is giving you. Then Kmandu to Pokara again it is uh giving you the plan. You have to take a bus or private card. Okay. And this is the estimated cost for that.

Okay. So that's how it is giving you the entire summary. So then day four, day five, okay, day six, day seven and the entire estimated budget is also giving you like how much money uh uh I mean it will spend um in 7 days. Okay, if you're visiting Nepal. So it is giving you the estimated cost about flights, accommodations, transportation, food and activities, total budget.

Okay. Then the final recommendation it is giving you uh you can see some final recommendation we are also getting. So yes uh if I get these kinds of things guys okay in just one place it would be amazing for us because otherwise what I have to do I have to individually search Google let's say what is the best hotel in Kathmandu okay and how much let's say price they are taking so I have to search individually I have to search the flight uh flight information individually I have to search hotel information individually okay I have to search this dayby-day itinary individually okay so yeah this take uh takes time And it needs lots of exploration, right? I I have to search on Google, go to different different website, just try to see their review. Then after that, I'll try to select this one.

Then again, I have to note it, right? I have to take a note. Let's say I will visit uh A to B, B to C, okay? And it will take that much of money. This is the estimated time.

I have to note everything. So that much time I don't have. So why not we can bring everything inside of one platform. Okay? One uh one let's say uh one system there.

I only just need to give my uh trip plan and it will generate uh the entire plan for me. This is what we have developed guys. Okay. So this is very interesting and realtime application guys because right now these kinds of application you'll be uh seeing okay uh people are using there are some platform they are providing this kinds of let's let's say functionality only you just need to give the location and it will give you the entire trip plan for that. Okay.

Now if I go to the cut uh Nepal right so I don't have any kinds of issue because I know what is the estimated cost there what is the best hotels there right what is the best flights there right uh in day 1 day 2 day three where I need to visit which which is the best location to visit there in 7 days all the information I have okay so I don't need anyone to guide me there is what guys will be doing now you can see there is a download PDF option if I click on download PDF so you can see this PDF file would be available Now you can take this PDF file on your smartphone okay or on your laptop anywhere you can take and you can just open it up and you can see okay what you have to do amazing right so yes guys this is the things we'll be developing even you can also copy this information and you can also paste it anywhere even you can also send it uh to your friends and family this is also possible okay so that's how not only uh not only Nepal you can give Japan Dubai Thailand okay global anywhere while You just need to visit just try to mention here you can generate the plan. Okay. With respect to that and uh I already told you this u uh this is also utilizing the postgrace database. All the information it is saving in the postgrace. This is uh already uh um postgress servers we have created on the render render server.

Okay. Render is a cloud platform and let me show you I have my PG admin. So in PG admin I connected my remote server that means my render postgress server and here you can see the persistence memory checkpoint. So see these are my persistence memory checkpoint and you can see this is connected with render cloud. See this connected with render cloud.

Okay. and all of me all of my persistence memory checkpoint all of my conversation are saved here okay even I'm also using langismith here to monitor my entire application so as you can see I'm using lang lang smmith guys to monitor my entire application it is using this travel agent uh project and it is monitoring the entire entire application. Okay. So yes guys uh that that's how we'll be developing this entire application end to end completely end to end we'll try to develop. So yes guys this is the entire uh application uh this is the entire application demo.

Now let's start the development. So guys before starting the development first of all let's try to understand the application uh overview and the application architectures. So as you can see tripate AI this is a langraph multi-agent tribal planet system. So you can see this is a multi- aent travel planner that turns a natural language trip request into a practical travel plan with flight suggestions, hotel ideas and day-to-day uh itinerary. Uh uh the projects uh uses a multi- aent workflow built with langraph and why this project uh as you can see planning a trip usually means jumping between multiple websites, tools and spreadsheets.

Okay, as I already told you, let's say if you're planning for a trip, right? Uh you have to visit multiple websites to uh look for the flights information, hotel informations, right? Then uh which location you just need to visit there, right? These are the things you have to uh explore and you have to take a notes on the spreadsheet or anywhere then um uh you will be making the entire plan. So this takes uh lots of time, right?

And uh it needs lots of exploration even sometimes you you may miss out anything, right? Uh so this project brings that flow into one experience by combining a flight s agent, a hotel research agent and uh itinerary plan planning agent and a final response agents. Okay. Uh all coordinated through a langraph workflow that means in a single place we'll be combining all of them and each of the task would be mentioned to each of the agent. That means for the flight search operation we will be creating an an agent.

For uh hotel uh hotel information we'll be defining another agent. For uh itinerary planning we'll be defining another agents. Okay. For final report generation we'll be defining another agents. That's how we'll be creating multiple agents together and those agents will be uh those those agents will be responsible for generating the entire trip summary for me.

Okay. Trip plan for me. So that's why we call it as a multi- aent system. So here we are not utilizing one agent. We are using multiple agents and each of the agents will have some kinds of tools to complete that particular task.

Okay. So here is the entire uh like architecture guys. As you can see for this project so first of all I already told you here we'll be utilizing uh multiple agent. As you can see here we'll be utilizing multiple agent. The first agents will be creating the flight agents.

Okay. So basically this will search the flight and finds the best option for visiting location A to B. Okay. And for get uh and to get these kinds of flight informations, it needs some tools, right? And here we'll be using aviation stack API.

So this aviation stack API uh what it it can do it can search realtime flight informations, right? And it will give you that particular flight informations to the flight agent and flight agent will try to utilize that. Okay. So optionally you can also use tably search here but I feel like uh aviation stack is having all kinds of flight integration in one place. So that's why we'll be using a aviation stack API key here.

Then second agents will be developing this hotel agents. So what this hotel agent will it will search hotels and compares options. That means it will only look uh it is not only going to look for the agents. It will all it will look for the best hotels for you. Okay.

Best hotels uh with respect to your budget, right? So this hotel information it will try to find and for this we will be using some kinds of tools. Right? And here we'll be using tably search. Okay.

So tably search with the help of tably search we'll try to figure out the best hotels uh from that particular location and we'll try to give the suggestion optionally you can use Google place API this is optional but uh I'll be using tably tab search okay because this is completely free to use then the next one uh itinary agent so this basically creates the day wise itinary uh that means where you have to visit okay what are the activities you have to do there what are the best places okay each and everything this particular agents will try to uh get it for for you And again to get these are the information u the best in best visit location activities we'll be using tably API key again. Okay. So with the help of tab will perform the internet search operation and um real time will get the information and it will try to um use this information in my itinary agents. Then uh fourth I'll be using this final response agents that means it will be using all the information and will try to prepare the entire plan for you entire trip plan for you. Okay, that means it it combines all the information and generate a final response.

And again for this we'll be using a large language model and the large language model wise we'll be using llama 3. Okay, and we'll be using gro provider. Uh I think you know grock provides some free uh free limits. Okay, you can generate uh API keys and you can access some model. Okay, completely free.

You don't need to pay for that. But there is a limitation but it's fine. Okay, for this particular task I will be using this free API key. But if you want you can also take the subscription. You can uh use some premium model.

It's completely up to you. Okay. So, yeah, we'll be using this uh hog rock provider here. Uh yeah, then uh you can see uh each of the agents will be connected to a shared state that mean shared memory h and we call it as a state. If you are already working in langraph, I think know there is a concept of state, right?

We have to create the state and these are the state I need guys. Okay, I need user query. That means whatever user will pass, I'll save inside the user query. Whatever flight results I'll be getting, I'll try to save in the flight results. Whatever hotel results I'll be getting, I'll try to save in the hotel results.

Whatever itinary response I'll be getting, I'll try to say save inside itary results. Whatever final response I'll be getting, I'll save inside final response. Okay? And whatever my agents will try to reply, okay? Uh that entire plan, I'll try to save inside my masses state.

And this uh shared state will be uh storing inside one amazing database guys. We call it as a Postgress SQL. Okay. So this uh database we'll be using for my memory. Okay, memory memory purpose we'll be using that means we'll try to store all of the checkpoints all of the conversation here.

Okay. So it will basically have the conversation story user preferences agents output and state updates. Okay. So this is the entire architecture guys we'll try to follow and we'll be implementing this entire agents. Okay.

I hope you get it. So guys as you can see to develop this entire application I need the four agents here. uh the flight agent, hotel agent, then uh itinary agents and the fin final response agents. Okay. So we'll be developing four agents and we'll try to uh combine them all together and this will become a multi- aent system.

Okay. Yeah. So first of all uh to implement uh this entire system guys what I need I need to create my GitHub repository. So uh there I'll try to create a repo and u I'll start uh writing the code. So for this let's open up my GitHub guys.

I'll open up my GitHub. I'll go to my repository and let's create a new repo here. I'm going to give the name of this repo. So what I can do maybe I can copy this name and I can give it here. Okay, let's say this is my name and uh simply I'll just try to make it as public.

Uh I'll add the readmi file. Get ignore wise I'll be taking python and license. Let's take this um MIT license. Okay, you can take any license. It's up to you.

Uh okay, everything is fine. Now simply what I'll do, I'll just try to create this repository. Okay, so my repo is created guys. Okay, next thing I'll just try to clone this repo. I'll just uh click on this code and copy this HTTP URL and I will open up my local folder.

So here I'll open up my terminal and let's clone it. So get clone paste that URL. So it has already cloned my repo. So now I'll go inside that. So cd the name of the repo is trip AI.

Okay. So now I'm inside this folder. I'm inside this folder. Okay. Now here I'm going to open up my visual code studio.

Okay. Perfect. So here I already moved my um architecture file which is demo.excaliraw. So here I'm using excali file format.

So for this you have to install one extension called excali draw. Okay xcali draw. So this is the extension you have to install. So if you install you will be able to open this file guys. Okay.

And here you will be getting this architecture diagram. So fine. Um yeah. Now next guys what I have to do? I have to first of all uh create the environment and we have to create the folder structure.

So to create the environment guys um here uh what I can do I can write this step how to run first um create the environment virtual environment ment. So to get the virtual environment uh you have to use this command p rate hyphen n uh then you have to give the name of the environment. I will give let's say travel then I'll give the python version. So python is equal to 3.11.

Okay I'll be using 3.11 and hyphen y that means I want to give the permission. So this is the command you have to use to create the environment. Then second you have to uh activate the environment. activate the environment.

So to activate the environment you have to use this command panda activate travel. Then next you have to install the requirement file. Install the requirements. So we'll be using this command. So pip installer requirements txt.

Okay. So yeah uh these are the step we have to follow. So first of all let's create the environment. I'll copy this command and I'll open up my terminal. Let's clear.

Let's create the environment first of all. Okay. Uh there is a space I have given but uh the space should not be there. It should be hypen only. Okay.

Now copy this again and execute it here. Okay, done. Now I have to activate the environment. So this is the command. See I have activated.

Now I'll be installing the requirements. But for this I need to create the requirements file requirements.txt. Okay. So here I need to mention all of the requirements I need for this uh agent.

So I already uh noted all the requirements I'll be using. So these are the requirements guys I need. I need langraph definitely to create the agent workflow. Langchen you need um because if you want to use langraph so langen is the dependency and uh uh whenever I want to load any large language model and all right I have to use the langen there then we'll be using grock provider uh that means lm provider that's why we'll be installing langen grog then langen community is also required then we'll be using tably search tool we'll be using langen tab and I told you I'll be using postgraql database for this I need this uh ps I cop g binary then uh uh this pull uh the uh these two things I need okay for this u uh database okay uh database and another thing I need this langchen checkpoint postgress okay these are the dependency for the database okay then python env to manage the environment credential so let's create this env file okay here we'll try to mention all of these uh credential secret credential then tavly python unit request library unit I already told you about the postgrace right uh I will save my checkpoints in the postgra database that's why this lang lang graph checkpoint postgrace is required then uh I'll also get the um um um I mean flight information right for this um I'll be using one um package called airports data so inside airports data some informations are available we'll try to utilize that then uh I'll be considering all of the country right whenever I'll try to search for the flights so that's There is another package called PI country. So inside that all of the country informations are available.

We'll try to also use that. Then fast API for my entire u uh back end and front end development. Then uh first API dependencies u with help of uicon we'll try to launch the fast API server. Then the ginger ginger two templates. Okay.

So these are the requirements guys I need and I already mentioned all of the version. Okay. And you should also mention the version. Uh otherwise what will happen? Let's say uh if you if you not mention the version.

So if you're running this project after 2 month there is a possibility uh one of the package will get update and that functionality will be deprecated. Okay that time you will get the error. So that's why it's uh necessary to add the version. Okay this is super important. Now let's install the dependency.

So I'll copy this command and I'll try to install the dependency here. Okay, let's wait uh once it is installed then we'll try to uh see the next step. So apart from this uh dependency, I also need to install some other tools as well. Let me show you. So installation is complete and there is no error.

Okay, it's completely fine. Now guys, uh what I need I need some more tools. Okay, uh I told you we'll be using this uh PG admin to see my tables, right? My uh conversation checkpoints even you can also see the different different uh conversation it has saved right in in the memory. So you can able to see that because uh I'll be creating this uh postgrace server on my render cloud and to see that I need this uh PG admin.

Okay, PG admin um this uh graphical user interface we have to install that. So let me close my PG admin and let me show you how to install this this PG admin. So if you want to install the PG admin guys uh only in just Google just try to search PG admin. Okay, PG admin download for Windows. So this is the website just try to visit uh or you can directly search like postgress download okay post postgra sql download so this is the website h here just try to choose your operating system let's say I'm using windows you can uh also select other operating system as And there is a option called uh download the installer.

Okay. Now you have to [snorts] choose which one you will be downloading. So make sure you are installing the latest one. Okay. 18.4.

So here is the download option. Just try to click here. It will start downloading that. Okay. So this is the uh file guys you have to download.

Okay. This is around uh 400 MB you can download. So for me I already downloaded. I'll just try to cancel it. So once you have downloaded guys in the download folder you will see this uh file this uh uh postsql okay installer now you just need to double click and install this uh software okay inside your system.

So I think you know how to install any software. Okay. The way you install any software just try to double click and do next next. Okay. Um it will ask for uh like u um password.

Okay. You just need to set the password and you can complete the installation process. Okay. So once you have done the installation now simply you just need to search for PG admin. PG admin on your search bar.

Now you'll be able to see this kinds of uh this kinds of application. Now let's open it up. Okay. So this kinds of interface you'll be able to see see this is my PG admin. So for me I already connected with the server that's why it's coming like that but for you it would be completely different.

Okay. So maybe I can close this H. See for this you will be getting this [clears throat] kinds of window screen or welcome screen. Okay. So now uh what I have to do guys I have to set up this uh I have to set up this u u u postgress server on my render cloud.

Okay, because I told you for this uh persistence memory we'll be using post P postgress, right? So how to install this Postgress server on the render cloud. Let me show you. So here I'll just visit the render. Okay, make sure you have a account on render.

If you don't have account, please try to create one account for me. I already have the account. I'll just try to go to my dashboard. Let me close these other tab. So here uh to launch a postgra server guys you just need to click on new and there you will see one option called post grace postgrace okay postgrace database just try to click here so give the name of that uh postgrace I'll give let's say trip agent repagent uh let's say this is the name I have given now you can give the database name so I'll give let's say um I'll give trip memory or let's say agent memory Okay.

Now you have to give the user. So I can give my user ID. You can give your any unique user ID. Here I have given ENT buff. Then um everything just keep it default.

No need to change anything. Just here in the plan option you just select the free instance. Okay. So uh render provides actually free instance. You can use the free instance to launch this server.

Okay. And if you want to take this subscription you can also do do that. But in free instance there is a limitation. I think after 7 or 14 days I think this instance would be deleted automatically. And here you are getting 200 56 MB RAM 0.1

CPU and 1 GB storage. Okay. I think this is enough for our learning. But whenever you are creating any real world application production grade application whichever you will be using right uh that time you can take their subscription plan. Okay.

No need to take the free instance that time. So yeah, everything just keep it default and simply just create the database. Okay. Uh it's uh giving one error because uh previously I also created one uh postgress server, right? So first of all I had to delete that one.

So maybe I can delete that one. So this is the database I created, right? I'll just try to delete that. So if you're doing for the first time right uh you don't need to do that it will create but uh for me I created previously that's why it's coming like that. So I'll just try to delete it.

Done. Now maybe I will be able to create that. All the informations are fine. Let's create the database. Okay.

Now it is getting created. Okay. Now let's wait. This starter should be active. Once it is active then we can use this database.

Okay guys, now you can see status is available. That means my um Postgress server is running successfully. Okay, you can check there. You can go to the dashboard and you can see it is available and this is running. Okay, now I have to connect this uh Postgress server with my PG admin so that I can see all of the uh table inside that all of the database inside that.

Okay, whatever I'm going to create later on. So for this uh what I can do I can go below and there is a URL you have to copy. This is called external database URL. Okay. So render uh tells you if you are connecting this uh server in an external service that that means right now I'm using PG admin.

This is the external service. Okay. This is running on on my local machine. So for this I have to use external database URL. Okay.

But there is another one called internal database URL. As you can see this is the internal database URL. This is only required whenever you are deploying this project. That means let's say I am deploying the same project in the render cloud. Okay.

And I'm using render postgress server that time I will be using internal database. Okay. So if you're only running your application in the same render cloud that time internal database should be used. Okay. Database URL should be used.

But if you're running from the external one you have to use uh you have to copy this external database URL. Okay. Now let's try to copy that and make sure you don't share this URL with anyone otherwise they will be able to access your database. Okay. I'm going to remove I'm going to delete the instance after this recording.

That's why I'm showing you. So I'll copy this and uh what I can do. Maybe I can save it somewhere. Let's I will save save this inside my readmi file. Okay.

So this is the information I have. So this information I need to connect with my PG admin. So now let's open the PG admin. So there is a option called server. Just try to right click and there is a option called register.

Okay just click on register and there is a option called server. Now here you just need to uh give the name of the server. So I'll give um tab agent or let's say tripmate server. I'll give my application name trip. So this is the name trip.

Okay, I'll give tripmmet and uh just keep it as it is. Okay, then uh there is a option called connection. Just click on the connection and here you have to give the name. Okay, host name and where get get this host name? Host name should be uh this one.

This should be the host name. See after add the rate, right? Whatever you have just try to copy till.com render.com.

This is your host name. Just try to copy and provide it here. So this is the host name. Okay. Now by default uh this postgress run runs on port number five uh 5432.

No need to change change this. Now you have to give the database name. Okay. So what is the database name? So here is the database name agent memory.

So just try to copy this. This is the name. You can also verify simply go to the server and here is the database. Okay. So this is the name actually it has taken for the database.

So I have given agent memory but it has added this uh 68 K5 because it should be unique name. Okay, that's why this information has added. Okay, just try to copy this and add it here. Okay, now it has u it is asking for the username. So what is the username?

I think you remember I given the username entpo verify in the postgress server. here. So, username is yenduppy. Let's copy and paste it here. Now, I have to give the password.

Okay. Where to get the password? Here is the password. This is the password. Okay.

Let's copy. Even it is also available on my URL. So, this is the URL. Okay. This is the password.

Just try to copy and paste it here. Okay. Then just try to activate this one. Save password on. And uh yeah, everything is fine.

Now simply let me check everything is required or not. No, I think everything is fine. Now I'll just try to save this information. See once you will do that it will be connected to the uh render postgress server. Okay.

Now you can expand it. Now you can click on database. Now see this agent memory uh 68 uh 68 K5 agent memory 68 K5 okay this database I can see because this is already connected now whatever tables you will be creating inside that it would it would be available inside PG admin okay I can see all the tables so this this table now I can refresh and simply uh see right now there is no table uh we haven't created but once I will try to create the table you'll be able to see all the tables okay all of the conversations be available. So see so far we have connected our uh Postgress server with my PG admin. Now right now you have the graphical user interface and from there you can see all of the tables you will be creating going forward.

Okay so that means my Postgress installation is completely done. Postgress setup is completely done and this is running on my render cloud. Okay. I hope you get it. So guys, we have successfully uh set up our postgrad server on the render and we have connected with our PG admin and this is running completely fine.

Now I need to set up some additional uh additional let's say keys which is required for this development. So first thing I need the um I need the aviation stack API key. Okay. Um aviation stack API key. Then I need Gro API key.

Okay, first of all, let's collect the Gro API key. Okay, our LLM provider API key because here I told you I'll be using a metal lama model. Okay, llama 3 model from the Gro Gro provider. Then um I need table API key. Then I need uh my database URL.

Okay, that means my postgress database URL. And we already copied the URL. I think you remember that external URL. I'll just try to copy this as it is. Let's cut it.

Okay. And I'll try to save inside this variable. So this is the URL. Okay. So with this URL, my Python client will be able to connect with my Postgress server.

It will store all of the conversation there. Okay. So make sure you copied this external URL, the URL we just copied. Okay, external URL this one and try to save here. Okay, then I need um some other things like my lang uh API key and tracing.

These are the things I need. Let me show you because uh to monitor to trace the entire application we'll be using lang. So this is the lang. Okay, lang speed tracing it should be true. Lang speed endpoint.

So this is the URL you have to provide and lang API key we have to collect. Okay. So let's delete this API and I'll collect my own API and lang project name. So let's say I'll give uh travel agent. Okay.

Or let's say I'll give uh my project name which is tripmmeti. Let's say this is my project name. Okay. Now let's collect all of the API key one by one. Okay.

One more thing I have to add which is the default origin data. H default origin data [clears throat] means let's say here the things you have to do. You have to give the location A to B. Let's say you want to visit India to Thailand, right? So India is your origin, right?

And Thailand you want to visit. So by default if user is not providing origin let's say user is giving the prompt like that uh I want to visit Nepal. Okay. So you are not giving the origin here. So by default uh you can set the origin here.

Okay. Let's say which your origin. So let's say I'm from Dhaka right now. So I'll give D A C. Okay.

That means Dhaka. So from Dhaka it will plan to the different country. Okay. That means Dhaka is the origin right now for me. Okay.

I I hope you get it guys. Okay. So that's how we can add a default origin. If user is missing their origin, you it will automatically take the default origin. Okay, you can change this origin as per your requirement.

If you're in let's say Thailand, you can give Thailand. If you're in let's say USA, you can give USA. Okay, it's up to you you. So yes, uh this is how we have to add all of the API key. Now let's collect the Gro API key first of all.

So what I will do, I'll just uh go to the Gro platform. So you can search for Gro Gro API key. Okay, simply search for Grock API key and um go to the first website and uh you can create a API key here. Okay, so let's create a API key. So what I can do, I can maybe remove my previous API key.

Now I'll create a new one. I'll give the name. Let's say I'll give um my trip agent tripment no expiration just try to keep it here. If you want expiration you can also select. Now let's submit.

Now this is your API key. Just try to copy and make sure you are adding inside your environment variable. Okay. Yeah. Now you can ask me I have given double quotation here but in the database URL I haven't given any document uh double quotation.

See whenever you are adding the database URL no need to give any double quotation. Okay. Uh because database uh URL is a sensitive information. If you are give quotation sometimes it will also consider as a quotation uh as this u as this URL. Okay.

So that's why I'm not giving any kinds of quotation. Perfect. So we have successfully copied the gro grapi key and uh inside gro you will be able to see different different models are available. Let me show you if I go to the dashboard I think playground and here you have different different model. So here I'll be using meta llama model.

Okay. You can also use any other model. It's completely up to you. Then the next thing guys I need my aviation stack API key. Okay.

So let's search for aviation stack API key. You can simply search on Google aviation stack API key. So this is the first website. Just go to the website. Okay.

So this is the website guys. Now here you will see one option get free API key. But for this you have to sign up. Okay. Sign up in their account.

So I already have the account. I'll try to login. Let's give my email and password and login. Okay. So I've lo I've logged in.

Now here you have the API key. Okay. Just try to copy this API key. Uh this is the API key as you can see. Just try to copy and you paste it here.

Okay. This is my aation stack API key. So we need this aation stack API key to get the realtime flight information. Okay. Uh so as you can see this is the interface so free realtime flight status and global aviation data API.

Okay. This provides flight tracker airport uh timetable data web service trusted by uh 5,000 plus of smart test company. Okay fine. Now the next thing I need which is uh table API key. Okay.

For realtime source operation I think you saw the diagram right? So I have already collected my aviation stack API key and gro API key. Okay, for the large language model provider. Now for realtime source operation I need tably API key. Now let's collect this tably API key.

So for this on Google just try to search for tably API key. Go to the tabi and make sure you login with your account. Okay. Now here you have the API key. Okay.

So previously I already have some API key. Maybe I can collect or maybe I can create a new one. So let me delete some of the API key. I'll create a new one. I'm going to name it name it as let's say my project name.

Now simply create the API key. Okay. Now copy this one and add inside your environment variable H. Now [clears throat] last thing I need my Langismith API key for the tracing. So we'll be using Langismith platform.

So you can search for smith.langchen.com. So this is the langismith platform. So if you don't have account guys please try to create one account.

Uh so I already logged in with my account. Okay. But for you it will look like that. Okay. So once you have done that uh you have to collect the API key.

So left hand side you will see one option called settings. Now here is the API key section. Okay. Just create one API key. So I'll create one API key here.

You can give the name. Okay. Just keep it as it is. Now expiration date you can give it as never and create the API key. Now copy this API key and mention it here.

Okay. And give the name of the langismith project. I have given uh trip AI. So it will create this project inside that you will perform all the tracing. Okay.

So yes uh that's how we have collected all of the API key whichever we needed here. Now uh we what we'll do guys, we'll just try to define the folder structure. Then we'll try to um implement the component one by one. So guys, now let's try to define our folder structure. So first of all here uh what I'm going to do, I'm going to create a folder.

I'm going to name it as tools. So inside that I'm going to create all of my tools I need uh for this development. So I think you know I need some tools like uh these aviation stack tools. So this function I'll be writing separately. So it will get the realtime flight informations.

Then for hotel agents I need tabby right. So tab will do the realtime source operation. It will get the uh different different uh information let information. For this I will be creating another function. Okay.

So that's how I need separate separate tools and this thing I'll try to define inside my tools. So let's uh create some file inside that. So first of all I'm going to define a constructor init_.py. Now inside that let's create a file.

I'm going to name it as flight 2.py and I'm going to create another file. I'm going to name it as tabulator.py. Okay.

Yeah. Now, uh I need another um another files here. I'm going to name it as back end dotpy. Then I'm going to create another file called app.py.

So this is going to be my endpoint. Okay. And uh I'm going to create another folder called templates. So inside that I'll write try to write my front end codes that means HTML codes. write templates inside that I'm going to create a file called index dot HTML.

So here we'll try to write all of the HTML code because I told you we'll be using HTML CSS JavaScript with the first API and first API needs this template folder and this uh HTML file and whatever CSS and um uh JavaScript file uh I'll be writing it should be available inside static folder okay static folder inside that I'm going to create two more file one is style dot CSS other this uh script.js. Okay. And if you don't know about HTML, CSS, JavaScript, no need to worry. Uh simply you can take the help from chart GPT and you can create this at the user interface for you.

Okay. So yes, these are my folders and file I need for this development. Now let me close this at the one by one. Now let me commit the changes on my GitHub. So simply I'll tell folder structure addit.

Now if I go to my GitHub refresh see all of the folder structures are available. Okay. So later on I also need dockard file. Uh I will use that whenever I'll do the deployment. Okay.

As of now it's completely fine. Now first of all uh what I can do guys? First of all let's say um here I'm going to define the tool. Okay. First of all let's write this tably tool.

H so I already installed the uh environment and the environment name is travel right I think I created travel I'll select this environment okay now let's import some necessary package so I'll import tavly import tavi client okay then I need operating system then I need so from env import load 4 DNB done. Now I'll try to load my environment variable H then let's create a table client first of all. So client is equal to table client. So first of all inside that you have to pass the API key. So why do you have the API key?

API key is available inside my environment. I'll just write west dot get env. Okay. get uh env. And what is the name of my key?

The key name is Table API key. I'll copy this and paste it here. So this is going to be uh this is going going to give me the client. Okay. So after that here we'll just try to write a function.

So div tab search inside that uh it will take a query that means the search query. Okay. And uh it will search over the internet. So for this I'll just try to write response is equal to client dot search. Okay.

And inside search I will give my query query is equal to my query and there is another parameter you have to give called max result. Okay that means how many maximum search result you want. So I need five results. Okay five search results I need. Then then whatever results I'll try to get guys I'll try to uh I'll just try to do some refinement operation that means it will also give me some uh some kinds of metadata but I don't need the metadata.

I only need the content, right? And to filter out, I have written this code. Let me show you. First of all, let's define the result. So it it is going to be empty list.

Okay. So this is the filter code I have written. So it will run a for loop. Okay. So um it will run the for loop on the response result and it will get the title URL snippet.

Snippet means the content and uh it will length the snippet if the snippet it is more than 300 words. So what I'm going to do I'm going to split it and I'm going to append in my result uh result list. Okay, that means I'm only taking the content uh from my source result instead of some metadata. Okay. So yeah, I think um [clears throat] it's done.

Uh even you can also uh I mean remove this if you don't want. So this thing I have added just to keep only the first 300 character to avoid wall of text. Okay. So that's why but if you want you can uh take the entire snippet if you want. Okay.

Uh it's up to you. Uh because we are using a free large language model and definitely some input output limitations are there. Tken limitation are there. So that's why I've taken like some um some like important first character instead of um I mean the last one but you can uh you can ignore this line. Okay, maybe you can directly take the snippet and you can add inside the results.

Okay, this is completely up to you. So this is my uh tably search function. Okay, now let's test whether it's working or not. So what I can do maybe I can create another file here. I'm going to name it as test.py.

Let's import this from tools dot tably. import taby source. Now let's define an object. I'm going to call the table s. Inside that I'm going to give a query.

So let's say I'll give um best hotels in India and I'm going to print the response. Now let's execute. So python test.py. So you can see this is the information we are getting.

Best hotels in India. So it is uh uh see it is referring different different website realtime website. Okay. Uh that means tripadvisor.com [snorts] and it is finding some best website uh hotels.

Okay. Then some other YouTube resources also it has u referred some review it has uh seen right and it is giving you some best hotels in India. Okay. So that's how we are getting best out of all of the uh all of the let's say resources out there with the help of this tablely instead of manually exploring. I have the table.

I can search like I need best things. It will automatically search over different different website, hotels. Okay. And it will give me those information. Okay.

For my agents, this is the idea. See? Okay. It is referring that URL. That means this function is working completely fine.

There is no issue with this function. Now, simply I'll just try to open up my code again. Yeah. Now, next guys, I'll be writing my flight tools. Okay.

This uh tools I have to write. Now this will give you that realtime flight informations. Okay. So for this let's import some necessary library. So I need hovering system.

I need regular expression. I need certify. I need air airports data. I need pi country then I need. So from env import load env.

Okay then I'll load the environment variable. After that um see if you're using Windows operating system uh you might get a path issue. So to prevent that we add this two line SSL uh uh sert files and request key bundles. Okay you have to give certified dot wire. So if you're uh getting the path issue that time you can give.

Okay. So I have given uh for this sest purpose. Then first of all I have to get my aviation API key. So I'll just write API key is equal to OS dot get env. Okay.

And what is the name of that? And the name of that is aviation API key. Aviation stack API key. I'll just try to get this API key. So once you get the API key, you also need to take the origin.

See I'm taking the origin as well. Default origin we mentioned Dhaka here but if you want you can also change it as per your requirement. Okay. So here my default origin is dhaka. If user is not giving any default origin it will take the dhaka otherwise uh it will take the default uh uh it will take the origin.

Okay. From the user query then uh what is the base URL for aviation flights. So this is the base URL. You can visit the base URL. So here you have to give a API key.

If you give the API key, this will give you the this will return you the aviation. Sorry, this will return you the flight information. Okay. So, we are hitting this website API. Okay.

Now, uh first of all, I will load the airport's data. So, to load the airports data, you have to use airports data.load. Then you have to give I uh I a give you all the airports. Then I will also mention my country allias because sometimes uh user may pass the allies information right let's say user will give us US means USA okay that's how it it has all the allies name for all the country let's say Korea K R Dhaka uh D AK right I already told you so this is called allies so we are defining the allies then country many airport.

So all the country main airport I'll just try to mention here. So these are the airport name. Okay. So B, DA, India, Dell like that. Then city main airport these are my city many airports.

Okay we are defining. Then we'll just write a function for cleaning the text. So clean text. So it this will take the text and it will perform the cleaning operation. It will remove some stop words and all.

Okay? And it will return return you that. Then I'll write another function. This will return you country name to code. Okay?

If you give any text that means the country name, it will return you the country code. Then airports country matches. So if you're um giving give if you're giving any airports and country code it will give you the uh airports. Okay. Then get best airports for the country.

For this I have written another function. Okay. So get best airport for the country. So you just need to give the country code. It will give you the best airport for that.

Then uh some other things I have also added here. So this is like more robust code I have written. Um if you see over the uh internet right and if you see this uh aviation stack uh API key code uh you will see different different codes are available over the internet people are using to get the realtime information realtime uh flight information with respect to all the country. Okay. So I utilize the internet resources and I prepared the entire uh function for you.

Okay. So this is giving you the location. Okay. Then let me show you some other things I have added. So this is the entire code guys.

Okay. So one thing I have to import which is request. Now see this is the entire code I have written to get the flight informations. Okay. So see these are some dependency utility function I need to get the airport informations flight informations.

See and some of the functionality I generated from chart GPT just to make it more robust. See here my main intention is to handle all of the country user is giving right. So that's why these are the things are required. So see it will return uh these are the thing airlines flight status departure. Okay terminal gate schedule.

So these are the information it will return from the aviation stack API. So search flight see we are getting these are the informations. Okay now let's uh test this whether it is working or not. So what I can do? So this is the function search flight.

This is my final function. This takes the query and the limit. So by default limit I have given 10. Okay 10 information it will give you okay 10 flight information it will return you. So let let's test it.

So what I can do maybe I can copy this code. I'll go to the test. I'll comment this. Let's import that. So from uh tools dot flight tools import search flights.

Okay. Now let's mention the search plate and I'll get the result and I'll print that. Let's say I'll give Nepal trip from Bangladesh. Now if I execute Now see this is giving you all the flight information from Bangladesh to Nepal. See all the flight information it is returning you.

Okay. And why this is happening? Because I have written this code. This code okay this is like more robust code and it can handle almost all kinds of entry. Okay.

All kinds of flight informations. Okay. So I took the help from JPT. I prepared this entire functionality for you. Even we can also write a small function but a small function has some limitation only if you hit the aviation stack API key that time uh sometimes uh if you are uh giving the wrong let's say location name that times it will uh return you none.

Okay. So to handle this kinds of scenario because user can give any anything right in the chat interface they can sometimes uh let's say give the wrong input okay uh of the country that time it can also handle this kinds of scenario okay that's why I have written this code now you can ask me why I'm not using tools decorator here whenever I'm writing the tools um see here I'm not going to use it as a um as a like custom tool instead of Right? I'll be using it inside my agent. Okay, I'll tell you this part how to do that. That's why I'm not using any kinds of tool functionality from langen.

Okay, I'll tell you. So yes, uh my table and flight tools functionality are added and this is completely working fine. We have already tested. Now we'll start the uh agent workflow. Okay, but before that let me commit the changes.

So here I'll just write flight and davi tools edit. Now go to uh GitHub refresh. This is available. Okay. All right.

Now let's work on the um agentic workflow part. That means right now my tools are ready. Okay. Uh all the tools whatever we'll be using aviation stack and tab these are ready. Okay.

Then I now I'll be working on the agent part. Okay. We'll try to define all the agents one by one and we'll be creating the langraph workflow. Once all of the agent uh implementation is complete then we'll um also uh define the uh state. Okay.

And this state will try to save inside my post SQL database. Okay. So yeah, this is the entire plan. Now let's try to work on the um agent workflow. For this, I'm going to open up my backend.py.

And here I'll just try to write all of my code. H. So first of all here, let's import all the necessary library. I need operating system again. I need certify just to prevent that path issue.

And I need as well load env. Okay. So I'll load my environment variable and uh this is the code I need to prevent that path issue. Okay. Then I need some other libraries as well.

Let me show you. Um these are the libraries I need. So I need uh this typing type dict and why I need I think you know to define the state okay of the graph. then operator I need because here we'll be using the reducer concept because all of the conversation uh we are doing right let's say I'm giving an input my my uh agent is giving a output right and this output I don't want to replace with the previous one I have to add uh add it like a list okay and for this I I can use reducer concept okay I think you know we have already studied about this thing inside our course right inside my aenti course I already told you about that if you haven't checked that please try to check then UI ID I need just to define a shon trade I think you know uh in persistence memory we have to give a trade right trade id so every times uh we can generate a new trades okay for the user then uh this is for the postgress okay database uh then uh we are also importing this uh row uh dict row okay for the postgress database then uh from lang graph we are importing state graph start and end and this is the checkp pointer so from lang graph checkpoint post case we're importing postgress s ser s ser s ser s ser s ser s ser s ser s ser s ser s server okay so we'll try to save my checkpoint in my postgress server apart from that I also need to import these are the libraries like from langen uh messages I need any message human message AI message system message then from grock lang gro I need chat gro because we are using grock API provider to access the large language model and the tools we have created so from tools dot tab I'll import my table search and from tools dot flight tools I'll import the search flight okay these two things I'll try to import okay so yeah these are my imports uh I need as of now first of all here what I'm going to do I'm going to um I'm going going to define a function. Okay.

So this function what it returns it returns the database URL. That means I think you remember let me show you. So let me close these are the files. So I think you remember in the viewb we have mentioned the database URL. Okay.

So this is the database URL. So this database URL I have to return. Okay just to connect with my Postgress SQL database server. Okay. So for this I'll define a function.

So see this is the function only you just need to do a slight modification here which is that at the last okay at the last of this URL you will be adding this SSL mode is equal to required that means if you if this is your database right so here we are adding this line we are adding this line we are adding this this thing okay at the last this thing at the last we'll be adding Okay, this is required. Why this is required? Because here we will be um we'll be connecting with my remote Postgress server, right? And uh for remote postgress server, this is required. So that's why we are checking.

First of all, we are getting the database URL. Then we are checking if not database URL, I'll raise the exception database URL is missing. Otherwise, I'll try to check if SSL mode not in database URL, I'll just try to add it and return the database URL. Okay. Now how this uh this will uh look like?

So let me show you. So maybe I can call this function. So URL is equal to database URL. So I'll print the URL right now. So I'll come here Python app.py

Py okay sorry it's back end.py Pi sorry my mistake so python backend.py apply now see this is what we are getting this is the entire URL add the last see it is adding this this thing okay it is it will give you this uh question mark then this SSL mode is equal to required okay this thing it should add then I will be able to connect with my postgress remote server okay which is running on red okay I hope you get it that's why we are giving this function yeah so now let's delete this code it's not required Okay. Now guys, uh we'll try to get some other things like my let me show you like my Gro Gro API key. So we are loading the GRO API key.

Okay. From the environment variable. Then here we'll just try to write a condition if not grock API key found it will raise exception. Okay. Now we'll try to define the large language model.

So here we are defining the large language model. As you can see we are using chat gro and model is equal to I'm using llama 3.37 billion versatile model. Okay, this is available on the um rock. See this one.

Okay, this model we are using. Okay, now you can use any model only. You just need to give the model ID. Okay, just try to check here. It has the model ID.

Just copy this model ID and paste it here. It will use that model and we are giving the um API key. Then we have to define the state. Okay, my graph state. So this is the state I have prepared guys and I think you know what is a state and how to define the state each and everything I have completed in my course.

Please try to check guys. Okay. So I named it as table state and inherited with the type dict first of all the message that means you can match with here message okay whatever message uh user is giving I'll try to store here but this should be reducer object. Okay that means we are doing operation dot add that means every time it will add add that message. Okay, instead of replacing then user query whatever query user is passing I'll write save in the user query then flight result hotel result uh then itinary uh result and one additional things I have provided here which is llm calls that means I want to see how many times llm calls we are doing here that means we'll do the lm count as well this thing I also stored inside my state memory okay that is my shared memory now first of all I'll define my flight agent okay the first agent let's define the first agent So this is my first agent.

Flight agent. Okay. So I named it as a flight agent. It will take this state. Okay.

As a shared memory. Then uh first of all I'm taking the user query from this state. And we are doing the flight search operation with the help of this search flight function we have written inside my flight tools. Okay. That is why I'm not using this function as a tool custom tool.

Instead of that I'm using inside my agent. Okay. I think you remember uh I think you get it right. Why I'm not using custom function? Yeah.

So I'm using directly inside my agent. So it is doing the search operation. Uh it will get the flight information and I'm returning the flight information as a result and AI message. Okay. The flight result fetched.

Then I'm also doing the LM count. That means uh initially my LLM call should be zero. Okay. So I'm just uh getting that particular data and I'm doing the plus one add operation. That means if initially it was zero it will add the plus one that means one LM call I have done that's how many time LLM call I will try to do I'll just try to update this LM calls okay done so this is my first agent we have prepared now let me define the second agent which is nothing but hotel agent okay now let's define the hotel agent now what hotel agent do it will use the tabularly search and it will get the hotel informations see this is my next agent which is hotel agent so again it will take the state and this is the query best hotels for user query that means if user is giving let's say I want to visit uh Japan from Bangladesh so Japan best hotel it will try to find right and for this we're using tably search functionality so this is the tab search functionality it will found best hotels okay from the internet and it will return it here then I'm returning this hotel result as well as the AI message hotel information fetched and again we are updating the lm calls with plus one okay I think you get it so this is my second agent now I'll try to define in my third agent which is itinonary agent.

Okay. So basically this will uh do the uh plan it will basically uh create the places to visit activities all of this thing right. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to utilize the large language model here because without large language model I can't generate the plan right so that's why I have to use the large language model. So this is my uh next agent. Okay inside back end.py

I have to write this is my uh itinary agent. Okay, as you can see itinary agents this is taking the state and this is the prompt I'm defining. So create a complete travel itinary uh user query. This is the user query. This is the flight result.

This is the hotel information. Okay. Make the itinary a practical budget hour and easy to follow. Okay. Now here we are ining the LLM.

The LM we have defined. I think remember this is the LM we invoking the LM with this prompt. We are giving the system message you are expert table planner and this is the human message we are giving as a prompt. Okay. Then after that we are returning the itinary response message as well as the LLM call we are also updating.

Okay. I hope you get it. So that's how we are completing the third agent which is itinonary agents. Now we'll be creating the final agents which is final response agents. That means it will take all of the results and it will combine everything.

It will generate a final response for me. Okay. So let's try write it here. Uh so this is the result for final response. So this is our final agent.

It will take this state again and this is the final prompt. Generate the final trial response for the user. This is the user query, flight information, hotel information and this is the uh itinary plan. Format the final answer beautifully using these sections. That means it will have the trip summary, flight information, hotel suggestion, daybyday, itinary, estimated budget, final recommendation and some important note as well.

Okay. So yeah, this is my entire prompt and we are again booking the LLM. We are giving the system message. You're a professional AI travel booking assistant and this is the human prompt you're giving and whatever response I'm getting, I'm returning as a response and I'm updating my LM call. Okay, that's how we have completed four agents implementation.

Okay, now we'll try to build the graph. So in like graph we have to define the graph. Let's try to define the graph right now. So we'll build the graph. So to build the graph first of all I have defined my state graph.

I passed my state and this is going to be my graph. Now we'll try to add all of the nodes one by one. First of all I will add my flight agent then hotel agent then itinerary agent then final respond agents. All the agents I'll try to add one by one. So these are my agents.

Okay, I'm adding the nodes. Flight agent, flight agent, hotel agent, hotel agent, itinary agents, itinary agents, flight agents, flight agents, sorry, final agent, final agents. I have added all of the agent node. Now I have to do the age connection. Okay, that means flight agents would be connected to the hotel agent, hotel agent would be connected to the itinary agents, final agents would be connected to the final response agents.

Okay, that is the connection we have to build right now. So, let me show you the connection. So, this is the connection. So, you can see start uh start to flight agents. Okay.

Then uh flight agents to hotel agents. Flight agent to hotel agents. Then hotel agents to itinary agents. Hotel agents to itinary agents. Okay.

Then itary agents to final response agent to final response agents and final respon agents to end. Okay. So this is the connection we had we have done. Now we have to define the postgrace checkpointer. So I think remember we already written a function called database URL.

So basically this returns the database URL. Okay. And we are um storing the URL inside a variable called database URL. Now I'll try to do the connection. So we are using uh psyg.

We are giving the database URL. Then auto commit is equal to true and row factory is equal to dro. Okay, these are the parameter I have to pass and it will give you the connection and this connection I have to pass inside my checkpointer. So postgress saver I think remember we imported from checkpo pointer here from lang gap checkpointter postgate postgress saver inside that we have to pass this connection and this will return the checkpoint and we have to do the checkpointter uh checkpointer dot setup once it is done then I'll try to pass this checkp pointer inside my graph okay we'll try to compile so travel graph is equal to graph graph dot compile and we are giving the checkpoint now all of this state would be saved inside my memory Okay. Then uh once everything is done, now let me write the function for my first API.

So this is the function final function. So run travel agent. So this takes the run user input and the trade ID. Okay. So first of all, if user is uh not given trade ID, so what I'm doing, I'm just uh generating a unique trade ID and uh we are preparing the configuration.

Okay, configurable inside trade ID. I'm passing my trade ID. Then I'm invoking my travel graph. Okay, so here we're doing the invoking. So we are giving the human message user input and initially my flight result, hotel result, itinary lm cost would be empty.

That's why I'm passing as a empty. Then I'm passing the configuration. Whatever result I'm getting, I'm just checking the content and I'm returning the response. That means my trade ID, answer, flight result, hotel result, it lm cost, each and everything I'm just returning on my front end. Okay.

And in from here I'll try to get the informations and uh what I can do I'll just try to show in my front end. Okay. The front end will try to create. Now let me test whether it's working or not. So what I can do I can maybe run this travel agent test.

I'll copy this and open my test.py. Let me import here. So from back end uh import run agent. Okay.

And then again I'll try to comment out. So response is equal [clears throat] to run table agent and I'll print the response even maybe what I can do I can instead of writing like that I can write a full loop. Okay let me show you I can write a for loop like that. So here I'm taking a user input uh from the user and um um okay instead of for loop maybe I can directly run okay then I'm running the travel agent this uh function and I'm passing the user input and trade ID uh just for testing purpose I've given test user and whatever response I'm getting I'm just u printing the response. Okay, now let me test.

So I'll just try to execute. So I'll just run python backend.py. Not backend.py, sorry.

It should be um it should be test.py. Pi. Okay, let's execute. Huh?

So, Python test.py. Now, it is asking the user input. So, let's give a input. So, this is my user input.

uh plan a complete 7 days India trip from Bangladesh including flights, hotel, uh sightseeing under two lakhs. Now let's see now see this is the entire plan I'm getting. So final response, the summary, flight information, hotel suggestions, dayby-day itinerary, then uh estimated budget, final recommendation. Amazing. Okay, it's working fine.

Now we have to add uh add this inside my user interface. Okay, right now my back end is ready. Okay, we are able to test it perfectly. Now we'll be creating the uh front end user interface with the help of fast API and we'll be writing the uh fast API uh fast API route. Okay.

Uh backend route and so that my front end can communicate with my um like back end. Okay. So for this we'll be using fast API service and fast API is a production grade um uh web framework. Okay. Especially API creation framework you can use.

Okay. So let's try to implement my first API code guys right now. And one more thing I want to show you. I already executed my uh workflow and it has executed successfully. I think we have seen that.

Now let me see whether it is able to store the checkpoint in my database or not. Now I'll open up my PG admin. And now if I refresh on my table right now if I go inside the table you'll see that all of the checkpoint has created. Okay. Now here is a checkpoint uh checkpointter table is there.

Now just try to right click and there's a option called view edit data. Now just click on all rows. Okay. If you do that you'll be able to see that all of the checkpoint it has saved here. See all of the checkpoint it has saved.

Okay. This is the state memory and it has also traced on my langid platform. Let me open my lang. done. If I go to my langu so trip AI if I go inside that now see this is the langismith execution even you can see the trade wise okay the test user uh trade we have given initially and this is the execution okay this is the execution it has done okay see amazing right now let's try to add my first API code so for this uh I'll open up my app.py

I and here let's define all of the code and I'm expecting guys you are already familiar with fast API here uh first API knowledge is required. So here what I'm going to do I'm going to import some necessary libraries. Yeah. So I'm importing path from path lip pack uvicon from fast API. I'm importing fast API request first API.

I'm importing HTML response, JSON response, static file, ginger templates and base model from pientic. So here I need piic just to define my um data structure. I think I already completed pientic videos as well on my um on my uh agenti course and why pyic is required. I already told you please guys to go through that session. Then I need another functionality which is my uh this function run travel agent from my back end.

Let me import it as well. So from back end import run agent. Okay. First of all let's create a base directory. Then I'll define my first API app.

That's how we can define the first API app. So I have named it as AI travel planning system. Or maybe I can give this name trip AI. Okay, tripate AI. So this is a lang multi- aent travel planner with fast API front end.

And this is the version we have given. Okay. Now first of all you have to mount your static folder as well as the template folder. So let's mount because inside static you have JavaScript and CSS and template you have the HTML. So we are doing the app domount static and this is my static fold file uh file directories okay we are giving it and similar wise we have [snorts] to give the templates as well.

So you can see ginger templates I am passing my directory which is templates inside that I have my HTML content. Now what I have done guys I have already uh generated HTML CSS code from chart GPT for this uh project. See if you don't know about HTML CSS design it's completely fine that is there would be a separate front-end developer for that. uh they will be using some other front- end framework like NexJS, react okay with the help of that they will be creating the front end server for you and then they will be connecting with your first API back end right so if you don't know about HTML CSS completely fine just try to go through chat GPT and just tell I need this kinds of interface okay just give me the HTML CSS and JavaScript code charge GPT will give you and you just need to copy paste here and you you need to modify with respect to your requirement so I've done the same thing so this is my HTML code I generated from chart GPT uh for my user interface and then I modify it okay as per my requirement. So here title wise I can give my name trip materi.

So that's how you can uh modify the data data property with respect to your requirement. Okay. Whatever data you have inside HTML content just try to change. So this is a simple code I have generated from charge JPT and it needs a CSS okay just to load the design. So CSS style.

So I'll again try to give this CSS design here in my CSS file static CSS style CSS file. So this is the CSS codes design. Okay. I have added okay again I generated from chat GPT. Then just to communicate with my front end uh the just to communicate with my first API route I need this scriptjs.

So again I prepared with the help of charg. So this is my javascript code and hit it hits my first API route. Okay I'll tell you what are the route it will hit just to get the data. So first of all it will hit my API travel. Okay, API travel means it will uh hit that API travel route and it will get the uh it will get the entire plan.

Okay, that means whatever execution I showed you right now, these are the information it will try to get and it will try to show in my front end. Okay, this is what it is doing. Now, let me show you. First of all, let me define all the routes one by one. So, first of all, I'll try to define my pantic schema travel request.

I'm inheriting with the base model and this has the message and trade ID. Okay. And this is my default route. This is my default route. If you visit my app, first of all, it will launch my HTML page.

And this is the final API route. This is my final API route as you can see API/travel. If you hit that and again I'm using asynchronous, okay, asynchronous functionality. Why asynchronous? Because it will run my agent is a asynchronous way.

Okay, that means parallel execution it will do. I think I already covered this asynchronous as well in my playlist. Just try to go through that. So asynchronous uh I'm running you can see travel planner it will take the uh information from the user that means the user input whatever user input will pass from the input box. First of all I'm checking if user is not available.

I'm returning message can cannot be empty. Then if available I'm running my run travel agent that means this function. Okay, this function I have imported from back end. So this function will return what result okay and from the result we're extracting these are the content and we're returning okay in my front end and if some exception is occurring I'm handling the exception okay and uh some other route I need uh sometimes uh it will check the health condition of my first API server so for this it will hit this route / health and it will if everything is uh working fine it will give uh status is okay and this is running and some icon to load some icon actually you need this one okay now uh finally I'm going to execute my server with the help of uon run so app clone app because this is app file and my object is app my objective app okay then uh host and port number and reload is equal to true so these are the things you have to provide okay now in this uh javascript I'm calling this route if I show you if I do just ctrl f and paste see This is what actually I'm executing. So whenever user is generating the response, it is hitting here.

Okay. And it is getting the information. Let me show you. So I'll execute my app right now. So python app.py.

See this is running on local host port number 8,000. So I'll come here. Search for local host port number 8,000. See this is your application. Okay.

Uh you can see this is your application. Now here you have to give the input. So let's say I'll give this input Dubai trip. Plan a 5 days Dubai trip from Dhaka with flights, hotels and sites uh site syncs. Now if I see click on generate plan that time it will hit this route.

Okay, hit this route and it will get all of these uh information. It will generate all of the information then it will get and show in the front end. Let me show you. See uh okay uh just terminating. Okay.

Because my previous application is running. Okay. I already executed my uh this app previously just to show you. So let me first of all stop this execution. Okay, now it will run.

It's running. Now refresh again. Now let me give this prompt and generate the plan. Now see this is the entire plan we are getting. Okay.

in a beautiful format. Okay. And there is a download PDF button and how this is coming because of the front- end design we have done. Okay. So this work uh this work is completely uh responsible for front- end designer.

So uh you just tell them okay what you need. So if you need this kinds of download PDF or if you need let's say uh any u download any markdown file you just tell them okay they will try to prepare for you and you can um you can just use that as it is. Okay. And this is the trade it has created. Okay.

Uh because we haven't passed any trades. That's why it has created a um randomly generated trades. Okay. So that's how we can give any kinds of prompt. Right now let's say instead of Dubai I'll give maybe Thailand.

See this is the plan for the Thailand. So this is the summary. This is the flight information. This is the hotel suggestions. This is the dayby-day itinary.

Uh first day, second day, third day, fourth day, fifth day, sixth day, 7 days. Okay. And estimated budget unit. Then final recommendation. Okay.

Amazing. Right? Now I can easily download this file and I can uh I can store in my mobile phone. Okay. And I can use it anytime.

So yes guys that's how we can implement this entire system and if I show you my checkpoint right now if I again do let's say refresh see all of the checkpoint would be available all of the conversation me would be available inside my postgress see okay now see initially I executed test user now this is the current user the current trade okay current execution and these are my messages now you can also see the um lang. So if I go to the lang smmith uh if I again refresh now another trade should be created. See this is the trade and two conversation I have done. Now this is the two conversation. Now you can see all of the informations.

Okay. Which tools it is using each and everything is visible here. Input and output each and everything. Okay. So amazing guys.

We have successfully completed our uh implementation and it is working fine. Now what I want to do guys, I want to deploy it over the render cloud. Okay. So I'll deploy this uh project on my render cloud. But before that let me commit the changes.

So here I'll just try to app add it commit and see the changes. Okay. Now if I go to my GitHub refresh now see it's updated. Okay. Now it's ready for the deployment.

Now let's do the deployment of this application. Okay. So guys for the deployment uh we'll be using docker. Um so let's create a file here. I'm going to name it as docker file.

And inside that you have to mention all of the docker related command. And uh if you don't know about Docker guys u docker is a containerization service and this tutorials uh this tutorial is already available on my YouTube channel. Let me show you. So if I go to my YouTube right deals with BP. So if you go to the video section I already have a full MLOps course.

Okay here if you see here uh this is the MLOps course. You can open it up. And this course already covered the docker. Okay. Yeah.

So see docker for mlops. You can um at least go through this docker part. Okay. And try to master the docker. And if you're interested learning entire mlops, this is already available.

This is around 12 hours of recording. You can go through that. Okay. And if you like the content, please try to subscribe to my channel. So docker is required.

I'm expecting you already familiar with docker. So simply I'll try to add all of the docker related command here. So this is these are my docker related command guys. As you can see first of all I'm taking a beige image 3.11 creating working directory uh adding some environment variable then uh running some commands copying the requirement.xt

file then installing the requirement.xt file copying all of my source code then uh this thing I don't need. I'll just try to remove this thing I not did. Then I have to expose the port. Okay, port should be uh port number 8,000 I think.

Right, we are using port number 8,000. So I'll try to add port number 8,000 here. And uh we running the command hicon app file uh local host and port number 8,000. H So this is my docker file. Okay, I need and for this I need to create another file which is dot docker ignore and here you have to mention all of the uh files and folder you you want to ignore during docker dockerization.

So these are the thing I'll try to ignore. Okay, during dockerization. So now let me push the changes again and what I'm going to do I'm going to also update the readmi file. Okay, I already created the uh Redmi file update. So I have added a beautiful Redmi content.

Let me show you. So this is the Redmi guys I have added. So I have given the entire um project summary features ST project structure prerequisite environment installation running the endpoint. Okay. So each and everything I have added.

So your project should have one beautiful readmi file guys. Okay. This is super important. So read me just try to add uh one more thing I want to add which is uh I will give my project name as it is now it looks good I think now it look [clears throat] it looks good so yeah uh I think we are done now let me commit the changes docker addit Now if I go to my GitHub refresh now see beautifully I have added the readme and each and everything. Okay now it is ready for the deployment.

Now what I'm going to do guys I'm going to open up my render cloud. Go to the dashboard. Now I'll create a new web service. Okay. Select this public git repo and copy this GitHub rep.

Okay. Copy this URL and paste it here and let's connect. Okay. See automatically it has taken and it is using the docker services. Okay.

For the deployment. So everything just keep it as it is. No need to change anything. Simply just create uh select this free instance. Okay.

So I'll select the free instance. But if you're doing like actual deployment, just try to take the subscription. Okay. Because free instance has having like very low configuration machine and there is some limitation as well. Okay.

Now once everything is fine, you have to add the environment variable. Okay. So what I can do maybe I can add it from myv file. So simply I can copy myv as it is. Okay.

And add the variables. Now it has added my GO API key. I can delete this one. Grow API key. This is my GO API key.

This is my aviation. This is my default origin. This is my table. This is my database URL. Now this database URL, you have to give the internal database URL.

Okay. So again I will go to my render. go to my postgress server and go below and copy this internal URL. Okay, this one. Copy this.

Okay, I'll copy this and uh add it here. So I've given my internal one. Okay. Then languid tracing endpoint, languid API key and Langmith project name. Okay.

So everything is fine. Now simply uh deploy the web service. Now it should take some time. First of all, it will build the docker image. So we'll wait guys.

Okay. Once this uh this is complete, this is live, then we'll be able to access that as it is installing the requirements. See um installation done. Now it is exporting my Docker image as a layer. And if you want to see the AWS deployment guys, this is already available on my YouTube uh on this playlist you can see AWS CI/CD deployment.

Okay, you can go through the CI/CD deployment. You can learn how to deploy as a CI/CD. Even this project also I have deployed as a CI/CD on AWS. Okay, you can refer it. And this is also CI/CD.

If you push your changes, uh it can upgrade your uh features, okay, automatically. Again, I created another tutorial like this one. Uh render deployment. You can go through that. so guys as you can see our application is live now.

Let's copy this URL and paste it here and if I hit enter so it should open your application. Now see our TripMate AI is live right now. Now let's uh test it. So I'll give this prompt. Okay.

uh 7 days India trip from Bangladesh. Now let's generate the plan. Now it's generating. Let's wait. Now see this is the entire plan we are getting.

Amazing. Right now it is live. Now you can share this with your friends and family. They can also access that and you can tell them just use my multi- aent right now just to prepare your trip. So yes guys this is all about from this implementation.

I hope you liked it. Okay guys, we have successfully completed our uh agent AI course with the help of Langraph. We have learned each and everything whatever uh are required to implement this kinds of agentic system. Now u I have uh another plan guys uh actually I have designed some more phases okay for the future and this is available on my channel on DS with Buppy YouTube channel. So this is my channel guys DS with BPY.

So here I only completed the langraph right lang graph agentic uh AI orchestration framework and uh we have implemented all of the AI agents with the help of langraph but what about the others framework okay there are some other frameworks are also available on the market uh like krui is there right and then Microsoft autogen is there N8 is there right so if you want to learn these are the framework also so you can subscribe to my channel because in my channel I'll try to publish all of the video related these are the framework like crewi we'll try to master the entire crewi in depth we'll also implement some end to end agentic AI application with the help of crewi we'll be also learning about the Microsoft autogen already I have Microsoft autogen playlist okay uh I will upload all of the recording related autogen okay we'll be also implementing some projects end to end projects then I'll be covering the no code platform as well like n okay this would be also available on my YouTube channel then uh one very interesting ing and important concept which is MCP. So this MCP I didn't cover in this course right uh in this my uh agenti with langraph course because this is already like a very long course we have recorded so far it is around uh 25 hours of recording okay so that's why uh all of these uh concept like MCP autogen crew AI okay these are the recording would be available on my YouTube channel okay these are the video would be available on my YouTube channel so please try to refer my YouTube channel you can subscribe to my YouTube channel so I think you'll be enjoying a lot the future phases as well. Okay. So, we'll try to master the entire model context protocol in my YouTube channel. Then phase uh 10, we'll try to cover the AI safety and evaluation.

Nowadays, if you are creating any kinds of agent application, this is super important uh to know like how we can add the AI safety evaluation pipeline inside your agents. Uh definitely we have to master the guardrails and safety. We'll try to see prompt injection, security tools, restriction, AI safety patterns. Okay, these are the concept we have to cover and everything would be available on my YouTube channel. Okay, that means these are the future phases would be available on my channel DS with Buppy.

And if you want to understand, if you want to learn these are the concept, you just need to subscribe to my channel and all of the content would be available on my YouTube channel. Okay. So yes, uh if you found my content useful guys, please try to subscribe to my channel and support me. If you're supporting me, definitely I can bring this kinds of content more in future and uh yeah, I think uh you'll be learning a lot. And if you want to connect me, so this is my LinkedIn profile bulk bi.

Simply you can follow me here. You can connect me here. And if you have any kinds of query, you can ask me. If you need any kinds of guidance, you just uh ping me on my l uh LinkedIn. Definitely I'll try to help you with that.

So yes guys, this is all about from this course. I hope you enjoyed a lot. So thank you so much for watching and I will see you next time.