---
video_title: "Your Time Machine Broke - At The Worst Time In History"
video_id: NYNBAxDfgrY
channel_name: "Kurzgesagt – In a Nutshell"
channel_id: UCsXVk37bltHxD1rDPwtNM8Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NYNBAxDfgrY
video_date: 2025-04-22
video_description: |
  Go to https://brilliant.org/nutshell/ to dive deeper into these topics and more with a free 30-day trial + 20% off the premium subscription! This video was sponsored by Brilliant. Thanks a lot for the support!
  
  The next Limited Pin is dropping soon! Subscribe to our newsletter to find out first: https://shop.kgs.link/newsletter
  
  Sources & further reading:
  https://sites.google.com/view/sources-brokentimemachine/
  
  What happens when your time machine breaks and you end up stranded millions of years ago? You’ve landed in a world that’s nothing like today, facing deadly storms and unbearable heat, breathing toxic air. 
  How can you survive long enough to make it back home? 
  
  
  OUR CHANNELS
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  German:        https://kgs.link/youtubeDE
  Spanish:        https://kgs.link/youtubeES
  French:          https://kgs.link/youtubeFR
  Portuguese:  https://kgs.link/youtubePT
  Arabic:           https://kgs.link/youtubeAR
  Hindi:             https://kgs.link/youtubeHI
  Japanese:     https://kgs.link/youtubeJA
  Korean:          https://kgs.link/youtubeKO
  
  
  HOW CAN YOU SUPPORT US?
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  This is how we make our living and it would be a pleasure if you support us!
  
  Get Products designed with ❤️ https://shop.kgs.link
  Join the Patreon Bird Army 🐧  https://kgs.link/patreon  
  
  
  DISCUSSIONS & SOCIAL MEDIA
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Instagram:     https://kgs.link/instagram
  TikTok:           https://kgs.link/tiktok
  Reddit:            https://kgs.link/reddit
  Discord:          https://kgs.link/discord
  Twitter:           https://kgs.link/twitter
  Bluesky:          https://kgs.link/bluesky
  Facebook:      https://kgs.link/facebook
  Newsletter:    https://kgs.link/newsletter
  
  
  OUR VOICE
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  The kurzgesagt voice is from 
  Steve Taylor:  https://kgs.link/youtube-voice
  
  
  OUR MUSIC ♬♪
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  700+ minutes of kurzgesagt soundtracks by Epic Mountain:
  
  Spotify:            https://kgs.link/music-spotify
  Soundcloud:   https://kgs.link/music-soundcloud
  Bandcamp:     https://kgs.link/music-bandcamp
  Youtube:          https://kgs.link/music-youtube
  Facebook:       https://kgs.link/music-facebook
  
  The soundtrack of this video:
  SoundCloud: https://bit.ly/4cDwyd0
  Bandcamp: https://bit.ly/42BGizV
  
  If you want to help us caption this video, please send subtitles to subtitle@kurzgesagt.org
  You can find info on what subtitle files work on YouTube here:
  https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734698?hl=en-GB&ref_topic=7296214
  Thank you!
  
  
  🐦🐧🐤 PATREON BIRD ARMY 🐤🐧🐦
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Many thanks to our wonderful Patreons (from http://kgs.link/patreon) who support us every month and made this video possible:
  Thomas Heffernan, Lily, Allan Curtis, Gick, Patrick Bonner, Mee Chan, Benno, Inma Reis, Erin McKeehan, Danielle Ritchie, Fernando Gámez Losada, Krunk, Owen Smith, Alex Bouez, David McCormack, Kévain G., BrentD, Katie Garber, Kevin Aluwi, icyberg, Boris, Cobaltergeist, Matzuta, Jaken8tor, Tina Martinez, TheNocturnist, Arjun Singh, Sidney Story, ManlioRN, TNT TV Gaming, OffBeatBunny, Haezan, Marcin Gajda, Jindřich Vlášek
---
Your time machine broke and you are stuck in the worst time in history. It feels like you stepped into an oven. There are no plants or any vegetation, and almost no moisture in the air. The sunlight smashing down from the cloudless and weirdly colored sky is reflected by an endless sea of red and orange sand dunes stretching over the horizon, for thousands of kilometers.Dust devils the size of buildings dance over the hellish landscape.

You are in the Early Triassic, Hothouse Earth 250 million years ago, a few million years after the worst mass extinction in history. The planet is still suffering from a permanent fever. Volcanism and the runaway greenhouse effect has transformed the planet into hell. There is three to five times more CO2 in the air than in the human era. The formation of the massive supercontinent Pangea led to the largest desert in history that barely sees any rain. The gigantic ocean is

warm even deep below. Two superheated currents circulate around the globe, pumping extreme amounts of heat and moisture into the atmosphere. There is no ice even at the poles. Seems like you are stuck in the center of the desert, isolated by endless ancient land masses. One of the most hostile environments Earth has ever produced. The deserts

we know are still full of life, but not this one. Its core is starved of moisture and the air is bone-dry. Your skin dries out immediately and your lips begin to crack. The CO2-rich air is easily 50°C and sears your lungs with every labored breath. The rubber soles of your boots begin to melt. Your sweat evaporates before

it could cool you and your exposed skin begins to crack within minutes. Suddenly it becomes even hotter as a red sandstorm envelopes the landscape. Like thousands of tiny sparks, burning hot sand hits your skin. You stumble back into your machine and press buttons at random – it can’t do time travel but it can still move. You’re pressing your machine’s buttons at random – it can’t do time travel but it can still move.

You shoot over some of the mightiest mountains Earth has ever seen. Eventually, you stop at the shores of the Tethys Sea. The vast shallow ocean looks more like a swamp, among scattered groups of waist high ferns and spindly stems with tufted foliage. A few Lystrosaurus feeding on them eye you curiously. The water is murky and looks sickly and milky.

Colourful mats of bacteria float on the surface like oil slicks. The air is hot and humid like a steam room. It’s hard to breathe and your sweat can’t evaporate and cool you. Even the water can’t give you any relief – it is as hot as a freshly-run bath tub. This hot ocean can’t hold much oxygen, especially in deeper layers. Bacteria and bivalves are the only species that thrive here.

The waves move almost sluggishly through this thick bacterial soup. When they break, they leave behind a glistening iridescent film. Each wave that hits the shore releases a mist that makes your eyes and throat burn, carrying the rotten-egg stench of hydrogen sulfide up from the oxygen-starved depths. Barely conscious from the heat and smell and CO2, you look at the horizon. A storm is building unlike any you've ever seen. The hot ocean feeds it endless energy and with

no continents to slow it down it will dwarf the fiercest hurricanes of your time. You are doomed. Your broken time machine jolts and screeches, something is happening…

You are near the equator, in the late Carboniferous, 320 million years ago. The atmosphere is thick with moisture. The climate is locked in a never ending wet super summer, without any other seasons. Colliding continents are covered by the largest swamps the planet will ever see. A paradise for plants, growing faster than their dead biomass can decompose. The

ground beneath is a warm, soggy mass of decaying vegetation. What will be an endless desert in 70 million years is now an endless alien jungle. A huge variety of life is thriving in this period. From your perspective this is not that great. You are lost in a maze of giant tree-like plants towering over a twisted undergrowth of giant ferns and endless varieties of bizarre and unfamiliar vegetation.

The thick humid air smells of sweet decay but breathing makes you dizzy - your vision seems too sharp, your thoughts slightly frantic. The dense plant cover has supercharged the atmosphere with oxygen, 60% higher than in the human era, and your body is trying to cope. Which is great for the dominant land animals which have conquered every niche of this majestic garden: bugs. You are stuck in the golden age of arthropods. In this oxygen-rich world, they have evolved to sizes that will never be possible again. They are innumerable and everywhere.

Armoured cat-sized Megarachne crash through the undergrowth, hunting a swarm of panicked roachoids that scatter in all directions. Above you a griffinfly with wings spanning nearly a meter and beating like helicopter blades catches a Palaeodictyoptera mid-flight. You stumble through the bushes filled with countless crawling creatures as an Arthropleura the length of a car picks its way through the ferns, moving countless legs in hypnotic waves. You reach a swampy clearing and stumble into the shallow water, dizzy and terrified as a Pulmonoscorpius rips apart its prey, eying you with some interest. Here in the clearing you can see the sky above the canopy glow shrieking red, intensifying at an alarming pace. The extreme humidity here creates

sudden, violent thunderstorms. And the oxygen-rich atmosphere makes everything dangerously flammable. Even the wet vegetation can burst into explosive flame with the slightest spark. Why do all of your trips end in a storm? Well, at least it will take all the creatures that want to eat you with it… Your broken time machine jolts back to life, the world is folding in on itself.

You’ve woken wake up in the Early Devonian 400 million years ago. Much of the planet is covered in shallow seas, while the land is mostly rocky plains and mountains broken by braided rivers and mudflats. Earth is in a state of transition. For about 100 million years life has begun to break down rocks into soil – a soft layer that enables plants to grow and life thrive. The ozone layer is slowly building up, fed by organisms releasing gases.

Recently this process has been speeding up, the land is turning from toxic to semi habitable. The sky looks wrong somehow. The sun blazes harsh and white, barely filtered by the unfamiliar atmosphere. The air feels thin with only 15% oxygen compared to today’s 21. Each breath feels shallow and unsatisfying. You are on the verge of

passing out and can only move slowly. At least it is currently moderately warm and not stormy. But it's what dominates these lands that makes this world truly alien. Reaching up to 8 meters into the sky are massive obelisks of fungal Prototaxites. As you walk closer, you notice spores catching the sunlight, drifting through the air like tiny stars. Your movement

disturbs more of them, creating clouds suspended in the thin atmosphere. They coat your skin with a fine, powdery, itchy film. You try not to think about how many you're inhaling with every breath in this oxygen-poor air. The ground feels nothing like soil. It's mostly rock partly covered by a thin, slightly springy layer of decomposing matter. Some shallow water

pools reflect the pale alien sky above. Between the fungal towers, there is a carpet of smaller fungi and a few alien-like primitive plants – no flowers, no leaves, just strange green stalks and fern-like structures that reach your ankles. Around you, the fungal towers rise like pale pillars, their surfaces neither smooth nor rough but something in between. They're neither wet nor dry, slightly yielding under your touch. Small patches of what might be lichen create splashes of muted greens and yellows on their surfaces.

The only animals you can spot are a few insects burrowing into the large mushrooms. Everything is eerily quiet. You sit down on a rock. Is this it? As the night approaches, the pale sky shifts into sickly purples and greys bleeding into the darkness. No animal sounds announce the coming night. Just the solemn whisper of the

prototaxites creaking in the wind. Through the thin atmosphere the stars and the milky way illuminate the scenery with unsettling clarity. The fungal towers loom as pale shapes against the starlit sky, their silhouettes seeming even more wrong in the darkness. You are utterly alone - a time traveler lost in an alien world… Your time machine sputters…

What now?

Time to start rebuilding civilization! And while a hammer and saw would come in handy, the single most important tool you’ll need is your mind. Enter our friends at Brilliant, who can transform your mind into a Swiss Army knife capable of tackling all kinds of problems. Brilliant helps you get smarter every day, with thousands of bite-size, interactive lessons on anything you might be curious about. Level up your skills in math and logic with hands-on, visual challenges that feel like a game. Learn to think like a scientist,

exploring the physics of everything from a game of pool to black holes. And plug into the big ideas powering technology as you build real skills in programming, AI, data analysis, and more. Brilliant has a huge library of lessons to explore, with new lessons added each month. In each one, you learn through discovery—by trying things yourself. In just minutes a day, you’ll become a better thinker and problem solver, with all the tools you need to transform the world for the better.

To explore everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit Brilliant.org/nutshell or click on the link in the description. You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.