---
video_title: "What If It Rains Bananas For A Single Day? (Spoiler: It's Bad)"
video_id: tRXy-b6_lBc
channel_name: "Kurzgesagt – In a Nutshell"
channel_id: UCsXVk37bltHxD1rDPwtNM8Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRXy-b6_lBc
video_date: 2025-05-06
video_description: |
  Get the exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here: https://nordvpn.com/kurzgesagt It's risk-free with Nord’s 30-day money-back guarantee!
  
  Turns out, it’s not birbs running kurzgesagt, but hardworking humans. Support our video creation by getting a thoughtful product made with love on the kurzgesagt shop: https://shop.kgs.link/love
   
  Sources & further reading:
  https://sites.google.com/view/sources-nostupidquestions/
  
  Can jellyfish power Tokyo? What would happen if it rained bananas for a day? We're taking two of your most absurd (and brilliant) questions and answer them with real science. 
  
  
  OUR CHANNELS
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  German:        https://kgs.link/youtubeDE
  Spanish:        https://kgs.link/youtubeES
  French:          https://kgs.link/youtubeFR
  Portuguese:  https://kgs.link/youtubePT
  Arabic:           https://kgs.link/youtubeAR
  Hindi:             https://kgs.link/youtubeHI
  Japanese:     https://kgs.link/youtubeJA
  Korean:          https://kgs.link/youtubeKO
  
  
  HOW CAN YOU SUPPORT US?
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  This is how we make our living and it would be a pleasure if you support us!
  
  Get Products designed with ❤️ https://shop.kgs.link
  Join the Patreon Bird Army 🐧  https://kgs.link/patreon  
  
  
  DISCUSSIONS & SOCIAL MEDIA
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Instagram:     https://kgs.link/instagram
  TikTok:           https://kgs.link/tiktok
  Reddit:            https://kgs.link/reddit
  Discord:          https://kgs.link/discord
  Twitter:           https://kgs.link/twitter
  Bluesky:          https://kgs.link/bluesky
  Facebook:      https://kgs.link/facebook
  Newsletter:    https://kgs.link/newsletter
  
  
  OUR VOICE
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  The kurzgesagt voice is from 
  Steve Taylor:  https://kgs.link/youtube-voice
  
  
  OUR MUSIC ♬♪
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  700+ minutes of kurzgesagt soundtracks by Epic Mountain:
  
  Spotify:            https://kgs.link/music-spotify
  Soundcloud:   https://kgs.link/music-soundcloud
  Bandcamp:     https://kgs.link/music-bandcamp
  Youtube:          https://kgs.link/music-youtube
  Facebook:       https://kgs.link/music-facebook
  
  The soundtrack of this video:
  SoundCloud: https://bit.ly/4iKpXyT
  Bandcamp: https://bit.ly/3EMxwr3
  
  If you want to help us caption this video, please send subtitles to subtitle@kurzgesagt.org
  You can find info on what subtitle files work on YouTube here:
  https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734698?hl=en-GB&ref_topic=7296214
  Thank you!
  
  
  🐦🐧🐤 PATREON BIRD ARMY 🐤🐧🐦
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Many thanks to our wonderful Patreons (from http://kgs.link/patreon) who support us every month and made this video possible:
  Nicolas Souilah, Jan, ihyx, Engbert Blaauw, Justin Ward Garza, Luke Schnipper, Ash Lee, Lubomir Hanulik, Dirty Talk Podcast, Danny Karapetian, C Hill, Penny Leigh Carlson, Michalina Ślemp, Rocky, Sonia Blair, Benjamin Ben David, William duck, Nick Elvis, Verteiron
---
Today, we are answering the stupidest – uhm, ok wait, the BEST and MOST AMAZING questions from you – our viewers! At kurzgesagt, we’re experts when it comes to tackling stupid questions, and on top of our own, we get hundreds from you on an almost daily basis! So let’s very seriously and scientifically answer some of them! Question 1: How many Jellyfish do you need to power Tokyo? Tokyo is a hungry beast, gobbling up around 280 terawatt hours of electricity every year.

That’s more energy than these twenty countries combined, and more than all of Australia. Can we power Tokyo with our innovative renewable energy source? Some jelly species like Aequorea victoria or Crystal Jelly contain fluorescent proteins and glow in the dark. If you put one of them in front of a tiny solar panel, you’d end up with something like a microwatt hour of energy. To meet Tokyo’s outrageous energy demands, you’d need: a quintillion three hundred quadrillion glowing jellies.

Hmmm...That’s too many. Can we use bigger ones?

How about Nemopilema nomurai, the Nomura jellyfish! Really chunky boys, weighing about as much as a piano and growing up to 2m wide, they’re armed with around a thousand spindly tentacles that grow up to four meters long and help them suck up plankton from the water. In recent years, their numbers have been exploding, wreaking havoc on local ecosystems. Using these fridge-sized jellies to power Tokyo will finally give them something more useful to do. They don’t glow in the dark but jellyfish are kind of electric, aren’t they?

Unfortunately: no. If you’ve ever been stung by a jellyfish you know it feels like a painful electric jolt – but the pain actually comes from hundreds of nematocysts inside their tentacles, tiny dart guns filled with venom. So how do we get energy from jellyfish? We’ll squeeze it out of them with the power of piezoelectricity! Piezoelectricity is an electric charge that builds up in certain solid materials like crystals or bone when you stress and squeeze them.

For example, a quartz crystal is made up of positive and negatively charged atoms arranged in repeating pyramid shapes. Their charges usually cancel each other out. But if you apply enough pressure, atoms shift out of place and the pyramids become kind of wonky. Positively charged on one side and negatively charged on the other – like a battery. Together they add up to a charge across the whole crystal. Piezoelectricity powers sonar, times quartz watches,

and some nightclubs use it to keep the lights on just from the stamping of dancers’ feet. So, here’s the plan: we will create a ginormous battery from jellyfish by harnessing the hypnotic movements of Nomura’s hundreds of long, thin tentacles. First, we squeeze our jellyfish, one tentacle at a time, into a kind of wetsuit made from nylon-11,11: a cutting edge material that has been optimized for power production and has the same piezoelectric properties as quartz. Next, we watch as each twitch of a tentacle bends the tiny nylon nanofibers of the jelly suit, converting its movements into electricity. All we need to do now is to plug our jelly into a current collector with a copper cable to be utterly disappointed.

Even with around 1000 tentacles wrapped in energy-generating nylon, the electricity generated only adds up to around 1 Watt, or 10 kWh per year. Enough energy to run your laptop for twenty days. Not bad, but we want to power Tokyo here! We need more jellies! WAY MORE! About 29 billion! Sounds like a lot,

and it is, but right now there are 27 billion chickens alive on Earth. So it's mostly a matter of motivation on our part. A single Nomura can produce millions of jelly babies a month, and with enough plankton to eat, they can grow from the size of a grain of rice to the size of a person in less than a year. If we want to breed a lot of them and fast, all we need to do is to basically empty the Pacific of plankton. And of course we’ll need space to store them all. Giving each Nomura a cube of

space measuring 5 meters on each side sounds generous, but it barely contains the tentacles. All those jelly-cubes add up to a tank that’s about seven times the total volume of Mt. Fuji. With all those tentacles and cables, our biggest issue will be short circuits. We need to insulate all 29 billion cables. And don’t forget the tentacles themselves. Now, even

if the jellies get tangled up, we can maintain a steady power supply for the good people of Tokyo. In reality of course, our jellyfish powerstation would be pretty difficult to maintain. Nomura would probably die constantly and need to be replaced. And the cost of building this whole mess and killing the ocean to feed them would be like spending $1 million dollars to buy a single dollar bill. We’re not saying any of this is a good idea. But now we've done the math,

there's nothing to stop you from giving it a try. Okay, bring on the next totally dumb, – uhm, completely reasonable question! Question 2: What if it rained bananas instead of water for a whole day? Ok, so first, we tried to calculate what would happen if for one day every single rain droplet was now a banana. Turns out in a storm, several million raindrops can fall on a single square meter. Which stacks quickly to the equivalent of a banana

asteroid smashing into the planet and killing all life. While fun, this is a bit too much. Instead let’s take the average volume of rain that falls on our planet in a single day, about 1.33 trillion tons of water – a massive, wobbly orb of water 14 kilometers across. Now let’s swap this water for bananas.

Each fruit weighs about 120 g, which will give us a daily banana-fall of 11.1 quadrillion bananas, weighing 1.33 trillion tons in total. If we match average global rainfall patterns, even the Sahara Desert would receive around 15 trillion bananas. If a medium sized banana has about 105 calories, 15 trillion Sahara bananas alone could already feed the world’s population for over two months. For the world as a whole the

calories of all rain bananas add up to a grand total of 1.2 quintillion calories. With just one day of banana rain we could go on feeding everyone on Earth for over a hundred years. Of course in reality, the banana rain would be pretty catastrophic. A banana falling from about 3000 meters, the height of a mid-altitude rain cloud, would reach a velocity of 240 meters per second and strike the ground with the same kinetic energy you’d get from dropping a bowling ball off a 50 m building. And we

are dropping almost thirteen over eleven quadrillion of them across the planet. One of the rainiest and therefore worst affected cities is London. It would face a storm of 21 billion bananas, or 2.5 million tons. The shower of yellow death breaks roofs, shatters windows, and decimates national monuments. Human bones are no match for this monsoon,

so we’d need to take shelter from the banana blitz inside or underground. All around the world, cities and infrastructure, rivers and rainforests are severely damaged and clotted with a layer of banana smoothie that’s already beginning to rot. Trillions of mashed bananas are floating in the ocean, clogging up coastlines. Picture the aftermath of all the worst oil spills and superstorms combined but way worse and kind of everywhere. And our problems are just getting started. The rotting banana

mush contains 160 billion tons of methane, 280 times our current annual emissions as a planet. Methane traps around 28 times more heat than CO2. Adding this much greenhouse gas this quickly will lead to a catastrophic and sudden spike in global temperatures. Most ecosystems won't be able to handle it and we’ll witness a devastating mass extinction event. In short, Banana rain is an apocalypse-level catastrophe.

Ok, hopefully your question has been properly answered. It's time to wrap up for today – please keep sending us your amazing questions, even and especially if they are stupid, we are collecting them and will answer more of them in the future! Well, that escalated quickly! Like that time I downloaded some random software from a sketchy website – not stupid at all. We tried out NordVPN to avoid that sort of catastrophe. Go to NordVPN.com/Kurzgesagt

to make sure malicious websites are blocked, webtrackers stopped and pesky ads are hidden. NordVPN’s Threat Protection scans files during downloads and removes malware and trackers automatically - and they warn you of any apps that seem risky – I am looking at you there! On top, NordVPN offers many more features: Summer is travel season and NordVPN encrypts your connection when you connect to unknown Wi-Fi stations in hotels, airports or cafés. You can choose from over 7,000 fast servers in 111 countries around the world. So you can also access your home content from abroad. You can also book flights,

hotels or rental cars more cheaply thanks to the price difference in different countries - regardless of whether you are surfing with a computer, tablet or smartphone. NordVPN is compatible with all major platforms and can be used on 10 devices simultaneously. If you want to discover all the services NordVPN offers go to NordVPN.com/Kurzgesagt to get 4 months extra on a 2-year plan - all risk-free with NordVPN's 30-day money-back guarantee.