---
video_title: "When Your Body Attacks Itself – Autoimmune"
video_id: efOW5NUTYB8
channel_name: "Kurzgesagt – In a Nutshell"
channel_id: UCsXVk37bltHxD1rDPwtNM8Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efOW5NUTYB8
video_date: 2025-07-01
video_description: |
  🔒 Get 20% off DeleteMe by going to https://joindeleteme.com/nutshell and use code NUTSHELL to protect your privacy!
  
  Turn your walls into a science masterpiece! Explore our expertly designed posters and directly fund our videos – only in the kurzgesagt shop: https://shop.kgs.link/science
  
  Sources & further reading:
  https://sites.google.com/view/sources-autoimmune/
  
  What happens when the immune system meant to protect you becomes your worst enemy? This is the betrayal of autoimmune diseases like Type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, celiac disease, lupus, Crohn’s disease, and many others. What exactly goes on in your body and why does it happen in the first place?
  
  
  OUR CHANNELS
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  German:        https://kgs.link/youtubeDE
  Spanish:        https://kgs.link/youtubeES
  French:          https://kgs.link/youtubeFR
  Portuguese:  https://kgs.link/youtubePT
  Arabic:           https://kgs.link/youtubeAR
  Hindi:             https://kgs.link/youtubeHI
  Japanese:     https://kgs.link/youtubeJA
  Korean:          https://kgs.link/youtubeKO
  
  
  HOW CAN YOU SUPPORT US?
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  This is how we make our living and it would be a pleasure if you support us!
  
  Get Products designed with ❤️ https://shop.kgs.link
  Join the Patreon Bird Army 🐧  https://kgs.link/patreon  
  
  
  DISCUSSIONS & SOCIAL MEDIA
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Instagram:     https://kgs.link/instagram
  TikTok:           https://kgs.link/tiktok
  Reddit:            https://kgs.link/reddit
  Discord:          https://kgs.link/discord
  Twitter:           https://kgs.link/twitter
  Bluesky:          https://kgs.link/bluesky
  Facebook:      https://kgs.link/facebook
  Newsletter:    https://kgs.link/newsletter
  
  
  OUR VOICE
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  The kurzgesagt voice is from 
  Steve Taylor:  https://kgs.link/youtube-voice
  
  
  OUR MUSIC ♬♪
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  700+ minutes of kurzgesagt soundtracks by Epic Mountain:
  
  Spotify:            https://kgs.link/music-spotify
  Soundcloud:   https://kgs.link/music-soundcloud
  Bandcamp:     https://kgs.link/music-bandcamp
  Youtube:          https://kgs.link/music-youtube
  Facebook:       https://kgs.link/music-facebook
  
  The soundtrack of this video:
  SoundCloud: https://bit.ly/4l0NeP2
  Bandcamp: https://bit.ly/4eojUPW
  
  If you want to help us caption this video, please send subtitles to subtitle@kurzgesagt.org
  You can find info on what subtitle files work on YouTube here:
  https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734698?hl=en-GB&ref_topic=7296214
  Thank you!
  
  
  🐦🐧🐤 PATREON BIRD ARMY 🐤🐧🐦
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Many thanks to our wonderful Patreons (from http://kgs.link/patreon) who support us every month and made this video possible:
  Nooby3555, Jasmine Blanch, Ternich, Karel,Hayk Shahparonyan, jjktard, QVH, Julian Truniger, Bad Tanker, Max Ganaa, Business Goose, Ruben Grudzus, Feigel family, FJ, Esinam Bediako,Bruhnabis, Bernice Chen, Alex Salinero, Winthace, Jakob Shuey, One Point, xvskulblaka7, Logan Larson
---
Your immune system is an omnipresent, terrifying entity made of billions of nuclear weapons and kamikaze bombers, saturating every little tissue, bone and fluid in your body. It scans, patrols, and when it finds an enemy — it kills. But what if it suddenly decides that you are the enemy? This is the betrayal of autoimmunity – diseases like Type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, celiac disease, lupus and Crohn's disease and many more. Literally every tissue can be affected, from your nerves to your thyroid or joints.

They are all unique and different kinds of bad, from manageable to life changing to deadly. All share one fundamental property: Your immune system thinks some healthy part of you is the enemy. It’s like a country attacking itself: fighter jets bomb roads, snipers hunt doctors and baristas, artillery levels daycare centers. While there is usually a certain amount of genetic risk for autoimmunity, to get an actual autoimmune disease you also need a colossal case of bad luck on top of that. How does this work?

The Shape Of Life The fundamental building blocks of life are proteins. Like ultra complex lego blocks each of them has a precise shape, allowing them to perform highly specific tasks, like breaking down food or transcribing DNA. In total your body produces about 100,000 different proteins, or shapes. Your immune system evolved to constantly check the proteins of your cells and look for shapes that are not you – and to kill whatever is attached to them violently and brutally. Autoimmunity is when your soldier cells suddenly think that your own healthy and natural proteins belong to an enemy.

We explained this in more detail in this video – but in a nutshell: This is such a critical danger to your survival that your body created an entire murder university to prevent this from happening. Here, young immune cells go through ruthless training: if they recognize the shapes of your own proteins, they are executed immediately. But sometimes through sheer, dumb luck one makes it through. Right at this moment you probably have a few million cells patrolling your body with the potential to trigger an autoimmune disease. Another way to trigger autoimmunity is through our enemies: Some bacteria and viruses have evolved proteins that are extremely similar to the ones in your own body.

Because they just have to if they want to interact with your cells – and to stay hidden. We see this everywhere in nature, from moths that look like bark or crocodiles that disappear in muddy water. For bacteria your tissue is a hostile jungle full of angry predators looking for them. So they try to cover themselves in shapes that are very similar to your proteins. But both of these things are not enough, the final ingredient is a trigger event.

And a colossal case of bad luck. The War That Never Ends The trigger can be anything that activates your defenses. A common cold, the flu, a tiny wound. Any sort of infection floods your body with cytokines, signals that tell your body “this is a real fight, take this seriously” which truly wakes up your immune system. Intelligence cells start to gather proteins – shapes – from the battlefield.

These shapes are the physical information of what is going on and are carried to your lymph nodes, information distribution centers. Here, your heavy weapons – T cells – pass through, taking a look at the shapes that are being presented here. If they recognize the shape of an invader they activate the whole immune system and a few days later the attacker will be wiped out. But this time the worst things happen in the worst kind of way. Maybe an intelligence officer picked up a piece of one of your healthy cells that died in the battle, or maybe a bacteria had a protein pretty similar to one of yours. And by sheer, extremely bad luck,

a few months ago a single T cell that can recognize this shape survived the murder university. And today exactly this T cell happened to pass exactly this lymph node and is activated. This single T cell now starts a big immune reaction against your own body. It clones itself thousands of times, gathers other cells for support and streams into your tissue. When the misguided immune cells arrive they see nothing but enemies!

The proteins they are looking for are everywhere! Which can only mean that there is a full on invasion going on! They spread out and start attacking and killing your tissue. How bad is this? Well, it depends.

There are more than 100 different autoimmune diseases and basically any tissue can be affected. In Multiple Sclerosis your immune cells are attacking the insulation of your nerve cells, making them sort of short circuit or slow down dramatically. Causing numbness, muscle cramps, problems with your vision and concentration. In Type 1 Diabetes your immune system kills the cells that produce your insulin in your pancreas, starving your cells of glucose and turning your blood into acid. In Rheumatoid Arthritis angry cells invade your joints and literally start to dissolve cartilage and bone.

Lupus is a body-wide Blitzkrieg that attacks literally every part of your body causing painful, unpredictable and widespread destruction with a variety of bad symptoms. And almost all autoimmune diseases come with crushing fatigue and exhaustion. Because when you are sick, your immune system tells your body to shut down and rest. Even if the immune system is itself the attacker, it still sends out the same orders. It feels like you have the flu but the real enemy is your own body.

The worst part about autoimmunity is that it never stops. Your immune system is a self enforcing machine of destruction. The more “enemies” your initial autoimmunity cells encounter the more cells they clone and activate. So its nature prevents lasting peace. Why is your Body allowing this?

Most, if not all, autoimmune diseases have a genetic component but this is kind of weird. If some variants of genes are actively harmful to us, evolution should weed them out and make them less common. But up to one in ten people in the industrialized world suffers from them. So why did they stick around? Well when it comes to genes, we often have to work with trade offs – at their core autoimmune diseases always mean that your immune system is more aggressive – and while this is mostly bad, until recently in human history, this was pretty great.

In the past infectious diseases were the most common cause of death. Terrible pandemics ravaged our cities regularly, sometimes decimating communities. Researchers analyzed DNA samples from London cemeteries before, during, and after the Black Death pandemic that killed about half of the population. They found that individuals with gene variants that increase the risk for Crohn’s disease, seemed to have died at a much lower rate. What helped them against a deadly disease back then might make us vulnerable to autoimmunity today.

Evolution doesn’t care about perfect solutions, it is only looking for good enough. If variants made it more likely to survive the deadliest diseases, why care if down the line this might lead to something else? If you have an autoimmune disease you may only be alive because your ancestors carried these genes and survived a pandemic that wiped out their neighbours. And then a hot second ago we changed our world. Hygiene, antibiotics, vaccines and modern medicine revolutionized our lives and how we die.

So much so that most of us don’t even think a lot about infectious diseases – and this is great. But now we are left with genes that make our immune systems more aggressive for no good reason. Add a bit of bad luck and all these billions of nuclear weapons and kamikaze bombers take aim at the wrong target: You.

Your immune system isn’t the only part of yourself that can be turned against you. Data brokers are constantly collecting personal information like your name, address or information about your relatives. This data is valuable and can be sold to companies who want to show you ads that are tailored to you – but also more nefarious buyers who want to dox you, harass you, or even steal your identity. Today’s sponsor Delete Me can help you climb out of the shopping cart and claim back your privacy. We found their sign-up process easy and intuitive: you just submit your info to their subscription service and let DeleteMe’s privacy experts get to work.

Once you join, they start scrubbing your data from hundreds of data broker sites. After just seven days, you’ll get your first custom report showing you where your information was found and what was removed, allowing you to breathe more easily. From then on, DeleteMe keeps monitoring sites all year round and repeats the removal process, again and again if necessary. You can also make custom removal requests and get a real person to help you out. And with a DeleteMe family plan, your relatives are protected as well – our favourite feature to take care of the whole flock.

Get 20% off DeleteMe consumer plans when you go to joindeleteme.com/NUTSHELL and use promocode NUTSHELL at checkout or scan this QR code. Your data needs protection — join DeleteMe today to boost your digital immune system.