---
video_title: "What’s It Like to Be Killed by Nature’s Most Brutal Predator"
video_id: Xf-uUy5pdUI
channel_name: "Kurzgesagt – In a Nutshell"
channel_id: UCsXVk37bltHxD1rDPwtNM8Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xf-uUy5pdUI
video_date: 2026-07-07T14:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  🌏 Upgrade your online protection with an all-in-one security app! Get an exclusive NordVPN deal + 4 months extra here: https://NordVPN.com/Kurzgesagt
  Itʼs risk free with NordVPNʼs 30-day money-back guarantee!
  
  Visit https://www.youtube.com/@nightshift_kurzgesagt and explore the weird, beautiful, and sometimes unsettling side of history.
  
  Sources & further reading:
  https://sites.google.com/view/sources-superpredators/
  
  There is a hidden world filled with monsters you never heard of, from predators who spit acid and shoot harpoons, to armored hunters that devour their prey alive. Deep in the oceans, and even in fresh water from puddles and lakes, these microscopic super predators remained hidden in plain sight, and evolved over the last 2 billion years.
  
  What are the deadliest predators of the microworld, and what kind of bizarre biological weapons have they evolved over the past billions of years?
  
  
  OUR CHANNELS
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  German:        https://kgs.link/youtubeDE
  Spanish:        https://kgs.link/youtubeES
  French:          https://kgs.link/youtubeFR
  Portuguese:  https://kgs.link/youtubePT
  Arabic:           https://kgs.link/youtubeAR
  Hindi:             https://kgs.link/youtubeHI
  Japanese:     https://kgs.link/youtubeJA
  Korean:          https://kgs.link/youtubeKO
  
  
  HOW CAN YOU SUPPORT US?
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  This is how we make our living and it would be a pleasure if you support us!
  
  Get Products designed with ❤️ https://shop.kgs.link
  Join the Patreon Bird Army 🐧  https://kgs.link/patreon  
  
  
  DISCUSSIONS & SOCIAL MEDIA
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Instagram:     https://kgs.link/instagram
  TikTok:           https://kgs.link/tiktok
  Reddit:            https://kgs.link/reddit
  Discord:          https://kgs.link/discord
  Twitter:           https://kgs.link/twitter
  Bluesky:          https://kgs.link/bluesky
  Facebook:      https://kgs.link/facebook
  Newsletter:    https://kgs.link/newsletter
  
  
  OUR VOICE
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  The kurzgesagt voice is from 
  Steve Taylor:  https://kgs.link/youtube-voice
  
  
  OUR MUSIC ♬♪
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  700+ minutes of kurzgesagt soundtracks by Epic Mountain:
  
  Spotify:            https://kgs.link/music-spotify
  Soundcloud:   https://kgs.link/music-soundcloud
  Bandcamp:     https://kgs.link/music-bandcamp
  Youtube:          https://kgs.link/music-youtube
  Facebook:       https://kgs.link/music-facebook
  
  The soundtrack of this video:
  SoundCloud: https://bit.ly/3ZP5rHj
  Bandcamp: https://bit.ly/4gvIRsD
  
  SoundCloud: https://bit.ly/4wrImHU
  Bandcamp:https://bit.ly/4azU6Qs
  
  If you want to help us caption this video, please send subtitles to subtitle@kurzgesagt.org
  You can find info on what subtitle files work on YouTube here:
  https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734698?hl=en-GB&ref_topic=7296214
  Thank you!
  
  
  🐦🐧🐤 PATREON BIRD ARMY 🐤🐧🐦
  ▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀
  Many thanks to our wonderful Patreons (from http://kgs.link/patreon) who support us every month and made this video possible:
  Charlize Kusuma, David Chae, Dmitry, Ezequiel Buzan, Fucking Daft, Insa, Jake Castedo, Julien Bernard, K, K Mather, Konstantin Grohs, Krzysztof Krypczyk, Marijn verheggen, Meredith Blair, Phillip Shifflet, ROGER, SirKevin, Spence R., Thomas Lebedies, Tom Bricaud, ינון אטיאס
---
There are Kaijus with biological armour, who spit acid, shoot living harpoons, and eat their victims alive – and yet you have probably never heard of any of them: The Unhinged Super Predators of the Microworld Let’s go on a journey into the microworld and watch the monsters hunt from a safe distance. Down in the oceans and fresh water from puddles to lakes, the world is an endless biotopia that stretches seemingly forever in all directions. In a single drop of seawater there are about a million microbes and ten million viruses. Here we find our superpredators hunting their prey. Extremely weird creatures.

Protists, the first complex life forms with a nucleus that evolved about two billion years ago. They are the ancestors of all animals, plants and fungi. Today there are up to ten million species of protists, and we have yet to identify most of them. But we know they are incredibly diverse and bizarre aliens who are blurring borders that are clear in our world. Imagine a lion that stretches its leaves in the sun before it kills an antelope by splitting its head and shooting a poison tongue at it.

This is the kind of madness we are dealing with here. Let us observe how some of the most badass Kaijus protists hunt and kill. Killer Turtles with Poison Spears Ah, a swarm of Coleps hirtus, unsettlingly poisonous killer turtles. Their body is covered by a hard mineral armour made up of plates that fit tightly together and have pretzel shaped openings. This protection makes it really hard for other protists to bite and hurt them.

Between the plates hundreds of cilia emerge, hairlike structures that beat in waves and make the hunter spin like a drill as it shoots forward. With their fast drill-like attack they can bore into their victims and rip out chunks. What makes Coleps even more unsettling is that it often hunts in packs like velociraptors. It’s not like they coordinate, but: Coleps are attracted by the smell of death. They like to eat all kinds of other protists or single celled victims – but they are also not afraid to attack things much larger.

Mhm, what is that? The swarm seems to be getting excited. They have spotted a huge victim: a zebrafish that recently hatched from its egg. Its skin is still soft and transparent, it is 50 times larger than Coleps. But they don’t care.

Like angry turtles attacking a blue whale, a dozen Coleps spiral in on their victim. And now we see their actual, horrifying weapons. Around their mouth they are armed with a crown of a dozen poison syringes: Toxicysts. Kind of bubbly bags with a long coil and hollow needles filled with a deadly mix of poison. As the Coleps smash into the zebrafish their syringes discharge explosively, piercing the soft skin of the zebra fish.

A unique cocktail of 19 different chemicals is injected. They dissolve membranes, making cells burst open and die, and causing gaping wounds in the skin of the tiny animal. Coleps drill into the dying tissue, boring and ripping out chunks. The zebrafish shudders frantically and desperately tries to get away but the unhinged Kaijus follow and attack over and over. And it gets worse, the chemical noise of the battle attracts more Coleps and soon the tiny fish is hounded by hundreds of predators, shooting poison spears, drilling, devouring.

Within an hour the victim has been completely and utterly consumed. Ok, wow! We are truly lucky this part of nature is outside and tiny and we are inside and large. Another one please. There are enough invisible threats in our human world – like viruses online!

Nord VPN is our weapon of choice against these attackers. Go to NordVPN.com/Kurzgesagt to make sure malicious websites are blocked, webtrackers stopped and scam webshops identified. Nord VPN’s Next Generation Anti-Virus scans files during downloads, removes malware and blocks ads automatically – and they warn you of scam calls before you answer. NordVPN also protects you during travel season by encrypting your connection when you connect to unknown Wi-Fi stations in hotels, airports or cafés. You can choose from thousands of

servers in 224 locations around the world to access your home content from abroad. You can also book hotels or rental cars more cheaply thanks to the price difference in different countries – regardless of whether you are surfing with a computer, tablet or smartphone. NordVPN is compatible with all major platforms and can be used on 10 devices simultaneously. If you want to discover all the services NordVPN offers go to NordVPN.com/Kurzgesagt to get 4 months extra on a 2-year plan – all risk-free with NordVPN's 30-day risk-free refund guarantee.

Great, that’s sorted – back to tiny Kaijus! Invading the Slime Glass Fortress A small herd of a few billion cyanobacteria are feeding in the sunlight, minding their own business. They are one of the oldest organisms on earth producing oxygen for us all. They form filaments that are like green Giraffe necks eating the sun, with a harder outside shell and soft inside. Together, many filaments create a fortress.

They intertwine like threads and form a vast emerald carpet. To protect themselves they vomit out a defensive slime that encases them in a defensive cocoon. See- through like glass but strong, sticky and durable. The fortress is secure, the gates are closed. But one superpredator doesn’t care.

You are about to witness an ongoing billion year old war between the organisms that gave Earth its atmosphere and the Kaijus that eat them. A group of Pseudomicrothorax dubius wants to get into the fortress and eat the inhabitants. They are small hunters, like hairy, squished slugs with tiny innocent looking mouth holes. Their cilia flatter manically as they rapidly shoot through the water attacking the fortress. The Pseudomicrothorax throw themselves against it and try to penetrate the glassy wall but get stuck.

They are probing for weaknesses, trying to find an in or pull a living green thread out but without luck. Finally one of them discovers an in. A small weakness in the wall ripped by some larger creature. Now all hell breaks loose. The Kaijus push in, shredding the damaged defense like plastic wrap, their mouth-rings bristling with excitement.

The long bacteria try to escape, moving deeper into the fortress but it is too late. The predators waste no time and start sucking them in like living spaghetti. Their tiny mouth holes are rings made from twenty two tiny arms pulling in at a horrifying speed. Pseudomicrothorax doesn't have teeth, so instead it ejects hundreds of tiny vesicles filled with the equivalent of superaggressive stomach acid on the prey. Turning them into soup as they fill up their entire bodies with their prey.

Imagine a lion sucking up a whole giraffe and within a few seconds. Some Pseudomicrothorax don’t go for the ends but start sucking and dissolving bacteria in the middle, breaking their victims up and devouring them twice as fast – and a few predators suck on the same bacteria from both ends like they want to end up kissing. Once they have fed and filled with green gore the Kaijus calm down. Now the bacteria try to defend themselves but its a bit pathetic and slow, thousands have died already. They begin to produce a stiff sheath at their ends.

When a Pseudomicrothorax begins to try to suck it up, the bacteria pulls itself away, it breaks off and leaves its attacker hungry. As if our giraffe could lose its tail like a lizard to avoid the lion’s bite. And they produce more slime trying to fix the holes in the fortress and push the attackers out. They will be back tomorrow to storm the castle again. Ok that was weird.

MORE! The Ballistic Torpedo Shark This story begins with an environmental disaster: Alexandrium minutum, protists hiding behind thick cellulose armour plates are taking over the warm waters near the coast. Within days billions turn into quadrillions – a toxic algae bloom is clouding the water in rust red curtains. Each of them is a chemical weapons factory vomiting saxitoxin, one of the most potent neurotoxins on earth. Fish flee or die, shellfish store it inside and become incredibly dangerous for humans to eat.

But this explosion is waking up our final monster, that has waited out times of famine in the form of a spore. Now that prey is all around, Polykrikos kofoidii, the mecha fusion Kaiju, awakes. It is a merger of four individual semi beings that act as one bigger cell and looks like a stack of fused macarons with very disturbing filling. Eight flagella emerging from the grooves between them enable it to move quickly in all directions. Its favorite prey are other protists that cause toxic blooms, making it an accidental ally to humanity.

And it turns out Polykrikos is one of the fiercest super predators of the microworld, with a weapon of unprecedented power and complexity for a single cell: The nematocyst-taeniocyst complex. A double barrel, harpoon gun. It makes Polykrikos a dominant and horrifying predator that packs a punch way above an animal of its size. So let us watch it hunt! Polykrikos eerily behaves like a shark.

Instead of just going for Alexandrium straight on, it begins to circle it, looping around it closer and closer as if it was sizing up its prey. Let’s slow down time so we don’t miss anything… Suddenly Polykrikos attacks. The upper part of its nematocyst-taeniocyst complex discharges, its top explodes off and a finger-like dart smashes into the hard shell of the Alexandrium. It ruptures and covers the prey in a layer of slime. Just a moment later the second stage fires – a long coil with a sharp head unspools explosively, traversing the distance, pierces deep into the prey cell and anchors itself firmly.

Alexandrium desperately launches its defenses, crystalline trichocysts, hard little hedgehog spikes supposed to free itself, but to no avail. Polykrikos is too powerful and hungry – slowly the line begins to retract, pulling the victim into its now emerging mouth hole until its entire body is inside the monster, giving it a weird bulky appearance. Now trapped within, the prey is showered in acids that dissolve it alive as it powerlessly struggles to escape. Just as blood draws more sharks, more and more Polykrikos awake or are attracted and begin killing so mercilessly that they actually contain and then reduce the toxic algae bloom. In the end a balance is reached and the toxic spectacle ends.

The Kaijus that live deep down in the microworld are not good or evil, they are just life trying to survive a billion year long war that will only end when the sun burns our planet sterile. We are lucky to be large enough to not be aware of it. But next time you go for a swim remember: There is so much going on in a drop of water.

On our new channel, Nightshift, we are telling dark and novel stories from history that you might never have heard before. Same kurzgesagt, different vibe, new style, hand drawn and made with love by real birds. Here are some of our favorite moments:

Head over there now to subscribe and watch the other videos - for history like you haven’t seen it on Youtube before.