---
video_title: "Einstein Probe Just Detected a Completely New Type of Cosmic Explosion"
video_id: Q6E7xFFx8XU
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6E7xFFx8XU
video_date: 20260703
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a never before seen X-ray explosion
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.14341
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ad8b3f/pdf
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-024-02449-8
  Additional videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R1rJLs4MfL8
  https://youtu.be/5U3LSVKXPQg
  https://youtu.be/rreafQUpqQk
  0:00 Unusual X-ray explosion 
  1:25 X-ray astronomy renaissance 
  2:40 Einstein probe 
  3:08 Unusual burst captured 
  4:25 Possible explanations 
  6:20 Most likely explanation 
  9:40 More unusual GRB detections 
  10:20 Conclusions
  #science #astronomy #supernova 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to discuss a new mystery unfolding in real time in outer space. A mystery that was just uncovered by a brand new telescope inspired by, of all things, a lobster's eye. And in this case, it's a mystery in regards to one of these, one of these super powerful explosions in outer space that scientists actually thought we understood pretty well. But it turns out that's not the case, and turns out another one was just discovered that does not really make a lot of sense. And so, even though we understand things like, for example, tidal disruption events caused by black holes, gamma ray bursts caused by collapsing stars, and of course, supernova caused by exploding stars, here on March 5th of 2024, a telescope referred to as the Einstein Probe detected a completely new, strange explosion that seems to be different from everything we've known so far and does not fit into any known definition.

The explosion that flashed twice and then faded away in a way that challenges almost every theory we have for what this particular explosion could be. And so, in this video, we're going to take a look at some of the new discoveries and some of the new evidence, talk about what scientists have ruled out so far, and explore the science behind this very bizarre, very violent explosion. And I guess let's start with the obvious. So, what exactly happened and what detected it? Well, here, just as a side note, in the last 6 or so years, we've actually seen a kind of a renaissance and a sudden increase in interest for a lot of different X-ray observatories. As a

matter of fact, between 2019 and 2024, five separate missions have been launched by five separate agencies, all essentially dedicated to studying the X-rays. And so, in 2019, we had the eROSITA mission, whose mission is to map the sky in the X-ray spectrum, which by the way, it has done, and you can learn about this in one [clears throat] of the videos in the description. Then we have a joint mission by NASA and Italian Space Agency launched in December of 2021 referred to as IXPE, a mission whose focus is different types of exotic objects such as magnetars and black holes. Then we have the Chinese Leia and the Einstein probe that you see right here launched in 2022 and 2024. XRISM launched by the Japanese Space Agency collaborating with NASA most responsible for studying a lot of hot gas and EXPO Sat by the Indian Space Agency dedicated to studying X-ray polarization and a lot of bright cosmic sources. But it's this

mission the Einstein probe that actually uses a lobster eye technology to monitor wide regions of the night skies in the X-rays mostly looking for a lot of transient events or basically very bright explosions that has now officially caught a few of these very unusual events. And so while most telescopes have a relatively narrow view, the lobster eye here allows it to see a much wider area with relatively high sensitivity. And so in 2024, it was able to capture two separate flashes. The first one lasted for approximately 120 seconds and the second one, a much weaker one, approximately 250 seconds with about a 200 second pause between them. And well, in the world of astronomy, how fast something fades is actually just as important as how bright it is. And in this case, this source was

really strange because it seems to have dropped in its X-ray brightness extremely fast in just two days. And in the meanwhile, radio telescopes like the Australia Telescope Compact Array also picked up a signal, but this one did not disappear for several months. And it's this combination of a rapidly dimming X-ray mixed with an extremely long radio signal. That's actually kind of surprising and somewhat atypical. In other words, we've never actually seen anything like this, [clears throat] and there's no physical explanation for what seems to have happened here. We just

know that whatever this was, it was definitely very powerful. And so, in order to understand what this could be, researchers first of all compared all of the data they had with all of the other known explosions, and then tried to play a kind of a detective and essentially cross out anything that did not make sense. And so, first they looked at the most obvious culprit, a black hole. Could this be some kind of a tidal disruption event when a black hole destroys some kind of an object? Well, as we've discussed in previous videos, these do happen pretty frequently and do exhibit slightly different effects, but normally these events take months or even years to fade away and produce a very specific type of a curve that was extremely different in its appearance.

And so, compared to a typical TDE, here this double explosion disappeared very fast. Then they considered x-ray binaries. In essence, some kind of a binary object involving possibly a black hole or a neutron star with a star in its orbit. And usually in these systems, as the black hole or the neutron star feeds on its partner, it can occasionally, especially when it kind of overfeeds itself, produce very powerful explosions that do emit a lot of x-rays. And while some of these events can be short-lived, they don't typically produce very strong, long-lasting radio signals that were observed here. Okay,

what about just a typical stellar flare? For example, from some kind of a star, maybe even similar to our sun, producing some kind of a sudden emission. Well, our sun does actually do this, and some distant stars are known to produce superflares, but once again, radio emissions from a stellar flare usually only last minutes or maybe hours. But the radio signal from this event lasted for weeks, implying something much more energetic and something that potentially involved a lot of gas surrounding some kind of a central object. In this case, they also ruled out the mysterious magnetars, which are known to produce unusual explosions once in a while. But

in this case, magnetars usually peak and disappear in less than a second, far too fast for what's observed here, which essentially leaves us with maybe one possible explanation that still kind of makes sense, or at least kind of fits with what we've seen before, although not perfectly. So here, this could be some kind of a gamma-ray burst. And in this case, gamma-ray bursts or GRBs are known to be some of the most powerful explosions in the universe, very often caused by very massive stars collapsing and releasing a lot of energy all at once, very often through these very powerful astrophysical jets. Although in some cases, they can also be produced by colliding neutron stars, which very often result in a slightly different observation. And while this double flash pattern is actually extremely common for gamma-ray bursts and has been seen in most of them. As a matter of fact,

pretty much all gamma-ray bursts are also followed by a very long radio signal that fades over time and sort of matches the same afterglow observed from this event. This is usually the result of massive jets of particles moving near the speed of light and interacting with a lot of gas on the way. Except that there is maybe one catch. There were no actual gamma-rays detected from the source. In other words, this event was basically only visible in the X-rays and radio light, but no gamma-rays were detected coming from anywhere. In other words, it was a

gamma-rayless gamma-ray burst. Although here, scientists behind this paper are referring to this as gamma-ray dark transients, or essentially the first such event that produces no gamma rays and only produces x-rays. But in this case, that doesn't actually make a lot of sense because all of the current models suggest that these events are so powerful that gamma rays have to be produced. And so, what explanations do scientists propose here? And why did this event only produce x-rays? Well,

first, this could be just maybe a little bit misaligned. Or essentially, this could be an off-axis jet. In other words, instead of being pointed directly at us, this jet could be pointed a little bit to the side, and so the gamma rays are just not visible to us, but the x-rays are. Although in this case, it doesn't really explain why we're seeing no gamma rays at all. Technically, it should be producing something. Then

maybe this is just a result of some kind of a jet that was not fully developed. So basically here, a star begins to collapse and tries to launch a jet, but it just does not have enough energy to fully break through the outer layer, and instead of gamma rays, x-rays. And well, actually, this explanation does make sense. Lastly, this could also be because of the composition of the jet itself. It might be loaded with just way too much heavy matter, which seems to slow down the jet dramatically and prevents it from efficient gamma ray production. In other words, the best

explanations essentially point at this just being some kind of an inefficient gamma ray burst. But right now, we don't really know exactly what's happening, and for all we know, this could be a completely new phenomenon involving some kind of a new object we've never seen before, which is actually not impossible because it was really only like a decade ago that researchers discovered a new phenomenon that we now refer to as FRBs, fast radio bursts. Events that seem to be caused by possibly neutron stars or magnetars, but that even today we still don't understand. And so, finding some kind of a new type of an explosion is actually not [clears throat] that unexpected. As a matter of fact, this is not the only unusual discovery from this probe because just 2 weeks later, it also found this. Another explosion that

was actually really far away at a red shift of four, where strangely enough, the X-rays and gamma rays arrived at different time. Now, normally we expect them to arrive relatively close to each other, but here this event on March 15th, 2024 seemed to produce X-rays for at least 17 minutes and they seem to have arrived 6 minutes before gamma rays, which has never been seen before because it was always assumed that gamma rays are produced first and they technically should arrive around the same time. And so, within just the last 2 years, this particular telescope has already made some really exciting discoveries that are sort of challenging current models for how we think gamma ray bursts are produced and how stars seem to collapse. But, at the same time, it's obviously helping us map this invisible, violent part of the universe that can only be seen and discovered using these extremely specific telescopes. And so, because of projects like eROSITA and now the Einstein Probe, astronomers are now able to see and study the X-ray universe with a lot more precision. And what you see in here is

essentially one of the newest X-ray maps of the Milky Way galaxy. But, the big takeaway from all of this is that even today the universe is still quite mysterious and actually way more complex than the current models suggest. With these new instruments that were only launched in the last 6 years, essentially showing us a lot of these very strange, atypical explosions that we've never seen before because previous telescopes were just not sensitive enough. But, as we get more data and as more similar events are discovered, it will hopefully help us understand the universe just a little bit better and possibly explain some of the other mysteries that could have been hiding in plain sight this whole time. And if you actually want to learn about some of these mysteries that have been already resolved, check out some of the previous videos on, for example, the odd radio circles and the FRBs in the description below. On that note, thank you for

watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining our channel membership that grants you early access and a few additional things. You can also support this channel by buying the One-For-One Person T-shirt in the description below.

Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.