---
video_title: "Was Dark Matter Particle Just Found by World's Biggest Detector?"
video_id: P7IRM3rUzB0
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7IRM3rUzB0
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a possible dark matter detection
  Links:
  https://lz.lbl.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2026/08/LZ_Preprint_260901_Dark_Matter_EFT_Nuclear_Recoil_Search_at_Higher_Energies.pdf
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/323925246_The_LZ_Dark_Matter_experiment
  https://lz.lbl.gov/
  https://lz.lbl.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2026/08/LZ_Slides_260901_TeVPA_Dark_Matter_HENR_EFT_Sam_Eriksen_compressed-medium.pdf
  
  0:00 Major dark matter updates 
  2:25 What is this LZ experiment? 
  5:40 What are WIMPs? 
  7:59 Most sensitive detector ever 
  9:00 Flash from 2023  
  10:00 Possible explanations 
  11:00 Could this be an error? 
  12:00 So is this dark matter? 
  13:00 What's next? 
  13:55 Conclusions
  
  #darkmatter #physics #astronomy 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Matthew Kapust/Sanford Underground Research Laboratory
  Cohare9 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Dark_matter_candidates.pdf XX BY 4.0
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person. This is Anton and today we're going to be discussing somewhat intriguing and somewhat exciting discovery that we have to be just a little bit cautious about in regards to our super long search for the mysterious dark matter. And that's because there seems to be some really intriguing news coming from the location underneath the Black Hills in North Dakota from the experiment approximately 1 and 1/2 km or 1 mile underneath the ground. And so here in this somewhat silent and somewhat quiet location buried inside a cavern, there's a kind of a shielded experiment protected from all sorts of interactions and interference from the outside representing this giant ultra high-tech vessel filled with several tons of super cooled liquid xenon. And just like with a lot of other similar experiments here, any kind of a minute interaction inside this tank would very likely be caught right away and could then be analyzed to see if something exciting has been discovered. And well, on June 16th of

2023, at exactly 3:22 p.m., something extraordinary indeed happened inside this tank. a tiny sudden flash of light accompanied by a quick drift of electric charge that was registered by the ultra sensitive cameras and sensors. And the thing is this was really the primary purpose for this experiment because for many years he was searching for these tiny flashes because they could only be produced by some kind of a specific interaction. And similar experiments

before have been looking for these but found nothing so far except for some background noise usually caused by some kind of an atomic interaction or even radioactivity from the walls within the cavern that sometimes go inside this thing and result in certain flashes except that in this case this flash was very different and it did not resemble anything like previous detections or like any kind of a background. And yesterday from when I'm making this video and specifically on September 1st, 2026, the international team of physicists behind Lux Zeppelin officially announced the finding to the public. This is essentially the paper you see right here. Here they spotted a single highly energetic event that they cannot explain with any known physics. And so the question here is, well, is this our first confirmation for the existence of dark matter particles or is this some kind of a rare unusual fluke and some kind of a statistical anomaly?

And so let's look at the facts and what we know so far and try to figure out what's going on. And so first to understand what's happening, let's briefly take a look at the machine that detected all of this and how exactly this experiment works. And so what exactly is this Lux Zeppelin or LZ? Well, right now this is considered to be the most sensitive dark matter detector in the world and the experiment is located inside a historic gold mine in lead South Dakota and specifically by going 1.5 km underground. Here the solid

rock acts as a very massive shield and pretty much prevents any cosmic rays from interfering with the data. But at the center of this device, there is a cylinder filled with 7 tons of active liquid xenon, specifically at a temperature of 178 Kelvin. And so when some kind of a particle enters this tank and hits one of these xenon atoms, two things usually happen. First, it's supposed to create an immediate flash of light called an S1 signal, which can then be seen by one of these optical cameras surrounding the tank. And because there are so many of them, they can actually detect exactly where this happens. and even observe what direction

the particle came from. But second, the collision knocks electrons free from the xenon atom, which then produces a tiny electric field that drifts some of these electrons upwards where they enter a thin layer of xenon gas, which then creates a second flash, a kind of a delayed flash referred to as the S2 signal. And so then by comparing the S1 and S2 signals, physicists can reconstruct the three-dimensional position of the collision. But more importantly, they can tell us exactly what collided with the atom. And so here, if a particle hits the xenon's electrons, this is normally referred to as the electron recoil. But for

physicists, this is considered to be kind of boring and kind of mundane because it usually comes from the environment around the detector. But if somehow a particle hits the xenon's atom's nucleus or the core of the atom, it then becomes a nuclear recoil and becomes super super interesting because we expect dark matter particles to do just that. But to make sure that the scientists don't trick themselves here, they also use a fascinating technique referred to as salting. And specifically while analyzing some of the data from this detector, the computer automatically injects false data or kind of a simulated data into the data stream. And so scientists end up doing the analysis without knowing which events are real and which ones are fake.

And so basically here they very likely discovered quite a lot of these dark matter particles, but in reality it was just the computer fooling them, making sure they're paying attention. kind of like in high school where your teacher tries to see if you're listening by saying something silly or funny. But once the analysis of the data is complete, they then unsort the data and then try to discover if any of the fake events actually turned out to be real. And so here when they unsalted this new batch of data, they discovered that four of the events were basically fake. These were removed. Or just to rephrase this

again, an event that seems to have affected the atomic nucleus of Xenon, which is what scientists believe dark matter particles should be able to do. Although, let's do a quick side note here. What sort of particles are we talking about? And what exactly are they trying to find in this particular experiment? Well, here they're actually looking for what's known as WIMPs.

Weekly interacting massive particles that for many decades represented the favorite choice of theoretical physicists for what dark matter particles most likely were. Something that most likely existed in the beginning of the universe, but eventually dispersed and sort of expanded over time as the universe cooled down and as the universe grew larger. And so this would represent a relic population from the beginning of the universe itself. but in this case also representing about 85% of all mass in the universe. And so here it is actually something referred to as the WIMP miracle. It's basically a very

simple calculation that tries to assume that a typical WIMP is approximately 100 times more massive than a normal proton. And if you calculate how many wimps we should have hiding in the universe today, and compare this to the amount of dark matter observed in the universe, mostly visible through various gravitational lensing effects, there is a very beautiful coincidence and a kind of a match with both numbers basically adding up perfectly. And so that's why physicists refer to this as the WIMP miracle. But up until this point, this was just a perfect hypothesis. Because the problem is that so far after decades and decades no physical evidence existed and nothing so far has been found. And

so over the last 20 years physicists built larger and larger detectors which only resulted in somewhat inconclusive data and a lot of different controversial results. And in this case even particle accelerators like the large hydrron collider try to produce these blinks by basically colliding particles super super fast. Yet so far nothing has been found and we have no results which in the last few years resulted in a kind of a doubt and an unfortunate conclusion that maybe wimps are not real and maybe dark matter particles are entirely different and may even represent something extremely light resembling a kind of a wave instead of an actual physical particle. This is where we have other propositions such as dark photons and axons. Or maybe just like Stephven Hawking proposed, it's just a bunch of really really tiny primordial black holes. But this new

detector is way way more sensitive. And a lot of scientists thought that if anything is going to find it, it's going to be this. As a matter of fact, in 2025, this experiment has already reported the first ever detection of what's known as boron 8 solar neutrino, which has never been seen before. or in other words, it was able to detect an extremely rare neutrino particle that has only been hypothesized but has never been detected on Earth. And while this was a historic scientific achievement, this is not what scientists were looking for. As a matter of fact, here it even

kind of gave scientists a bit of doubt because if they can see something so sensitive, why can't they actually see dark matter that's supposed to be everywhere? especially because these nutrinos were kind of mimicking some of the dark matter signals which would make future searchers just a little bit more difficult. And so a lot of physicists started to think that whims probably don't exist until this reanalysis of the LZ data. And so let's talk about this flash from 2023. Normally when searching for whims physicists look at very low recoil energies typically below 30 or 50 kilo electron volts. In this case, kilo

electron volt represents a very tiny amount of energy used by physicists to explain particle collisions. And so, because they found nothing in that low energy window, the LZ team decided to do something a little bit different. They decided to extend this search window all the way to 270 kilo electron volts in order to look at some of the more exotic propositions and some of the more exotic models. And that's exactly where they found this new candidate that seemed to be 248 kilo electron volts in energy or basically something with at least five times more energy than what the scientists were looking for at first. But at first this doesn't make a lot of sense because if dark matter was interacting this violently. Standard

theories say that we should have already seen this hundreds of times because of much lighter gentler collisions at lower energy before. So, if this is indeed a dark matter particle, it must be something just a little bit more unusual. And so, in this case, researchers proposed at least some explanations that seem to make sense. First, it could be some kind of a wimp that has a mass of about 1,000 gig electron volts or 1,000 times more massive than a proton, which may explain these powerful collisions. Alternatively, maybe it's actually interacting with the atom and specifically the nucleus of the atom in a slightly different fashion from how it was initially predicted and involves a lot of momentum of the collision instead of just a simple bounce. Or maybe it

involves what's known as inelastic scattering, which causes this dark matter particle not really bounce from the atom, but actually absorb some of the energy and transition into a heavier, more excited state, which would actually prevent low energy collisions from happening and would only result in high energy rare flashes. But exactly which explanation makes sense and which one is correct, that's not something we know for now. Although the obvious next question is, okay, so could this be some kind of a statistical error? and to be more specific, just some kind of a background noise. Well, here the team actually spent months and months trying to find a mundane explanation by, for example, checking if there was some kind of a high energy neutron from maybe the surrounding rock or some other type of radiation. But the thing is, if this was

a neutron, it would most likely produce a different observation and would actually bounce inside the tank several times, producing multiple flashes. But this was a clean single event and involved just a single particle interaction. Literally just a single atom of xenon. As a matter of fact, the pulse shape in this case seemed to match a real collision perfectly and did not resemble some kind of an accidental stray light or some kind of an accidental pollution. And so none of the alternative explanations made sense.

Pretty much everything from this data pointed at this being a single collision of something very very powerful with that one single atom of scen. And so does that mean that we should be popping champagne and celebrating the discovery and the confirmation of dark matter? Well, not yet obviously because we still have to remain skeptical and still wait for additional results because in particle physics we do have a very strict rule of what constitutes a real discovery. It's usually measured with the statistical significance sigma. And in this case, the sigma is only 2.6 or

just to rephrase this, there's about.5% chance or about 1 in 200 chance that this maybe was a random fluke after all. And so to officially declare this a discovery of dark matter, we do require a sigma of five. And that means that we're still kind of far from that golden standard. And so that single point is not enough to rewrite physics textbooks just yet. But the good news is that

we're not going to have to wait 40 years to try to discover all of this because in this case, this analysis only covered the first 220 days of the operation. But this experiment contains more data and specifically contains at least 700 additional days of data that are currently sitting in the database. And so the team behind this is now preparing to analyze this too. and they really hope to find a similar signal there too. And so if this 248 kilo electron volt event was just a fluke, we're not going to see any more of them and the signal is going to disappear into statistical irrelevance. But if we see two, three,

or four more here, the significance is going to shoot past five sigma and we will officially have our definitive proof that dark matter particles seem to be real. Solving one of the greatest mysteries in modern astrophysics. And furthermore, we also have parallel experiments in China and in Italy, referred to as Panda X4T and Xenon NT, both of which can also check their high energy data to see if they spot something similar and to see if they can also confirm similar results. So, basically, right now, we're standing on the precipice of a potential groundbreaking discovery in modern physics. And that means that the next few months are going to be kind of exciting. But until these future

discoveries and until these future results, at least for now, that's pretty much all I have. We'll come back and discuss this more once there are some updates. Thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the channel on

Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can directly or by joining our membership that grants you early access. You can also support the channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.