---
video_title: "Study Suggests a Bizarre Cause for the Biggest Extinction, But Could It Happen?"
video_id: LCS_Q--pJ1U
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCS_Q--pJ1U
video_date: 20260811
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the biggest extinction event on Earth
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.17105
  https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.ado2030
  Other videos: https://youtu.be/nGcFbcd4VwM
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRoU3whzX_Q
  #extinction #earth #solarsystem 
  
  0:00 Earth extinctions events 
  1:20 Biggest extinction on Earth and what caused it 
  3:30 Other explanations? 
  4:10 What about dwarf planets? 
  5:30 Possibility of a flyby and its effects 
  7:30 Fossil record from Devonian 
  8:10 But...no evidence though and other explanations 
  9:20 Conclusions 
  10:20 Implications for sciences
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Jip 26 CC BY SA 3.0 https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Tidal_force.jpg
  Albert Mestre CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extinction_event#/media/File:Phanerozoic_Biodiversity.svg
  Jo CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extinction_event#/media/File:Extent_of_Siberian_traps_german.png
  OlgaChuma CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siberian_Traps#/media/File:Плато_Путорана-3.jpg
  Wolfgang Moroder CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Permian–Triassic_extinction_event#/media/File:Claraia_Clarai_Museum_Gröden.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person. This is Anton and today we're going to be discussing the history of planet Earth, but specifically the moment or the moments when life on the planet potentially almost ended. In other words, we're going to be discussing extinction events. And normally when we think about mass extinctions, we usually think of massive asteroids hitting the planet [clears throat] kind of like what happened to dinosaurs. The geological record of the planet tells us that the story of extinctions is way more complex and sometimes involves events that we still don't understand and events that could be actually quite terrifying. But

today, we're going to focus on one of the most well-known and one of the most powerful extinction events, the one that's referred to as the big dying event that happened approximately 250 million years ago, and whose origin and whose cause is still not actually that well understood. But this recent study by Danielle Farjion from Rome University proposes something intriguing. What if this was a result of gravitational tides from some kind of a dwarf planet passing close to planet Earth? But to understand the evidence behind this and to understand why studying this is important, let's first discuss what we know about this event and what potentially happened during this time. And so let's discuss the perian triacic extinction event. And so at the end of

perian period, earth seems to have gone through something really extreme and something that dramatically changed who lived on the planet afterwards. And this event from 252 million years ago is very often referred to as the great dying because it managed to wipe out approximately 90 to 95% of all species in the oceans and at least 70% of species of animals living on land. As a matter of fact, it was so intense that even insects, which are usually very resilient, seem to have suffered their largest mass extinction to date. And based on decades and decades of research, there's always been this one potential explanation. The explanation that's kind of visible in this image.

This sterile formation is technically known as a trap. And while this particular geological formation is enormous, these are known as the Siberian traps. and they seem to stretch across a huge part of Russia. With all of this being produced by a massive volcanic eruption over a huge region of about 7 million square kilm, making this one of the largest known volcanic events in the last 500 million years. And we know that this happened around 251.9

million years ago and very likely lasted for at least 2 million years. But exactly what caused this is still being debated. And so here these eruptions very likely released huge amounts of carbon dioxide and also sulfur dioxide which dramatically changed the entire climate in just a few thousand years. First leading to global warming and ocean acidification and eventually leading to anoxia and a lot of additional environmental catastrophes. And it was very likely this anoxia or lack of oxygen that then caused a lot of ocean life to basically suffocate. Which

is why during this time so much of ocean life perished with the average temperature on the planet rising by about 8° C or about 14° F making survival on the surface extremely challenging. But while Siberian traps are considered to be the central cause for this over the years there have been some additional propositions and additional explanations. For example, there might have been an additional release of methane from the seafloor for reasons still unknown. Additionally, there could have been some kind of a massive impact with at least one impact, the Araguia crater in Brazil known to have occurred around the same time. But in this case, since the impact is not actually large enough, it would not explain everything here. This crater is

only about 40 km in size, much smaller than the crater from the impactor 65 million years ago. And so because there are still so many unanswered questions, this is where this new paper kind of comes in and tries to maybe explain some of this through something that was not considered before. And so the main premise for this paper is the fact that we've discovered a lot of different dwarf planets in the last two decades or so that nobody knew existed when some of these first explanations about the extinction events started to be proposed. In other words, we now know there are a lot of dwarf planets out there with many of them existing in the Kyper belt and many more still undiscovered. But because they have very strange orbits and because they have somewhat unstable orbits, once in a while they might receive a gravitational nudge that may bring them closer to the inner solar system and potentially even have them interact with one of the other planets. As a matter of fact, we know

that this definitely happened at least once because that's how Neptune acquired its moon Triton. This was a nearby flyby with Neptune capturing Triton that then, because of its unusual orbit, destroyed many other moons and even created the rings around Neptune itself. You can learn about some of the recent discoveries about this in one of the recent videos in the description. But based on orbital dynamics, we also know that direct collisions are usually extremely rare. Yet statistically a flyby and even a flyby next to some kind of a inner planet is at least 100 times more likely. And so in theory if an

object size of a moon or even Mars passes relatively close to Earth, its effects on Earth would be quite extreme. It would actually produce some of the most extreme tidal forces in the history of the planet. Kind of similar to the ones that were produced by the moon when the Earth was just formed. And well, the math in this case is kind of terrifying because the strength of the tide grows with the inverse cube of the distance. And so, for example, if the moon was about 10 times closer to Earth right now, it would not make tides 10 times higher, it would actually make them a thousand times higher. with Daniel

Fragion's calculations suggesting that if such a flyby occurred somewhere between Earth and the moon, it could create oceanic waves over 1 kilometer in height. Basically, a mega tunami rivaling those created by an actual impact. But in this case, even more disruptive would be the energy release with energy deposited by these tides growing with the inverse six power of the distance or basically a close flyby could release energy equivalent to 10 [clears throat] billion Hiroshima bombs in just 1 hour. with the energy in this case deforming the Earth's crust dramatically and leading to these massive earthquakes and extremely powerful volcanic eruptions triggered by the sudden heating of the planet's interior through friction. As a [clears throat] matter of fact, it might produce something like this with Faron arguing that we actually see the effects from some of these potential flybys around other planets as well. So these

gravitational tugofwarss possibly tilted the axis of all of these planets sometimes in the past and though for earth we believe that our axis is tilted because of a direct collision with thea for other planets it could have been because of some kind of a relatively close flyby and in this case there's evidence for at least one collision for most of the planets including Jupiter which seems to have a slight tilt and an unexplained internal heat source that could have been the result of some kind of a collision. But more importantly for planet Earth, we actually do have some unexplained phenomena when it comes to the fossil record, especially when it comes to the record of corals. And here the coral record shows us that Earth's rotation actually suddenly slowed down at the end of the Deonian period. Now, this was about 360 million years ago. But we know that during this time, for some reason, the day on Earth potentially shifted quite a bit. And a

sudden change like this may suggest that something acted on the moon or even on planet Earth in order to cause earth spin to slow down so much. But having said all this, despite this being a somewhat intriguing proposition, there's unfortunately no evidence for any of this. For example, despite the exo tilts, we do have other explanations. And even this volcanic eruption could be explained in other ways. On top of this, we don't know of any object out there that actually comes close to the inner solar system. and that could have such a

strong effect on planet Earth. Not to mention that there are still additional studies, including this study from not so long ago that explain all of this in some other ways that does not involve space phenomena. Here, this actually involves something that's kind of happening right now and that we discussed in one of the recent videos, Elinos, but we're talking about mega elenos, far stronger than anything we have today and possibly lasting for decades instead of months. And so based on this study, the computer models suggest that some of the weather patterns became much stronger and much more destructive, potentially leading to the major decrease in forests on the planet, thus killing off land animals and actually causing a major runoff into the oceans, which then basically killed off ocean life. In other words, when it comes to this particular extinction event, there are a lot of explanations and propositions, but nothing concrete and nothing conclusive yet. As a matter

of fact, it's important to note that not all scientists agree on how these extinctions even worked, with some studies suggesting that land-based animals might not have experienced a mass extinction and instead experienced a little disruption with most animals surviving everything. In other words, of all extinction events that have been studied over the years, it's really the biggest one that seems to be the most mysterious. Even though the volcanic eruption is still the best explanation, despite decades of research, unlike that extinction event 65 million years ago that we understand pretty well, the great dying event is still being actively debated even today. But I guess the question is, okay, so why exactly does any of this matter? And why even speculate about something that happened such a long time ago? Well, naturally,

because it helps us understand our future, as in based on these studies and the analysis of all of the stuff released from that volcanic eruption, it might help us understand how the planet could change if the atmospheric composition of the planet is changed over time from, for example, human emissions or from something else entirely that we have not accounted for yet. And so, by studying these extreme events, it helps us identify specific tipping points for our own ecosystem. But for space scientists, this also helps us understand the firmy paradox. The question of why we haven't found anyone out there with Far Jones suggesting that if these astrophysical title extinctions happen every few hundred million years, in theory they could act as a kind of a reset button for life, making it extremely difficult for a civilization to last long enough to become space fairing. And so discovering if this is actually true or not might be important for our own survival. Which means that we need to

continuously monitor the outer solar system and try to find more of these hidden dwarf planets in order to see if this actually makes sense and if such events could indeed happen. And while an asteroid in theory could be diverted, a dwarf planet passing close to us is a different kind of a threat. because of its total mass, it would be practically impossible to divert or to stop and would actually have dramatic effects on the entire neighborhood. But until we get some kind of evidence or some kind of proof, for now at least, this is just going to remain a speculative assumption. And so once we learn something else or once we find some other dwarf planets that we've never known about before, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for

watching. Subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as

always, bye-bye.