---
video_title: "Massive Structures Inside Earth's Core and Their Effects on Magnetosphere"
video_id: H0nZmCIJi6o
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0nZmCIJi6o
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about new discoveries from inside Earth
  Links:
  https://jsedi.episciences.org/en/articles/17268/download
  https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2026JB033798
  https://ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2025/06/why-seismic-waves-spontaneously-race-inside-the-earth.html
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2405.11810
  Previous videos:
  https://youtu.be/kHDyryrh_TU
  https://youtu.be/W-7RvQU2s7Y
  https://youtu.be/_e_c0QcL6vE
  #earth #core #structure
  
  0:00 Inner Earth discoveries 
  1:10 Strange motion inside the outer core 
  3:15 Nuclear tests as Earth scanners 
  4:20 Changing waves and a chunk inside 
  6:00 Solid inner core contains something else 
  9:05 Water mystery 
  10:00 LLSVPs affect the magnetosphere 
  12:00 Implications and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello for person. This is Anton and in this video we're going to be discussing some of the most recent discoveries coming from within the core of planet Earth. Something that we still barely understand and something that geologists have been studying for many, many decades, which is actually just a little bit ironic because we know so much about things above us, specifically outer space, planets, galaxies, and so on, and can actually even see back in time billions of years ago. But when it comes to looking down beneath our feet, we know very little and have only seen things up to about 12 km deep. The deepest bore hole ever drilled. Which

means that everything we know about our planet and everything we've learned so far essentially comes from some kind of an indirect observation model or prediction. But based on everything we've learned so far, we know that our planet seems to contain these very specific layers with the deepest layers, the solid core and the outer core potentially being some of the most important when it comes to protecting life on the surface. And so in this video, we're going to discuss some of these recent discoveries based on some of these recent observations and once again discoveries that were maybe just a little bit unexpected. And here, let's start with the most surprising discovery in the last few months. a discovery in regards to the motion of the outer core that's responsible for generating the magnetic field on a surface. And so for

many decades it was believed that the outer core was mostly moving relatively stably in a single direction. And specifically we've known that it seems to be swirling like a giant bicycle dynamo which then slowly generates various conductive electric fields and generates the magnetic field that protects the atmosphere and the life on the surface. But at the same time, many different observations revealed that this overall flow seemed to be just a little bit faster than the rest of the planet going westwards. In other words, it appeared as if the outer core was moving just a little bit faster than the rest of the planet. But in 2010, something unusual was observed and something that nobody expected. And it

happened beneath the Pacific Ocean. something that was now officially discussed and described by this study from Frederick Delmatson of the University of Edinburgh. Here he analyzed the data from the European Space Agency's swarm and cryosat missions discovering that by 2010 a massive region of molten iron underneath the Pacific seem to suddenly reverse directions and started moving eastwards instead. In other words, you had this huge chunk of matter suddenly moving in the opposite direction. And while this is something that scientists always believed might take hundreds of thousands of years, not a single decade.

But intriguingly, additional observations from 2020 then showed us that this seemed to have reversed and that chunk was now moving westwards once again, which now basically suggests that the Araore seems to contain these natural cycles that we've never seen before, but have now observed in real time. And at the moment, it's not entirely clear what's actually happening here. and how it's happening. But you can learn a little bit more about this and the entire study in one of the previous videos in the description. And while the thing is when it comes to this study and a lot of similar other studies, the question is of course, so how exactly do scientists see and detect all of this? And where is all of this

data coming from? Which actually brings us to the second fascinating discovery by the researcher from Virginia Tech. And it's actually a discovery based on something somewhat controversial, but something that also serves as an important part of history, nuclear tests. And well, during the Cold War between 1977 and 1995, out of many many countries, France also conducted dozens of underground nuclear tests. But unlike other countries did so in a single location in a location in French Polynia and because they conducted multiple tests and a lot of them were in a very very specific location or basically exactly the same coordinates this surprisingly created very bizarre control conditions for trying to study the internal structure of the planet.

And that's because the waves generated by each of these blasts was actually so powerful that it traveled directly through the center of the planet and was then recorded by the highly sensitive stations in Kazakhstan where the Soviet Union was trying to listen. And that's essentially the recent data that was just analyzed by this researcher which in a process revealed two major things. First, it revealed that compared to 1977, these seismic waves traveling through the Araore were actually just a little bit faster,.1 seconds faster in the early 1980s, but then even faster in the late 1980s. Although, interestingly, by 1995, all of this seems to have reversed as well. And though it's just a

fraction of a second, since we're talking about thousands of kilometers, all of this kind of adds up and basically suggests that there is something extremely massive underneath that's physically moving inside the outer core. And specifically, the scientists in the study calculated that this seems to be some kind of a massive structure 700 by 100 km across somewhere underneath the Pacific and basically traveling extremely slowly. And here Dr. Xiao actually describes this as a kind of a chunk of crouton floating in a tomato soup which basically implies that the arore is not just a simple uniform pool of liquid metal but seems to undergo vigorous mixing and contain these solid or semi-olid materials that are physically moving inside this liquid and are potentially interacting with it in some ways. Although exactly where this came from and what it contains is of course unknown. Well, the chances are

there might be a connection to the famous Thea hypothesis that basically suggests that this ancient planet collided with the ancient Earth getting stuck inside of it and also generating the moon as a result. Once again, one of the videos in the description talks about this a little bit more. But that's just the outer core. Let's go a little bit deeper and discuss the inner core discoveries as well. and specifically the discoveries from that solid inner core that's even more mysterious and that we know even less about compared to everything else inside the planet. As a

matter of fact, we don't even know what it's made out of. Now, it was always assumed that it's going to be iron and nickel. But if you compare the density of the inner core to the density of iron nickel alloys, something here just does not add up. The core is slightly less dense than pure iron and nickel, and that means that it must contain something else. And so in this groundbreaking study from ETH Zurich led by Professor Motohiko Morakami, we potentially have one answer and an answer that might explain a lot of things about the inner core once again.

And here they performed a really intriguing experiment. an experiment using what's known as a laser heated diamond anvil cell, which basically involves this machine that has these two diamonds that squeeze on each other super hard in order to create extreme pressure and a laser that then tries to heat up whatever is between these diamonds, creating conditions very similar to what we find inside the planet. And that's exactly what they tried to create and were able to achieve in this recent study in the process discovering that the Earth's core possibly represents a hidden reservoir of hydrogen or basically that's up to about 36% of everything inside the core might contain hydrogen atoms but not hydrogen by itself and instead hydrogen combined with something else very likely iron and nickel forming these very specific alloys with a hexagonal structure. And interestingly, there is so much hydrogen here that if we were to somehow combine it with oxygen, it would actually create 50 times more water than all of the oceans on the planet. And so here we do have quite a massive deposit.

But once again, this is not gas and it's not water. And instead, because of these crushing pressure conditions and extreme temperatures, it seems to form nanoructures with molten iron and actually creates these exotic iron hydrides. hydrides that potentially behave in a very unusual way and even create these very exotic states called super ionic hydrogen which basically flows like liquid inside the crystalline structure of iron and it potentially also generates electric fields which might add to the magnetic field of the planet. But more importantly, by having these conditions and by creating these hexagonal shapes, it also seems to create a kind of a gradient or a kind of a boundary inside the inner core where the hydrogen is distributed in a slightly different way. And it possibly even creates some kind of a chemical buoyancy inside the inner core generating two separate layers. This has

previously been referred to as the innermost inner core. But because of this layer and because of the motion inside of it, it also serves as a constant source of energy which then possibly provides extra energy to the outer core and thus generates the geodamo or the magnetic field of the planet. And so in some sense a lot of this could be coming from that hydrogen alloy inside the core. But at the same time this also potentially solves a major mystery from the surface of the planet as well. The mystery of the origin of water. And that's because when

scientists analyze water on the surface of the planet and compared it to water on different comets or inside various asteroids here, the isotopic composition of water on Earth and the water in outer space does not seem to match. And so we actually have no idea where the Earth water came from. But in this study, the solution seems to be pretty obvious. It possibly was always there and was naturally created by that seeping hydrogen from within the planet combining with oxygen and basically creating water in the process. And so basically the water must have been always there and was generated by the planet itself over time and was then released to the surface through various volcanic eruptions. Or at least these

are the main implications from some of these studies. And last but not least, a few months ago, scientists also released this study that discusses these two massive rock formations underneath the planet, often referred to as LLSVPs, large low sheer velocity provinces that are approximately 3,000 km beneath the surface. And these are actually pretty wellnown and have been studied by many different scientists before. You can learn more about them in some of the previous videos in the description. But in essence, they represent these continentsized structures where the overall wave motion seems to slow down significantly indicating physical structures that are hotter and chemically distinct from everything else. And right now there are two main

ones known to us referred to as African LLSVP, sometimes referred to as Tuzo, and the Pacific LLSVP referred to as Jason. And so in this recent study from University of Liverpool, researchers also discovered that apparently they seem to also affect magnetic fields to some extent. And so here by combining ancient magnetic records in rocks with supercomput geodamo models, professor Andy Biggan and his team discovered that these massive structures have been quietly shaping the planet's magnetic field for millions of years. And that's because these structures are so extremely hot that they actually create sharp temperature contrasts at the boundary with the liquid core below. And so below these structures, the liquid iron seems to actually stagnate and seems to slow down. Whereas the molten

iron around them moves much much faster and ends up flowing much more vigorously producing much more powerful fields. which in some sense challenges the classical definition that the magnetic field inside the planet behaves like a simple perfect bar magnet with some kind of a simple rotation and simple axis and instead this definitely suggests that the magnetic field seems to be lopsided extremely complex and is also shaped by geography of these very bizarre structures inside the mantle and inside the outer core and based on these simulations the conclusion is that in certain locations on the planet The magnetic field seems to be more or less constant. But in other locations, it seems to be very unpredictable and very hectic, which possibly explains why we actually do have certain mysteries and certain anomalies such as the famous South Atlantic anomaly that seems to have these fluctuating magnetic fields that cannot be explained yet. While also potentially suggesting that some of the previous calculations involving ancient magnetic fields might have been slightly incorrect because it was assumed that it was going to be constant. But this study suggests that the magnetic fields are way more hectic. And so some of the

modern models of things like for example continental motion may have been just a little bit incorrect. And so what's the conclusion from all of these studies and what have we learned so far? Well, first it definitely confirms that the deep parts of the planet are definitely not static. They're highly active, rapidly changing, and even changing much much faster than anyone predicted. And sometimes this change can happen in just a few years, not thousands of years like previously assumed. But it also teaches

us just a little bit more about the very important geodamo and the magnetic field while also helping us explain certain anomalies such as the South Atlantic anomaly that still does not have a very good explanation. And that's because it's important to understand if the magnetic field can weaken dramatically and rapidly or if it's more or less stable and just goes through these fluctuations once in a while. And that's because this is super important for modern navigation, satellite operations, and space weather defense while at the same time providing us with a few more clues about planets like Earth and the possibility of having similar conditions somewhere out there on some other planets. Now, right now, obviously, no similar Earthlike planets have been discovered yet, but by studying the internal structure of the planet, we might actually figure out if our planet is just rare and unusual or if this is something that happens quite a lot. But on that note, once we learn something else, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until

then, thank you for watching. Subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can me directly or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful.

I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.