---
video_title: "First Confirmed Exomoon Breaks All Astronomy Rules"
video_id: -j1ZV41ZRwc
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-j1ZV41ZRwc
video_date: 2026-07-28T22:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a strange exomoon that is difficult to define
  Links:
  https://www.eso.org/public/archives/releases/sciencepapers/eso2610/eso2610a.pdf
  https://www.eso.org/public/news/eso2610/
  #exomoon #milkyway #planets
  
  0:00 An exomoon or what? 
  2:00 Why it's so hard to find them 
  4:25 Hierarchical system that's a bit strange 
  6:30 How was this found? 
  8:08 Can it be something else? 
  9:20 What do we call this then? 
  10:50 Why this matters and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello for person this is Anton and in this video we're going to be discussing a somewhat unusual discovery in astronomy. An object that's a little bit difficult to define even though technically we should be referring to this as an exomoon or basically a moon of an exoplanet. Something that astronomers have been looking for for an extremely long time but something that was naturally extremely difficult to see because by definition a moon should be smaller than a planet and we're only now getting better at seeing planets and detecting them in various star systems. And so for many years astronomers have been hunting for this first official confirmation of some kind of an exomoon out there. But despite many attempts and many claims prior to this discovery we're going to be discussing today we didn't actually have any official confirmations for the existence of exomoons out there even though based on what we see in the solar system we kind of assume that exomoons should be all over the place. But because they're so

small we only had candidates and nothing confirmed so far. However, a recent study that was just published in the Nature magazine has finally revealed something that may be a breakthrough in the exomoon research. But it just turned out to be much weirder than anyone expected. And so in this video we're going to be discussing this study by Kevin Hoit and the team you see on the screen that almost definitely confirms the existence of an exomoon 73 light-years away from us that seems to be orbiting another object. But here's the catch. The object it's orbiting is

not exactly a planet and the moon itself is not at all similar to our moon. It actually seems to be Jupiter-sized. And so the big question from all of this is of course when is a moon not a moon or basically how do we even define what was discovered in this study? And so let's talk about the strange case of CD-352722 and discuss exactly what was found. But first, before we start, let's briefly discuss why it's so difficult to find these exomoons, and what techniques are usually used. And so, while we found

thousands of exoplanets, hunting for their moons remains one of the most technically challenging frontiers in observational astronomy. And that's because traditional techniques, such as Doppler spectroscopy, or basically using radial velocity, is still very difficult because the technique is just not sensitive enough to detect minute motions of the moon. And normally, we only see the gravitational pull from the planet, but not from its potential moon. And well, in the past, one of the most promising methods was referred to as the transit timing variation, or basically trying to detect extremely tiny variations as the shadow of a planet passes in front of a star, that should actually be just a little bit different every single time if there is a moon in its orbit. And that's because a moon in this case would be pulling on a planet, and moving it just a little bit every time. But the problem here is that the

shift can also be caused by some kind of a planet that we're just not seeing, like in this case in the simulation. And so, using these transits to try to find moons can usually give us a candidate, but not a definitive confirmation. Additionally, a slightly different method relies on the observation of various chemicals in a star system. And specifically, one of the candidates was discovered based on what we see on Jupiter's moon Io. Specifically, that tidal heating should actually cause some of the moons to become volcanic, and thus cause them to expel certain compounds that should not be visible from a gas giant. And so, for example,

various sulfuric or silicon-based compounds detected in large amounts around some kind of a gas giant could suggest that it's actually being produced by the moon. And though this has also been discovered, it's still a candidate because theoretically, it could have come from somewhere else entirely. Likewise, by observing Jupiter and Io, we know that these types of systems produce very specific radio emissions. And that's because Io tends to trigger certain radio emissions when Io's ionosphere interacts with Jupiter's powerful magnetic field. And so, somewhat similar radio signatures have been found around some systems, possibly once again hinting at the existence of moons. But once again, there could be

some other mechanisms producing similar signals. And so, time and time again, even though we have some explanations and after years and years of research, so far nothing concrete yet. But things become slightly easier if you actually start to look at annual star systems, especially the ones that involve really massive objects. And so, here let's actually briefly discuss the hierarchical structure of a typical star system. And so, for example, in our own solar system, things are pretty simple.

We have the sun in the center, and then we have planets like Earth, Jupiter, and Saturn orbiting the sun. And most of these planets also have moons, >> [snorts] >> with moons orbiting the planets. But in this system, this is actually just a little bit different. It's referred to as a three-tiered system because it's structured in a slightly different way. And so, at the top here, we have the primary star. In this case, this is a

typical young red dwarf or an M-type star that's about half the mass of the sun. So, essentially, the most common type of a star in the galaxy. But then, orbiting the star, there is actually another object, a brown dwarf. That's technically what you see in right here, and it's a brown dwarf known as CD 35 27 22 B. And while sometimes we call brown dwarfs failed stars, that's because they essentially never got to have enough mass to initiate nuclear fusion. But

they're still much more massive than planets, with this one being at least 31 to maybe 37 times the mass of Jupiter. But once again, not massive enough for hydrogen fusion. Here it would have to be at least twice as massive. But then there is this new discovery that seems to be in orbit of this object. And so there is an object orbiting the brown dwarf. But the problem is that this is a

really massive object. 70 to 90% mass of Jupiter or basically more than double the mass of Saturn. And so if this was in our solar system, we would obviously call this a planet. But because it orbits something that orbits a star, it seems to behave exactly like a moon. And well, in a sense, technically is a moon.

But a moon that's basically a gas giant planet. Which is why the lead author of the study, Kevin Huy, refers to this as an exoplanet satellite and not an exomoon. Essentially a kind of a neutral term that describes an object orbiting a larger body outside of the solar system. And so I guess the first question is, so how do we know it's here and how was this found? Well, because this is so massive and because this is planetary in size, even though it's 73 light years away from us, here it was not that challenging to find. But instead of

looking for transits like we do with normal planets, here researchers relied on the Very Large Telescope in Chile and used the radial velocity technique that essentially looks at the tiny wobbles of the object itself. And so here by looking at a star and by seeing very tiny red shifts and blue shifts that happen periodically, researchers can then discover some kind of an object orbiting something else. And technically this is the same method that was used to discover some of the first exoplanets ever found, the pulsar planets discovered back in the '90s. And so as this Jupiter-size object orbits the brown dwarf, its gravity pulls on the brown dwarf so much that it causes the object to wobble back and forth with a very regular interval. And by measuring the changes in the spectrum and looking at this object for 2 and 1/2 years, the team detected a very clear signal. Which

is what what seeing here. And the signal shows us that this moon orbits the brown dwarf every 170 days, making this the first time in astronomy that this wobble technique or the radial velocity technique has successfully confirmed the existence of a satellite orbiting around a planetary or a brown dwarf object. And here this is a very clean detection compared to previously blurry data where it was very difficult to determine if a moon is a moon or just some kind of noise. In other words, this data is extremely precise. But when we see a signal like this, the obvious question is, okay, so can it be something else?

Or is there any chance that this is still noise? And maybe something coming from the brown dwarf's atmosphere. And that's because unlike planets, brown dwarfs do have some extreme activity on the surface and can even have clouds and weather that sometimes mimics a wobble without an actual object orbiting them. And so in this case, the team performed a very extensive analysis but actually found no correlation between this signal and the rotation of the brown dwarf or its atmospheric activity. And here they even present us with two possible solutions to this data. One of them

involves some kind of a larger object on an elliptical orbit and the other one involves two separate satellites with a resonant orbit where they push and pull on each other in a specific rhythm. But when they ran computer simulations to see which solution made more sense and to basically see which of these satellites would survive the longest, the two satellite version was a mess but the one satellite version survived for a very long time. Actually, the two satellite version only survived for 500 years and this gives astronomers an extremely high confidence that whatever is happening here seems to be real and seems to involve one massive planetary-sized object. But that also brings us to that definition crisis. So, what do we even call this? Now once

again, if this was orbiting a primary star, we would just call it a Jupiter-sized exoplanet. But because it orbits a brown dwarf, and because a brown dwarf is a substellar object, here the lines get super blurry because it's not orbiting a planet, but it's also not orbiting a star. And according to International Astronomical Union definitions, an object is a planet if it orbits a star or a brown dwarf, but stays under a certain mass. And so by that definition, this moon is technically a planet. But it's a planet orbiting another planet-like object, making this a very unusual triple hierarchical system. And so researchers

here argue that we might have reached the limit of our definitions and our language. Because words like moon and planet were invented to describe our own solar system, but seem to not make sense anymore when it comes to these bizarre systems. Will this system transform it over time into something else entirely? Because right now it's actually pretty young. But over billions of years, this brown dwarf is going to cool down and become dimmer, and the star will also transform into something else. And so

the environment where this exosatellite is orbiting is completely different from what we normally have in a solar system, or even in other star systems we've seen before. But here this discovery is also important in order to help us understand how planets and moons form and evolve. And that's because when it comes to planetary formation, a lot of our theories are still incomplete. And this system seems to be a kind of a perfect test bed for studying how gravity seems to create these systems and how it seems to create these multi-tiered examples where an object orbits another object, which then orbits another object. While the same time, because the technique worked here, we can now also potentially use it in other systems, even in systems involving terrestrial planets that are maybe just a little bit closer to us.

And this could be important because a lot of scientists now believe that many of these exomoons could actually be much better places to look for life than planets themselves, mostly because just like Io, they can actually receive a lot of heat from tidal interactions and can thus stay permanently warmed up and even contain liquid water similar to moons like Europa and Enceladus. And thus, by definition, do have a chance to contain life. And so, in the future, using very similar techniques, there's a very high chance we're going to discover even more of these satellites, possibly entering the exomoon era, allowing us to discover hundreds and thousands of these objects, just like scientists did with exoplanets with telescopes like Kepler. And so, for astronomy, this is definitely a really exciting discovery. But in the end, it also reminds us that, in general, the universe does not always like to follow the rules that we tend to follow in astronomy. And so, even though we like

to think of moons as these tiny rocky objects orbiting planets, here the universe shows us that it likes to create objects that do not fit our criteria. And sometimes we get these strange hierarchical systems that are just a little bit difficult to understand. But as we get more data and as we get bigger and more powerful telescopes, we'll probably have even more exciting discoveries sometime in the future, which means that there will be more videos about this once researchers find something else. But until then, check out previous videos on similar topics in the description below. Thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can donate to me directly, or by joining the Patreon membership that grants you early access.

You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful, I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.