---
video_title: "JWST Evidence That We Found Exotic Black Hole Stars After All"
video_id: ZtPiCh0NBt8
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZtPiCh0NBt8
video_date: 20260616
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about black hole star discovery from JWST
  Links:
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/ae4ed7/pdf
  Previous update: https://youtu.be/4IidxRZ47M0
  X-ray dot: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kn6nnzSgZbg
  Massive black hole that makes no sense: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58K_z0MeDdk
  #jwst #jameswebbspacetelescope #blackholestar
  
  0:00 Little red dots update...again! 
  1:30 What are they again? 
  3:55 New object GLIMPSE-17775 is very important 
  5:05 Results and discoveries - black hole star scenario 
  6:30 Evidence coming from JWST 
  8:40 Implications and why this matters 
  10:18 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  MPIA/HdA/T. Müller/A. de Graaff - https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-03352-6  CC BY 4.0 
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
So, technically, we just talked about little red dots not so long ago because there was a pretty big discovery. And looks like we have another one coming from a separate team that discovered something else absolutely incredible and something that potentially reveals their nature once and for all. Which means that we have to talk about little red dots once again and discuss this very recent study that just came out in June of 2026. Hold on for a person, this is Anton. Today, we're once again going to the mystery of these very strange objects and discuss this very strange puzzle discovered by the James Webb back in 2022. A class of objects that we now

refer to as little red dots, almost 400 of which have now been officially identified all over the place and basically representing these tiny, compact, and extremely red sources that we don't really seem to see anywhere else except for extremely early universe, which is where the mystery, of course, starts. What exactly is this? Why does it look so strange? And why does it not exist anymore? As a matter of fact, for a while, because of their strangeness, some researchers even thought that they might actually break our current understanding of how the universe began. But, thanks to this very

recent study you can find in the description by Vasily Kokorev and the team you see on the screen, we might finally have the most complete picture yet because we have some of the most accurate observations of at least one of these objects we're going to be discussing right now. But, first, in case you have never seen any previous videos or in case you're not familiar with these objects, very quick review. So, LRDs, little red dots, what are they? And well, here to understand why this is so important, we obviously have to first understand why these objects appear so unusual. And it's because when James Webb started looking at these deepest parts of space, it surprisingly we an abundance of these red objects that were particularly visible to this infrared telescope. And they all seem to

appear at least 600 million years following the Big Bang, but all disappeared within just one or two billion years afterwards. And it's really their size and their color that makes them so strange. They're relatively small in size, usually less than 100 light-years across, and they're also extremely bright and energetic, and all seem to produce this very bizarre red light without any additional observations, such as for example, x-rays or gamma rays. And this created a bit of a headache for astronomers because, well, they kind of looked like baby galaxies, or possibly some active galaxies that maybe grew just a little bit too quickly and became super energized. But in most cases, they seemed to really be a little bit too large to exist so early in the universe, and they were also not emitting the same type of light as a typical starburst galaxy, or a galaxy that's growing. And

one of the first type of an explanation that came out of all of this was actually that these were maybe some of these first stars that existed back in the days when the universe just began, the population three stars, which we've never actually seen before anywhere. And so, we don't actually know what they should look like, with some scientists suggesting that maybe this is it. Maybe this is what a typical star was like when it was just made out of hydrogen and helium and nothing else. Basically, they would grow into these massive objects, possibly thousands and thousands of solar masses in mass, and become very, very bright, but then also explode pretty quickly. But even here, these observations did not make a lot of sense because, once again, the emissions were just a little bit different, with additional scientists suggesting that maybe this was actually something that was covered in a lot of dust, and was basically just irregular galaxy that enshrouded in dust to such an extent that only some light was escaping, and everything else was stuck inside. But as

of early 2026, neither explanation fit all of the data we've collected over the years. And not until this recent object referred to as GLIMPSE 17775, an object that nobody has studied yet, and that now has been analyzed because it actually seems to be in the perfect position to be seen extremely clearly. And that's because if you look at this image, this is once again a gravitational lens, and specifically a lens behind a galactic cluster, Abell S1063. And so, as you can see in this image, this little red dot is actually sort of part of the lens, which in this case allowed researchers to do something that has never really been done before, the deepest spectrum analysis from any little red dot to date. Or just to rephrase this, researchers were able to physically see what sort of elements seem to be contained inside this object by looking at specific emission lines coming from the light that's over 13 billion years old. And so, in this case,

James Webb spent approximately 30 hours looking at this, but because this is a gravitational lens, the data in this case appears as if we looked at it for at least 80 hours, which was enough to produce a very accurate spectrum, which is precisely what this entire paper is all about. And so, here when the team looked at the light coming from GLIMPSE 17775, they actually discovered over 40 individual spectral lines acting as chemical fingerprints. And well, to everyone's surprise, this was extremely different from a typical galaxy, from a typical star, and even from a typical black hole. So, this actually was exotic, but it still was something that we know of. Because in this case, all of the data supports a relatively recent model referred to as the black hole star scenario. And we actually have a picture

representing this as well. And that's because in this particular model, this object is not just one giant star, and it's not just one giant molecule, but instead it's sort of kind of something in between. Or to be more exact, this is a super massive black hole that's actually growing extremely fast, but it's completely enveloped by a dense cocoon of gas. And in this case, this cocoon is so ridiculously thick, and the black hole is so ridiculously powerful, that all of the energy coming from the black hole then basically starts to make this cocoon reprocess the light, which then makes it glow, making it resemble a gigantic star. And so, it's a black hole powered star, with all of the light essentially being the result of the black hole activity, but being created by the gas around this object. And in

this case, the evidence is actually quite intriguing. As a matter of fact, we have five specific pieces of evidence, or independent clues pointing at the same conclusion. First, the idea referred to as Thomson scattering. And that's because the light from the gas does not look like it's just rotating, and instead shows signs of scattering where light bounces off electrons in a very dense layered gas shell. We sometimes see something very similar during certain types of supernova, or in locations with a lot of thick gas.

There's also something referred to as the iron forest. And that's because in this case, the spectrum revealed 16 different lines of iron, which is why it's called iron forest, which is produced when the iron atoms start to glow because of ridiculous amounts of energy. And in order to produce 16 of them, or basically in order to make iron glow 16 different ways, you need to have a high energy engine, like some kind of a rapidly feeding black hole, because nothing else is powerful enough to produce any of this. Then, we also have some helium and oxygen clues. We detected helium and oxygen behaving in ways that only happen in extremely dense environments with intense radiation.

Then, importantly, we have what's known as the Balmer break. This is a very specific dip in the wavelength of light around the wavelength of 364 nm, and it's actually caused by behavior of hydrogen atoms and is most pronounced when a galaxy is populated by extremely hot and extremely powerful A-type stars. But in this particular case, the Balmer break is actually pretty weak and is technically even weaker than other little red dots, which seems to be the result of the host galaxy surrounding this object. Or to be more exact, in other little red dots, host galaxy is not something that has been usually seen, but in this case seems to be visible just a little bit. In other words, this object seems to also contain a galaxy around it, but we just don't really see it because it's super far away. And lastly, we have certain

absorption features, such as gas actually blocking some of the light, which usually happens when the gas is under very high pressure and extremely close to a central black hole. With all of these features essentially telling us that this is indeed an extremely compact, superdense, and superhot object that was basically proposed to be something like this. And this right now is super important for solving major issues that could not be addressed previously when these objects were just discovered. In other words, it solves that broken cosmology problem. And that's because now we don't have to assume that these are impossible galaxies that somehow grew too fast, or that these are population three stars we've never seen before, or maybe that these are some really bizarre black holes gigantic in size that start glowing with some bizarre colors.

Instead, what we are seeing are basically young black holes that are growing ridiculously fast at what's known as super-Eddington rates and start to emit so much light that they basically cause the gas around them to start producing this super-intense glow. But because they're also consuming gas much faster than a typical black hole, they also end up forming these very massive shells in their own surroundings that then do not allow any light to escape and produce these powerful emissions, which also kind of explains why these objects are usually extremely faint in x-rays because this was actually one of the main reasons that first scientists did not think these were black holes. Normally, central black holes produce a lot of x-ray emissions, but here almost nothing was visible. As a matter of fact, almost none of the little red dots produce any x-rays, but only some of them producing just a little bit. We actually recently discussed at least one such object, you can learn about in the description. It's

technically now known as the x-ray dots. And so here the explanation is that this is all the result of super dense gas, actually denser and thicker than anything we [clears throat] see in the local universe, and basically gas so thick that it literally creates star-like conditions around this black hole with the gas then behaving in the same way it usually behaves around stars. What all of this means is it just starts to absorb a lot of this high energy and then re-emit it in a very specific wavelength. But along with that previously mentioned x-ray dot and a few other additional discoveries including the discovery of a naked black hole, once again, the video should be in the description, scientists are now almost certain that these objects are black holes, but just surrounded by some very extreme environments. With this specific object, Glimpse 1775, it very likely contained in a black hole that's about 4.5 million solar masses or

essentially extremely similar to what we have in the center of the Milky Way. And though this might sound huge, it's actually approximately 10 times smaller than what scientists initially guessed when they did not account for all of this gas resulting from the cocoon surrounding the black hole. In other words, there is a lot of this gas around the black hole and it basically makes it appear to be way more massive than it really is. But in the end, this is now the best evidence we have for the existence of these black hole stars. And not just one or two, the early universe was potentially crowded with these objects because they seem to represent some kind of a very typical energetic phase of a developing black hole where the central black hole starts to grow ridiculously fast and seems to be surrounded by these massive thick shells of gas for at least some time. And the

evidence from this particular study suggests that many, if not all water red dots, are actually these gas enshrouded black hole stars. And I guess once again, importantly, the data here fits with all of the previous observations and most importantly, with all of the previous predictions from the modern cosmology. As the main scientists put it, everything fits, nothing is broken. It's just we're now finally understanding how the early universe was just a little bit more extreme and a little bit different. On that note, we'll probably come back and discuss this more once there's some additional discoveries. But until then, check out

previous videos on water red dots in the description below. Thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this

channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.