---
video_title: "Astronomers Found a Miniature Odd Radio Circle And It Makes No Sense"
video_id: wZcAT8hobo4
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wZcAT8hobo4
video_date: 20260809
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the smallest Odd Radio Circle ever found
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.05174
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2506.08439
  Previous videos:
  https://youtu.be/oqsO80TAg-g
  https://youtu.be/2Vu9alnI3YI
  #orc #astronomy #science 
  
  0:00 Odd Radio Circle phenomenon 
  1:10 How they were found and how it all started 
  4:07 Initial discoveries and size confirmations 
  6:35 New smallest circle and why it's so strange 
  8:30 Possible explanations 
  11:25 Conclusions and implications 
  13:20 Unanswered questions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person, this is Anton, and today we're going to go back and discuss the mystery of odd radio circles, more commonly known as ORCs, a mysterious phenomenon that's been unfolding in our skies for the last 6 years, and a phenomenon that still is kind of difficult to explain. But also a phenomenon that not a lot of people are familiar with because this is basically a brand new discovery that's just very difficult to explain. As a matter of fact, it's so strange that its name is officially odd, odd radio circle. And though scientists have discovered a few more of these objects in the last few years, and some of them potentially have been explained, for the most part, these are still actually kind of mysterious and still don't have an exact explanation. And more importantly, the recent discovery of the smallest odd radio circle to date is now changing our understanding once again, and seems to challenge what we actually believed about these ghostly circles and what they mean for evolution of galaxies. But

in order to understand why this is still one of the biggest mysteries in astronomy, let's actually talk about their initial discovery, and of course, what we know so far after approximately 6 years of studies. And well, here the story begins in 2019. Around this time, astronomers using the Australian Square Kilometer Array Pathfinder, also known as ASKAP, one of the most powerful radio telescopes on the entire planet, decided to conduct a very thorough analysis of the night sky in order to map the radio observations in unprecedented detail. And they actually refer to this as EMU, Evolutionary Map of the Universe. Naturally, because these were Australian researchers, so everything here had to have an Australian name. Actually, I

would not be surprised if the next one is called Vegemite or something because it's like black and contains a lot of salty stuff. Anyway, on a more serious note, this was actually a very exciting survey, and was basically one of the first of its kind because around this time a lot of radio telescopes became powerful enough to suddenly map the night skies in a lot of detail. But, while looking through the early data, they found something that they had not planned for. A bunch of very faint but perfectly circular rings only visible in radio light or basically only produced as radio emissions. And there was actually quite a few of them in completely different locations. And

because they were unusually round and also because they only seem to appear in radio emissions and did not have any other emissions in any other light including infrared or optical light, at first scientists thought that maybe these are just errors and maybe something is miscalibrated or the telescope is seeing something that's just not there. So, these were basically assumed to be artifacts. But, after additional checkups and additional observations, they turned out to be pretty much real. Real enough to become a new phenomenon. But, in this case without any possible explanation. Mostly

because we've actually never seen something so circular and something that seems to only appear in radio light. And so, because of their strangeness and aroundness and also because this was radio emissions, they officially became known as odd radio circles. Although once again, since this was an Australian discovery, I think they should have just called them Vegemite spots. Or how about kangaroo droppings? Koala [snorts] eyeballs?

Anyway, moving on. But, really the biggest mystery was the fact that every other frequency or every other observations with optical telescopes, x-rays, infrared observations, or more powerful telescopes including gamma ray observatories discovered nothing. They only appeared in radio waves. And on top of this, they actually appeared to be enormous. Possibly hundreds of thousands if not millions of light years across.

Although in this case, it was actually kind of difficult to tell how big they actually were because we didn't even know if we're looking at something inside our own galaxy or something somewhere really far away and thus gigantic in size. And so, for several years scientists tried to figure out what's happening and of course discovered if they exist anywhere else. But one of the first discoveries was that some of them seemed to actually be at least several times larger than the Milky Way galaxy. In other words, at least for some of them, the overall distance was actually established. And so, in the last 6 years scientists did discover a few more things. First of

all, they are mostly edge brightened rings, meaning that the outer circle seems to be brighter than the inner circle or the inside of the circle, suggesting we're looking at some kind of a spherical shell of gas or possibly some kind of a spherical plasma projected onto the sky. So, basically this was not a circle, not a wheel, but was more of a bubble. And because this was radio emissions, it means that they must be created by something referred to as synchrotron radiation, which really happens when very fast-moving electrons spiral around magnetic field lines and the change in their velocity produces radio waves. And so, because we see no other light or no heat or other emissions, here synchrotron radiation of electrons is the only explanation that makes sense and would explain why we only see this with radio telescopes. But a much more exciting discovery came from the fact that some of them seem to also contain something in their center. You

can actually see one of these discoveries here. These seem to contain galaxies and specifically massive galaxies that potentially contain extremely massive black holes in the center, which led scientists to now propose that it's the galaxy itself that must be the engine producing this and seems to create these bubbles, very likely through some kind of a very violent event millions of years ago. And so, this particular simulation potentially shows us what might have happened. Naturally though, exactly what caused these emissions and what produced this I guess explosion or whatever this is was of course unknown. But, because several works have been discovered with these optical galaxies right in the center, it strongly suggested that at least some of them seem to have these galaxies as the source or the origin for the formation of these rings and these bubbles. With additional studies also

definitely excluding other phenomena such as, for example, various types of closer to us nebula or some kind of a supernova or remnant because they did not contain additional emissions that are usually produced by these much smaller events. And this was definitely not an image artifact because they did appear even when observed with different telescopes. And so, for the most part, for at least some of them, the overall conclusion was that these were massive cosmic explosions involving powerful spherical shock waves originating from distant massive galaxies. But, that's of course until this recent discovery of the new circle referred to as G1248+ 4826. And so, let's talk about what's discovered here and why this is so unusual once again and why we're possibly back to having a new mystery.

Now, here this was discovered using the LOFAR Two-meter Sky Survey, also known as LOTSS, and here this discovery seems to be an oddball even amongst odd radio circles. And the main reason is actually the size. While most of these works seem to be extremely large, usually at least several hundred thousand light-years across, this new one is tiny in comparison. Its official ring radius is only about 30 kiloparsec or 100,000 light-years. It's essentially the size of the Milky Way. And that's at least 10

times smaller than all of other radio circles and also somewhat different in shape. But, the other big difference is actually the galaxy. Unlike the classical works that we've discussed previously, where the host galaxy seems to be right in the center, here are galaxy that potentially is to this is offset and seems to sit on the edge of the ring. And it's also located within a galaxy group surrounded by a faint diffuse envelope of radio emission. In this image, GR stands for galaxy group with a lot of foreground sources overlapping with the radio emission and indicated with the letters FG. And so here the discovery is kind of

important because it essentially suggests that the current samples of ORCS might be just a little bit biased. Or essentially, we might have been missing much smaller, more compact ORCS because they're just a little bit harder to find and because they tend to look like much fuzzier discs in lower resolution data. In other words, scientists now suggest that quite a few of these objects very likely are still hiding in a lot of other galactic clusters and this might be a much more common phenomenon than we initially thought. But once again, here there's still a question of their actual formation. Because in this case, this only adds to the debate of their origin and creates even more confusion. But we

do have some potential explanations. And the first one is quite obvious. It might be some kind of a black hole activity. Or basically, a super massive black hole in the center fires out huge powerful jets and completely by accident, we're actually looking directly down the barrel of these jets making them appear as a kind of a ring. Or it's quite possible that the jets have also turned off and left behind a kind of a plasma relic that might also appear as the ring. In other words, there's a chance

we're just looking at this from a very specific angle and this is all the result of some kind of a black hole emission. Alternatively, this has nothing to do with black holes and is actually the result of enormous starburst activity. And right now this is actually one of the most supported models. So basically, in this example, approximately a billion years ago, a galaxy went through an intense burst of star formation, possibly as a result of some kind of a galactic collision, with many different stars eventually exploding a supernova in a very quick succession. And because one happened after another in just a few years, all of these additional explosions generated this massive galactic wind that ended up blowing gas out of the galaxy and produced this outflow that lasted for several million years. And when this

galactic wind hits a very thin gas [clears throat] outside of the galaxy, which is usually present in abundance in various galactic clusters, it creates a massive shock wave resembling a ring that we see today. We actually normally see this on a much smaller scale inside galaxies themselves. For example, the nearby local bubble represents a somewhat similar formation, also formed by different supernova, but in this case it's only 1,000 light-years across. And last but not least is the explanation for these smaller arcs, or basically for the object that was just discovered. Here scientists believe that the ring might be some kind of a fossil plasma, or basically some kind of an ancient gas from a very old black hole event that has now become re-energized when various shock waves caused by moving galaxies started to create additional interaction inside the plasma within that group. Or

in other words, this ancient plasma has now been re-accelerated because several galaxies in this cluster seem to be merging and seem to be moving a lot of gas around the region. With additional investigation and data analysis also excluding several scenarios. So right now there's no evidence for an active black hole or any kind of jets, and no supernova happening in any of these galaxies. And this is also not just some kind of a gas from different galaxies either, and seems to be ancient plasma from some kind of a major active event in the past. And so in this case the study now highlights how sometimes the interaction and collisions within galactic groups can also create these additional radio structures that scientists did not know could exist and could form. And so, this particular

study now suggests that this is probably quite common and very likely exists in a lot of different locations. But, one of the main reasons these are generally quite important for modern astronomy is because this is essentially an ancient relic of the past. Or basically, it allows us to see the history of galactic activity that would be otherwise completely invisible because it's showing us events that happened over a billion years ago and basically left no other mark behind. And so, for astronomy, this helps scientists study the galactic winds and the evolution of various clusters and intercluster material, which then of course enriches certain galaxies in certain elements. And generally, these galactic winds are crucial for understanding how galaxies grow and develop and why some galaxies eventually die out and become super quiet for billions of years and why other galaxies end up producing a lot of stars. And so, by studying the size and

the speed of these rings, one day astronomers are going to be able to calculate exactly how much energy was released and how this affected the galaxy millions of years ago. While at the same time also helping us actually visualize the extremely thin gas that exists between galaxies because it's actually this thin gas that we're seeing in these images. And so, here it's a kind of a visual representation of gas distribution and magnetic fields on very massive scales. But, despite these new discoveries, there are obviously quite a few new questions. For example, why do some rings look so different and why do some arcs actually have double rings?

And why do some resemble something like a Venn diagram? In other words, why does their actual shape differ so much? And since quite a few of these dual arcs have already been discovered, it essentially implies that their origin and their formation seems to happen in at least several ways. But, we also have no idea why generally they are still so rare. Out of millions of galaxies surveyed, we only confirmed approximately 30 so far and only around some galaxies that don't actually look anything special. And so, the question

here is, does every galaxy go through this work phase or do they require a very specific set of conditions and something extremely precise to happen at certain time? And so, the only way we can answer this is actually if we get some data in the x-rays or possibly optical follow-ups that might help us discover something. And intriguingly, a few months back, we've actually talked about a potential discovery of oxygen fluorescence that was identified in the work known as work four, which actually helped scientists confirm that at least some of them seem to be the result of a starburst activity. There should be a video about this in the description. And so, as our telescopes become better and as data processing becomes better as well, hopefully more of these objects will be discovered and hopefully their mystery will finally be explained. But,

it's this discovery of an unusual smallest work so far that now actually makes things just a little bit more unusual. And so, once we have some updates or once scientists discover something else, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can donate to me directly or by joining our channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying one of our present t-shirts in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you

tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.