---
video_title: "We Finally Solved Antarctica’s Century-Old Blood Falls Mystery"
video_id: shc8QqV8ePk
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shc8QqV8ePk
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the mystery of Blood Falls in Antarctica
  Links:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41561-026-02054-6
  Michigan biosphere: https://youtu.be/ASfmjwciNDI
  #antarctica #bloodfalls #biology
  
  0:00 Mystery of Blood Falls in Antarctica and how it was found 
  1:50 New studies and possible answers 
  2:40 Why is there flowing water here? 
  5:02 Why is it red? 
  7:30 Where is the iron from? Bizarre metabolism 
  9:30 New study reveals where they came from 
  13:30 Implications for astrobiology and other sciences 
  15:30 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Bryan Minnear
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and welcome to Frozen, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing a potential resolution to a century-old mystery, the mystery that you see right here, and the mystery that started in Antarctica back in 1911 when it was initially discovered by the first explorers. But, recently, based on the study we're going to be discussing today, this also gave us a fascinating breakthrough in astrobiology, as well as climate history, and extreme microbiology of organisms right here on Earth. But, in order to understand exactly what this is and why this is important, let's discuss the initial discovery first and talk about the Blood Falls in more detail. And, as I said, this starts in 1911 during the famous British expedition, the Terra Nova expedition, that tried to explore the newly discovered Antarctica. And here, a geologist, Thomas Griffith Taylor, was busy exploring a massive glacier in East Antarctica and a valley that today actually bears his name. And well, at

the very edge of this glacier, Taylor and his team came across a shocking sight. It most likely resembled this, and it resembled a waterfall of blood pouring out of ice, which is obviously why it's called the Blood Falls. But, [snorts] because Taylor was a geologist and he also had biologist friends, they were pretty certain that this was basically caused by some kind of a microorganism. And specifically, they assumed that the [clears throat] dark red color was caused by some kind of a red algae or some kind of a specialized bacteria that was able to produce this intense pigment. So, in essence, they knew right away this was not paranormal and definitely had some kind of a biological origin. But, upon the initial

analysis of the samples under a standard light microscope, and just to note, this was a 100-year-old microscope, they found absolutely nothing. And for over a century, this phenomenon captured the public's imagination, remaining one of the most striking anomalies on the planet. And though various organisms have been discovered inside, it was not entirely clear what's causing the red color. And so, it was actually only in the last few years, and especially with this recent massive study that was just published in the Nature Geoscience magazine, that scientists finally started to unravel the actual biological processes happening beneath the ice. And as it turns out, the truth is just a little bit stranger than initially assumed. Here, it seems to involve very

strange iron-breathing microbes, non-crystalline nanospheres, and a living time capsule from the super ancient ocean trapped beneath the ice for millions of years. And so, let's talk about these discoveries in a bit more detail, but to understand this mystery, we first have to tackle a major paradox, and actually the very obvious paradox. This is Antarctica. How is water even flowing here to begin with? I mean, it's supposed to freeze, right?

And especially in this region, inside the dry valley known as the McMurdo, that's incredibly cold. Here, the average temperature is -17° C or 1.4° F, and there's normally very little surface melting. Yet, this red water sporadically bubbles up and flows from small fissures inside the glacier's surface. So, why exactly does it not freeze instantly, and how can it flow? Well, by

using an ice-penetrating radar in order to basically scan the glaciers, a team of scientists discovered a relatively complex network involving various subglacial rivers and a subglacial lake that seems to create water that's not really fresh anymore, but instead is hypersaline and is technically defined as brine. And a typical brine has a salt content about two to three times higher than regular seawater, and basically contains about 8% sodium chloride, which in essence allows it to still flow despite ridiculously cold temperatures. And technically, this is where things get just a little bit more interesting because in this case the first mechanism that keeps this liquid moving is known as freezing point depression. And it acquires the salinity through another process when the salt water under the glacier goes through something referred to as cryoconcentration. And so basically here as pure water crystals start to form, they reject and expel some of these salt ions from within the structure. And the salt is

then pushed into the remaining liquid, basically making it even more concentrated and dropping the freezing point even more. But because freezing by itself is an exothermic process, basically it releases heat as the water freezes, as some of this brine begins to freeze along the edges, it also releases some of the heat to the surrounding cracks, which then prevents the center of the cracks from freezing. And this allows the hyperconcentrated salty water to remain liquid and to flow through. So essentially this is a very complex physical loop that prevents the water from pretty much ever freezing completely. And Taylor Glacier is actually the coldest glacier on Earth with constantly flowing water that potentially has been doing this for an extremely long time, very likely millions of years. But what makes it

red? Well, apparently it's not a mineral. Now for decades the overall chemical analysis of this water did show that this water contains a relatively high amount of what's known as ferrous iron. And specifically iron two that's dissolved in the water and seems to flow inside. And when this oxygen-free water reaches the glacier's surface and when it makes contact with the atmospheric oxygen, the iron is supposed to oxidize or basically create rust, then turning it deep red. Or at least this was the

assumption from a few years back. And well, initially scientists assumed that this rust was an iron-based mineral and by definition [clears throat] a mineral must have a highly organized crystalline atomic structure involving a neat grid of atoms. And so, because of these initial assumptions, scientists tested these samples from the Blood Falls basically using the exactly same methods and instruments that we use on the Mars rovers in order to test the surface. And they naturally expected to find the very similar iron mineral crystals, which were supposed to explain the red color. Except that they found nothing. With the

standard mineralogy tests repeatedly showing a complete absence of any iron crystal, which ended up being a major mystery. And so, if there are no iron minerals or iron crystals, what makes the water red? And well, one of the earlier studies from back in 2023 involved scientists from the John Hopkins University led by Ken Levy that analyzed the water using an incredibly powerful transmission electron microscope. And he actually discovered that the iron was not forming structured crystals, and instead was forming nanospheres, [clears throat] tiny amorphous non-crystalline blobs that are only 100th of the size of the average human red blood cell. And because these nanospheres have no crystalline structure, they were basically completely invisible to any other instrument. But here, they don't

just contain iron, they also seem to contain a relatively chaotic mixture of silicon, calcium, aluminum, and sodium. And when these nanospheres are discharged from this dark oxygen-free depth of the glacier, and basically when they hit the open air, it's then that they react with oxygen, turning red, and creating this dramatic bloody appearance. Well, this discovery also triggering a kind of a major warning for space exploration. We'll get back to this in a seconds. Because first, we need to discuss what's creating these nanospheres because it is a life and stuff. And so, the

question here is, how do we get so much dissolved iron inside the subglacial lake. And well, back in 2014, microbiologist Jill Mikucki used a special thermal probe referred to as the IceMole to melt some of the glacier and directly sample the pristine brine underneath the ice. And well, what they discovered here was essentially a completely isolated ecosystem trapped under 400 m of ice in absolute darkness with basically zero oxygen and at sub-zero temperatures. They discovered at least 17 different types of microbes with many of them being very strange. And one of the dominant species here seems to be Marinobacter. These are

halophiles, basically. They love salty water, but also psychrophiles, meaning that they thrive in extreme cold. And the question here was, so how do they survive without oxygen and light? And apparently, they survive by developing a metabolic process that has never been seen in nature before. Normally, a typical bacterium will use oxygen to breathe and break down organic matter.

But these microbes use sulfate as a tool to breathe by using ferric iron ions. Or just to rephrase this, they breathe iron minerals out of this subglacial bedrock, which slowly breaks down the rocks and releases massive amounts of soluble iron in the water. With all of this iron-rich brine essentially serving as a kind of a metabolic byproduct of this ancient subterranean biosphere. So yeah, this is microbial poop. And in this case, the time scale is also a little bit surprising. And that's because based on

studies, we know that this particular location was most likely sealed by ice approximately 1.5 to 2 million years ago. And so, it's a little biological time capsule with these microbes evolving in total isolation, completely cut off from the rest of the biosphere, performing this unique iron-breathing chemistry for at least a million years. And last but not the least, we have this last important breakthrough that was just announced in a study you see here, the Nature Geoscience 2026 study, that's just as mind-blowing as previous discoveries. And that's because for many years scientists debated a major question. How did all of this end up

inside the glacier, and how did many of these marine-like organisms become frozen inside this polar desert in the first place? And so did they actually get carried here recently by the powerful Antarctic wind, or are they truly the remnants of this ancient ocean millions of years old? And so here to find out, the lead researcher Angela Zoumplelis analyzed almost 170 samples of water, mud, and sediment, and actually even air molecules from inside the ice, comparing them to ocean samples from nearby McMurdo Sound, not so far from this location. And then they did something very clever. Instead of just looking for DNA, which technically could exist as leftovers for thousands of years, they actually analyzed RNA by using a technique referred to as metatranscriptomics.

And that's because RNA is generally very fragile and breaks down pretty quickly. And so if we do find RNA molecules in any of these samples, it means that they were actually expressed by something relatively recently, and does suggest some kind of a life inside. Something that's active, functioning, and interacting with the environment. And what they found was undeniable. First, they discovered these active microeukaryotes, or basically complex single-cell organisms, including various diatoms, dinoflagellates, and ciliates.

With all of this found inside this red mud and the sediments at the edge of the Taylor Glacier. With the RNA profile showing that all of these were alive and active, expressing genes for photosynthesis, cellular repair, and managing salt and iron stress. But more importantly, the sediment here suggests that all of this was extremely localized and was directly influenced by the discharges from inside the Bloodfalls. In other words, they seem to have adapted to live inside of this salty water and were very different from their cousins. And more importantly, the wind samples contain zero marine microbes, suggesting that these marine organisms could not be just blown from the ocean by modern winds. And so, that means that

they came from inside. But, how did they even get there? Although as assumed at first, they seem to be living relics. Millions of years ago during the Miocene and Pliocene epochs, global temperatures were much warmer and the sea levels were much higher. And at this time, the ocean flooded into the Taylor Valley, basically turning it into a marine fjord. But, as the climate cooled down

and as the sea levels started to fall, the Taylor Glacier started to advance and sealed off this pocket of seawater, trapping all of the marine organisms inside of it as well. With this study officially proving the geographic isolation of these organisms by mapping the haplotype networks, which traces the generic family of various diatoms by comparing them to their cousins. And so, the genera found inside the Bloodfalls seem to show very specific generic branches that diverge from their relatives at least a million years ago, which means that they've been isolated so long, they are genetically distinct and form an entirely different species. Although in this case, they are most likely not thriving inside and are only awakened as they fall out of the glacier. And so, basically they survived all of this by waiting and waiting for up to a million years, which is actually what many protists usually do when they enter dormancy. And so, when this brine

is trapped in complete darkness, many of these complex cells form these very specific protective spores that can stay dormant for an extremely long time. And they only awaken during episodic melting events when the fresh water in the brine reactivates their metabolism and sometimes sparks active photosynthesis and various repair mechanisms. So, basically they go through a very unusual dynamic survival strategy that managed to keep this ancient marine ecosystem alive and functioning for at least a million years, which is of course a super important discovery for the field of astrobiology. And that's because here, first of all, this helps us understand what happened on Earth during a period referred to as the snowball Earth when the planet was completely covered in ice. What this is basically showing us exactly how some of this complex life potentially survived, but it also tells us a little bit more about life on other objects such as Mars or various icy moons like Europa and Ganymede. And that's because we know

that Mars also has frozen water and Europa potentially contains a massive subglacial ocean protected from the dangers of space. And that means that if there is life on any of those objects, it possibly survives in extremely similar ways. But, as the main researcher here points out, it's very likely we're not going to find it for one simple reason. Most of the modern technologies on various rovers, they're basically designed to look for crystalline minerals and not tiny nano-sized amorphous structures like the ones that were discovered inside blood falls. And so, because in this case biosignatures seem to be very different from what we usually see on Earth, there's a very high chance that future missions to, for example, Europa or Ganymede or even the upcoming mission to Titan is very likely going to find nothing. And that's because none of

those missions contain these complex transmission electron microscopes, which would be just extremely difficult to carry there. And that means that we might have already missed some of these detections because the modern technology used on Mars is not able to detect these non-crystalline biosignatures. And that's of course why a lot of scientists want to have those Mars samples returned to Earth because that's the only way we're going to be able to confirm if life on Mars can even exist. But, chances are that in the next few years, we might be able to discover something else about blood falls or some other unusual ecosystems like the one that was just discovered in Michigan that you can learn about in one of the videos in the description. And thanks to your future discoveries. Thank you for watching.

Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can donate directly or by joining our membership that grants you early access. You can also support the show by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll

see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.