---
video_title: "JWST Found Proof Planets Can Survive Being Swallowed by a Star"
video_id: OUaMzGcdPts
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUaMzGcdPts
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about white dwarfs and planets surviving being swallowed by stars
  Links:
  https://dmscdn.vuelio.co.uk/publicitem/ef1d37e6-ef1b-4ace-bf91-3e9b37523627
  https://esahubble.org/news/heic2510/?lang
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2026/06/aa60576-26.pdf
  https://theconversation.com/earth-size-stars-and-alien-oceans-an-astronomer-explains-the-case-for-life-around-white-dwarfs-262301
  Previous video:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TGKvNhJq1g
  #whitedwarf #sunfuture #astronomy 
  
  0:00 Strange planet that shouldn't exist 
  0:45 The story of white dwarfs and their planets 
  2:30 Strange new discovery and a potential explanation 
  5:40 Will this happen in the solar system? 
  7:25 White dwarf merger and type IA supernova 
  9:20 Could there be life around them? 
  11:00 Conclusions and implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, for person, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing this somewhat unusual planet that according to astronomers probably should not exist. And that's because in this case, this particular world seems to have somehow survived the violent death of its host star, a star that's actually extremely similar to our sun, and managed to overcome its giant stage without being engulfed and without being destroyed. And so, in this video, we're going to discuss this new discovery from the study you can find in the description, and of course, discuss what this potentially means for the future of our own planet, planet Earth. But in order to understand why this particular discovery is so important, we first have to discuss white dwarfs, the eventual end product of a lot of different stars like our sun. And that's because when stars like our sun go through their final stages, and when they start running out of hydrogen fuel, they don't just vanish, they first swell up into red giants, expanding to hundreds of times of their original size. And during this time, they

actually do become extremely easily visible, but also create these very powerful winds that release a lot of gas around the star, creating these beautiful formations. And normally, this type of a process is more or less catastrophic for some of the nearby planets. So, for example, in our own solar system, it's quite likely that Mercury and Venus will definitely be consumed and disappear into the star in the process. When it comes to planet Earth, it's still a bit of an open question, and we'll actually discuss this in a few minutes. >> [snorts] >> But finally, when the star sheds these outer layers, it ends up leaving behind its tiny core, which is actually extremely dense, and in terms of size, is very similar to an object like planet Earth, but normally containing a lot of mass, sometimes as much as one solar mass in total. And that's of course, a

white dwarf. And well, for a very long time, researchers believed that any planet that approaches the white dwarf relatively close would most likely be completely destroyed relatively quickly. And technically, the evidence for this exists in many different locations featuring white dwarfs. And normally, these are seen as these [clears throat] very thick rings that most likely used to be planets, but have now been shredded apart. And these rings eventually make their way toward the center and become absorbed by the white dwarf. We've discussed some of these

previous detections and observations in some of the videos in the description. But, in 2020, astronomers found something unusual. They found a gas giant planet, now referred to as WD 1856b, that was orbiting one of these white dwarfs. And though this was already quite unusual, in this recent study that was published in the Nature and the Astrophysical Journal, Ryan McDonald and the team you see here revealed even stranger details about this somewhat unusual planet. And so here, by using the James Webb Space Telescope, researchers have now characterized its atmosphere, which was done by observing the planet passing in front of this white dwarf. And this

particular gas giant seems to be kind of unique. Even though it's roughly the size of Jupiter, it seems to be a lot more massive, possibly between four to 11 Jupiter masses. But it's actually its orbit that's even stranger. It goes around the white dwarf once every 34 hours. And [snorts] well, here, this is actually super close and well, kind of doesn't actually make a lot of sense for several reasons. So, by having such a

close orbit, it means that when the star was still a red giant, this planet was probably also extremely close. In other words, it potentially was inside the star when it was still in its red giant stage. But on top of this, it also seems to have somewhat strange temperature. It actually seems to be too warm and around 400 Kelvin or 127 Celsius, 260 Fahrenheit, it seems to be unusually warm considering the fact that it's probably 10 billion years old and is also orbiting a white dwarf that's not really producing as much heat. And so according to the calculations, it should be much colder by at least 300 Kelvin.

So something here gives it at least 300 Kelvin more temperature, which presented astronomers with somewhat unusual mystery. How is it so close and what makes it so hot? Well, this is what the study is about and in this study, the researchers have effectively rewound the planet's thermal history. They basically tried to see how it evolved over time and they discovered that it most likely did not survive by being inside of the star because that would be extremely unusual and instead it most likely started somewhere much farther away, very likely in the location where we find Jupiter. But then for billions and billions of years, it slowly migrated closer and closer to the star. But as it

was approaching the star and as it was receiving more effects from the white dwarf's gravity, here a process referred to as tidal heating started to dramatically warm it up, which is basically the same effect that creates the volcanic activity on the Jupiter's moon Io. And so here through the generation of frictional heat and through the compression of the interior, this very likely resulted in a reheating event that potentially happened somewhere between 3 and 5.5 billion years ago. In other words, sometimes in the past, the planet suddenly became extremely hot because of these dramatic heating effects caused by the proximity of the white dwarf. But as it was moving closer and closer, the effects became even stronger allowing this planet to become warm enough and still glow with warmth even today. And so in this case,

this discovery tells us just a little bit more about what most likely will happen in the solar system in approximately 5 to 6 billion years. And so, here, as the Sun also becomes a red giant, and as it transitions into the white dwarf, there's a very high chance that some of the more distant gas giants will also eventually start moving closer and might potentially also experience similar tidal heating effects and thus acquire this extra heat that's not there right now. But, what about planet Earth? Well, here, based on one of the recent studies you can find in the description and based on the new model, researchers now believe that the tidal forces from the Sun may not be strong enough to pull or restore it, but as the Sun loses mass, it might actually produce the opposite effect. It's going to shed significant portion of its mass, which will produce less gravitational pull, allowing some of the planets, including planet Earth, to migrate outwards. In

other words, there's a very high chance Earth will survive, but will end up in a different orbit. And a lot of this is actually based on the observations of a system known as L2 Puppis, a system that you see right here, and a system that's currently undergoing a very similar evolutionary change. And in this case, this particular system seems to have slightly more mass loss effects compared to tidal interactions, which essentially allows some of these farther planets to escape into wider orbits. But, planets like Mercury and Venus will most likely still be absorbed. Although, even based on this study, right now the exact outcome remains a bit uncertain, mostly because we don't really know how much mass the Sun is going to lose. But,

apart from this, in the last few months, there actually have been some additional white dwarf discoveries that were also kind of surprising. For example, there was one discovery involving a white dwarf referred to as WD0525 + 526, that was recently analyzed by the Hubble Space Telescope, which revealed something super strange. First, it seems to be a little bit too massive, at least 20% more massive than the Sun. And a white dwarf of such mass is actually kind of rare. This is actually very close to the upper bound of a white dwarf mass. But more importantly,

additional observations revealed that these stuff inside of the star was also moving somewhat strange. This is the process we usually refer to as convection. And so for some reason, this particular star showed a kind of a subtle mixing process that involved tiny traces of carbon moving upwards. Something that was actually observed in the ultraviolet light. And the only way to explain these emissions of carbon, and actually the only way to explain why the stuff is moving here, is through some kind of an ancient collision. Or

essentially, this was most likely some kind of a binary system that joined into one, and basically produced a single object instead of exploding as a supernova. And well, in the last few years, researchers realized that this process of merger could be actually much more common than we thought. And it would actually explain why there are so many different types of white dwarfs with so many different properties. But more importantly, a lot of these mergers very likely result in type 1A supernova, because at the moment we have no other explanation for how a typical white dwarf can potentially explode without suddenly acquiring so much mass. As a matter of fact, scientists now believe that many of these merged white dwarfs might also be masquerading as ordinary stars just because they then contain certain effects, such as convection, that makes them resemble a typical star when observed from planet Earth. Which means

that in reality, there could be a lot more of these objects hiding all over the place. But [snorts] when it comes to white dwarfs, there's also this one final question that's actually kind of important for the future of our own solar system. Could there actually be life or habitable conditions around them? Especially [clears throat] since white dwarf generally remain relatively stable and are also an extremely common type of a star with an estimated 10 billion of them right here in the Milky Way galaxy. And so, because of the stability, most of them actually have this very specific habitable zone that remains constant for billions and billions of years. Although, compared to

the sun, this is actually much closer to the star. But, historically, scientists believed that the tidal forces here would most likely still be a little bit too strong and would most likely cause water to boil away from the surface. But, recent simulations from the study you can find in the description present us with a new potential solution. The idea is from Einsteinian general relativity. Something that could act as a dynamic shield. And so, according to

Einstein's theory, gravity can cause a planet's orbit to slowly spin, preventing the orbit from becoming too oval-shaped. And this, in theory, could keep the tidal heating relatively low, preserving the liquid water on the surface for billions of years. In other words, there might be just right orbit that could exist in these systems, allowing planets to still be habitable even after billions of years of existence. Although, naturally, this would still require an extremely specific arrangement of the orbit and the planetary spin in order to prevent the tidal forces from heating up the planet too much. But, nevertheless, this shows us that in theory, even billions of years in the future, there might be a chance for habitable conditions in the solar system after the sun becomes a white dwarf. And based on that first

discovery of a gas giant that moved much closer to the star, we can assume that planets like Saturn and Jupiter might one day make their way there, too, and possibly acquire somewhat similar conditions, which may also affect their moons, assuming they're still around. And so, because of these new discoveries with the James Webb and the Hubble Space Telescope, researchers are now beginning to understand that the end of the solar system and the sun, in reality, might actually just be the new start and the beginning of a new chapter for future life. But at least for now, this is still somewhat hypothetical and somewhat speculative. So, until we actually see some evidence somewhere out there, we don't really know exactly what's going to happen for now. But once we learn more, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until

then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and you name it directly or by joining the channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support the show by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.