---
video_title: "New Evidence of Activity and Changes Inside Earth's Core"
video_id: kHDyryrh_TU
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHDyryrh_TU
video_date: 20260604
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about discoveries from within planet Earth
  Links:
  https://jsedi.episciences.org/articles/17268
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41561-025-01642-2
  https://theconversation.com/the-way-earths-surface-moves-has-a-bigger-impact-on-shifting-the-climate-than-we-knew-272352
  https://theconversation.com/the-earths-inner-core-is-a-total-mystery-heres-how-were-starting-to-solve-it-238029
  https://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.133.184101
  Other videos: https://youtu.be/EiR9xTHuLr4
  
  0:00 Earth's core discoveries 
  1:00 Previous assumptions 
  1:55 New study - outer core reversal 
  3:35 Correlated to day length change 
  4:20 Geomagnetic glitches 
  4:50 Shape change 
  5:50 Not just iron and nickel? 
  7:05 Explains why inner core even exists 
  8:05 Leaking core? 
  9:00 Conclusions
  
  #earth #geology #earthscience 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello, wonderful person. This is Anton, and today we're going to dive deep, and literally thousands of kilometers deep, into some of the main discoveries in regards to the core of planet Earth. And specifically, some of the most surprising and some of the most mysterious discoveries that even today do not make a lot of sense. And mostly discoveries from the last few months that essentially help us redefine what we thought about the Earth's core and its effects on planet Earth. And even though for a long time, we've actually viewed Earth's interior as a relatively stable and predictable machine, some of the more recent observations from various satellites and from various seismic stations suggest that the core, and specifically the engine driving the magnetic field, seems to be far more dynamic than we ever imagined. But

before we start, let's I guess briefly discuss what we actually thought about the core for many decades and essentially establish what was thought to be a scientific fact. And I guess let's start with the composition. The core of planet Earth has always been believed to be made out of iron and nickel, approximately 5,000° Kelvin in temperature, which is extremely similar to the surface of the sun. And surrounding this inner core, there is a kind of a liquid outer core that seems to represent a churning ocean of molten metal with this movement then creating the so-called geodynamo that generates the magnetic field. And though in some of the previous studies, researchers have also suggested there might be an extra layer to this, or basically kind of an innermost inner core, which you can learn about in one of the videos in the description. For the sake of this

video, it does not really matter as much. But in essence, it's the structure that creates the very important shield that protects the planet and all of the life on the surface. And without this, life would unlikely to exist at all. But here is where it gets a little bit weird. This is actually based on the most recent study by Frederik Dalman and the team you see here that was just released in 2026. And that's because

since 2010, scientists have actually observed a kind of a massive reversal in the flow of the molten outer core that was actually kind of difficult to explain. Now, historically, the outer molten core, the one generating the magnetosphere, has predominantly been westwards. Or essentially, if you were to stand on the surface, and if you were to look down into the planet, it would actually appear as if the core was moving westwards in comparison to where you are. But the combination of various seismic detectors based on detecting earthquakes and the satellite measurements by the European Space Agency using the Swarm mission has [clears throat] now revealed that at least one section of the outer core, specifically the one beneath the Pacific Ocean, seems to have turned around and started to move eastwards instead. And here, this is not just some kind of a small eddy, as you can see in this simulation, this accounts for approximately 5% of the outer core's surface flow, representing a relatively large change. And right now, the

researchers are trying to determine if this is a short-term fluctuation or some kind of a permanent shift in our planet's interior circulates. And so, based on the satellite data from 1997 to 2025, this seems to directly confirm the unusual Pacific shift. [laughter] But interestingly, something else started to happen back in 2020 with recent measurements suggesting that it seems to be currently weakening again. With [clears throat] this discovery now suggesting that the Earth's outer core is a lot more dynamic and variable than we ever believed. But at the same time, the somewhat bizarre 2010 reversal has now been also connected and correlated with some other mysterious events. For

example, in 2010, Earth experienced a sudden disruption in the total length of the day, which sounds like a really good plot for a disaster movie. But in this case, the actual change was minuscule, and the day changed by only a fraction of a milliseconds, which is almost impossible for humans to notice, and really only affects some of the atomic clocks. But, there was also a seismic indication that the inner core's behavior changed as well. Basically implying that these layers are definitely quite connected, and in ways that we still don't really understand. Essentially, the inner core affects the outer core, and of course, vice versa.

But, exactly how, we're still not sure. But, interestingly, around the same time, satellites measuring the geomagnetic field recorded several geomagnetic jerks, or very abrupt glitches in the magnetic field, that were the strongest in 2017. And researchers now suspect all of this very likely was related, and seems to have begun as these changes in the outer core in 2010. With at least one other study that was based on observations of repeating earthquakes, focusing on 168 pairs of near identical seismic events, discovering that it's not just the rotation that's changing, it also seems to affect the shape. And so, by comparing waves from times when the inner core was in the same rotational position, or by basically comparing the seismic events, researchers were able to rule out that the rotation speed was the cause for certain seismic variations.

And instead, these differences suggest that the surface of the inner core was actually shifting. With this basically being a kind of a minor depression, or possibly uplift at the boundary between the inner and outer cores. In other words, it was constantly being reshaped by something, and was definitely not very smooth. And just to help you visualize the observations, it kind of looked like this. And this is probably possible because the core itself is technically kind of soft. Soft enough to

undergo some of these physical deformations, which seem to happen as the much more denser inner core interacts with the outer core. But, exactly how this affects the planet is obviously still unknown. And then, scientists from a slightly different study wanted to also find out what the core is potentially made out of, because this iron-nickel explanation does not actually make a lot of sense. Or, essentially, iron and nickel does not explain everything. And that's because seismic waves traveling through the core seem to actually travel through the core at different speeds depending on the direction, which to scientists from at least one study now basically suggests that the core is potentially shaped like a kind of an onion. In other words, it

seems to contain separate individual layers, and it seems to be basically stratified. Or, essentially, it seems to have very specific chemical makeup depending on the depth. And to confirm this, the scientists also used an experiment using a diamond anvil, the apparatus that actually creates extreme pressures right here on Earth in order to condense iron to such extreme temperatures and pressures that they could then analyze what happens inside Earth. And what they basically discovered that by adding silicon and carbon and mixing it with iron, it might explain some of these weird seismic wave patterns. When in fact, a separate study even suggesting that there might be a lot of carbon present inside that would actually explain why the core can actually become solid. And that's

actually one of the great mysteries of the Earth's core. Why does it even exist? Or, specifically, how did the core become solid despite these extreme pressures? And that's because generally, pure iron or even iron mixed with nickel actually has to be much, much colder, specifically approximately 1,000° colder, and reach what's known as a supercooling state before it can finally turn solid. But, we know that the Earth's core seems to be much hotter.

And so, at least one study suggests that the core possibly contains anywhere between 2.4% of carbon, which would then change the composition of iron and make this composite much much easier to freeze and become solid, which basically confirms that the core is not just iron and nickel, but does contain a lot of other stuff. With the outer layers of the inner core even being enriched in things like silicon on top of carbon, which would also explain this unusual onion shape. And so it's the presence of carbon that allows iron to supercool and allows it to turn solid. And what's even stranger is that a lot of this stuff, and specifically some of the heavier stuff, seems to be even leaking from the core and reaching the surface. And so in

at least one recent study, mostly focusing on the volcanic rocks in Hawaii, researchers actually found traces of precious metals such as ruthenium that was inside Hawaiian lava and seems to have come from within the core and not the mantle. This was based on very specific chemical signatures that seem to match the core. And so this suggests that these huge plumes of superheated seem to rise from the core and then carry precious metals thousands of kilometers to the surface, suggesting that at least some of the stuff on the surface definitely came from within and not from outer space. And so well, the big takeaway here is that the Earth's core is way more complex than we previously believed. And it seems to be a kind of an interconnected system that's constantly changing and constantly affecting the rest of the planet. And even though there was some

kind of a reversal in 2010, even just a decade later it has already changed again, which means that we still have so much to learn about how all of this works or what the core is even made out of and obviously how it creates these super important magnetosphere. And so that engine at the center of the planet is still full of mysteries. But the more we understand it, the more likely we're going to be able to predict some of the future events and And events in relation to the magnetosphere, the changes in climate, and possibly even what volcanoes and are bringing to the surface. And especially because sometimes that stuff is what we refer to as precious metals, which means that we'll definitely come back and discuss new discoveries about the Earth's core in some of the future videos. But until then, check out some of the previous videos in the description. Thank you for

watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can join me directly, or by joining our membership at great value. through early access. You can also support the show by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow,

and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.