---
video_title: "Why This 800 Million Year Old Impact Discovery Changes Everything"
video_id: 8hhsrk6xfLI
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8hhsrk6xfLI
video_date: 20260806
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the asteroid impact on Earth 800M years ago and its potential impact on complex life
  Links:
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/PSJ/ae74cc/pdf
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17115-6
  #earth #impact #evolutionoflife 
  
  0:00 Collisions, Earth and evolution of animal life 
  0:50 Massive impact discovery 
  3:10 Strange cluster of time 
  4:20 What happened here 800 million years ago? 
  7:00 Asteroid bombardment 
  8:15 Snowball Earth and the beginning of animal life 
  10:40 What about Venus and Mars? 
  12:18 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
   Sen Hu/IGGCAS 
  Phoenix7777 CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/495_Eulalia#/media/File:Animation_of_162173_Ryugu,_495_Eulalia_and_142_Polana.gif
  Oleg Kuznetsov CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowball_Earth#/media/File:Snowball_Huronian.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Okay, let's discuss a kind of way massive detective story right here in the solar system. And just to start, I'm not saying anything that we're going to be discussing today is connected yet, but based on these studies and based on what we know about planet Earth, there's no maybe a slight hint that one of the main reasons animal life started on Earth is actually because of this completely accidental asteroid collision that we now know happened 800 million years ago. In other words, today we're going to discuss this really exciting discovery based on the observations from the moon, planet Mars, and planet Earth that essentially hints at something very catastrophic happening 800 million years ago that now has some potential connection to the origin of complex life on planet Earth. But first, let's start with the facts and with all of the details from this study you can find in the description. The study by William Botke and the team you see right here that essentially discovered this massive impact that occurred in the solar system millions of years ago. And while the

theory is a lot of this does become obvious if you look at the surface of the moon from the other side, or basically if you look at the far side of the moon. And that's because unlike the side that's visible to us, the far side is actually a lot more cratered and is scarred by billions of years of impact history. And because the moon lacks any kind of plate tectonics or any kind of atmosphere, it essentially acts as a kind of a static witness to everything that happened in the Earth's neighborhood in the last 4 billion years. And so all of these craters, once they're formed, they basically remain on the surface. Whereas on Earth, most of the craters have already disappeared with only approximately 200 impact craters confirmed to still exist today.

And that's because obviously Earth constantly recycles its material through various processes involving weather, volcanic eruptions, and the movement of continents. And so, history going back more than 100 million years completely disappears. But, a series of recent studies, including this major paper in 2026, the paper by the team from Southwest Research Institute, has now officially confirmed a very bizarre catastrophic event that took place approximately 800 million years ago. And it turns out that during this time, the inner solar system was subjected to a massive impact shower that may have fundamentally altered the course of Earth's history and the evolution of life as we know it. But, how do we know about this? And why are scientists so

confident about this? Well, it all actually started with these samples brought back by the Apollo missions. And specifically, the samples collected by the astronauts and brought back to Earth. And well, when any kind of a large asteroid hits the surface of the moon, the intense heat from this collision melts all of the rock instantly, forming very tiny glass beads referred to as impact glass. And the thing is, by using radiometric dating, focusing on what's inside these beads, scientists can usually tell exactly when the collision occurred that resulted in their formation. That's actually

something scientists have been doing here on Earth for a very long time. And well, what's interesting in this case is that researchers actually noticed an unusual pattern. Many of these glass beads, which actually resemble something like this, this is from the Chinese Chang'e 5 mission, along with several major craters on the moon, seem to actually cluster around the same period of time. For example, the very famous Copernicus crater, that's approximately 93 km across, seems to be approximately 800 million years old. With quite a few craters and quite a few of these beads clustering around the same timeline. And

well, in 2020, a team led by Professor Kentaro Terada analyzed 59 large lunar craters and discovered that a significant number of them seem to form around the same time. This was reported in the study you can find in the description. And here scientists even estimated that the total mass of asteroids that was hitting the Earth-Moon system seem to involve between 40 to 50 trillion tons of material all happening around the same time. And well, if you were to compare this to the asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs, that's nearly 60 times more massive. In other words, these impacts could have been a lot more influential and more importantly happened several times. Which brings us to the next

question. What exactly happened here and why so many collisions at the same time? So basically, where did all of this cosmic shrapnel come from? Which is precisely what this new study tries to answer. And so here Bottke and the team from the study suggests that they finally found the culprit. It was

probably the parent body of a family of asteroids we refer to as asteroid Eulalia. Specifically, 495 Eulalia discovered back in 1902 by a German astronomer Max Wolf. And while this is your typical inner main asteroid belt asteroid that seems to be approximately 37 to 39 km across. And because [snorts] of its unusual orbit, we also know that it has a very high chance [clears throat] of being the parent asteroid of the asteroid Ryugu. In other words, asteroid Ryugu, that Japan visited a few years back, seems to be one of the ancient pieces that still remains in the same orbit. And that's

because based on this analysis, it looks like approximately 800 million years ago, a massive asteroid, possibly 100 to 150 km across, suffered a catastrophic collision inside the asteroid belt. Something that you naturally expect to happen once in a while. And so here, this parent body that was most likely some kind of a carbonaceous chondrite or a primitive carbon rich rock, very similar to Bennu and Ryugu, basically got destroyed completely, leaving a lot of tiny pieces as a result. With some of these pieces eventually coalescing back into Ryugu, which we know is basically a collection of leftover pieces. With the biggest piece potentially being Eulalia.

But, what made this breakup especially dangerous for Earth was actually its location. It happened right on the edge of what scientists refer to as 3:2:1 mean motion resonance with Jupiter. Or just to explain this better, it's basically the location where for every one orbit of Jupiter, the object makes three orbits. Which suggests that this object was dominated by the Jupiter's gravity, with this region basically acting like a kind of a gravitational escape hatch. And so, when this primordial asteroid shattered, according to these simulations here, about half of the fragments were most likely immediately flung first into this resonance, and then into the inner solar system. And over the next 150 million

years, more and more fragments were pushed into the same location through the process referred to as the Yarkovsky effect, which basically involves the solar radiation creating a tiny tiny push on the asteroid, making it move in a slightly different orbit. And so, in other words, over time, over millions of years, lots and lots of pieces of this asteroid eventually started moving closer and closer to planet Earth. And so, quite a few of these pieces most likely created craters like the Copernicus crater. But, Earth's gravity is much stronger, and Earth obviously presents us with a much larger target. And so, as a rule of thumb, for every collision on the moon, we actually expect at least 20 more on the surface of Earth. Which suggests that around

this time, planet Earth was likely hammered by a prolonged barrage of asteroids anywhere from 8 to 10 km in size. Basically, each of them slightly larger than the 165 million years ago that produced at the last massive extinction event. But, because all of this happened 800 million years ago, by now Earth has erased almost all physical evidence, with all craters disappearing in the process. However, we do have some record, chemical record, inside the rocks. And that's because around this time Earth underwent a dramatic event known as the Bitter Springs anomaly, a huge disruption to the planet's carbon cycle that seems to have occurred during the Tonian 810 to 800 million years ago, which then also coincided with several other major changes. The biggest one

being the snowball Earth, a widespread cooling effect that eventually froze most of the surface and formed a massive glaciation period where almost the entire planet was covered in ice up to 2 km thick. And while it's obviously still a hypothesis, here quite a few scientists believe that the massive amounts of asteroid dust kicked up by these collisions very likely enriched the atmosphere in a lot of sun-reflecting molecules that basically triggered this cooling event by reflecting sunlight for several years, thus leading to this major event that lasted for a very long time. But, obviously this was not all bad news for life because these asteroids also brought a lot of interesting material. For example, these asteroids seem to be enriched in phosphorus, an element that's absolutely essential for building DNA and RNA cells, which means that these impacts enriched the surface by up to 100 billion tons of phosphorus, effectively fertilizing the entire ocean. And it's really this unusual coincidence that then becomes even more interesting because during this period that's exactly when complex multicellular life finally started to dramatically evolve. For example, during

this time that's when we first see various sponges appearing in the fossil record. At the same time this event also coincides with a period of significant oxygenation, which scientists also believe played a crucial role in early biological innovation. And so, here is quite possible that the combination of all of the material delivered by these asteroids, mixed with the stress from the impact, and the stress from these climatic changes, along with all of the nutrients in the ocean, basically forcing simple life to suddenly diversify, eventually leading to major diversification periods such as the Avalon explosion and the Cambrian explosion, where life suddenly started to create incredible diversity and a lot of really bizarre organisms. First, soft-bodied life forms, then hard-shelled organisms, and eventually bony fishes. In other words, based on these timelines, even though right now this is still just correlation, there is potentially a lot of evidence that was really because of this unusual catastrophic asteroid collision that suddenly Earth acquired all of the necessary pre-conditions to basically kick-start complex animal life, which also, I guess, raises additional questions. So, okay, Earth and Moon is

cool, but what about other planets? What about, for example, Venus and Mars? And well, recent studies do show that even these planets were also affected. For example, on Mars, there seems to be a noticeable peak in the formation of massive volcanic caldera, once again, around 800 million years ago, which basically implies that various collisions that happened on Mars seem to have generated such massive seismic events, or basically such powerful earthquakes, that it actually destabilized internal magma reservoirs, triggering a planetary surge in volcanic eruptions. With the most famous regions, such as the Tharsis region and the Elysium Planitia regions, showing a lot of volcanic signs that happened around 800 million years ago. But, when it

comes to Venus, it is a little bit more mysterious. Mostly because, just like on Earth, the surface there just gets recycled pretty quickly, and the atmospheric effects are just a little bit too strong. But, some models do suggest that the average surface age of Venus seems to be only about 650 to 800 million years old. With the authors of this paper speculating that a barrage of asteroid fragments from this Eulalia breakup could have actually sparked a catastrophic planet-wide resurfacing event, where the entire surface of Venus was potentially covered in lava around the same time. And while this is maybe once again just a bit of a leap of logic and a correlation not causation, since all of this right now fits with the timeline of a lot of other impact showers, it is not a far-fetched idea.

And so, definitely quite an exciting discovery and quite an exciting series of studies. But, what's the conclusion? Well, based on all of this, right now we're pretty certain that there was a violent collision in the asteroid belt 800 million years ago, and a collision that potentially affected a lot of inner solar system planets, with a lot of evidence basically coming from the resurfacing event on our partner, the Moon. And though Venus and Mars also potentially had some effects that seem to have been the most profound by providing a lot of extra materials and by setting up just the right conditions to kick-start the evolution of complex life, there is a slight chance that it was because of this collision that a lot of animal life on Earth possibly finally had a chance to start. With the study here highlighting the importance of studying the Moon as a kind of a memory bank for the Earth's lost history, and also showing us how much of our biological and geological history is actually tied to the movement of objects in outer space. But, as researchers

continue sampling various asteroids, like asteroids Ryugu and asteroid Bennu, we might actually learn even more about this, because chances are that at least one of these asteroids is also one of the leftovers from this ancient collision, which means that various similar pieces fell on Earth back then and served as the initial spark for the formation of complex life. Anyway, on that note, we're just going to end this here because everything else is just going to be speculation. Once we find out something else, we'll discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can join me directly, or by joining the channel membership that grants you early access and a few more things. You can also support the show by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below.

Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.