---
video_title: "Marine Biologists Finally Figured Out The Mysterious Golden Orb"
video_id: jREfNvTzzew
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jREfNvTzzew
video_date: 20260524
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the mystery of a bizarre golden orb found in the ocean
  Links:
  https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.04.17.719276v1.full.pdf
  https://oceanexplorer.noaa.gov/news/golden-orb/
  https://www.noaa.gov/news/scientists-reveal-identity-of-mysterious-golden-orb-collected-during-noaa-expedition
  https://www.youtube.com/@oceanexplorergov/videos
  #marinelife #biology #earth 
  
  0:00 Golden orb mystery from 2023 
  2:05 How this was found 
  4:20 Trying to identify this for 4 years 
  5:00 First breakthrough from the microscope analysis 
  6:02 Genome match - giant deep sea anemone 
  8:02 What happened here? Where's the rest? 
  9:55 Why this matters 
  11:20 Implications and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  NOAA Fisheries
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and welcome to this is Anton, and today we're going to be heading deep into the oceans of the Gulf of Alaska to solve a mystery from 2023. And specifically, a mystery that puzzled scientists for nearly 3 years. What exactly is this? This. That thing. What is that? Because for

practically 3 years, even though it was captured and recovered, nobody had any idea. But based on this new study you can find in the description, researchers were able to analyze pretty much everything inside of that unusual thing and now are pretty certain they know what this is. And so let's talk a little bit more about this because this is actually a pretty intriguing story and once again highlights how little we know about the ocean. Because technically this is as alien of a story as you get from me. But I guess first let's start with how this was found and why this was so unusual. And here the story starts in

2023. You can read the original story in one of the links in the description, but in essence, during a routine exploratory mission by a remotely operated vehicle, researchers behind the Ocean Explorer, part of NOAA, encountered something that looked like it belonged in a science fiction movie. A shimmering golden orb. This is basically what it looked like. And it seemed to be attached to a rock 2 miles or 3 kilometers below the surface.

And because scientists have never seen anything like this, they obviously wanted to capture this and to analyze it on the surface. And even though they were able to retrieve this, even on the surface, they still had no idea what this was. And here we're talking about marine biologists that are used to this kind of stuff not being able to identify it for several years. And so we had a lot of speculations about all of this. Is it some kind of an alien egg? Some

kind of a new species that we've never seen before? A result of some pollution from somewhere? Or something that we have seen, but we just had no idea that it can become like this. And so that's essentially what this new study is about because following years of additional research and specific genetic analysis, scientists believe they finally found an answer. And yeah, not alien, unfortunately, but arguably just as fascinating. Although, the first you do

need to know that this was all publicly available on YouTube and as part of the government exploratory program, they have been posting these incredible videos for many years. And so, this was actually found by the NOAA ship known as Okeanos Explorer during the mission referred to as Seascape Alaska 5. And you can find quite a few of their videos on their channel in the description. And so, here scientists were operating a remote vehicle referred to as Deep Discoverer. It kind of looks like this.

And this can go pretty deep, usually several kilometers in depth, which is exactly what it was doing for this mission. And it was exploring an ancient volcanic feature. This is the Walker Seamount at a depth of 3,200 m. And at this depth, the ocean is extremely cold and obviously contains extreme pressure. There's also no sunlight, which is why discovering anything that has any color at these depths is usually kind of unusual. Most things here do not contain

ice and don't need ice, and so color here is not particularly useful. But surprisingly, the cameras on this explorer were able to pick up this very unusual sight, a smooth, mound-shaped object with a very distinctive golden reflective surface and mysterious hole on one of the sides. And while during the live feed, the researchers were visibly surprised, even joking that this is usually how horror movies start. Basically, wondering if something crawled out of the hole somewhere and if maybe they should just leave it on the bottom and not bring it up. But because this was so unusual and because this is a marine exploration mission, they decided to use the robotic arm and the robotic sucker to collect the sample and bring it back to the surface. And so,

because this looked so unusual, it obviously led to a lot of bizarre propositions. Some thought this was some kind of an egg mass from a deep sea creature. Others suggested it might be a dead sponge or maybe some kind of a microbial biofilm we've never seen before. And by the way, this was actually not small, approximately 10 cm or 4 in across. And once out of the water, it still maintained its golden skin-like appearance, even though it was technically soft and somewhat fibrous and not hard. But, identifying anything

inside of this turned out to be a multi-year process. And so, here Sanchez used a technique referred to as integrative taxonomic approach, or a fancy way of saying they looked at the shape of the object along with the genetic analysis of the object and tried to match it with something we already know. And this was actually necessary because this unusual golden orb did not contain any typical animal features, such as, for example, a mouth, a gut, or any muscles. It was literally just a blob. Once again, that's kind of how the horror movie start. With the main

investigation being moved to the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. And the first break came when the scientists used the electron microscope to examine the orb's surface. Here they discovered that this whole material was actually packed with these very specialized cells referred to as spirocysts. These are actually stinging cells that we normally find in any organism that can sting you. And that was a very important fingerprint because it suggested that this possibly was something similar to a jellyfish. But,

this specific fingerprint was usually found in animals referred to as Hexacorallia. This usually includes corals and sea anemones. And this, of course, implied that this was definitely related to some kind of an anemone, but obviously still did not explain what this object was or why it looked so different from everything. With the genetic analysis providing the final piece of the puzzle. Now, here the initial attempts at DNA analysis were actually not successful because this orb was also covered in a lot of microscopic life forms that basically created a result that was kind of chaotic and did not match with anything specific. And

well, to get around this, the team performed a whole genome sequencing, which eventually found a near perfect match with the mitochondrial genome of a rare creature referred to as Peluacanthus Daphne, or a creature that sort of looks like this. In other words, genetically and based on the mitochondrial analysis, it seemed to be extremely similar to what you see on the screen. And so, that potentially provided the final answer. So, what is this golden orb? Well, it turns out that this is not an animal itself, but some kind of a remnant cuticle, or basically a layer of skin that was left behind by a giant deep-sea anemone. Basically, a

leftover from potentially something that resembles this. And this rare organism is also quite fascinating in its own right. It's basically like a giant anemone, one of those things that you're supposed to find Nemo in, or your typical clown fish that usually contains pink or purple cylindrical body that can be up to a meter across. And it can also have tentacles that can stretch over 2 m long, or approximately 6 ft. Now, luckily for us, they prefer the deep ocean, so we normally don't really see them near the surface. And that's

because like a lot of other anemones, they do contain stinging cells and will probably hurt you quite a lot. And these tentacles are usually coiled at the tips and can even detach if the animal is disturbed. As a matter of fact, this is such a unique species that it was moved out of the standard sea anemone order and placed into its own suborder referred to as Pelagomonas. So, in terms of being alien, this is as alien as it gets for deep ocean organisms. And so here the orb is specifically the cuticle material that the anemone secretes to attach itself to various rocks. So kind

of like this bizarre slime it uses to stick to various surfaces. With scientists discovering that this material seems to be mostly made out of chitin, which is the same tough substance usually found in shells of beetles, and the same substance that usually makes mushrooms relatively tough. But the next question is of course Okay, so where exactly is the rest of the anemone and why was this particular stuff just lying there on the seafloor? Well, recent studies suggest that these anemones are not stationary and potentially do move around despite what we usually believe about them. With the observations of life Aurelia Contus showing scientists that they can sometimes detach from that golden base and move across the seafloor to a new location. With some images even showing

us a kind of a trail of golden material indicating that the animal might secrete new layers of this as it creeps along the rocky surfaces and as it continuously attaches itself as it moves along. Although that's just one of the potential propositions. The other one is obviously some kind of a reproductive system. Specifically asexual reproduction because some anemones perform what's known as pedal laceration where they leave behind a piece of their base which then regrows into a completely new anemone as the old one moves away. In other words, even right now we're not entirely certain why exactly Aurelia Contus does this and why exactly it left this particular golden orb. But right now based on the shape,

it possibly matches what you might expect from some kind of a reproductive process. In other words, it might have been actually trying to reproduce and create a new anemone here, but the scientists picked it up and ruined the process. Although obviously there's also the question of that enormous hole. What exactly was that for or what formed this? Well, it could be some kind of a structural artifact from how the animal originally lived and how it used to feed. Or it's possible that this is just

some kind of a decay and the anemone might have died and left behind the structure. And so yeah, obviously some unanswered questions here. But nevertheless, this discovery still matters quite a lot and for several important reasons. First, these unusual discarded cuticles seem to create microbial hotspots with a study discovering that once the anemone left, this leftover became a home to a diverse community of bacteria and archaea and many of them are usually crucial for the nitrogen cycle in the oceans. With this particular structure even basically becoming a kind of a biogeochemical reactor converting nitrogen into something that can then be used by a lot of other species. Second, this obviously

once again confirms that there are still so many things we don't really know about our own planet. And even with the modern technology, we're still finding objects that defy immediate explanation and appear to be just as alien as anything else. While also helping marine biologists discover certain errors based on previous assumptions that turn out to be incorrect. For example, in this case, researchers found several records that turn out to be erroneous and specifically records showing that the species may live in a shallow water based on the analysis of a DNA database. This turned out to be incorrect and this species can only be found in the deep ocean. And so this study essentially

once again confirms that collecting actual samples, physical samples, is still quite important in trying to learn a little bit more about our own planet. And so this bizarre discovery from 2023, even though it did not turn out to be a new life form, basically led us to a slightly better understanding of marine biology and a slightly better understanding about these very strange giant predators, deep sea predators, that seem to sometimes detach themselves and go to new places, while also teaching us about the microscopic ecosystems that seem to survive afterwards. With every single piece of puzzle here, eventually helping us understand the oceans just a little bit better. But, the NOAA team behind this is going to have new expeditions very soon, which means that they're going to have even more exciting discoveries and possibly new mysteries. And on that note, once they find something, we'll come back and discuss this again in some of the future videos. Until then, thank

you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel by joining where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can donate me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful, I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.