---
video_title: "We Found Plutonium at the Bottom of the Ocean... and It's From Space"
video_id: aWIQH8eRlGY
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aWIQH8eRlGY
video_date: 20260712
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about discovery of Plutonium deep in the ocean and what it means for our understanding of Earth history
  Links:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-026-02841-6
  https://www.ansto.gov.au/news/stardust-sea-and-an-ancient-cosmic-collision
  Other videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RuD8mqQI6qQ
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s3O1E8Cjk1E
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IOmOhbxDz3Q
  #plutonium #kilonova #science 
  
  0:00 Plutonium in the ocean 
  1:02 Plutonium-244 and how it's different 
  2:30 How this was produced 
  4:10 Analysis and how this was found 
  6:30 Implications from this discovery 
  7:30 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing a discovery of plutonium in a very strange location on the planet, at the very bottom of an ocean. And as you probably know, plutonium is actually a very important element in nuclear technology, so its discovery here was a little bit unusual. And while trace amounts of plutonium can be discovered in certain locations, today most plutonium is actually synthesized in nuclear reactors and essentially has artificial origin. And so the question here was of course, where did this plutonium come from? And the answer seems to be outer space. And so what

makes this particular discovery so important is the fact that this is from an ancient explosion and essentially serves as a kind of a tape recorder telling us exactly where heavy elements in the universe come from, >> [music] >> and more importantly, where and when some of the most extreme cosmic explosions happened close to the solar system. But first, in order to connect these dots, we have to discuss the element itself. And so here we have to discuss plutonium 244. This strange isotope discovered and reported in the study you can find in the description below. And well, here this isotope is exciting because it's not as radioactive and does have a pretty long half-life.

So here it's a special isotope with a half-life of approximately 81 million years. In contrast, a lot of other isotopes are usually man-made and have a much shorter half-life. For example, the one that's used in a lot of space missions, such as the Voyager probes, is plutonium 238 and it has a half-life of approximately 87 years. Whereas plutonium 239, used in nuclear weapons, has a half-life of approximately 24,000 years. And so in this case, plutonium 244 is actually the most stable isotope in existence. But because it was

discovered on the planet, it means that that has to have come here within the last billion years. So, essentially, it couldn't have been here from the beginning and has to have been created by something in a relatively recent geological history. And so, if we do find it in the deep-sea rocks, it can only mean one thing. It has to have come from outer space and very likely extremely recently. So, basically, here we're talking about some kind of an interstellar fallout from some kind of a relatively recent and relatively nearby explosion. But, the thing is most

explosions known to us, such as various supernova, cannot actually produce this naturally. They're usually not powerful enough, which means that this came from something even more extreme. And though scientists have long debated the origin of a lot of these heavy elements like gold, uranium, and plutonium, in 2017, we finally got a definitive answer. These elements seem to be created during the so-called R-process, or rapid neutron capture process, during some of the most extreme events in the universe. The collision of neutron stars, which result in the production of a kilonova.

You can actually learn about the 2017 event in one of the videos here in the description. And while as of today, this is the only event known to us that's able to produce all of these very heavy elements and that technically have been detected when a distant kilonova was analyzed with modern telescopes, which basically means that these collisions are almost like miniature Big Bangs. In that fraction of a second when the two neutron stars collide, they're able to generate an extremely hot soup of particles that then cools down and coalesces into a lot of heavy matter, basically creating these much heavier elements that normally do not exist anywhere else. But, these events are also extraordinarily rare. For example, in a galaxy like the Milky Way, statistically, there might be 10 or so star systems that are destined to become kilonova sometimes in the next billion years. And as of today, only one

specific system has been identified that seems to have the right properties to one day create such an event. This is about 11,000 light years away from us with this particular system evolving in approximately a million years, leaving behind two neutron stars in a tight orbit that will most likely collide millions of years afterwards. But going back to that study from the Nature Astronomy, the study by Dominik Koll and his team, in this case it's also the analysis that's really exciting. And specifically because they analyze something referred to as ferromanganese crust. The crust recovered from the Pacific Ocean. And here you can think of

this as an extremely slow growing rock that adds layers over millions and millions of years. And as it does so, it usually traps a lot of stuff that settles on the ocean floor, essentially creating a kind of a history book. And so by using a technique referred to as accelerator mass spectrometry, which is usually sensitive enough to count individual atoms, scientists wanted to find two specific things: iron 60 and plutonium 244. And that's because iron 60 is a known signature for various supernova, but plutonium 244 is not. And if plutonium does come from supernova, we should be seeing the levels of both going up and down together. But as

predicted, they weren't. Here the team discovered distinct peaks of iron 60 from the previously detected events approximately 2 and 1/2 and 7 million years ago. This is something that has been known to us for quite some time because other studies discovered this as well. But none of these contain plutonium and the plutonium influx seemed to be a lot more constant and independent of supernova, which is why they decided to focus on a second element referred to as curium 247. This is usually produced along the plutonium 244 isotopes in the same R process in these powerful explosions, but it decays much faster and and only has a half-life of 16 million years. And so, because

they're usually produced together, the overall ratio of these two elements can actually tell us about when this event happens. And so, if the kilonova happened relatively recently, we should be seeing both curium and plutonium in relatively high abundance. But, the study found no significant curium-247, suggesting that almost all of it disappeared. And so, by counting how long it would take for curium to transform into other elements, researchers determined that the last major event must have happened at least 95 million years ago. So, essentially during the time of dinosaurs. And though

this is obviously a very long time ago, this does have some implications for the local neighborhood. First, this suggests that there is a kind of a diffuse background involving a constant low level of plutonium that seems to be coming from outer space and landing on our planet. And this suggests that the solar system is traveling through a relatively large interstellar dust cloud that was left behind from this very old, very powerful event. Event that was close enough to us to potentially affect the planet in some unknown ways. At the same time, this also confirms that these events are indeed super rare. In other

words, it confirms how rare these gold-producing collisions are since the last one happened 100 million years ago, while also confirming that this was not from supernova for sure. And regular supernova cannot produce these heavier elements with pretty much all of the gold, plutonium, and uranium coming from several of these events that happened close to the solar system billions of years ago. But, even though supernova do not produce them, there's a very high chance they might help distribute these elements by producing very powerful shockwaves, allowing some of these elements to travel across the galaxy. And so, in other words, that gold in your jewelry, and all of that plutonium in the depths of the ocean, possibly originated from one single event that happened somewhere close to the solar system around the time of dinosaurs. And though obviously a lot of other gold and platinum, especially the stuff we find inside asteroids, was most likely created by other kilonova. In this case,

a lot of the newer material most likely came from this event, which means that we're literally walking and swimming over ancient debris of a neutron star collision that happened approximately 95 million years ago, making this a somewhat sober reminder how Earth is connected to the rest of the galaxy through these violent cosmic events. But at least for now, that's I guess all we know about this event, and all we know about all of this plutonium in the depths of the ocean. Once we have some other discoveries, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can view me directly, or about your own channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support the channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay

wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.