---
video_title: "New Quasar Discoveries Are Breaking Our Models of Physics"
video_id: jiGBOBf-8DQ
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jiGBOBf-8DQ
video_date: 2026-08-24
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about strange quasar discoveries
  Links:
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2026/07/aa58883-26.pdf
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/full_html/2024/11/aa49662-24/aa49662-24.html
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.09036
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-024-02473-8
  #quasar #galaxy #astronomy 
  
  0:00 Quasar updates 
  2:35 3C 273 jet 
  3:40 Most distant quasars seen 
  5:40 Lonely quasars, but why? 
  6:30 Feeding too fast 
  7:50 Reawakening quasars 
  9:00 Galactic winds and feeding 
  10:30 Conclusions and implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  ESA / Euclid / Euclid Consortium / NASA / Planck Collaboration / A. Mellinger; Acknowledgment: Jean-Charles Cuillandre, João Dinis 
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing some of the more recent updates in regards to some of the most powerful and some of the most enigmatic objects in the entire universe, quasars. Mostly because in the last few months, several telescopes, such as the Euclid telescope, conducted major observations and made some somewhat unusual discoveries that are now challenging our fundamental understanding of how these objects potentially form and interact, or even how the early universe itself seems to have formed as well. And so, in this video, we're going to discuss some of these discoveries and discuss quasars in general, and basically discuss why they're currently causing a bit of a headache for a lot of cosmologists. But, let's start with the first question. So, what is a quasar? Or basically, what is

this object we're looking at? Well, the term quasar is short for quasi-stellar radio source, sometimes also known as the quasi-star. And that's because when astronomers first discovered them back in the 1950s, all of them resembled a kind of a faint star-like point that for some reason emitted massive amounts of radio waves that should not be possible for a regular star. Or in other words, they resembled ridiculously bright stars that also emitted radio waves. And eventually, based on a lot of physical models, researchers realized that this can only be formed by something ridiculously massive and powerful in the center of a much larger object. In other

words, these were not stars, these were galactic-sized objects that we now refer to as active galactic nuclei, essentially supermassive black holes at the center of distant galaxies. But, in this case, black holes that are actively devouring massive amounts of gas and dust. As a lot of this material spirals into the black hole, but the gravity and friction heating everything up to millions of degrees, which then causes all of this to glow in various electromagnetic spectra. And here this produces a lot of energy. As a matter of fact, a single quasar very often outshines the entire galaxy, making the rest of the galactic sheep completely invisible. And naturally, in the last

few decades, quite a few of these objects have been discovered all over the place. But I think one of the most famous quasars is this right here, 3C 273. Mostly because this is still the brightest visible from Earth. And so even though this is 2.5 billion light years away from us, it produces so much energy that it basically resembles a star. Here its luminosity is measured in

trillions of suns. And because they're so bright, it's extremely difficult to see the center. But recently scientists managed to bypass this using a kind of a makeshift coronagraph. Or basically they found a way to block a lot of this light in order to see some other parts of this galaxy, which produced the image that kind of resembles this. And so here for the first time scientists were able to see approximately 16,000 light years away from the black hole, discovering unusual small blobs extremely close to the galaxy that seem to be matter being consumed by the quasar, or possibly leftovers of ancient galaxies. In the

process also discovering that for some reason the jet coming from this black hole seems to actually accelerate faster and faster as it moves away from the center. But at this point nothing else was seen here because the object is just a little bit too bright. This was mostly a validation of a new technique that allows us to study these objects. But a much more surprising discovery came from the Euclid space telescope, the ESA telescope that was only launched in 2023. And here an international team announced the discovery of 31 new quasars with two of them actually being the most ancient and the most distant ever seen. With these objects actually

dating to the time referred to as reionization epoch. Essentially, the time when the first stars and first galaxies just started forming. And amongst these, one quasar designated EUCL J172902 now holds the record for the most distant quasar ever seen. This is at a redshift of 7.77.

Or just to put that in perspective, this is when the universe was only 670 million years old and when stars and galaxies just started forming and acquiring their shapes. Yet, strangely enough, this object already existed and was already very bright. And well, the problem here is actually the mass of this object. Because based on what we see around us, in order to become a quasar, the central black hole has to be pretty massive. In other words, in order to power all of this, a typical black hole has to be billions of solar masses in mass. But, that doesn't really make

sense for such an early object. Because according to current cosmological models, 670 million years is simply not enough time to grow such a massive black hole so quick. So, here it's kind of like finding a fully grown tree in a forest that was only planted last week. And so, something here does not add up. Although naturally, it can be explained by the idea known as primordial black holes. Or basically, that some black

holes formed and started to exist pretty much in the first few moments following the Big Bang and thus formed these massive giants almost right away. And since there have been some additional discoveries by the James Webb that also contain these over massive black holes, right now this is probably the best explanation. And so, quite a few of these James Webb Space Telescope observations seems to suggest that these massive black holes somehow formed extremely early on. But, traditionally we also thought that many of these super massive black holes can only grow so fast if they seem to be inside densely packed regions. Or basically inside some kind of a central cosmic web that contains a lot of gas and mass that the black holes can then consume. But, JWST

discovered that with some of these objects that seem to be surprisingly lonely. With some of them, like this one right here, appearing to be in a very empty neighborhood with almost no neighboring galaxies near them. And it's not entirely clear what's powering the quasar because this is something that current models cannot explain. And that means that we're definitely missing a significant piece of a puzzle when it comes to the idea of black hole growth. With the other question being, so how do some black holes grow so fast and so quick? And so apart from being just born

this way, there might be another clue coming from a separate study that focused on the x-ray observations of several different quasars. And here there seems to be the evidence for something referred to as super-Eddington accretion. Or essentially the black hole feeding much faster than it should be possible. Now, super quickly, the so-called Eddington limit refers to the idea of certain objects becoming so ridiculously bright that the light pressure produced by the luminosity starts to counteract gravity and the object essentially starts to kind of expand and lose a lot of its mass. In other words, it's possible to be so bright that the brightness becomes stronger than gravity. This is what's

usually called the Eddington limit. But looks like some black holes found a way around this and can actually still consume mass even though the brightness here produces a lot of external pressure. And though it's not entirely clear how they do this, in some examples, they seem to be able to consume at least four to five times more mass than should be possible. It does making them even brighter and even more powerful. And well, how they do this has potentially been now seen in some other quasars that were actually quiet for a long time and then became active once again. And that's because these objects

seem to go through some kind of a life cycle. They don't always stay bright, and the black hole does shut down, becoming quiescent for quite some time. And so, in one of the recent observations of a galaxy referred to as IC 3599, the galaxy that's about 300 million light-years away from us, researchers have now seen the quasar awaken for the third time in approximately 35 years, with the black hole suddenly producing a lot of additional x-rays. And by watching this unfold in real time, researchers confirmed that these eruptions seem to be caused by some kind of a radiation pressure instability inside the accretion disk. Or basically, the accretion disk keeps building up more and more until some kind of a tipping point, most likely the result of some kind of an imbalance, where suddenly everything collapses, the disk starts to be absorbed, and that forms a massive flare that results in a quasar. And

although for many quasars, this is a continuous process, for this one, it seems to happen once in a while. Sometimes it's bright, sometimes it's not. And so, for this quasar, this has now been observed in a 1990, 2010, and now in 2025. But based on a lot of additional observations, we also know that quasars seem to play a huge role in both the galactic evolution and the evolution of nearby galaxies as well. Because studies of several systems, such as Crystal 02, have now definitively shown that sometimes quasars pretty much kill any nearby galaxy by draining a lot of their gas and a lot of their dust, and expelling all of it through the galactic wind process. In other words,

when one of the galaxies in the galactic cluster becomes a quasar, there's a very high chance of basically shutting down everything around itself. With this black hole activity creating such intense galactic winds that it blows all of the gas out of the galaxy, leaving nothing behind. Although this doesn't seem to happen to all quasars, with some galaxies surviving and continuously forming stars even after going through the quasar stage. But when it comes to the galactic neighborhood, this obviously has a tremendous effect. With new data from the Chandra telescope even showing us that because of this unusual formation, in some cases these quasars can actually create a very unusual network of gas filaments that then starts to loop around and basically falls back into the center of the galaxy, continuously feeding the black hole over time. In other words, it's

almost as if these were actual organisms. They create so much energy that the energy creates these loops of gas that then starts to continuously feed the black hole, making these quasars shine for millions and billions of years. Which presents us with additional mysteries and additional questions to be answered. Because even after several decades, we still don't really understand these objects that well. But at the same time, because of the way they produce light and also because of the way they generally stay relatively stable for a long time, scientists have also started using them as a kind of a cosmic lighthouse. And

thus use them for various three-dimensional maps. And so additional telescopes, such as the extremely large telescope, will most likely help us discover even more about these objects and possibly even find more unusual examples that will help us understand what's happening to these black holes in the center. But for now, the mystery of these bizarre giants remains. Even though every new quasar discovery brings us just a little bit closer to understanding the universe, there are still quite a few unanswered questions. And so until future discoveries, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly. You can also support the

show by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.