---
video_title: "The Bizarre Reason Ancient Brains Don't Always Decompose"
video_id: BTxUyJttwSk
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BTxUyJttwSk
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about brains and why so many are preserved in the fossil record
  Links:
  https://pubs.acs.org/jprobs/article/25/8/4189/5164102/Molecular-Solution-to-the-Paradox-of-Ancient-Brain
  https://www.ox.ac.uk/news/2024-03-20-oxford-researchers-uncover-remarkable-archive-ancient-human-brains
  https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rspb/article/291/2019/20232606/104470/Human-brains-preserve-in-diverse-environments-for
  #brain #fossil #archeology 
  
  0:00 Brains preserve surprisingly well compared to other tissues 
  2:02 Possible explanations: heat, cold and chemistry? 
  4:18 Experiment that explained everything 
  7:00 Importance for neuroscience 
  8:15 Even older preserved brains? 320M years old 
  10:05 Biggest record - 525M years old 
  12:28 Paleoneurology and other implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Alexandra L. Morton-Hayward
  Nicholas Strausfeld
  Jeremy Marble/University of Michigan/Jeremy Marble/University of Michigan
  Bassophile CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C2_domain#/media/File:C2dom.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and in this video we're going to explore a somewhat bizarre mystery that has quietly baffled archaeologists and biologists for quite some time. A discovery that sort of flips our understanding of what we know about biological decay and what we might expect to find inside some kind of a fossil. And that's because if you've taken biology or some kind of a forensic science class, you probably will learn that when an animal dies, the brain is one of the first organs to completely decompose. It actually undergoes a rapid process referred to as autolysis, where the brain's own enzymes basically start digesting all of the delicate tissues, turning everything into liquid within days or sometimes even minutes if the brain is exposed to water. And so for archaeology and for forensic sciences, it's really only bones and teeth that are supposed to be the long-term survivors. But what if I told you that

in the last few years, in quite a few cases, almost the opposite seemed to happen? What if the brain becomes the last soft tissue standing, long after muscles, skin, and organs completely dissolved? And turns out that this is not some kind of a rare anomaly, because one of the recent studies we're discussing today, a global archive study led by this researcher, Alexandra Morton Hayward, discovered that in a massive database going back 12,000 years, there seemed to be at least 4,400 preserved human brains. With the biggest surprise being the fact that at least 1,300 brains were the only preserved tissues. Or basically here archaeologists would dig up the skeleton with no skin, no muscles, and no organs, yet somehow they would still find a perfectly preserved, shrunken brain, very similar to what you see right here. And the biggest question

is of course, how is this even possible? Specifically, why does this happen so much? And what does it tell us about the human brain or even the brain evolution in general? And the thing is, up until this recent study, none of this made any sense. But historically, there were four potential explanations, or basically four different propositions, that could explain some of this. So, maybe this was

because of dehydration. Here, when extreme dry heat and wind dries out the brain, such as for example in the ancient Egyptian sand graves, it might be able to preserve somehow. Or maybe this was the result of what's known as saponification. Here, the body fat interacts with the wet soil containing anaerobic bacteria, and they basically create a kind of a soapy, wax-like material referred to as adipocere, which can maybe then trap the insides of the brain, naturally mummifying it in a process. Or maybe this was the result of freezing. In cold

environments like the polar tundras, the cells just freeze so fast that all of the water inside the brain freezes as well, with a brain preserved as a result. And lastly, maybe this is the result of the process known as tanning. And so, this is something that might happen in some kind of a swamp-like environment involving acids that can then tan the brain tissue, similar to tissues like skin that then turn into leather. But despite these four propositions, at least 1,300 brain samples discovered so far seem to fit none of these criteria, and were actually discovered in regular conditions [clears throat] not involving any of these extreme environments. They were actually found in ordinary graves, shipwrecks, or typical coffins across different climates and in different cultures. And

that was of course an extremely big mystery that just could not be explained using previous examples. And just to give you a little bit more context, we're not just talking about brains that are maybe decades or hundreds of years old. We're talking about brains that are thousands of years old, with the oldest discovered sample so far representing specimens from at least 12,000 years ago discovered in various parts of Europe following the last glaciation period or the one of the most famous samples is actually from Sweden from about 8,000 years ago and involved the gruesome process of basically putting hands on stakes. So yeah, somewhere out there a wooden impaled head contained an actual brain sample for thousands and thousands of years. And so in order to find out exactly how this is happening and what is happening researchers behind the study conducted a fascinating experiment and as always this involved mice and specifically decaying mice carcasses.

They tried to simulate various burial environments. But here this also involved an extensive molecular analysis of the brain tissue focusing on analyzing 1.2 million peptides and specific brain proteins in order to see what happens over time and the result was pretty clear. When there is a lot of oxygen around the brain rapidly decays as expected. But when the mouse found itself in some kind of a wet low oxygen environment the brain seems to undergo a very unique organ specific pathway of preservation. And so surprisingly in

these extreme low oxygen conditions instead of degrading the brain proteins fold into very stable tightly packed structures referred to as aggregates. Something that's heavily enriched in beta sheet structures that are incredibly tough contain a lot of hydrogen and seem to naturally resist chemical breakdown and even digestion by enzymes or microbes. In other words just to rephrase this some of the proteins inside the brain start to congregate and reshape themselves into these really stable formations that are not easily digestible by microbes and do not degrade very fast. With the study then showing that this preservation is dominated by proteins containing calcium dependent phospholipid binding domains, referred to as C2 domains. Something that resembles this. And so, when a cell

dies and calcium spills out, these proteins immediately bind tightly to the brain's tissue and wrap these dense networks of cells in this a very bizarre structure. And once these proteins become locked to the membranes, they also start interacting with iron and copper inside the brain cells, with this then creating a special chemical reaction inside this brain, referred to as radical-mediated oxidative cross-linking. And although [clears throat] normally oxygen damages tissue, when the oxygen levels are very low, instead of destroying tissue, here all of these metals and all of these proteins cause everything to fuse together, forming a highly durable and even insoluble polymer, almost resembling some kind of a plastic matrix. And that's essentially what you're seeing right here. This is the result of these chemical reactions and it's likely they're going to remain this way for an extremely long time. And so,

even though the brain decays a little bit, the decay itself creates a kind of a chemical shield that locks the remaining structure in place for thousands of years, or possibly even longer, because we don't even know how long this can last. With this actually being a really important discovery, not just for archaeology and different biological fields, but also has a lot of implications on modern medicine and especially neuroscience. Because these specific molecular signatures and these chemical reactions that form these beta sheets seem to be very, very similar or possibly even exactly the same pathways seen in a lot of pathological proteins in living humans with conditions like, for example, Alzheimer's or Parkinson's. In other words, the natural cross-linking that preserves the brain for thousands of years biochemically seems to resemble very similar reactions that form amyloid plaques and various types of protein aggregates that seem to cause modern neurodegenerative diseases. As a matter of fact, there's even connection to the Down syndrome and different types of dementia. And so, by

studying how these brains change and what seems to happen inside of them instead of decomposition, neuroscientists can gain a lot of fresh clues into these somewhat harmful proteins and various aggregates that seem to be also present in various patients with Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Down syndrome. In other words, this is one of those examples where understanding death can actually help us protect life. But, when it comes to these ancient fossils and these preserved brains, things do get just a little bit more interesting if we go beyond humans and look at some other animals and the preserved brains that are not thousands, but actually millions of years old. Because here I also wanted to briefly mention some of the oldest brains ever found and what this potentially tells us about brain as an organ. And well, one of the biggest discoveries was back in 2023. Here, a

paper published in Nature revealed the discovery of the oldest well-preserved vertebrate brain ever discovered. And this fossil belonged to an extinct species of a ray-finned fish referred to as Coccocephalus wildi a fish that swam in various estuaries approximately 320 million years ago. And so, here the fossilized skull of this fish that was actually discovered inside a coal mine in England turned out to be hiding something inside. And it was discovered completely by accident when scientists used a CT scan that then discovered this ancient brain inside. And specifically, they found distinct three-dimensional symmetrical shapes with actual hollow ventricles and even filaments resembling cranial nerves. And

because this was over 300 million years old, the obvious question was, "Okay, so how exactly did this survive?" And well, in this case, it seems to be the result of what's known as a soapstone. This is basically the layer where this fish was buried and once again contained a very little oxygen which created a very unique chemical environment that protected the tissue for millions of years. And even though the actual soft cellular structures have been replaced with dense minerals, the overall shape and the structure of the brain was still preserved down to millimeter size structures. And so by scanning this, scientists did get a completely new evolutionary perspective on how these ancient brains developed compared to what we have today. But uh

the biggest record for the ancient brains actually comes from an invertebrate and specifically a creature that used to exist during the Cambrian explosion 525 million years ago. And so a few years back another study discussed the discovery coming from an organism that looked something like this. And well here this was a discovery from a worm-like creature referred to as Cardiodictyon catenulum. It's basically what's known as a lobopodian representing a kind of a grandfather to various spiders, crabs, and insects. And inside of this animal they discovered a really really tiny fossilized brain just over 1 cm in length or half an inch long. And for

over 140 years biologists actually believed that arthropods have segmented bodies or essentially that their heads and brains must have evolved as a kind of a segmented extension of the rest of the body. But this fossil seems to have overturned this. Here the discovery of this confirms the unsegmented head and brain while the rest of the body was segmented which seems to definitively prove that the head and the brain evolved completely separately from the trunk and the other nervous system and represented a completely different organ that basically evolved on its own. But more astonishingly by comparing this brain with the modern arthropods like spiders and centipedes and by also analyzing the gene expression they discovered a kind of a common generic ground plan for making a brain with the exact same combination of genes creating three main domains of the brain that seem to have existed for at least 500 million years across multiple species. With this generic blueprint being extremely similar in vertebrates, which also of course applies to humans. And so

in both these ancient lobopodians and in modern humans, the forebrain and the midbrain seem to follow extremely similar genetic steps and develop in very similar ways, but different from the rest of the nervous system and especially the spinal cord, which essentially confirms that despite mass extinctions and dramatic climatic shifts, the fundamental blueprint for the brain remain unbroken for at least 525 million years since the first evolution of this organ that we still don't really understand very well, which I guess confirms that this was a very successful evolutionary advantage because it existed for such a long time. But in essence, all of these discoveries in some sense open up a completely new branch of science now referred to as paleoneurology, a branch of science that now allows us to combine ancient brains with modern brains in order to understand the evolution and the overall processes inside. And even though until recently most of our understanding of brain evolution was limited to studying the living species, we now have enough preserved brains and even enough ancient brains to start mapping all of this and create archives of molecular and genetic evolution in the last 500 million years, which basically allows us to ask questions we could never ask before. For example, did ancient humans also suffer from same neurological disorders that we do today? Or are things like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's something more modern and something the result of our lifestyle? Obviously we have no answer

yet, but we now do have enough data to start making certain conclusions. Did human cognition, behavior, and genetics evolve over millennia, or has it been pretty much the same in the last 12,000 years? And so here, just based on these recent discoveries, future studies and future scientific research can possibly start answering some of these questions, providing us with a lot more clues about the evolution of human brain, and why this organ became so successful and existed for the past 500 million years. But, until future discoveries or until we discover something else, that's I guess all that I wanted to mention. You can find all of the relevant links in the description below. Thank you for

watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.