---
video_title: "How Ancient Poop Changed the Course of Evolution"
video_id: g5IAqSmjTXc
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5IAqSmjTXc
video_date: 2026-08-27
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the evolution of complex life and the influence of poop
  Links:
  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0169534726001564?dgcid=author
  
  #biology #originoflife #earth
  
  0:00 Ancient poop mystery and the Cambrian explosion 
  2:40 Ediacaran period and how poop changed everything 
  5:00 Decoding shapes of animals via their tracks 
  7:20 Energy problem in the new era 
  8:00 Evolution of poop during Cambrian 
  9:30 Sudden explosion of animal life during the fecal evolution 
  10:40 How this mostly likely changed Earth 
  13:30 Additional evidence and discoveries 
  14:20 How this changes our views
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cambrian_explosion#/media/File:Artistic_reconstruction_of_the_Cambrian_(Drumian)_Marjum_biota.png
  Masahiro miyasaka CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ediacaran#/media/File:Archaeaspinus_fedonkini.jpg
  Verisimilus a CC BY 2.5 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cambrian_explosion#/media/File:DickinsoniaCostata.jpg
  Mr Ziwei Zhao and Dr Xiaoya
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello insightful person, this is Anton, and today we're going to start this video with a picture of ancient poop. And that's because we're going to be discussing one of the greatest mysteries in the history of our planet, but at the same time also something that has massive implications for astrobiology or search for life somewhere out there, and specifically on how to look for it on some other exoplanet in our space. But in order to understand the significance of this event and why this particular poop is so important, let's start by imagining Earth as it was for the first few billions of years of its existence. And that's because for the first three and a half billion years of Earth's history, our planet was pretty much very quiet and only involved microscopic life. With most life basically evolving as almost entirely single-celled and only able to form relatively simple communities later on. And here the oceans were mostly

dominated by simple microbes and cyanobacteria that at their best could maybe form what's known as a slimy mat that we often refer to as the bacterial mat. But then approximately 540 million years ago, during an event we call Cambrian explosion, practically all major animal groups suddenly popped into existence almost as if they came out of nowhere. Or essentially suddenly, as you can see from this fossil from the location known as the Burgess Shale in Canada, all these very strange animals started to appear in the fossil record with most of them suddenly having walking legs, compound eyes, swimming fins, various types of antenna, and even complex jaws, none of which existed up until this point. And for decades biologists and paleontologists debated what exactly triggered this and why the evolution suddenly had this intense burst. And doing one of the previous videos, we discussed a potential hint coming from outer space involving asteroids. And the most common

assumption today is that it was a simple story of chemistry and a sudden massive rise in ocean oxygen that became extremely widespread, allowing animals to become more active and basically grow bigger. But based on this study we're discussing today, that particular view might also be just a little bit too simple because we have two groundbreaking studies from July 2025 and more recently August 2026 that involve unusual fossils and show us something really important, including the fact that there might be a kind of an unsung hero for complex life. And yeah, that hero is poop, ancient poop, a lot of ancient poop. And so let's unpack these studies in a little bit more detail, but first start with a period slightly before that referred to as Ediacaran because here this is important to understand why poop was such a revolutionary force. And so approximately 100 million years before that, anywhere between 635 and 539 million years ago, we had Ediacaran period. And during this time Earth was a

truly alien world. The oceans contained very little oxygen and most modern fish would not be able to survive. But the strangest part in this case was the seabed itself. At this time, a very gooey thick mat of microbes covered the shallow seafloor, making the entire seafloor extremely extremely slimy. With scientists describing this mat as behaving almost like a layer of plastic wrap that tightly vacuum sealed the entire sediment. And because of this

unusual plastic wrap, the mud beneath this was actually very toxic and was completely devoid of oxygen, leaving it completely off limits for most animal life. Which surprisingly meant that the life in this case had to develop in mostly two dimensions. With most of the Ediacaran creatures like the famous Dickinsonia, basically resembling a kind of a flat, skinny fan. While other unusual animals, like Charnia, resembling a stationary plant, even though technically this was an animal. And none of these early animals contained any mouths, any eyes, or obviously any appendages like arms or legs. As a matter of fact, they did not

even have guts. And instead, they most likely survived by absorbing dissolved nutrients from the water directly through their skin. And because during this time there were no active predators, they didn't actually need anything extra. As a matter of fact, these oceans were probably extremely quiet and extremely slow. And to me, as a middle-aged father, man, that sounds super peaceful. I kind of wish I was one

of these leafy animals. But, towards the end of this period, something began to change with how these animals moved. Now, the thing is, for paleontologists, studying these animals is extremely challenging. Mostly because they also did not contain a skeleton, and their incredibly soft bodies rarely left behind actual bodies as any kind of a fossil. And instead, the only reminder we have of these animals are their unusual tracks and various burrows they left behind, which is actually what you see right here. And this brings us to

this first paper from 2025, led by Ziqun Wang from the Natural History Museum. And well, here, Dr. Wang and his colleagues realized that while they could not see the animals themselves, they could mathematically decode their shapes and even their senses by analyzing the structure of their tracks. And I guess you can think of it as maybe this. Imagine a snake. If you see a

snake moving across the sand, it leaves a long, smooth, curving path. And because of its long, slender shape, a snake cannot make a sharp 90° turn because its body has to bend in a very smooth arc. But, if you have a short, round, or egg-shaped creature, it can actually turn on the spot and can even create abrupt jagged angles in its track. And so, hereby analyzing over 170 ancient tracks from the Ediacaran and Cambrian transition, the team here discovered a clear evolutionary progression. Approximately 550 million years ago, most of the tracks seem to be very simple but highly unsmooth. They're

full of sharp abrupt turns, suggesting that they were made by very short round ovoid creatures with very limited sensory abilities. So, maybe something like this. Here the animals Here the animals could not sense anything, so they would basically move randomly until they bump into something and then consume it. But then 5 million years later or about 545 million years ago, the tracks become much smoother, resembling coordinated planned pathways of something like a modern slug or a snail or even a horseshoe crab. And at the same time, we also see the appearance of perfectly smooth continuous trails made by worms or basically worm-like animals with highly streamlined bodies.

And this actually means that millions of years before the Cambrian explosion, animals were already evolving much longer more slender body plans that were able to use muscles to coordinate and potentially already possess senses or something like vision or smell or possibly could sense food in some other way, very likely from a distance, allowing them to now move much more efficiently and with a lot more purpose. And this, of course, set the stage for this biological and chemical revolution on the seabed. But as these animals became more active and more streamlined, they essentially faced a new problem, the energy problem. And specifically, they required more energy to be burned, which meant that they had to have an efficient digestive system. And absorbing nutrients through your skin is actually not enough. In other words,

having these flat shapes and being stationary was no longer efficient. And that's because by being active and by crawling around, they now required a kind of a new metabolic engine, which is where this new 2026 paper comes in with the title in the Cambrian fecal evolution. And the title in this case explains everything. And that's because the scientists behind this study discovered a new unusual pattern in the fossil record. And so, while we know that some of these earliest animals evolved at least 600 million years ago, surprisingly around this time, there seems to be no fossilized poop, which is technically known as coprolites. And so,

there are no proterozoic or Ediacaran coprolites in any of the known fossils. And so, the question is, why? With the answer being that they most likely did not possess the necessary digestive system yet. They did not have a through gut. With most of this early life potentially possessing what we call a blind gut, or basically a single sack-like opening where the food goes in, gets digested, and the waste is then ejected back from the same opening. Very

similar to modern jellyfish and anemones, but also extremely inefficient. Mostly because you normally cannot eat new food while you're still busy digesting old food. But at the end of this Ediacaran and the start of the Cambrian, there seems to be a kind of a biological threshold. Animals evolved this new through gut, and a complete digestive tract with a separate mouth and an anus starts to appear. And so, once you have this through gut, you essentially have a continuous assembly line for food and for digestion. You can

keep eating at the front, digesting in the middle, and expelling waste at the back. And because of this new ability and this new process, a lot of these Cambrian animals suddenly started to develop extremely complex digestive systems. And so, within 20 million years, by approximately 521 million years ago, we suddenly get these exceptional fossils from places like the Emu Bay Shale in Australia and Chengjiang Biota in China. Essentially, showing us that arthropods evolved sophisticated guts and were able to physically digest, process, and expel food. As a matter of fact, they were able to do this for much larger and much harder particles, which produced relatively complex waste. And this

continuous assembly line of digestion also means that you're going to be producing massive, constant supply of structured waste, which is why scientists now refer to this as fecal revolution, the sudden appearance of poop. Would this image basically summarizing everything in two frames. But, the bigger question is, okay, so how does poop change anything? And why does it matter so much for the history of complex life? Or, basically, how could waste lead to such an important evolutionary explosion? And the answer

here seems to lie in the fundamental oceanographic concept referred to as the biological pump. Most of the coast in most oceans, almost all of the primary energy for life is usually produced near the surface. Basically, where sunlight allows plankton to photosynthesize and to create all of the necessary organics. But, the animals living in the deep dark ocean also need those nutrients to survive. And well, in the Ediacaran, before the fecal revolution, when these tiny planktons died, their corpses and their waste were so incredibly small and so light that their gravity was almost equal to the water drag, which meant that they drifted extremely slowly to the bottom of the ocean and were most likely dissolved or even eaten by scavengers before they even reached the seafloor, which essentially turned the deep ocean into a kind of a nutritional desert. There was practically nothing on

the bottom. But, once the Cambrian animals evolved, and once their guts grew much larger, they suddenly started packaging these tiny, tiny cells into much heavier and much denser material, first resembling fecal pellets, and then basically resembling actual poop. With these newly formed structures then essentially acting like vertical elevators, suddenly plunging carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, and iron all the way down to the deep seafloor before they could physically dissolve. And this completely transformed ocean geochemistry. First, it allowed carbon to be buried. All of this sinking poop

suddenly locked away a lot of carbon, and suddenly allowed it to be buried inside the sediment instead of reacting with something else, which actually meant that suddenly oxygen, instead of reacting with carbon, reacted with itself, forming breathable oxygen in the water column, which suddenly led to a dramatic increase in oxygen in pretty much most of the oceans. With a second benefit being a kind of a deep-sea fertilization. By having such a massive, steady supply of bioavailable nutrients, and specifically iron and phosphorus, the deep seafloor, for the first time in Earth's history, started to be enriched in a lot of these somewhat unusual elements. And this led to a massive feedback loop and a sudden transformation of the seabed that now allowed a lot of different animals to invade these deeper water environments and to suddenly kickstart the evolution of a lot of different types of life. And this ubiquitous plastic wrap created by bacterial mats was most likely consumed, torn to shreds, and eventually disappeared. And this two-dimensional

biosphere that existed for millions of years suddenly came to an end. This was the beginning of a three-dimensional ecosystem. With a lot of the additional discoveries in regards to these fecal pellets, mostly from 36 deposits worldwide, confirming that all of them seem to be extremely different with some other unusual discoveries coming from fossils in Canada. And here scientists actually found a very unusual sample containing several different animals on top of each other with fossil-like coprolites that seem to be underneath intact animals like trilobites and hyoliths, which basically suggests that these animals were what's known as coprophages. They actually ate poop. And

that's because poop by itself is obviously nutritious and thus create perfect conditions for microbial mats to grow. And so many of these little Cambrian animals most likely gathered around various types of poop in order to feed on the feces or possibly various bacteria growing on them, essentially forming a kind of a food web that once again involved a lot of ancient poop. And so essentially just these two papers completely change our understanding of what potentially happened 600 million years ago. And that's because for a very long time the textbook explanation was entirely environmental. Our atmosphere got more oxygen, which then potentially created conditions for complex animals to evolve. But these recent papers show

us something different. They show us that it wasn't just the physical environment, but it was actually life itself actively engineering the environment that then made additional evolution much easier. And this really revolution of simple poo gut that most likely started in tiny worm-like animals eventually led to a massive planetary-scale transformation that allowed for a lot of these nutrients to suddenly recycle and enrich the seafloor, completely changing what's happening underneath. And so basically by producing all of this relatively heavy poop, these animals suddenly cleared the surface waters and allowed carbon to be buried, allowed oceans and seafloor to be oxygenated, and delivered a lot of nutrients to the deep sea floor where life could now thrive like never before. But this obviously also tells us a little bit more about potential astrobiologist somewhere out there because in this case it shows us that habitability is not just about the distance from the star or even about initial gas levels, but instead seems to be a very dynamic co-evolutionary dance between present life, biological waste management, and the transformation of previously toxic elements into something that creates vibrant, oxygen-rich environments. And so if we ever do find

some kind of a complex life somewhere out there, we have to realize that we should not be just looking for oxygen and instead should focus on a lot of other chemical biosignatures involving signatures of potential digestive systems. So yeah, alien poop. We might need to start looking for alien poop. On that note, at least for now that's all I wanted to mention. Once we discover something else, we'll come back and talk more about this in some of the future videos. Until then, take watching,

subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos of that nature, and can DM me directly or by joining channel membership at Grand Unified Theory of Everything early access. You can also support this channel where by the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful, I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.