---
video_title: "We Finally Know What These Mysterious Objects Near SgrA* Are!"
video_id: Xuwp5mlbxII
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xuwp5mlbxII
video_date: 2026-05-15T22:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the mystery of G-Objects near the SgrA* Black Hole
  Links:
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2026/03/aa55808-25.pdf
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/508328/pdf
  Other videos:
  https://youtu.be/urfwKkbd02I
  https://youtu.be/bJ_ONprVCIM
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ES8pP83slXU
  https://youtu.be/P2NkN4EV4Ik
  #blackhole #sgra #science 
  
  0:00 SgrA region of the Milky Way and G Object mystery 
  1:48 This regions is full of stuff 
  2:20 G objects and how nothing happened in 2014 
  4:40 New study and a possible explanation 
  5:45 Possible source 
  8:20 What created these stars? 
  8:55 Alternative explanation 
  10:00 Binary stars around SgrA* 
  10:50 Conclusions and what's next?
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and we're going to be discussing one of the most mysterious regions in the entire galaxy, the center of the Milky Way, or the region referred to as Sagittarius A, which contains the central black hole, but also a lot of other mysterious objects that we still don't really understand. And well, one of these objects was only discovered something like 5 years ago, and actually surprised a lot of scientists when it started doing something somewhat unusual. And so, here for several years astronomers were actually puzzled by these very strange chimera-like objects referred to as G objects. Something that seems to orbit the central black hole Sagittarius A* and something that resembles a gas cloud, but also sometimes resembles a star. As in, for some reason these objects seem to behave like both stars and massive clouds. And one of such

objects was actually expected to create an enormous fireworks show almost like a decade ago, but instead of falling apart and creating massive emissions, seems to have recombined into a single object and started to resemble a star once again. And so, for several years now scientists have been trying to figure out exactly what's happening in this region, and more importantly, exactly what these objects seem to be, which is essentially what a recent series of studies tried to resolve. And especially this study that was just released in April of 2026 on the gas streamers G1, 2, and 3. And we potentially now have at least one possible answer, or essentially an answer explaining where they possibly came from and how they possibly formed. And so, let's talk about this recent study and some of these recent discoveries, but first let's actually discuss exactly what the mystery in this case is, and more importantly, what this unusual region is actually like. And

that's because this region doesn't just contain the central black hole, but it also contains an enormous amount of other stuff that's constantly interacting with the center and is forming a lot of different types of emissions. As a matter of fact, there are quite a lot of different unusual stars here, including a lot of famous S stars, which represent some of the fastest-moving objects in the entire galaxy, with some of these stars moving at thousands of kilometers per second, but also some other objects producing some other emissions whose origin and whose nature is still unknown. But, in the last two decades, there's this one mystery that was particularly interesting. So, essentially, these G objects, and the first one, G1, was actually discovered quite a long time ago, but it was really G2 in 2012 that kind of grabbed everyone's attention. And that's because here, back in 2012, it kind of made an extremely close approach to the central black hole and was expected to be completely torn apart, causing a massive flare and potentially a massive eruption, allowing scientists for the first time in history to observe an active central black hole right here in the Milky Way. As a matter

of fact, here we had a lot of publications and a lot of modeling that tried to understand exactly what we're going to observe when this object is completely torn apart. Here's one of these predictions and simulations from the European Southern Observatory. And so, scientists were super excited because it was supposed to happen in 2014. But, 2014 came and the gravity did not rip anything apart and did not create a spectacular light show. As a matter of fact, by 2017, we had publications like this, the story of a boring encounter with a black hole. And

that's because, basically, nothing happened. Even at the closest approach to the black hole, the subject remained intact and then started to basically recombine and actually became whole again, which, for the past eight or nine years, created a major debate. Was G2 just a cloud of gas, or was there actually a hidden star inside holding everything together? And well, since then, scientists have discovered quite a few more of these objects, including G3, 4, 5, and 6. We have discussed some of them in some of the videos in the description. And they all seem to share

very similar bizarre features. They stretch into these long dusty shapes when they pass very close to the black hole, but then seem to compact back together as they move away. So, basically, they stretch, they combine, stretch, combine, and they do so every few years, every time they come close to the black hole. And that means that we have no idea what this actually is. How exactly was this produced? Where is this

coming from? And what sort of an object can this possibly be? And well, back in the '90s, one of the major explanations was that this was possibly some kind of a hybrid, so not a star, not a dust cloud, but something in between. And so, that's where we get this recent study based on the observations of something else that's been known to us for quite some time. Here, researchers from the Max Planck Institute relied on advanced instruments such as Ares from the Very Large Telescope, and actually found another clump of gas very close to the first one, referred to as G2T, which surprisingly seems to follow right behind G2. It's a little bit difficult

to see it, but it's basically in this image. And yeah, it is difficult to see because this is 26,000 light-years away from us. But what's really important here is that G1, G2, and this new G2T clumps all seem to be traveling on almost exactly same path. In other words, they have a very, very similar orbit, which is why scientists are referring to these as G123 Streamers. And based on orbital calculations, and specifically statistical analysis, the odds of three unrelated objects to line up in this way are actually one in a million, which implies only one thing.

They have to have common origins, and specifically a common parent. They must have been formed by a single object. And so, who is this parent? And well, here, by tracing the orbits back, they actually found that they all point to a specific star system. A star system that was actually explored back in 2006 because it's a massive binary right inside the galactic center. A star

system known as IRS 16 SW. And this is not just any typical star, it's a massive eclipsing binary where two stars move in front of each other creating periodic pulsations. And here we're talking about two huge stars. Each of them is about 50 solar masses. And they're orbiting so close that they're probably touching creating what's known as the contact binary. Here a single

orbit between these stars takes approximately 19 and a half days. And so this new study claims that many of these G objects are possibly created by stellar winds coming from this enormous touching binary that's slowly falling apart. And well, because of this mass, these stars are actually super super powerful and create enormous winds. They actually blow off massive amounts of material and are constantly losing a lot of mass. And when a lot of these winds hit the gas and dust orbiting the central region, they tend to create massive shocks that then compress the gas into a lot of these clumps. Now,

technically this is actually how a lot of stars are created as well, but in this case, this is actually on a much smaller scale. But importantly, because this binary star is also orbiting the black hole, it effectively throws a lot of these clumps toward the black hole at somewhat regular intervals. So it's essentially kind of like a cosmic cannonball creator. It shoots off these massive amounts of gas toward the center with a somewhat regular pattern. And since this is only about 0.16 light

years away from the central black hole, it potentially results in the formation of a lot of these objects that eventually cluster around the central black hole and result in these G objects. Now, based on some of the previous analysis, we know that this is actually two Wolf-Rayet stars that are extremely hot, luminous, and normally represent just a brief transitional phase in stellar evolution, meaning that they only actually exist for like 10 million years or so, and eventually transform into something else. But, because they are so close to the supermassive black hole, right now they're probably responsible for the formation of a lot of unusual objects. And here, based on the observations, it seems to provide just enough fuel for the black hole to stay occasionally active, because one of these clumps possibly falls into a black hole every decade or so, and makes plain occasional such as the x-ray flares we seem to observe occasionally. And so here, it explains what Sagittarius A* is currently eating. Although in this case,

there is actually one more mystery. What exactly created these stars, and how did they even end up here? This is actually known as the paradox of youth, because massive stars usually have very short lifespans, and we don't really expect these massive stars to form so extremely close to the supermassive black hole. But, based on this discovery, it seems that they were formed here, and then somehow became a binary system that's now creating all of these x-ray emissions. As a matter of fact, based on a lot of discoveries, this turns out to be one of the most massive binary star systems in the entire Milky Way. But,

when it comes to explaining these G objects, this is obviously not the only proposition. A separate explanation we discussed not so long ago suggests that maybe some of these G objects are just merged stars. And that's because black hole's gravity is so strong that it sometimes forces binary stars to merge into one, just like what's happening with IRS 16 ASW. And so here, a merger might create a huge cloud of dust that potentially stays around for a few million years. But, according to this recent study, having three such objects in a similar orbit is extremely unlikely. But, either way, we basically

have two main explanations. Either these are merged stars, or massive remains from a binary system that collided as a result of black hole's gravity, or more likely this is a gas streamer initially formed as a clump coming from the very powerful Wolf-Rayet star known as IRS 16 SW, which essentially forms a kind of a pseudo star as these massive emissions interact with extremely dense gas that surrounds the black hole. Although the intriguing both explanations involve binary stars, which technically brings us to another discovery from not so long ago. Up until extremely recently, we actually have not seen any binary stars anywhere around the black hole. Scientists only saw single stars, and this was a little bit strange because most massive young stars normally form as pairs. Actually, the majority of

stars in the Milky Way are binaries, but not so long ago astronomers finally confirmed a system known as D9 that seems to be a binary and definitely proved that binaries can exist, but the black hole is just constantly trying to destroy them. And so it either forces them to merge or sometimes swallows one of the stars and kicks the other one out of the galaxy. This is what we usually refer to as hypervelocity stars. You can learn about some of the recent discoveries about these stars in one of the videos in the description. But in this case, the discovery that these particular objects seem to be also directly connected to a very famous binary is definitely a huge [clears throat] step forward in trying to understand exactly what's happening here. Now obviously we have no idea how

the other G objects formed, the ones discovered not so long ago, but assuming the study is correct, G1, 2, and newly discovered G2 G objects might have formed as emissions from this extremely powerful binary star, which basically connects the typical life of a star with the feeding process of a black hole into one big underlying picture. And in this case it also suggests that it was actually the black hole that potentially created the star because it was able to attract a lot of gas around itself and eventually sound this gas collapse into this extremely massive binary system, and it's now the binary system that's throwing off a lot of mass toward the black hole and is slowly feeding it in the process, making this a somewhat bizarre but also somewhat interesting relationship. But for our observation astronomy, the most exciting part is going to happen in 2031. And that's because based on the calculations here, the newly discovered G2T object is expected to make its closest pass to the black hole in the middle of 2031. And at this point, a lot of astronomers are probably going to be watching this space in order to see how it behaves and what happens to it. And so, assuming it does

the same thing that G2 object did, here we can potentially confirm its origin and possibly solve this mystery once and for all. But if we get lucky, it might also fall into the black hole and create a massive flare incomparable to anything else we've seen so far. Although at least for now, as of 2026, that's all we know. As we learn more, I'll definitely come back and discuss this again, and we'll definitely have more videos on G objects sometime in the future. On that note, thank you for watching. Subscribe.

Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access and a few additional videos. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always,

bye-bye.

>> [music]

>> Mhm.