---
video_title: "Gaia Data Rewrites Everything We Knew About Galaxy History"
video_id: t95URmICwQM
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t95URmICwQM
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the Milky Way galaxy discoveries
  Links:
  https://theconversation.com/the-milky-way-was-rewired-by-a-cataclysmic-collision-billions-of-years-ago-now-it-is-on-course-for-another-284721
  https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/548/2/stag563/8537783?login=false
  https://ras.ac.uk/news-and-press/research-highlights/galactic-warming-car-engine-effect-heating-our-milky-way
  https://www.mpg.de/18466080/history-of-milky-way
  Previous video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ua5ymXflH7Q
  #milkyway #galaxy #science
  
  0:00 Milky Way updates 
  1:09 Gaia data changed everything 
  1:50 What we thought before 
  2:20 Disc started to form earlier than thought 
  3:25 Gaia Sausage collision was a lot more complex 
  4:35 Loki leftovers 
  5:35 Hot/Cold sides of the galaxy 
  7:00 Overall history of the Milky Way 
  10:28 Conclusions and what's next?
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Koppelman, Villalobos and Helmi CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia_Sausage#/media/File:Simulated_Gaia-Enceladus_debris.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person, this is Anton, and it's about time we discuss the Milky Way galaxy once again. Mostly [clears throat] because in some of the recent studies, scientists were able to once again discover a few things that we actually did not know before, and specifically discover something about the Milky Way's history that sort of rewrites some of the previous propositions and some of the previous assumptions astronomers took for granted. And even though for a very long time, humanity viewed the night skies and specifically the Milky Way galaxy as a kind of a static object formed billions of years ago and potentially existing in a kind of a balance, thanks to some of the recent advances in what's known as galactic archaeology, we now are pretty certain that that particular picture is not entirely correct. With some of the recent studies that we're going to be discussing today suggesting that our galaxy is much more violent and is also much more chaotic compared to what was previously believed and described in various astronomy textbooks. And so, let's discuss some of this new data and essentially try to rewrite the overall history of our galaxy based on some of the most recent observations involving super accurate telescopes like Gaia. And that's

actually the main catalyst for this change. The Gaia space telescope has been absolutely crucial in helping us map the direct positions and very detailed motions of nearly 2 billion individual stars in the Milky Way. And while before Gaia, we only had this level of detail for approximately a few thousand stars. And so, it was really because of this new dynamic map that the galaxy has now been brought to life revealing that the Milky Way is essentially a galactic cannibal built through a series of dramatic cataclysmic collisions. With evidence for these collisions essentially existing all over the place. But I guess we should start

with what we actually thought before and with this classical model that's now been almost entirely disproven. And so, in the classical model, the Milky Way's spherical halo formed in the first billion years from a lot of ancient gas and some of the first primordial stars. And over time, because of the motion of stars, this halo kind of flattened out and formed the galactic disc. And it was inside this disc that eventually various types of stars, including our sun, developed over time. But, some of the recent data from Gaia actually showed us something that does not make a lot of sense. Here, some of the most ancient

and some of the most metal-poor stars, stars that should be in the halo, actually turn out to be inside the disc and became prominent residents orbiting for billions of years, which potentially suggests that the disc itself might have started forming 1 billion years ahead of schedule and way before we kind of expected it to form. And though this would have been surprising at first, turns out that a lot of recent data coming from the James Webb also reveals a lot of these very distant galaxies already developing their discs early on and essentially being disc-like in shape billions of years before we expected them to be. And that means that many of these stellar immigrants, or these very ancient stars, very likely already existed here, with some of them coming from various merged galaxies that were deposited directly into disc orbits. Or just to rephrase this, the disc formed very early and the galaxy was already experiencing collisions and consuming other galaxies in the first billion years of its existence. And well, one of the most significant discoveries in the last few years when it comes to the galactic evolution was a discovery with structure referred to as Gaia Sausage and Enceladus, or GSE. And for years,

astronomers believed that this was a remnant of the last major merger, a single giant collision approximately 8 to maybe 11 billion years ago that basically rewired our galaxy completely. But, according to this more recent article and study you can find in the description. A study published in June of 2026, using the data from Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument, suggests that even this might not be entirely correct. And so, here, by using a new clustering tool, referred to as GS3 Hunter, scientists discovered 17 separate streams and substructures that seem to be coming from this ancient structure, but at the same time, seem to contain stars with approximately 5 billion years of age spread between them. In other words, this indicates that this was not a result of one big crash, but instead was a composite of multiple accretion events over at least 5 billion years.

And it was not one big sausage, but more like a series of much smaller snacks. With another recent study also discovering one of the more unusual objects that was basically hiding right under our noses. Here, by once again analyzing star motion and looking at various stellar streams, scientists discovered a group of 20 ancient stars orbiting very close to the galactic disk that seem to have come from an ancient progenitor galaxy, in this case now named Loki, after the Norse god of mischief. And that's because its origins were so difficult to decipher. And what makes this galaxy interesting is that its stars seem to move in both prograde and retrograde motion, or basically along with the galactic rotation and then against it. With computer

simulations suggesting that this only happens when the merger happens extremely early on, before the Milky Way settled into its stable spinning disk. In this case, implying that this was very likely one of the first building blocks of the galaxy absorbed at least 10 billion years ago. And speaking of surprises, apparently, our galaxy also seems to contain some kind of a hot side and cold side based on some of the more recent observations from eROSITA X-ray Observatory. And so, here, based on 2024 observations, scientists found that the southern half of the galaxy is approximately 12% hotter than the northern side. Something that at first appeared to be a little bit mysterious.

But this recent analysis, you can find in the description, basically explains this in a very simple physical way. Here, this is the same physics as a bicycle pump. As you compress air in a pump, it usually gets warm. And so as our neighbor, the Large Magellanic Cloud, is currently pulling the galaxy southwards, in this case at a velocity of about 40 km per second, the motion of the Milky Way acts like a piston and compresses the gas on the southern side, which actually makes it heat up by millions of degrees. But intriguingly, this is a more recent effect and seems to have only started approximately 100 million years ago. And it's very likely

going to dissipate with time and possibly even change sides as the Large Magellanic Cloud orbits around the galaxy. Which basically suggests that even now, the galaxy is still interacting and absorbing other galaxies and is still transforming and shifting, which will most likely be doing for at least a few billion years. But based on these new observations, combined with some of the previous observations, we can now maybe come up with some kind of a storyline for what happened in our galaxy in the last 13 billion years. And so here, the story starts 13 to maybe 10 billion years ago during a period of early assembly. And so contrary to the classical model, where the spherical halo forms first, we now know that the galactic disk very likely started to appear almost right away, potentially forming at the same time as the halo, just like with those other galaxies observed by the James Webb at the edge of the universe. But as it started doing

so, it also started to attract a lot of ancient building blocks. And that's because the young Milky Way was built entirely by consuming smaller dwarf galaxies. And one such galaxy was now nicknamed "Loki". It was very likely consumed approximately 10 billion years ago, eventually scattering into many different groups of ancient metal-poor stars orbiting around the galaxy in all sorts of directions. But, sometimes around the same time, or maybe even a little bit before that, Milky Way went through a particularly significant merger with a very large galaxy referred to as "Kraken", a galaxy that was discussed in one of the videos in the description, and that potentially contributed to most of the assembly of the galactic inner regions, because this was a huge galaxy that got absorbed. And

so, here between 11 to 8 billion years ago, the so-called teenage peak, there might have been several collisions, including the absorption of the Gaia Sausage Enceladus structure, that even though it was believed to be a single event, turned out to be something much longer lasting, very likely involving continuous mergers for at least 5 billion years. And in this case, it might have also involved several different galaxies, and was not just one single crash. And so, this was basically a kind of a galactic growth spurt, which is why it's sometimes now referred to as the teenage years. And well, the result of these collisions was quite obvious, a lot of a lot of shock waves. And so, many of these shock waves that are technically moving through the galaxy even right now, triggered massive bursts of star formation, first approximately 11 billion years ago, and then several times afterwards, including 5 billion years ago, with one of these shock waves eventually forming the solar system. All

of this was the result of gas clouds compressed and forced to collapse through the continuous interaction of all of these galactic collisions. And [snorts] well, then the galaxy reached its adulthood. This is essentially the last 8 billion years. During this time, Milky Way enjoyed a relatively stable structure, at least compared to many other spiral our which actually allowed its thin disk, the disk where the sun resides, to form as a kind of a stable structure settling in a permanent rotation where many stars like our sun eventually evolved. But obviously, even today, there are still some interactions and continuous evolution, including the fact that one of the sides is just a little bit hotter. And so, technically, the Milky

Way is not in a stable state, but instead is continuously interacting with the Large Magellanic Cloud and Small Magellanic Cloud, but also remaining on a permanent multi-billion year collision course with the Andromeda galaxy and the Triangulum galaxy, which of course means that in the next 5 to 6 billion years, things will once again get a little bit more hectic, and there might be more star formation, more star evolution, and more exciting star systems like the solar system forming somewhere out there in the future Milky Way. And so, even after all this time, the Milky Way is still being actively sculpted and will definitely evolve into something different in the future. But these types of studies also remind us that a lot of stars we see in the night skies are not just sparkly points of light, but are technically fossils with chemical and dynamical fingerprints that allow us to then piece together a story of migration, survival, and constant change, which basically presents our galaxy as a very complex and continuously evolving massive mega structure that's still going to be surprising us for years to come as new discoveries are made and additional data is collected by surveys like WEAVE and 4MOST, which will probably help us discover more hidden galaxies, and additional motion in the galaxy when we least expected. But until these future studies and observations, that's all I wanted to mention. Thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on

Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You You also support this channel by buying the of our present t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.