---
video_title: "2026 Study Finally Explains Why Mushroom Fairy Rings Form"
video_id: STeRjIfyJWs
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STeRjIfyJWs
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the fairy rings and how they work
  Links:
  https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rsos/article/13/8/rsos260575/482752/Spatial-structure-and-growth-dynamics-of-fairy
  #fungi #mushrooms #fairyring
  
  0:00 The fairy ring legend 
  2:20 Actual study explaining them! 
  2:55 What is a fungus, Anton? 
  4:10 Fairy ring mushrooms and how they grow 
  6:25 Why does it make rings? Molecular analysis 
  8:30 Mushroom experiment 
  9:10 5 Hypotheses 
  10:15 Results and most likely explanation 
  12:10 Why a ring and not a disk? 
  13:35 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Peter G. Werner CC BY 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungus#/media/File:Morelasci.jpg
  Alan Rockefeller CC BY 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marasmius_oreades#/media/File:Michigan_Marasmius_oreades.jpg
  http://chmee2/Valtameri%20CC%20BY%203.0%20https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairy_ring#/media/File:Fairy_ring_on_Iceland.jpg
  Cmglee CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairy_ring#/media/File:Cmglee_Cambridge_Trinity_College_Great_Court_fairy_ring.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Okay, today we're going to discuss something just a little bit different and something that's been mentioned in a lot of different stories and legends for many centuries. And well, if you've ever been walking through a patch of woods or some kind of a quiet meadow, you might have actually seen this already. Something that looks almost deliberately handcrafted. A nearperfect circle of mushrooms arranged as if they halted mid dense. And naturally, before modern biology existed, for many, many centuries, people looked at these rings and assumed something mysterious, something paranormal, and something potentially involving spirits. And so,

these are technically known as fairy rings because people were convinced these were the work of something that seems to be beyond this world and maybe even something that's dangerous. And while in a lot of different types of folklore, mostly from the western Europe, it was believed that these circles were burned into the [music] ground by the dancing elves or fairies. In fact, the modern Norwegian word for fairy is apparently alvidons, which translates to elf dance. And if you are Norwegian and I totally mispronounced this, feel free to correct me in the comments below. And by now, I am pretty used to being corrected about my pronunciation of stuff, which seems to happen in pretty much every video. But

depending on where you lived, the myths about this potentially got much, much darker. For example, in France, they were actually called Risier, the witches circle. Circles that were supposed to place some kind of a curse on anyone walking into them. And in German, these are known as the hexaxen ring, marking a spot where witches apparently dance at night during certain celebrations. And so most of the Western European cultures essentially saw this as something evil, something related to devil and something involving some kind of a mysterious creature with all of them basically stating that you should probably not go into one of these circles because something bad is about to happen. You might get some kind of a

curse or end up in some kind of a different world. But as fun as these myths are, when it comes to the actual scientific reality, this is actually [clears throat] a pretty intriguing phenomenon because trying to understand how these rings form and how they interact with their environment, for scientists at least, is actually a lot more intriguing and way more interesting. And of course, the main reason we're discussing this today is because we now have an actual study potentially explaining everything once and for all. And so thanks to this incredible study in 2026 by researchers from Sweden who apparently were not satisfied with the fairy explanation, we now have a molecular proof of a very bizarre biological strategy referred to as transient escape which was actually a hypothesis up until this point. And so in the next few minutes, let's explore exactly how this works, what all of this looks like underground, and why this also represents a massive leap in the science of micology or the study of mushrooms. But to understand these fairy

rings, we first have to take a look at what a fungus actually is. Because despite potentially resembling a plant, it's technically much closer to us to animals when it comes to molecular biology. And that's because they don't really perform photosynthesis. and instead are what's known as heterotroofs. They acquire all of their food required for digestion by absorbing dissolved organic molecules from around their environment. And they normally do

this by secretreting digestive enzymes in the environment around them in order to then break down a lot of larger molecules in the surroundings without physically absorbing them and by only digesting simpler molecules once they become much easier to consume. And so technically what we call a mushroom is not really the main organism and instead represents what scientists refer to as a sporocarb or if you were to compare this to a plant this will be the fruit and the actual fungus is entirely underground. It's composed of mycelium or a kind of a vast interconnected network involving millions of tiny branches of filaments referred to as hifa. And it's actually these hifa that then release all of the necessary enzymes in order to digest nutrients inside the soil. But when it comes to these fear rings, we know that there seems to be at least 100 different types of mushrooms that are able to create them. And they mostly fall into two main

categories. The first type is known as the tether ring that are usually formed by what's known as a microisal fungi that live in a symbiosis with various trees and actually survive by being tethered to the roots of trees in the forest. With the second type, the one that you see right here known as the free rings or the metal rings which are actually formed by a satrophic fungi or a kind of a decomposer mushroom that usually lives independently on a lot of organic matter. Although there is actually one type of a mushroom that seems to form these the most and it's what you see right here. These mushrooms are known as marasmos oriadis or more commonly a fairy ring champion. And so

most of the fair rings are usually formed by this. And so essentially here we have two separate phenomena happening underneath the ground and above ground. And so underground as the fungus grows larger usually from a central point it starts to consume nutrients and starts to grow outwards consuming all of the food in the center. Naturally at some point the food in the center runs out and so it starts to consume food on the outskirts and at this point the older mcelium underground usually dies forming a kind of a hollow expanding circle. But above ground you start seeing this reflected in the vegetation in three separate ways. First, there's a kind of

a necrotic zone that might contain dead or withered grass. This is what you see in the moss in Iceland right here. This usually happens because the fungus underneath prevents the grassroots from basically consuming water with grass eventually dying out. Alternatively, sometimes it can actually do the opposite. Sometimes the fungi underneath can also produce hormones called gibberelins that actually trigger a rapid plant growth sort of acting like a natural fertilizer and essentially creating these very luscious rings like you see right here with the third type being the most famous. Sometimes we get

this very sudden emergence of mushrooms along the outer ridge as the mycelium underneath keeps growing and consuming matter. Okay, so that's cool and all, but why exactly does mycelium grow this way? And why specifically a hollow ring and not some kind of a solid disc or possibly some other shape? And well, for a very long time, most of this was basically based on various mathematical models up until this recent explanation in 2026. And so here in August of 2026, a team of researchers led by micologist Hannah Johannes decided to look directly under grass and try to study two massive fear rings growing in a cemetery in Upsala, Sweden. Something that

previously has been extremely difficult to do because trying to map myelium underground cannot be done very effectively. But in this case, the Swedish team used something extremely clever. They used a method referred to as metagenomics. And so essentially they did something like this. They collected samples along these lines referred to as transacts that cross directly through these sphere rings and they then extracted the samples from the lines and conducted a DNA analysis with the results in this case being really fascinating. Here they found incredibly

high concentrations of this mushroom referred to as moresmuse right at the active growth runs specifically peeking toward the outer edge. But inside the ring in the center the fungal DNA dropped to the background levels identical to the soil completely outside of the ring. In a sense definitively confirming that in this case this subterranean mycelium indeed forms an actual ring and not other shapes and definitely not a disc. Here the mushrooms were only growing on the outer edge. And here they even went as far as confirming that the DNA from the sample came from a single stable individual coexisting harmoniously inside the soil and did not represent some kind of a hybrid or some kind of a mushroom in a different life cycle compared to what we see above the ground which definitively confirms without a doubt that these are mushroom rings. But then the next

question becomes why does the ring expand outwards? And this is where we have our symmetry experiment and the five separate propositions. So basically here scientists wanted to figure out how and why mushrooms grow outwards in order to form this ring. And to do this they performed a highly precise transplantation experiment in the obsalo cemetery. They basically dug up rectangular blocks of soil containing this active growth. In this case

approximately 30 cm wide, 70 cm long and 10 cm deep. and then removed these blocks placing them in a different position turning them in a different direction and leaving them alone. And basically they left them there for approximately 14 months coming back later in order to extract soil cores once again and in order to sequence DNA and discover what changed and they were basically testing five different propositions. You can sort of see them in this image here. The hypothesis number one suggested that some of these hifa or some of these mushrooms seem to have some kind of an intrinsic building structural polarity and so if you turn them around they will just keep growing in the direction they're physically pointing kind of like a train on a track. Then the compass hypothesis the

mushrooms potentially have a preference for a north south polarity and will thus change directions. The ring coordination hypothesis suggested that there's some kind of a chemical communication with the neighbors that seems to coordinate and preserve the shape of the ring. The escape hypothesis suggested that the fungi are actually fleeing something specifically hostile conditions in the center that potentially contain a lot of waste because everything that was edible has already been eaten. And lastly, the transient escape hypothesis suggested something very similar. But in this case, the conditions in the center might be temporary and might fade over time, restarting the cycle again. And well, 14

months later, they essentially had their conclusion. For example, in treatment 3, when they moved the block and reversed its direction, 14 months later, the fungus continued to grow forward in its new direction toward the center, which right away ruled out several of these propositions. The complass hypothesis and the escape hypothesis as well as the ring coordination hypothesis were most likely incorrect because in this case if these mushrooms cared about the direction of growth they would have turned around. But intriguingly when they actually removed the block and put it back into the center without reversing its orientation. The fungus grew both forward and backwards which was a little bit unexpected. and

unexpected because scientists thought that the center here would be toxic and no growth would happen. And so basically because it was assumed to be either toxic or depleted of resources according to the escape hypothesis, the fungus should not have been able to grow backwards into that space. But because it managed to grow in both directions, it did prove that even the inhospitable center seemed to be temporary. Or just to rephrase this, the center of the ring seemed to have restored itself and was once again viable for fungal life, which suggested that the most likely explanation was the so-called transient escape hypothesis, or basically that the mushrooms are growing outwards because the center is not hospitable, but inhospitable only temporarily, and very likely because as the hifa push forward, they deplete some of the nutrients at first and possibly release some of the toxins or even some kind of a self-inhibiary compound that prevents them from growing back into the same direction. But because this process is actually pretty slow and usually takes several months, over time, a lot of these toxins and a lot of this waste disperses and a lot of the nutrients become replenished [clears throat] by various types of soil microbes. And

so after months and years, the soil heals and becomes habitable once again. Okay, cool, cool, cool. But this still doesn't really answer the main question. So why a ring and why not a disc? In other words, why did natural selection favor this shape in a lot of different types of mushrooms? Well, it turns out

that it's all because of efficiency. And that's because maintaining a solid underground structure can be extremely extremely inefficient and energetically expensive. And while normally fungi are master recyclers, they're actually known to transport a lot of valuable nutrients from much older central parts of the colony to the newer periphery in order to support new growth. Or basically most fungal networks usually transport the best nutrients to the outskirts in order to encourage growth and new development. And so by allowing the central mushroom area to disintegrate, they actively recycle some of their own biomass and then relocate it to the growing edge with this potentially also improving their overall defense mechanism, especially against parasites involving various bacteria or other mushrooms. And

that's because normally fungi are under constant siege and constant attack from a lot of different predators like viruses, bacteria, and microscopic worms. And so by removing the central mcelium and leaving a hollow ring, they dramatically reduce the physical area making it just a little bit harder for pathogens to wipe out the entire colony. In other words, here the ring shape seems to represent the best possible shape for survival. And so what makes this 2026 Swedish study so exciting is not the fact that it just solved a very old mystery, but also the fact that scientists in this case were able to demonstrate this new technique of soil metagenomics by taking small core samples of dirt and sequencing DNA. They were able to create a highly detailed genomic map of a lot of underground organisms directly studying their growth, genetics, and movement in their natural environment without ever seeing them. In other words, it allows us to

study soil environment with a lot more precision without just guessing and using mathematics. And so the next time you go in a forest and actually see one of these fairy rings, remember that you're not just looking at some kind of a mushroom ring, but you are looking at an extremely sophisticated dynamic and genetically complex organism that's using the process referred to as transient escape in order to navigate subterranean world. But naturally, because this is such a fascinating topic, we'll definitely come back and discuss this more once there's some additional discoveries. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else.

Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos with that and can directly or by jo access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.