---
video_title: "This Failed Galaxy Is 99.99% Dark Matter And Defies Explanation"
video_id: -FlOjg2n6jM
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FlOjg2n6jM
video_date: 20260810
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a strange dark matter galaxy Dragonfly 44
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.26152
  Other videos: https://youtu.be/Omez_3EKFPw
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-8am1NhtC4&t=51
  #darkmatetr #science #astrophysics 
  
  0:00 A strange dark matter galaxy Dragonfly 44 
  2:05 What type of a galaxy is this? 
  3:50 How this was found 
  4:28 Why do they look this way? 
  5:35 First arguments and disagreements 
  7:30 How this was analyzed again and what it means 
  8:50 Implications and results 
  10:35 Unanswered questions 
  11:08 Dark matter explanation? 
  12:06 Conclusions and why this matters
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Teymursaif CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragonfly_44#/media/File:Df44-BW-high-contrast.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello, wonderful person. This is Anton, and in this video we're going to be discussing a somewhat unusual mystery located approximately 330 million light years away from us in the Coma Cluster, or a Coma Cluster of galaxies, that seems to contain this very bizarre object that was only discovered a few years back. A galaxy that for a while seemed to defy everything we knew about how galaxies form just because of its mass and because it was practically invisible. And this is referred to as Dragonfly 44. And when it was originally discovered, astronomers nicknamed this a failed galaxy for the reasons we're going to be discussing in a few seconds.

But why is this so strange and why are we talking about this today? Well, imagine a galaxy that's basically the same mass as the Milky Way and it's physically the same overall size as well, but in this case only seems to contain approximately 1% of the stars, essentially appearing almost ghostly and practically invisible. Which by itself is very strange and until this discovery was not actually seen anywhere else, which obviously led to a lot of debates and a lot of arguments because not everyone agreed that this is what we're observing here. Because for the most part, this now made this what's known as a dark galaxy or basically suggested that this galaxy is made out of mostly dark matter and only contains some stars, which actually makes it resemble a dwarf galaxy as a result, despite being very large and very massive. And so because of this for the past few years, some scientists thought that maybe this is not actually true and well, maybe all of this is just a miscalculation or some kind of an incorrect analysis or even just wrong imagery. And once again because this

just did not make much sense. And well, today thanks to some brand new images and specifically ultra deep images by the Hubble Space Telescope, we might finally have an answer. And so, after a few years, let us discuss Dragonfly 44 once again, and basically find a kind of a closure to this mystery once and for all. But first, so what exactly is this, and what type of a galaxy is it? Well, technically, these are known as UDG's, ultra-diffuse galaxies. A class of

objects that are extremely difficult to detect and are usually very low in density, but that actually have been seen back in the 1980s. Although, most scientists assumed that these were just tiny dwarf galaxies. But, all of these galaxies were put in the spotlight and basically became extremely famous because back in 2015, a few of them turned out to be anomalous. With some of them, the ones we discussed in one of the previous videos a few months back, basically turning out to be galaxies with practically no dark matter, and essentially resembling these very diffuse clouds that seem to contain almost nothing inside. And by the way, that also did not make much sense, and was only recently explained as a very intriguing collisional event that seems to have created some of these objects.

You can learn more about this in one of the videos here in the description. And so, in essence, galaxies like this, NGC 1052 DF2, now became a new type of a galaxy, but potentially made in a very different way depending on their total mass. Although, all of them had the same definition. In terms of size, they were all relatively large, very similar to the Milky Way in diameter, but extremely faint and very, very difficult to find. Once again, because in terms of stars, they only contain a small percentage compared to a typical galaxy. They

literally resemble tiny smudges, which is why most of them were actually ignored previously because they were believed to be some kind of an artifact. But, more recently, we've even discovered one of these in our own neighborhood, in the local group of galaxies. So, they do seem to be pretty common, and are very likely all over the place, just difficult to find. And while to even find these galaxies, astronomers had to rely on very special instruments such as the Dragonfly Telephoto Array that was able to discover some of these Dragonfly galaxies. Here's an image from the Yale University that shows us one of the earlier versions of this instrument.

And they're called Dragonfly because it basically looks like a dragonfly's eye. And here this instrument is designed specifically to see some of the most faint and fluffy objects in the night skies that would be practically invisible to a normal telescope. And that's how it found these very diffuse, very fuzzy objects. But why are they so fuzzy? Well, usually a galaxy that has so much size and even so much mass should have a lot of stars. But many of

these UDGs seem to be basically quenched. Or basically, they stopped forming stars long time ago and are now mostly made out of really ancient stars billions and billions of years old. Or just to rephrase this, they essentially lack most of the gas required to form new stars. And as a result, seem to represent some kind of an ancient population. But this is where this mystery gets a little bit strange because Dragonfly 44 has so few stars, it should not have enough gravity to basically hold it together. The stars at

its edges are moving much faster than they should be moving for such a dim object, which is actually kind of what we see in these other diffuse galaxies like the ones close to the NGC 1052. Yet for some reason here, the zoom of the friends and the stars are definitely not flying apart and seem to be orbiting in a normal way as if this was a regular Milky Way like galaxy, which is a classic signature of the mysterious dark matter. The unseen mass that seems to provide this extra gravitational glue. And well, the mystery and the arguments started with the first measurements. Back in 2016, this galaxy was determined to be approximately 99.99%

dark matter. Or basically, the most dark matter galaxy we have ever seen. And that's because its mass was extremely close to the Milky Way, approximately a trillion solar masses, but it didn't contain a lot of stars, >> [snorts] >> which was also initially supported by the fact that this galaxy contained quite a lot of globular clusters. You can see some of them as these tiny dots very close to the blob. Here it contained 90 globular clusters, which is just a little bit less than the Milky Way. And normally a galaxy acquires

globular clusters through various galactic collisions, which often correlates with the overall mass of the galaxy as well. But then things get just [clears throat] a little bit controversial because other teams reanalyzed the data and basically argued that this galaxy was just much lighter and was probably just a regular dwarf galaxy with all of this being the result of miscalculations and a kind of a forced perspective. Here we're basically judging the distances incorrectly. With some of these studies even arguing that it didn't contain 90 clusters, but instead only had 20 globular clusters, which would make it a much more reasonable galaxy. It would not make it a dark matter galaxy or a failed galaxy, it would just make it a really large massive dwarf galaxy, which is I guess just a little bit less interesting.

Still intriguing, but maybe not as big of a mystery, which is why we get this new study that was just released by Mireia Luisa Buzo and the team you see on the screen. Mostly because they wanted to find out, so okay, who's right? And so to settle this, researchers used the Hubble Space Telescope to take what they refer to as white light imaging. Here they used a filter referred to as F350LP, which is exceptionally good at pretty much catching every single photon of light coming from some of these extremely faint objects. That's basically what you see right here. And

additionally, they spent approximately 30,000 seconds staring at this galaxy non-stop. Were the results then published in the study you see right here? And the results here are super super accurate. They basically discovered 78.3 plus minus 3.7 globular clusters, or

basically almost 80 globular clusters that have now been differentially confirmed. And this is really important because this confirms that it cannot be a simple dwarf galaxy and seems to be much closer to that proposition of this being a field galaxy, or basically a galaxy that just never became similar to the Milky Way or the Andromeda because it lost most of its gas and never went through its star forming stage. It was only able to observe some stars, but nothing major. And additionally, they also discovered the main reason why some of these earlier studies seem to miss these clusters completely. It's basically because this particular system seems to be spatially extended. Or

essentially, the clusters are not huddled in the center and seem to be spread out way beyond the visible stars of the galaxy as you see in this image. Once again confirming that this is a pretty large galaxy and seems to contain a relatively large dark matter halo that's holding all of these clusters together and prevents them from flying apart, which makes this a true field galaxy, or basically this giant halo of dark matter and various absorbed star clusters with only a tiny sprinkle of visible stars in the middle. And when it comes to galactic formation theories, that's actually kind of what we think happens early on when galaxies just start forming. Or just to rephrase this, pretty much all galaxies known to us very likely started as these massive halos, which eventually attracted a lot of gas and a lot of stars, that then started to interact, form new stars, absorb more stuff, and create more objects, and eventually ended up as things like the Milky Way. Except that in this case, something went wrong and the galaxy ended up as just a halo without the gas and with only some stars. And based on the number of these

clusters, we can now even estimate the mass of the halo based on the comparison with other similar galaxies. And here this giant invisible bubble seems to be approximately 400 billion solar masses, or approximately half the mass of the Milky Way, which basically means that billions of years ago, this galaxy very likely started as a normal giant galaxy and basically built these very large dark matter foundations, attracting and capturing eating globular clusters, but somehow managing not to attract any gas, or losing the gas through some kind of a process we still don't understand, which completely stopped the fuel star formation and prevented this galaxy from developing any further. And without this main stellar body, it essentially formed a completely new type of a galaxy that we now call a dark galaxy. Once again, one of which was recently discovered not so far from us. The video should be in the description. But the thing is, when

it comes to theoretical physics, right now no computer model or simulation can perfectly reproduce how this formed, or how this galaxy is even possible. And so in some sense, this is technically a major problem for modern cosmological models, and specifically for theories of galactic formation. And as of 2026, nobody has any idea why this exists, and how and why these dark galaxies are even possible. In other words, we don't really understand this process of failure. Although there might be at least one proposition that involves redefining dark matter as a very specific type of a particle that seems to be able to interact with itself. And

this proposition suggests that there might be heavy and light dark matter particles that can sometimes collide with each other, and sometimes cause a kind of a mass segregation with heavy particles sinking to the center, and the light ones spreading out. And while it looks like in dwarf galaxies, this process can create cores where the dark matter density is much lower than expected, which also seems to be the case for Dragonfly 44 as well. And so assuming that dark matter particles exist, and if they interact and collide with each other in some complex ways, it may explain why certain galaxies like Dragonfly 44 look the way they do, or basically why they look so puffed up and so diffuse. But this is just a proposition and just a hypothesis, and we don't really have any physical proof yet. Basically, right now this is a big mystery. We just know that this is not

the only such galaxy, and we now officially have a series of these dark galaxies, which though were hypothesized at first, have now been officially confirmed to exist. With the most recent such example being the galaxy you see right here, referred to as Nube, which was discovered a couple of years back. And interestingly, some of these galaxies were actually only found because of the observations of globular clusters. Basically, [snorts] the stars themselves were not even visible, but here a galaxy known as CDG2 was accidentally revealed when scientists found these unusual globular clusters orbiting around a central point. And so there are definitely quite a lot of these out there, implying that this anomaly is something that we just don't understand. But naturally, for modern

cosmology, this is also super important because here the frenzy of it tells us that dark matter as a phenomenon seems to be something that's physical, and seems to be something that we can potentially study by observing these galaxies and detecting their emissions. And so as we find more of these failed galaxies closer to home, we might be able to establish how exactly they form and what basically holds them together. And in the process, discover the faint signals of some of these dark matter particles. With all of this being a perfect reminder that even what we think is a subtle topic in astronomy, something like for example, galactic formation, can sometimes be completely [clears throat] redefined with just a couple of new images involving something we've never seen before. And though we still have no idea why these galaxies stop growing, chances are with new observations, we'll eventually be able to explain them. For now though, we can

definitely confirm that these are failed galaxies and not miscalculations, and they seem to be much more complex than we initially thought. On that note, once we discover something else, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can view me directly, or by joining our membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful, I'll

see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.