---
video_title: "New Antimatter Discovery in the Milky Way Challenges Known Physics"
video_id: _wPXFT92178
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_wPXFT92178
video_date: 20260805
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about antimatter discoveries
  Links:
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2026/07/aa59502-26.pdf
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIdmJ70QdCQ
  #antimatter #physics #milkyway 
  
  0:00 Missing antimatter mystery 
  0:40 What is antimatter though? 
  4:50 Positronium 
  6:00 Escaping antimatter from the Milky Way 
  8:55 Possible explanations - dark matter? 
  10:00 Conclusions and implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Rubber Duck CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positronium#/media/File:Positronium.svg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Wonderful person, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing one of the most persistent mysteries in astronomy, the case of missing antimatter. But more specifically, we're going to discuss a much more recent and strange discovery that suggests that antimatter is not just missing, it's actually physically escaping our galaxy and behaving in ways that our current laws cannot explain. In other words, we have a new mysterious discovery coming from the Milky Way galaxy that once again shocked a lot of astronomers. But before we start, just so that we're all on the same page, what exactly is antimatter anyway? So let's do a quick refresher. And here's actually a really

cool image taken back in 1932. First ever image that physically confirmed antimatter is real. This is a track from a positron inside a cloud chamber. In this case, a positron is of course the antimatter of an electron. And while most of the stuff we see around us, stars, planets, and even people are made out of ordinary matter, but for every particle of matter in existence, there can technically be an antiparticle. So once again, for the

electron, this would be a positron. It essentially has exactly the same mass and exactly the same spin as an electron, but it carries a positive charge instead of a negative charge. And the strangest thing about these two particles would be that if they were to meet each other, they would actually annihilate, producing a tremendous amount of energy. They basically vanish in a tiny explosion, turning all of their mass into pure energy in the form of gamma rays. And in this case, gamma rays with very, very specific energy signature. Here, this type of a positron

annihilation is always 500 kilo electron volts, something that has been measured in a lab many times. And the thing is, if we were to find these gamma rays of that specific energy in outer space, we could conclude that what we're actually seeing is basically the glow formed by antimatter annihilation, which is precisely how astronomers usually map antimatter in outer space. By seeing it destroyed, we know it's there. And just as a side note before we continue, in 2026, there was actually first ever achievement of something that has never been done in physics. Specifically, antimatter delivery. And so, in March of

2026, for the first time in history, researchers found a way to move antimatter from one location to another, which is a big deal because, as I just mentioned, when antimatter touches regular matter, it annihilates, creating a tiny explosion. But researchers at CERN have now developed a technique that allows them to transport quite a lot of antimatter all at once, which is really important for physics because, normally, it's extremely difficult to produce this, and only particle accelerators can create this on Earth. And so, up until this point, it was only possible to study antimatter on location. In this case, for example, CERN in Switzerland. But by making this happen, it can now be transported to other labs on a planet, and can thus be studied in other physics labs through this process of antimatter delivery. And so, I guess if you're

physicist somewhere out there, you're going to be able to find this on Amazon sometimes in the future. Okay, just kidding. I don't think it's going to qualify for Amazon delivery. But this was still a pretty cool achievement. Because now antimatter is not just a sci-fi concept, it's something that we can physically measure, create in a lab, and thus possibly use for some kind of a future technology. But despite of this,

there's still this persistent mystery. Why exactly do we find so little of it in the universe? And why is it so difficult to find in outer space? Because, theoretically, at least according to modern physics, once the universe was created in the Big Bang, it should have created an equal amount of matter and antimatter. And the thing is, if that were true, they should have actually annihilated each other already, leaving the universe with nothing but energy inside. But obviously, we know

that that didn't happen because here you are, material and all, watching this video. In other words, we live in a universe dominated by regular matter. And so, something in the early universe must have favored matter over antimatter, allowing more to be produced. Today, this is technically known as the CP violation. It's a physics term you can learn about in one of the previous videos in the description. And that suggests that

matter and antimatter don't always behave like perfect mirror images of each other. But exactly why, we don't really know. And today, scientists are trying to understand this by studying various exotic atoms, such as what's known as positronium. And here, positronium consists of just one electron and one positron orbiting each other. It's essentially the lightest known particle system, but it's also obviously extremely unstable. Usually,

this annihilates in approximately 144 billionths of a second. And so, because it moves so fast and because it disappears pretty quickly, it's extremely challenging to study this. Although, in some of the recent experiments at CERN and the University of Tokyo, researchers realized that they can actually slow down positronium by using specific lasers and by basically cooling it down to almost absolute zero. At that point, it survives long enough where it can now be studied. This is actually a recent achievement, but nothing has been learned about it just yet. Either way though, the existence of

positronium is obviously kind of cool because it's basically a kind of a super particle, or a particle made out of matter and antimatter, which scientists are now hoping might lead to creation of some kind of a coherent gamma-ray laser, which one day might even allow us to scan atomic nuclei and essentially be able to create microscopes with incredibly high resolution. But, that's obviously just theoretical for now because the biggest mystery is, of course, this very recent discovery in regards to escaping antimatter from the galaxy. Something that was recently discovered in the new data from the Integral Space Telescope. The telescope whose main purpose so far has been to detect these 511 kiloelectron volts emissions and to basically map antimatter in the night skies. And for a very long time, we've known that there's a lot of antimatter in the center of the Milky Way. As a matter of fact, this is

the combined image showing us what seems to be happening here, with the center itself containing the most. But, for some reason, there's still way, way more than should be possible. As in, the center of the Milky Way contains sources that are difficult to explain. And although normally we expect things like black holes and pulsars to produce some of this, in this case, we don't expect to have so many black holes and so many pulsars, suggesting that these emissions are just a little bit anomalous. And so, the new analysis from 20 years of Integral managed to find something even stranger. There seem to be these very

unusual extragalactic hotspots of antimatter annihilation, with many signals appearing far above and far below the disk of the galaxy in regions like Complex C, which represents a massive hydrogen cloud, and the Magellanic Stream, or this really long trail of gas left behind by the Large Magellanic Cloud and Small Magellanic Cloud interacting with each other and the Milky Way. And well, this is strange for two reasons. First, the speed of positrons. In order for them to annihilate with electrons, they actually have to move pretty slow because otherwise they're not going to be producing these 511 kilo electron volt signals. And that means that whatever antimatter is here has to be moving pretty slow, and must have not come from the center of the galaxy or anywhere far away. Second, the distance here is

pretty huge. And so if they're slow, they shouldn't have enough energy to escape the Milky Way's disk and reach these far-off gas clouds before they hit something and annihilate. Yet somehow they are still here, and that implies that they're basically being produced by something. Or essentially they suggest that a large number of high-energy positrons are actually being produced in the Milky Way and are then leaking out into the surrounding space. And if this is true, the Milky Way might be producing 100 tridecillion positrons every single second, which is basically one followed by 44 zeros, and is also at least three times higher than previously assumed. But the obvious question is,

where is it coming from and what's producing this? And that's because if conventional sources like stellar explosions, neutron stars, and black holes can't account for this many positrons, we might have a bit of a problem. Because once again, there seems to be three times more antimatter than previously predicted. With physicists now considering more unconventional ideas, such as maybe this is some kind of a dark matter. Basically, light dark matter particles that are actually annihilating to produce antimatter.

Although in this case, this would be very difficult to prove right now. Alternately, maybe this is the result of neutrinos, or these tiny, nearly massless particles that are passing through you right now many, many times. With some theories suggesting that neutrinos could be their own antiparticles, and in this case a neutrino can basically turn into antineutrino and eventually annihilate, producing these emissions. But the point is that right now nobody actually knows what's going on and the only thing that's certain is that there are definitely a lot more local antimatter sources than we ever predicted. And so, what exactly are some of the implications from this and what kind of a conclusion can we come to? Well, right

now it's pretty obvious that nothing in the standard model of physics can currently explain this, which basically suggests that there is maybe either new physics going on here or there are some forces and particles that we just don't understand yet. Or maybe this is actually dark matter after all and we might have our first clue in regards to its existence and thus by using these emissions can establish what it's made out of. But at the same time, we also know that this is not a uniquely Milky Way thing because slightly weaker hotspots have also been found in nearby clusters and galaxies such as Andromeda, Triangulum, and the Virgo Cluster, which basically confirms that this positron production seems to be a some kind of a universal galaxy-scale phenomena and thus involves a new phenomenon. But luckily, in 2027, we are going to have a new telescope, specifically COSI Compton Spectrometer and Imager, that's going to be much more sensitive than previous observatories and should be able to confirm these findings or maybe even discover something else. But [snorts] if these findings are correct, we're going to have to rewrite our understanding in how galaxies produce and lose their antimatter. For now though, we

definitely have these unusual hints that the universe seems to do things a little bit different from how we imagined it to do. And so, either the Milky Way is producing way more antimatter that's then essentially escaping to the outskirts and annihilating there or we have our first hints of dark matter annihilation or maybe this involves some kind of new physics and something we cannot explain just yet. But just as a very important side note, right now these findings only have a statistical significance of 4 sigma, but in physics, normally in order to have a definitive discovery, we have to have 5 sigma. In other words, additional observations and additional data will hopefully tell us what's going on. On that note, once we discover something else, we'll come back and talk about this in some of the future videos. Until then, check out

some of the previous videos here in the description. Thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly. Or by joining our

channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.