---
video_title: "Space Isn't Empty: Magnetars Turn Nothingness Into Transparent Crystal"
video_id: GytF4hWjd9U
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GytF4hWjd9U
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about vacuum birefringence or vacuum turning into a crystal
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.19446
  https://science.nasa.gov/missions/ixpe/nasas-ixpe-may-have-proven-90-year-old-theory/
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_fluctuation
  #vacuum #physics #quantumphysics 
  
  0:00 Vacuum you say? Empty you say? 
  1:20 Vacuum birefringence and how it works 
  4:55 Quantum foam and QED 
  7:10 Magnetic field effects on vacuum 
  9:30 First hint in 2016 from the closest neutron star 
  10:30 X ray observations confirm this phenomenon 
  12:00 What this implies - crystalized vacuum! 
  13:15 Conclusions 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  APN MJM CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birefringence#/media/File:Crystal_on_graph_paper.jpg
  Ingo Dierking CC BY 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birefringence#/media/File:Food_Polarization-Dierking.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and today we're going to be discussing this really bizarre phenomenon that was recently physically confirmed by observing something out there in outer space. And well, specifically, it's a phenomenon in regards to vacuum. [snorts] And so, okay, imagine this. Imagine empty space, the absolute nothingness that represents most of the cosmos out there above the atmosphere. Back in school, we were always told that vacuum is just emptiness. But the question is, is it

actually empty? And can it act as something physical, even though it has nothing inside? And well, as you can imagine, based on the study we're discussing today, and based on these observations, the answer seems to be yes. Under the right conditions, the empty space itself starts to behave exactly like a solid, transparent crystal, not so different from what you see right here. And this crystal starts to bend light, split beams, and even act like a physical lens, despite once again having nothing inside. And although this

might sound like science fiction or something that shouldn't happen, based on this groundbreaking study from August 5th of 2026, we now have definitive direct proof of a strange phenomenon referred to as vacuum birefringence, something you can learn more about in the link in the description. And so, here, by using a fleet of telescopes on a planet and the giant radio dish in order to observe radio frequencies, approximately 15,000 light-years away from us, here a team of astronomers witnessed a very strange effect as the fabric of space itself started to do something that was predicted 90 years ago. It started to physically act like a lens. And so, in this video, we're going to discuss exactly how this works and what's happening here, talk about the quantum weirdness of empty space, and discuss how an extremely strong magnetic field can sometimes create very bizarre effects. >> [snorts] >> But, also discuss the major implications from this discovery. But, in order to

understand all of this, we have to start with the definition of what exactly birefringence means. Or, basically, what exactly is this optical phenomenon that sometimes is also referred to as double refraction. And well, uh normally, when light passes through something transparent like water or glass, it slows down just a little bit, with the measurement of the slowing down normally referred to as the refractive index. And for a typical material like glass, this type of index is basically the same in every direction. So, it doesn't really matter how the light waves are oriented, because they'll all travel at the exactly the same speed. But, certain

crystals like the calcite crystals, which is what you see right here, are just a little bit different. And the proper term for this is anisotropic. And basically, that's because of the way that the atoms inside are arranged. They possess a very strict repeating grid that resembles something like this. And here, the electrons bound to these atoms are usually held with different strengths in different directions. And

well, light passing into these crystals, because it's affected by these electrons, tends to be refracted differently depending on the angle. And so, as the light wave, which is basically an oscillating electromagnetic field, passes through the crystal, it starts to vibrate some of these electrons, with the vibration then affecting the light. And because electrons are easier to wiggle in one direction compared to other direction, uh the light wave here is going to experience different refraction depending on the direction it's coming from. And well, specifically, we're actually talking about the orientation or polarization of the wave as opposed to the actual angle. And so, when unpolarized light enters such a crystal or such a material, it gets split into two separate beams traveling at slightly different speeds and also taking slightly different paths. In physics,

these are referred to as ordinary ray and extraordinary ray. They basically have slightly different speeds, possibly faster or slower, and can even exit the crystal at an angle, even if it entered completely straight. And so, when you look through such a crystal like in this case, you sometimes see two sets of images, or even might see something like this. As a matter of fact, very similar principles are actually used in things like LCD crystals and for various types of scientific instruments involving optical modulation. In other words, when it comes to birefringence, it's quite well known and there are a lot of examples on the planet. But here we're

talking about physical crystals. So, how exactly would vacuum produce the same? Here we're talking about space that potentially contains zero crystals, yet somehow it seems to be able to do something very similar, which means that we now have to discuss the slightly different concept involving quantum mechanics. And so, to try to imagine this, we now have to look at the subatomic world and specifically the quantum electrodynamics, also known as QED, where vacuum is not empty space, but is instead seen as this, a kind of a boiling soup of virtual particles that come into existence and annihilate each other almost right away. And so, according to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, there's a fundamental limit to how precisely we can know certain pairs of physical properties at the same time. So, for example, if these two

pairs are energy and time, the math tells us that here the energy becomes the uncertainty and must always be greater than or equal to a tiny constant. In this case, Planck's constant divided by two. Okay, ignoring all the math and physics, in a nutshell, what this means is that the universe itself allows the energy to be borrowed for a very short moment from the empty space itself, as long as it's returned incredibly quickly. And so, because of this, pairs of virtual particles, specifically virtual electrons and positrons, are constantly popping into existence out of absolute nothingness, existing for a tiny fraction of a second, just to crash back, annihilate, and become nothing again. Essentially returning their energy to the vacuum.

And even though this is not something we can directly see with, for example, a microscope, their accumulative physical effect is actually visible and measurable. For instance, without this cloud of virtual particles, when it comes to the mass and charge of real particles, and specifically the standard electron, the calculations no longer work. As a matter of fact, the mass and charge of an electron calculates to be infinity if it wasn't for these virtual particles. And so, here the shielding from the quantum vacuum is what gives elementary particles their finite observable mass and charge through the process referred to as renormalization. But all of this is just to help you understand that the cosmos and the vacuum of space is filled with this at all times. Okay, well, then the next

question is, so how come we don't really see this everywhere, coming from every direction? Well, that's because this effect is super, super weak. And only certain conditions, such as ridiculously powerful magnetic fields, can sometimes turn this boiling soup into an actual crystal-like structure. And so, in a normal environment, these virtual pairs of particles pop in and out of existence in random orientations. So, here the vacuum remains isotropic. It behaves the

same in every direction. But by introducing ridiculously strong magnetic fields, and here we're talking about something that you can only find around magnetars. Something crazy starts to happen. Electrons and positrons forces these particles to now align themselves along the magnetic field lines. Despite the fact that once again they only exist for a fraction of a second. And because

of this the vacuum itself suddenly acquires a preferred direction. And that means that if some kind of a light travels through this magnetically polarized vacuum, the electric field inside of this will interact with the light differently depending on the light's orientation. And so because of this interaction different types of polarized light will travel at different speeds through this empty space. Thus creating this birefringence effect in the super magnetic conditions. But once again this can only happen if the magnetic field is absolutely astronomical. With the initial

predictions in the QED suggesting that this can only happen in the critical threshold referred to as the Schwinger limit. It's a very big number so I'm not going to try to say it. But just to give you a comparison, right now in the lab on Earth the strongest magnet we can make or the strongest continuous magnetic field we can create is approximately 45 Tesla in strength. And we need something that's several million times stronger than this in order to reach the Schwinger limit and start to create these effects. So once again this can only happen around magnetars or these very extreme neutron stars usually about 12 km across with the density so extreme that they form some of the densest matter in the universe. And so

compared to a regular star here this very powerful magnetic field now operates in a very very small volume of space with all of the magnetic field lines compressed tightly together. And in many cases their magnetic field is well above the QED critical Schwinger limit which potentially makes them a perfect location to observe this vacuum birefringence in action. And well for many years, this is exactly what back in 2016. Here a team of astronomers led by Roberto Mignani used a very large telescope in Chile to measure some of the faint light from a nearby quiet neutron star referred to as RXJ1856. Something that's not too far away from us at 400 light years. As a matter of

fact, this is the closest neutron star to planet Earth. And here they seem to have detected a linear polarization, which was very intriguing. It was actually a really interesting result. But because it was so far and because it was so dim, here the overall measurements were very difficult and the overall models of the neutron star atmosphere were just a little bit uncertain. So it wasn't clear if this was a definitive result or if it was maybe some kind of a miscalculation.

Which means that in order to prove birefringence around neutron stars, researchers had to look at something that's not optical light and something that's maybe higher in energy. For example, X-rays. Which is exactly what this recent study from 2026 managed to achieve. And here they used a magnetar referred to as 1E 1547. That's actually just a little bit unusual because it's one of only a handful of magnetars that also seems to be a persistent radio pulsar. It basically spins every 2

seconds and also contains just enough magnetic field to reach that required limit. It's actually five times above this limit, suggesting that it's powerful enough to crystallize vacuum. But because it emits both bright, highly polarized radio waves and X-rays, it presented scientists with a unique opportunity. Which is what they did between March 26 and April 5th of 2025. Here this large team coordinated an intense observation campaign by using NASA's X-ray Polarimetric Explorer and NICER aboard the International Space Station. This was used to observe the

X-rays. And to observe the radio waves, they used the Parkes Observatory in Australia. And this was actually the first time in history scientists were able to obtain simultaneous observations from a radio and x-ray polarization of a magnetar. With the results finally analyzed published in this study. And here the results are pretty clear. The

x-ray emissions seem to be polarized by about 46% which is the highest polarization ever detected from all magnetars observed before. And it even went up to 80% at certain rotational angles as the magnetar was spinning every 2 seconds. Okay, so what does this mean and why is this unusual? Well, if the vacuum itself is not crystallized around this neutron star, then no matter the rotation and no matter what angle you look from, the overall polarization should be almost zero at least in certain points. But according to simulations and all of the mathematical analysis, the only way to acquire such a high polarization is basically if the vacuum itself becomes crystallized and creates these birefringence effects. And

just to rephrase this again, around this magnetar, the space itself, even though it contains nothing, starts to resemble a crystal and produces very similar effects to what you're basically seeing right here. And surprisingly, the photons in this case seem to actually be affected by this anywhere from 30 to 300 stellar radii away from the neutron star or up to about 2,000 km away from the neutron star's surface. So this is not just something that's extremely small, this optical effect literally makes the neutron star resemble a massive crystal. With additional observations also discovering something referred to as vacuum resonance which in basic terms, once again confirms these quantum predictions and suggests that depending on the energy of the photon, they're going to start producing slightly different birefringence effects. And so pretty much everything that was predicted in the QED or quantum electrodynamics seems to have been directly confirmed through these physical observations, which makes this study and this observation a huge win for quantum mechanics. And because QED

is one of the most thoroughly tested theories in physics, here this only confirms its accuracy and its overall success in predicting these very strange effects. With this unusual star 15,000 light years away from us, basically becoming this high-energy physics laboratory. While the same time suggesting that neutron stars basically have to be studied just a little bit differently. By confirming that this crystallization is real and seems to actively reshape light as we see it, astronomers can now, for example, use this to possibly map geometries of these stars and locate their hot spots with unprecedented precision. But, obviously, this also proves that what we call nothingness or vacuum is actually still something. It is a physical medium that

can be changed by extreme forces. On that note, well, that's pretty much it. I'm sure there will be more discoveries in the future, but until then, check out previous videos in the description. Thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the show on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also

support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.