---
video_title: "JWST Peers Inside Our Strangest Galactic Neighbor"
video_id: GYNcQYbtuRQ
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GYNcQYbtuRQ
video_date: 2026-07-25T22:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about updates from the Centaurus A galaxy
  Links:
  https://gleamoscope.icrar.org/gleamoscope/trunk/src/
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.13418
  https://esawebb.org/news/weic2615/?lang
  https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aao1858
  #centaurusa #galaxy #blackhole
  
  0:00 Centaurus A galaxy updates 
  2:00 How this was discovered 
  3:00 Massive black hole and strange center 
  4:10 Why is the shape so strange? 
  6:02 New observations from JWST and discovery of unusual shapes 
  7:55 X ray observations by Chandra 
  8:50 Plane of satellites is also strange 
  9:50 Conclusions and implications for astronomy 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Martin Hardcastle - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Cena-spc.png  CC BY SA 3.0
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and today, we're going to be discussing one of the most iconic and frankly, one of the most disturbed objects in the local neighborhood that you can kind of see behind me. A very intriguing and somewhat unusual galaxy that technically should not look like this at all. And that's because if you look at a typical galaxy, they normally follow a very specific pattern. They're either beautiful spirals like the Milky Way galaxy or giant smooth featureless balls of stars referred to as elliptical galaxies. But then, there is this. This is

Centaurus A, also known as NGC 5128. A galaxy that looks like someone took a giant elliptical galaxy and then smashed a massive dust-filled spiral right through its center. With this particular composite image that combines different wavelengths, essentially presenting us with an object that's just super bizarre. And because of this, for decades, astronomers have used this particular galaxy to study different types of galactic evolution and to study different cataclysmic events, especially because this is just over 11 million light-years away from us, making this one of the closest galaxies to the Milky Way, but also one of the most bizarre galaxies we've ever seen. And well, recently, a lot of new data and a lot of new observations from telescopes like the James Webb along with the X-ray observations from the Chandra telescope started to unravel a somewhat violent history of this cosmic neighbor and possibly explain why it seems to look so strange. And based on these recent

observations, it turns out that Centaurus A isn't just unusual, but it seems to represent a massive event that actually happened much more recently than we ever thought. And so, let's discuss these observations and these discoveries in a little bit more detail, starting with a few basics about what makes Centaurus A so special. Because as you can imagine, we've actually known about this galaxy for quite some time. And originally, this was discovered back in 1826 by James Dunlop. But this is way before we knew what galaxies were, or basically before we even knew galaxies were a thing. So he actually thought

that this was just another nebula. But because this is the fifth brightest galaxy in the night skies, it became one of the more popular objects to study. Although in this case, most of the shapes in this galaxy are generally invisible. As a matter of fact, if you look at this in the binoculars, or by using an optical telescope, you're mostly going to see something like this. A dark dust lane with a somewhat bizarre shape. But what makes this galaxy

scientifically important is actually its heart. Because Centaurus A is also the closest radio galaxy to our planet, and is one of the brightest radio sources in the night skies. >> [snorts] >> As a matter of fact, if you were to look at the night skies in the radio light, which you can do using this website in the link in the description, referred to as Gleam-o-scope, you'll see that it actually represents one of the brightest objects visible to us, but becomes barely visible in the optical light. And well, the reason it's visible in the radio light is because it has a relatively active supermassive black hole in its center. A black hole with a mass of about 55 million suns. And

because it's active, or basically it's currently feeding on gas and dust, it then launches these massive relativistic jets that we essentially see as something like this. This of course involves streams of particles moving at approximately half the speed of light. And the former shape that's over 1 million light-years across. But these types of jets were seen many times before, and instead the most glaring feature here is its somewhat bizarre shape. And that's because usually elliptical galaxies are considered to be kind of dead. They've run out of gas and

stop making stars and generally do not produce a lot of emissions. But Centaurus A seems to have a relatively thick warped disk of dust that cuts through the entire galaxy and seems to form a hotbed for new star formation, which would be extremely unusual for a galaxy of this type. And so for an extremely long time, the debate was, "So how did this happen and how exactly did this form?" So for example, did this galaxy swallow some kind of a small satellite or was it actually something much larger? And one of the major studies that was recently published, the study that as always you can find in the description, decided to use advanced computer simulations and specifically hydrodynamical simulations to try to reconstruct this galaxy's history. And

here they found that Centaurus A extremely likely formed as a result of a major merger between two relatively massive spiral galaxies. They likely would either extremely similar masses or with one of the galaxies being just a little bit more massive. And according to this model, this collision began about 6 billion years ago and continued for several billion years. But the final merger of two cores only [snorts] happened about 2 billion years ago, which is actually relatively recent in cosmic terms. And this merger explains why this galaxy's halo seems to be elongated and why we generally see these strange [laughter] stellar shells and unusual filaments surrounding it. Here

you can think of these shells as ripples in a pond after you throw a heavy stone. So basically these are literally scars from a 2-billion-year-old collision. Would this merger also explain why about 20 to 30% of stars here seem to be relatively young and are only about 2 to 4 billion years old compared to stars in the rest of the body that are at least 12 billion years old. With this galaxy essentially representing a result of a collision of two separate disks. And in theory, this is what's going to happen to the Milky Way and the Andromeda, and may actually result in a somewhat similar shape in approximately 6 billion years in the future. So, in some sense,

by studying this galaxy, we're also studying the future of the Milky Way Andromeda collision. But, this also brings us to these new observations from the James Webb with the images behind me showing us what it saw. And so, here to celebrate the fourth year of science, NASA and ESA released incredible new images of this galaxy in the wavelengths we've never seen before. And that's because when it comes to the visible light, telescopes like the Hubble Space Telescope cannot actually see through this dust lane, which is why this galaxy appears to be so opaque and why it's so difficult to see its center. But, James [clears throat] Webb's infrared vision can easily see through all of this and for the first time ever allowed us to see the densely packed tapestry of individual stars right in the heart of the galaxy, which is essentially what you're seeing in some of these images.

And here, Webb also discovered a somewhat unusual shape, specifically an S [clears throat] shape that seems to be warped and seems to form a parallelogram cutting through the center of the galaxy. With the astronomers now thinking that a lot of these shapes are actually influenced by the black hole's activity and represent some kind of a leftover gas from that major collision. But, most importantly, the Webb's spectroscopy, the tool that measures how light is stretched, also shows us fast-moving ionized gas flowing directly from the center. This is, of course, driven by that supermassive black hole. And all of this is visible alongside a rotating disc of somewhat warm molecular hydrogen, which shows us exactly how the black hole seems to be shaping the galaxy and how it's also triggering new star formation while at the same time pushing a lot of material away from the center. In In words, the reason we have

these weird shapes, and so many stars in the disk of the galaxy, seems to be because of this black hole. So, instead of killing this galaxy, it seems to have given it completely new life. But, the weirdness of Centaurus A does not stop with infrared and with the James Webb, because here even the Chandra space telescope, the one that studies everything in the x-rays, was able to also see additional details and spotted something very unusual in the black hole's jet. And so, here some recent observations discovered a V-shaped x-ray emission, now referred to as C4. This seems to be directly in the path of the jet. And this is essentially a black

hole jet stumbling into something in the dark, which then causes these x-ray emissions. And though in some sense, it could be anything, right now astronomers believe that the jet is actually striking some kind of an obstacle, possibly some kind of a massive star or gas cloud, which then creates turbulence and ignites x-rays and forms the glow that we observe. In other words, this is a very rare look at how these jets seem to interact with the galactic environment in real time, which is probably one of the more unusual discoveries in the x-rays coming from this galaxy. But, then there is also the discovery of its satellites, and specifically the plane of satellites that seems to be somewhat bizarre. And so, here recent observations have shown that the dwarf galaxies orbiting Centaurus A are not just flying around randomly, but instead seem to be co-rotating in a gigantic thin plane.

With this structure being approximately 133,000 light-years thick, but hundreds of thousands of light-years wide. And this is somewhat unexpected because current models, and especially models involving dark matter, cannot explain how these bizarre planes seem to have formed, or essentially why these satellites seem to orbit in this type of a pattern, which possibly suggests that the major collision 2 billion years ago did not just change the galaxy, but instead also created these satellite galaxies from all of the tidal debris that was flying around after the collision. Or in other words, these satellite galaxies are brand new and were just created not so long ago. And so quite a few intriguing and unusual discoveries coming from one of our closest neighbors. But why exactly does this matter for astronomy? Well, as of

today, Centaurus A is the closest and the best chance we have to study what's known as galactic archaeology. Or basically, by studying each star and each ripple inside the gas, astronomers can then try to reconstruct major timelines in this cosmic event and basically find out when and how these galaxies collided and how the actual collision progressed. What these observations show us that galaxies are way more dynamic than we ever thought and every collision seems to change quite a lot of things, producing some really bizarre shapes and even producing additional satellite galaxies that never existed before. And so here, a major merger can take two peaceful spirals and turn them into a giant active jet-blasting monster in just a few billion years. >> [snorts] >> And so by understanding how Centaurus A developed, we'll understand how galaxies evolve, how central black holes seem to influence them, and of course, might get a bit of a preview on what's going to happen to the Milky Way in approximately 5 to 6 billion years. But as we get

additional data and as we collect more x-ray and infrared observations, we'll probably discover something else. And until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back to more to learn something else. Support this channel Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can name me directly or by joining the channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying one of our personal t-shirts in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as

always, bye-bye.

>> [music]

[music]

>> Mhm.