---
video_title: "\"Doom Runs on Everything\" Just Went Way Too Far"
video_id: jNzI1DVqlB0
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNzI1DVqlB0
video_date: 20260715
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about why Doom is used in scientific experiments involving learning
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.11632
  https://corticallabs.com/cl1
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qMNxkQXwykA
  https://theconversation.com/how-scientists-are-growing-computers-from-human-brain-cells-and-why-they-want-to-keep-doing-it-270464
  #doom #biology #learning
  
  0:00 Doom runs on everything 
  1:03 Brain organoids and why they are used 
  2:50 New breakthrough - a biological computer 
  3:50 How cells learns to play Doom 
  5:10 Rats and Doom 
  6:20 Organoids and engineering problems 
  7:00 Implications for biology and information sciences 
  9:08 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  keval_tilva CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerebral_organoid#/media/File:Cerebral_organoid_flowchart.png
  NIAID - Human Cerebral Organoids CC BY 2.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerebral_organoid#/media/File:Human_Cerebral_Organoids_(53728295930).jpg
  pong74ls CC BY 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pong#/media/File:Pong_Game_Test2.gif
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and welcome to this is Anton, and today we're going to start by discussing a somewhat intriguing intersection between 1990s video games and the cutting edge in biological computing. And here I wanted to start with an internet meme you might have heard before, "Doom runs on everything." Which I guess is kind of true more or less because a lot of different engineers out there even made it work on smart fridges and calculators. But in this case, the researchers who study what we're going to be discussing are literally taking this to the next level because they're now essentially using living human brain cells to play the game. And though this might sound confusing, this is actually a pretty interesting and pretty serious research that's going to help us understand how neural networks work.

That's probably also going to help us build much more efficient computers, and more importantly, one day will help us understand various neurological disorders and very likely lead to some major treatments. But first, to understand exactly what this is and what all of this involves, we have to discuss this relatively new concept referred to as brain organoids. Something that actually kind of looks like this. And sometimes these are also known as mini brains, but technically that's a bit of a misnomer. And while normally these are relatively small three-dimensional blobs of human tissue, typically about the size of a grain of rice, and scientists usually grow them in a lab using a specific procedure with stem cells that can then be programmed to become any type of a cell inside the body, such as neurons in this case. And they're grown

into these tiny structures that, though far from being an actual brain, do possess very similar functions. But I guess the question is, why use this and why not just simulate all of this or maybe rely on some other animal like, for example, a mouse or a rat? Well, for one, human brain is just a bit of a black box. Basically, we know very little about because we don't really experimenting with the human brain itself. And so by using actual human brain cells, in this case created in the lab, it actually helps us to study what we want to understand. And though mice

and rats are obviously great, they don't really capture the full complexity of the human brain development and do possess slightly different genes that produce slightly different effects. And so in order to understand human specific features on diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, here real human neurons are required in order to see what's happening. And at the same time, they actually offer a slightly ethically superior procedure to a lot of different types of animal testing. And that's because in this case, we're not actually killing the rat or the mouse because in this case, whatever this is, it is not technically alive. These are not alive and are not animals and only function as long as you keep them inside the correct environment. But the latest breakthrough

when it comes to these brain organoids comes from a startup referred to as Cortical Labs and their new device referred to as CL1, which they describe as silicon meets neuron. And it's basically a machine that looks like this. And what's intriguing about this is that this is technically a biological computer. Here, it consists of roughly 200,000 living human brain cells that are grown on very specific silicon chips covered in tiny electrodes, which basically creates a kind of a closed-loop system, meaning that the computer in this case can directly talk to the cells, in this case using electrical signals, but the cells can also talk back. And in early experiments, these cells learned how to play Pong. And though impressive, it's

still kind of simple because this is just a two-dimensional game without any meaningful complexity. And so this time, researchers decided to move on to something a little bit more complex, something you can find on those smart fridges. They basically tried Doom. Although here I guess one question is why Doom? Well, obviously it's because first of all, it's a lot more complex than Pong. It requires the understanding

of three-dimensional environments. It requires interactions with enemies and a lot of different items. And most importantly, it requires a constant decision-making including things like movement and firing weapons, which is something scientists refer to as goal-directed learning. And so here the digital environment of this video game was converted into specific electrical patterns that would then stimulate the neurons on those chips. And so for example, if there's an enemy somewhere, these specific electrodes will fire letting those neurons know that something has to be done. And in

response, the neurons then fire their own electrical spikes, which the system then translates into some kind of a command like fire your gun or turn left, turn right, walk forward. And well, initially the brain cells were pretty bad. They walked into walls, they fired randomly, and they started spinning in circles. But over time they started to show signs of learning, eventually targeting enemies much more regularly, and basically proving that even a tiny clump of neuronal matter can adapt to various stimuli in real time, which is actually a pretty intriguing discovery and a pretty intriguing achievement. But this also builds on a kind of a history of using Doom for biological studies where animals were also used for these very similar studies in order to understand the idea of learning. With

one of the most famous studies actually being by Victor Toth. You can find his channel and a video about this in the description below. And so here this researcher built a custom virtual reality rig for his tiny rats. And their goal was to play Doom 2. Here the rat would sit on a polystyrene ball that acted as a treadmill, and as it moved, the character in the game moved as well.

And so in this case, the rats basically learned how to interact with the game through this virtual rig. Although, obviously, even though they learned to pull the lever to fire at demons, they didn't necessarily understand what the game is about and what they were doing. In that sense, they were just performing the tasks in order to acquire rewards. And so, in contrast, the organoid experiments are quite different because they're looking at how the neural networks organize themselves and how they learn without a full body and a full survival instinct. And so, basically, the idea of using Doom for some kind of a learning experiment is not something that's new. But, another

recent experiment has also used these brain organoids to demonstrate a solution to a different problem. A classical engineering challenge that involves balancing an unstable virtual stick on a cart. This is usually done by moving the cart forwards and backwards. And so, here, scientists found that when they provided adaptive feedback, or basically, a mechanism that gave cells a little electrical jolt when they were doing something wrong, these organoids improved their efficiency quite dramatically. They were actually approximately 46% successful following these electrical jolts. But, without

feedback, only 2% were successful. Although, the more important question here is, of course, so why is this actually important? Well, this is important for a lot of different fields. The first reason is energy efficiency. And that's because compared to any computer or any AI out there, human brain is just incredibly efficient. And

it's also very powerful. It only runs on about 20 watts of power, which is actually equivalent to an extremely dim light bulb. In contrast, something like ChatGPT requires massive server farms and incredible amount of electricity to perform similar tasks. And so, if we can actually find a way to create a biological computer, we might be able to do something way more efficiently. But, a much more important reason right now is, of course, healthcare and drug discovery. Because the system uses real

human neurons, scientists can now directly test different medicines in order to see the effects on the brain function right away. As a matter of fact, here, in the future, it might even be possible to create a personalized test using the neurons from the person that needs to be treated, and then seeing the effects of different types of medicine on the neurons that basically look like this. In this case, this will be created by using the patient's blood or skin cells, turning them into stem cells, and then growing them into these tiny brains. But, for other fields, including different computer science fields, this is also a step forward for the idea referred to as synthetic biological intelligence, or basically the idea that could one day lead to these hybrid computers that combine the speed of silicon with the flexibility and learning power of a biological brain. Although, just as a side note, I also have to mention that right now, we are pretty certain that these are not conscious. In other words, they don't

have thoughts, emotions, or memories, because unlike a human brain, they do not contain specific structures and are not actively thinking about, for example, demons as they're fighting in Doom. They only function when there's some kind of interaction with, for example, these silicon chip, and they only produce extremely simple interactions. So, basically, these are simple clusters of cells responding to electrical patterns. And so, here, we're not creating a real brain in a Petri dish. But, the fact that this tiny piece of matter can actually navigate a video game from 30 years ago is a pretty massive discovery, which essentially shows us that this idea of learning and intelligence seems to be a kind of a unique property that arises in all neural networks when they're provided with the right kind of feedback. But, in

terms of the actual implications, and so, of course, in terms of what this is going to be useful we don't really know. These are all brand new studies, and there are not a a of discoveries yet. On that note, once we learn something else, we'll come back and discuss this in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back

tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> [music]

>> Mhm.