---
video_title: "Study Solves the Mystery of Why Humans Are Mostly Right Handed"
video_id: HtMCDWwLHrA
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HtMCDWwLHrA
video_date: 20260610
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about why humans are mostly right handed
  Links:
  https://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/article?id=10.1371/journal.pbio.3003771
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7616222/pdf/biology-13-00502.pdf
  Other videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qReEt7vjHA
  #handedness #righthanded #biology 
  
  0:00 Righty or lefty? Animal kingdom rule 
  1:45 Why humans are kind of unique - the 90% 
  2:50 New study answers why it's usually right 
  5:50 How this compares to other cousins 
  6:40 One exception 
  8:00 So it's all about efficiency 
  8:50 What about other animals? 
  11:02 ...and plants? 
  12:40 So it's genetic...maybe?  
  13:30 What about lefties? The Fighting Hypothesis 
  15:30 Conclusions and summary
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  https://www.neanderthal.de/de/urmenschen.html 
  van Noortwijk CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homo_floresiensis#/media/File:Comparação_do_marabu-gigante_com_Homo_floresiensis.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Okay, we're going to start this with a little bit of statistics. Let's start by looking at our hands for 1 second. If you're like 90% of people watching this video, you're most likely right-handed. Or basically, you're probably holding your phone or your mouse with your right hand. Or maybe if you're like super studious and want to know everything about this video, you're even taking notes with your right hand. Okay, I

don't really expect that much, but you know, you know what I'm getting at. And well, the thing is for a very long time, scientists actually believed that this unusual preference, this idea of handedness, was one of the few things that made humans truly unique. We basically assumed that because we are the only species known to us that's able to write something down, we were only the only ones that took sides inside our brain. But as it turns out, after years and years of investigations, this also turned out to be slightly incorrect. With recent discoveries even suggesting that this idea of handedness is actually a kind of a rule, not an exception. A

rule that seems to apply to a lot of different animals in the animal kingdom, and even animals that we've only recently discovered and that blew everyone's minds. Here I'm talking about the discovery of these so-called kraken from approximately 70 million years ago, that you can learn more about in one of the videos in the description. But basically here, from the way that a whale scoops up its food to the way that plants grow toward the light, it very often seems to involve some kind of a preference for sides. And so, hold on for personal preferences and so on. And well, in this video, we're going to focus on some of the most recent research in regards to this idea of handedness and figure out why we're mostly right-handed, and then compare this to the rest of the animal kingdom, and basically what this tells us about the evolution of intelligence itself.

But first, let's actually start with this recent study that potentially discovers what makes humans still a little bit unique, and why in some sense we're still a bit of an outlier. And so, while many animals do show a preference for sides, humans are still an evolutionary outlier that for a very long time was extremely difficult to explain. And well, specifically, in most other species, the split between lefties and righties is usually extremely close to 50/50. Basically, like you see in this image, you'll have some donkeys preferring the left side, some donkeys preferring the right side, but normally the preference for one side is exactly the same as the preference for the other side. But in humans, this proportion is very different. Approximately 90% of

humans seem to be right-handed with this majority being near universal in every human culture. In other words, in all human cultures in the last 10,000 years or so, right-handedness seemed to represent the majority. And the question was obviously, why? Why 90%? And why only humans? And so, in this recent

study you can find in the description from University of Oxford, Thomas Püschel, Rachel Horwitz, and Chris Venditti possibly answered this question once and for all. And the study here suggests that we have two specific things to thank for this: our legs and our massive brains. And here, this was based on the analysis of 41 different primate species with the team essentially concluding that there seem to be only two factors that explain almost all of our handedness, bipedalism or basically the ability to walk on two legs, and encephalization referring to brain expansion. Okay, so let's I guess explain this a little bit better. A few million years ago, when our ancestors finally stood up and started walking on their legs, their hands were suddenly freed to perform different jobs. So

basically, instead of relying on our hands for walking like for example chimps often do, here our hands had two potential outcomes. Either they would eventually shrink and become useless, sort of similar to what happened to a T-Rex or because our hands were now free, they could then specialize for various complex tasks that were previously impossible. For example, tool making. And it just so happens that around the same time, our brains also started to grow larger and also became more specialized. And well, in terms of energy efficiency, it is a lot more efficient for a large brain to divide its labor between two separate halves.

We call this brain asymmetry. And well, the left part of the brain controls the right side of the body. And it also handles complex tasks like for example, language, analytical reasoning, and problem solving. And at the same time in this case, the right hand also became the primary tool for fine motor control. In this case, our brains very likely chose the right hand over left hand because of this co-evolution of language and gesturing. Both of which were most

likely dominated in the left hemisphere even in our earlier ancestors. And so here there's a very specific difference in information processing with two hemispheres generally dividing the labor based on very specific function. And so the right hemisphere, which controls the left side, is very often optimized for processing novelty, different types of environmental awareness, and also rapid emotional and spatial response. So for example, back then I guess, scanning for predators and trying to react before they catch you. Whereas the left hemisphere became mostly optimized for processing routines, patterns, and most importantly, highly structured sequential tasks. And because around

this time complex tool making started to appear as well, and this very often involved these repetitive manual tasks, all of this fine motor control and sequential planning eventually became delegated entirely to the left side of the brain with the right hand inherently becoming the dominant tool for executing all of these actions. And to some extent, we can actually see this transition happening in our ancient history. This is what you're seeing in this image. And so, here by looking at things like, for example, dental scratch patterns and arm bone density, scientists discovered that even Neanderthals [clears throat] were also predominantly right-handed, just like us. But, this study goes even further and looks back in time in order to discover when this potentially evolved. And so, here by using models to

predict handedness in extinct ancestors, they also found that early hominins, like, for example, Australopithecus, which might have resembled something like this, very likely had tiny, tiny preference for right hand over left hand. But, as we move closer into the genus Homo and specifically with species like Homo erectus, the right hand preference becomes much stronger as the brain size increases and as the use of right hand for tool making increases as well. With surprisingly only one exception in their study, and these so-called hobbits, Homo floresiensis, our tiny cousins that used to exist tens of thousands of years ago. And in this case, because this species had a much smaller brain and still spent time climbing trees, researchers believe they potentially had a much weaker preference for right hand compared to their larger brain relatives, which basically reinforces the idea that big brains and standing tall seem to have been the main reasons for the formation of our right-handed world. And while this makes a lot of sense for a lot of other studies, including studies on the evolution of human communication.

Because from the evolutionary standpoint, early human communication was very likely gestural as well and involved hands >> [snorts] >> before it became vocal. And so, here structural communication using hand gestures very likely demanded precise processing and very specific sequence of hand gestures that the left hemisphere was extremely good at in most humans. And so, as the left hemisphere expanded based on these language needs, all of the right moral control of the right hand very likely became co-evolved in this as well and essentially kind of became correlated over time. With neural imaging showing us that even today complex tool use and language perception seem to share an overlapping neural pathways in the left hemisphere. In other words, suggesting that they very likely co-evolved at the same time. But

once again, all this was just a result of metabolic efficiency. Since brain is an incredibly expensive organ to run, if both hemispheres try to do the exact same task with equal proficiency, it would just result in the massive neural redundancy and much slower processing speed and of course too much energy use. And so, by creating these specific areas in specific hemispheres, our early human ancestors managed to achieve a massive metabolic saving. With this asymmetry allowing us to process information much faster and of course much more efficiently. Basically allowing our ancestors to effectively manipulate tools using their right hand while their right brain, the other side, simultaneously process information based on various threats or potential prey.

But that's of course humans. What about other animals? Well, there were actually a few studies that were kind of interesting involving other types of organisms. But here I wanted to focus on one study that you can find in the description. And so, here last year in 2025, scientists performed a massive analysis looking at a lot of different studies and focusing on 172 different species in order to figure out if handedness was prevalent in different types of life on Earth. And the answer

seems to be yes. 72% of all animals and plants seem to show evidence of handedness at least to some extent. And some of these findings here were kind of fascinating. For example, kangaroos. In the wild for some reason kangaroos usually prefer to use their left hand for a lot of tasks like grooming and feeding. This seems to be the case for

at least 95% of all kangaroos out there, which basically confirms that brain lateralization is not unique to humans after all. And in this case, even our cousins like chimps and gorillas also seem to sometimes have a slightly different preference compared to what was previously assumed. And so for example, approximately 65% of chimps seem to be right-handed with this number going to about 75% for gorillas. Whereas orangutans that spend a lot more time in trees seem to be actually mostly left-handed with the number being about 66%. And this also applies to various mammals in the water. For example, for

whales, a lot of them seem to be right-mouthed. Basically, they almost always roll into the right side to scoop up various types of food except for blue whales. They seem to be more flexible and usually prefer to use right side for swimming but the left side for hunting. Whereas in animals like cats, dogs, horses, and a lot of other farm animals, and in this also depends on sex with most males being left-pawed but most females being right-pawed. And this most likely also applies to your pet. Your

cat or your dog will usually have a preference depending on its sex. But for pretty much most of the animals in this case, this is all the result of brain lateralization, the division of labor between the left and right hemispheres. Except that the question here is, "Okay, what about plants? They don't have brains." Yet here in this study, very similar results have been found for plants because a lot of them seem to have a preference for either being clockwise or counterclockwise and very often choosing certain direction for certain things. And so climbing plants

like for example pea plants will very often have a preferred direction for their search movements with 92% of climbing plants coiling in the right-handed direction, independent of where they are on the planet. And since plants don't have a nervous system and possess erratically different growth axes, applying handedness to them is obviously a little bit difficult. But based on the study, we can now compare them to animals and basically observe very similar biological phenomena in plants as well. And so it turns out that there is, first of all, morphological asymmetry, such as for example, different distribution of leaves or different formations along the stem. But most importantly, there's also the idea of circumnutation, a type of a helical growth in various plants that tends to be either clockwise or counterclockwise. But here the

mystery is, of course, why. We don't actually understand why certain plants have preference and why so many peas or so many climbing plants tend to prefer right side as opposed to the left side. And so here the paper essentially concludes that even though plant asymmetry is not exactly the same as human brain lateralization, nevertheless here, by looking at directional movement, it seems to still suggest some kind of a fundamental biological principle that applies to a lot of different types of life on the planet. With the authors suggesting that it might be genetic and might exist in a lot of other species we've never considered. And so obviously this is not just for fun. This has a lot of

implications for biology in general, but on top of this, studies on intelligence. Because we found strong preference for hand in animals with highly specialized brain, here we can then apply this to a lot of intelligence studies in order to figure out how it develops. For example, in studies on human infants, researchers have already confirmed that there is a consistent hand preference by the age of 12 months. And by this time, infants already develop language skills and start to have basic vocalization. So once again, there's a direct link between handedness and the development of language, which is very likely the result of brain mapping its functions to specific sites really on. But then there

is also obviously the question of lefties. I mean, the other 10% of you watching this video. And well, here for some reasons we still don't really understand, for thousands of years, 10% of all humans were left-handed. And though for a lot of lefties, this can also be annoying because a lot of things in our world are basically made for right-handed people, right now scientists believe this can also be an evolutionary advantage. And specifically, there is a bizarre evolutionary proposition referred to as the fighting hypothesis, or basically a kind of a surprise advantage. And so, in

the early human history, a lot of hunting competition and specifically physical combat relied on fighters developing skills using right hands. And so, a typical fighter's muscle memory, defensive stance, and of course expectations were all based on fighting other right-handed people. And that's because 90% of fighters were right-handed. But when suddenly there was a left-handed opponent, the right-hander was actually in a major disadvantage. First of all, all of the attacks came from the unexpected angles.

And so, the fighting from these attacks were much more difficult. And second of all, for the left-handed person, since they mostly fought right-handed people, they actually could defend themselves much easier. And so, this surprise factor gave left-handers a significant edge, allowing this trait to eventually persist. And in some sense, there is a more important proof if you actually look at all of the statistics of elite fighters. Left-handers are massively overrepresented at all of the elite levels of sports where reaction time and asymmetry seem to matter. So, sports

like fencing, boxing, baseball, and tennis. And they're generally not overrepresented in non-interactive sports like gymnastics and swimming. In other words, this evolutionary proposition actually kind of makes a lot of sense. And so, this non-standard brain organization eventually leads to these unique talents and also unique challenges that in the long term complement the entire society. And so, in the end, well, what have we actually learned? Well, first of all, we've

learned that we're not as unique as we initially thought. Handedness seems to be a unique feature of life and seems to appear in a lot of different species out there, even plants. But for us, for humans, handedness might have been a side effect based on two of the greatest evolutionary achievements of the early hominids. First of all, walking upright and second of all, growing complex brains, possibly the most complex brains in the entire universe. And well, that's because this biased brain or this handed brain just seems to be much more efficient and allows for much faster reaction time, as well as very specific division of labor in the nervous system, which basically makes this a somewhat crucial feature for a lot of different types of life out there. Although for

some species, it's still not clear why they tend to choose certain sides and why they tend to curl in certain ways, but not other ways, which means that we'll come back and discuss additional discoveries in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful, I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.