---
video_title: "We Have Never Seen the Sun Like This Before"
video_id: W4Jr3eMLVAU
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4Jr3eMLVAU
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about discoveries and images from the surface of the Sun
  Links:
  "Ubiquitous Kelvin–Helmholtz instabilities driving plasma mixing on the Sun, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-026-10871-3"
  "Mapping the Sun's coronal magnetic field using the Zeeman effect, https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.adq1604"
  "Observations of fine coronal structures with high-order solar adaptive optics, https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-025-02564-0"
  "A magnetohydrodynamic mechanism for the formation of solar polar vortices, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2415157121"
  "Uncovering aurora radio emission above sunspot, https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-023-02122-6"
  "Picoflares (tiny jets) erupting in a coronal hole, https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.ade5801"
  "Shifting elemental abundances in the solar corona and their role in coronal rain, https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/ae019d"
  "The NSF Inouye Solar Telescope delivers record-breaking images of solar flare coronal loops, https://doi.org/10.3847/2041-8213/adf95e"
  "Magnetic curtains on the sun: NSF Inouye Solar Telescope reveals ultra-fine striations in solar surface, https://doi.org/10.3847/2041-8213/add470"
  #sun #solar #solarsystem 
  
  0:00 Updates about the Sun 
  1:15 Massive whirlpools 
  4:20 Solar "curtains" 
  5:20 Picoflare phenomenon 
  6:20 First solar south pole images 
  7:05 X class solar flare images 
  8:30 Solar rain and tornadoes 
  10:55 Coronal moss 
  11:40 Unexplained phenomena: long radio burst and solar aurora 
  13:50 Summary and conclusions 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello for person. This is Anton and it's about time we've discussed the sun once again. And that's because in the last few months we've actually received several incredible images that revealed the sun in a completely different way and a way we never imagined or never saw because the telescopes were just not good enough. And that's because the sun is, of course, a ferociously hot glowing ball of plasma that produces some incredible effects on its surface that we simply cannot imagine or cannot recreate in the lab. Here, the only way to see these effects is to literally zoom in on the sun as much as possible while using additional algorithms in order to counteract the effects from the Earth's atmosphere. But even today,

based on years and years of studies, scientists are actually still in a dark about some of the effects on the surface of the sun or even some of the more fine details visible on the surface in the layer we refer to as the photosphere. But a recent series of pioneering studies and of course some highresolution images involving world's most powerful solar telescopes managed to capture structures at scales we've never seen before representing structures that are just a few dozen kilome across. And so let's discuss some of these images in a bit more detail. Starting I guess with the image of this incredibly beautiful massive hidden whirlpools on the surface of the sun. And by the way, here's Hawaii for comparison, just to show you how incredibly massive these structures are.

And while for decades, scientists have known that the sun's photosphere should technically behave in a very similar way to boiling water. Here, the heat surges from deep within the star, spreading out and forming bubbling cells of plasma on the surface, which we actually refer to as granules, and which in terms of size are usually several hundred km across. But as this plasma cools and as it basically starts to move downwards, it tends to sink along these canyon-like formations representing the edges of these granules. And here powerful magnetic fields also loop through this region shaping the plasma. And well, a few months back scientists pointed the world's most powerful telescopes at sun's magnetically active regions near sunspots capturing these incredible images. But here, instead of very smooth

blurry boundaries seen in older images, they instead saw magnetic areas that are actually covered in these tiny tiny swirling warples of plasma. That's what you see in here. These are technically known as Kelvin helmholds instabilities and they normally form all over the place on Earth in a lot of locations involving swirling liquids or swirling gas. As a matter of fact, you can even form one of these inside your cup of coffee by watching a cream curl as you stir the cup. This usually happens when two fluids slide past each other at slightly different speeds. And so,

because the sun's plasma is so turbulent, these instabilities form here as well and actually have been predicted by previous studies. We've just never really seen them until now. With this new study released in August of 2026, led by solar physicists David Kurida and Friedrich Wger capturing a lot of images that prove their existence and managing to achieve resolution of just 19 km, which is the highest resolution we've seen so far for the solar surface. Here, this is sort of like looking at tiny ants crawling on the surface approximately 200 km or 140 mi away from the spot. And so here by analyzing these pictures, scientists discovered dozens and dozens of these vortices anywhere from 25 to 170 km across with the average distance of about 65 km between them with [clears throat] many of them moving around at a speed of about 6 to 3 km/s which is once again what you're seeing here with the biggest surprise being the total number of these vortices all over the surface. And so basically

instead of this being some kind of a isolated disturbance as predicted here these vortices appear practically everywhere along the interface that involve these moving convective plasma cells and magnetized plasma. So the sun itself very likely contains millions and millions of these vortices all over the place. And once again, each of them is enormous in size, up to 170 km across, very similar to a typical hurricane with a slightly different study involving very similar observations discovering another unusual phenomenon that you can kind of see in this image. And here this is now referred to as the solar curtains or these very unusual curtain-like striations across the sun's surface that seem to be approximately 20 km across. And these also seem to be driven by magnetic lines and appear as these alternating solar granules that seem to represent tiny variations in the solar magnetic field when the local magnetic field is either weaker or stronger compared to the surroundings which basically makes the plasma appear a little bit darker or a little bit brighter. And interestingly these are

also produced by the same effects involving Kelvin Helm's instabilities but in this case mostly involving magnetic concentrations. In other words, apart from these vortices, here we have these somewhat bizarre magnetic stripes or striations at the edges of solar granules. With additional studies also discovering a completely new phenomenon involving what scientists now refer to as pickle flares. And this was observed relatively recently when scientists discovered unusual eruptions that seem to only last for 20 to 100 seconds and seem to be extremely small in size compared to everything else. just a few hundred km across, which is tiny compared to typical emissions from the sun. But once again, until recently, we

actually never knew these existed. And they seem to be once again present everywhere on the sun, but are just so tiny that they're extremely difficult to see. But despite being tiny and despite being less powerful than a typical flare, these pickle flares potentially provide us with the missing explanation for how the sun generates and fuels a continuous stream of charged particles. referred to as the solar wind. In other words, by understanding how these tiny explosions work, we might be able to predict the solar weather just a little bit better. Although, at the moment,

except for seeing them, we don't really know much else about this phenomenon. And what's interesting in this case is also where this was seen. This was seen extremely close to the South Pole, the region that we actually have not seen until recently. And that's because most pictures we have of the sun are usually of its side, mostly because this is such an enormous object. But in the last few years, the NASA's Solar Orbiter captured the first ever images and the magnetic measurements of the sun's south pole because of a much higher tilt of orbit of approximately 17° below the ecliptic plane. And so here, for the first time

in history, we were able to directly capture the solar south pole where some of these new phenomena were discovered. In other words, up until just a few months ago, we didn't even know what this region looks like. And then we had this. This is another exciting image, or technically a series of images showing us the first high resolution observations of an X-class solar flare happening in real time. And X-class flares are usually the most powerful and the ones that affect planet Earth whenever they happen. And so here in a

recent study published in the astrophysical journal letters, astronomer called Tambburi analyzed this flare and resolved very small corona loops inside of it that we've never seen before. And here we actually see these individual plasma filaments that seem to be approximately 48 km in width formed by powerful magnetic lines on the solar surface. And the reason this is exciting for astronomers is because we're seeing these individual loops at the exact scale where the magnetic reconnection occurs before the solar flare happens and releases all of the material. In other words, we now have enough resolution and enough power to physically see the solar flares as they form, which is once again important in a science of solar weather prediction. And so since X-class flares can easily disrupt radio communications and GPS systems, resolving these structures and understanding how they work will definitely lead to better predictive models allowing us to prevent major blackouts. But at least for now, we just

get these beautiful images. But we also had discovery of much larger events and much larger structures. Some which have been known to us but never seen in this way. and specifically phenomena such as, for example, solar rain and various types of solar tornadoes or even something like this. This is now unofficially known as the beast. It was

observed back in 2025 and represents a massive plasma plume that's at least 13 times larger than planet Earth. Technically though, this is known as a solar prominence. But because it was so large and because it does kind of resemble some kind of an animal, it earned a nickname, the beast. But intriguingly, as this prominence evolved, a lot of superheated plasma cooled down and started to condense along the magnetic lines, creating this somewhat unusual phenomenon referred to as the coronal rain, a phenomenon that's now been observed in a lot of different cases and in several locations along the sun. And so here, what we're seeing is basically extremely fast plasma pouring down toward the sun's surface as it cools down and as it condenses. And so

solar rain is a thing, but instead of liquid water, it basically consists of these cool down dense blobs of plasma that falls back toward the surface. And because plasma is electrically charged, it's forced to slide along the sun's powerful magnetic loops that then creates these unusual streaming arcs. But observing this ring in such detail has been extremely challenging in the past. But here, once again, by using adaptive optics and the National Solar Observatory in New Jersey, scientists were finally able to see all of this with incredible detail and resolution of approximately 63 km or 10 times as much as previously. But these unusual raindrops are massive, at least 20 km across each, with these recent studies even allowing us to finally figure out how these raindrops form so quickly. And

while historically different models assume that the distribution of chemical elements here would be relatively the same, this would involve iron, silicon, and magnesium that remain constant. But this recent study discovered that the elements like iron do actually change, which then dramatically increases the overall energy loss and triggers a runaway cooling effect that surprisingly plummets the local temperature dramatically and allows some of these raindrops to condense in just half an hour. In other words, they seem to form as a result of a change in concentration in different types of elements with additional observations from the solar orbiter that used its extreme ultraviolet imager even revealing this new phenomenon referred to as the coronal moss visible as extremely hot plasma structures near various sunspots. Here this is millions of degrees Celsius in temperature and represents some of the most extreme environment in the solar system. But exactly how this works and exactly how this forms is obviously still unknown. Either way,

[clears throat] these new images and these new videos definitely present the sun in such an unusual way as this mysterious alien-like world that seems to possess very similar phenomena such as rain and hurricanes except that they are very different and seem to be mostly governed by magnetic forces. And last but not least, we also have these two very unusual phenomena that was just discovered a few months ago that even now do not have a good explanation and surprise the solar scientists quite a lot. And the first one was discovered in August of 2025 when the sun emitted a type 4 radio burst or a very large storm of radio waves produced by energetic electrons trapped inside the magnetic lines. And typically these types of bursts only last for a few hours and maybe a couple of days. This one though seemed to kept going and lasted for an incredible 19 days. Four times as long

as previous records. And right now nobody knows why. But because this event was so long, it essentially slowly moved away from our view. And so to even discover this, scientists had to combine data from several telescopes, eventually discovering that it seems to have come from a supercharged structure that involved three consecutive coronal mass ejections in quick succession, which actually implies that we might be able to use these radio emissions to possibly detect extremely powerful magnetic storms coming from the sun before they arrive to Earth. But the biggest mystery and the most unusual detection was actually detected around one of these.

Here for the first time, scientists detected an aurora like emission approximately 40,000 km above an active sunspot. Now on Earth and other planets, normally aurora happen when magnetic lines accelerate charged particles that then strike the upper atmosphere, creating certain types of glow. But in this case, researchers found that the nearby flare activity seemed to be injecting energetic electrons into various magnetic loops, which then generated powerful long-lasting radio emissions resembling a massive aurora above the solar surface, which is actually important for our ability to understand what happens around distant stars because it's quite likely happens there as well. And so here by using these emissions, we can now maybe study some of the magnetic activity around distant stars. Assuming we can detect very similar radio emissions. And so

based on all of these discoveries in these images, what's the big takeaway? Well, first we obviously have a lot of new phenomena to study and a lot of things we never knew existed until these recent images. From the ubiquitous Kelvin helmet pools to actual solar ring that seems to happen in certain locations. And so here by decoding these phenomena and understanding their mysteries, we're not just worrying about the sun, we're also developing new techniques for predicting solar weather, which for our increasingly technological world is exceptionally important. Being able to predict when the sun is going to launch its next eruption will give us just enough time to prepare in order to protect our power grids, satellites, and our way of life. But because the sun is

still quite mysterious and because these observations have just begun, we'll discuss additional discoveries in some of the future videos in the next few months. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this

channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.