---
video_title: "New Findings About Why Human Brain Is So Different From Everything Else"
video_id: ZXQWd7VSLlU
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZXQWd7VSLlU
video_date: 2026-08-21
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the evolution of human brain and how we got so smart
  Links:
  https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aed8437
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-022-01925-6
  https://theconversation.com/human-and-neanderthal-brains-have-a-surprising-youthful-quality-in-common-new-research-finds-191594
  dx.doi.org/10.1038/s44318-024-00068-7
  https://link.springer.com/article/10.1038/s44318-024-00068-7
  
  Other videos:
  https://youtu.be/sKZ18vfweC8
  
  #humanbrain #brain #anatomy 
  
  0:00 Strangest structure in the universe - the human brain 
  2:50 Sugar was probably the main reason we evolved 
  5:00 DNA fold that changed everything 
  8:00 Junk DNA turned into a useful gene 
  9:30 Peter Pan syndrome of the brain 
  11:10 Can the brains get even larger? No! 
  13:20 Conclusions 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Dennis Della Corte/University of Sydney
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Home for the present, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to be discussing one of the most expensive, most complex, and most unusual structures in the entire universe that um you and I both possess, the human brain. And specifically, we're going to focus on some of the recent studies that try to resolve some of the unusual mysteries in regards to the human brain in order to uncover its true origins. And that's because for a long time, evolutionary biologists tried to solve a major paradox. Our brains are incredibly large compared to our body size, having expanded from approximately 300 g in early hominins, like Australopithecus, to approximately 1,500 g or 1.5 kg in modern humans. But this expansion had a

massive drawback. The drawback being that this is an extremely expensive organ, and despite being only approximately 2% of body weight by mass, it consumes a staggering 20% of our entire metabolic rate, which actually goes up to about 60% or even 70% in children, where basically 2/3 of energy go into the brain and not the rest of the body. With the main question here being, okay, so how did such an expensive organ evolve, and how did our ancestors manage to pay this massive energy bill inside our bodies? And for many decades, the dominant theory suggested that this was basically through eating meat, or basically by consuming animal proteins and fats, somehow over the past 6 million years, this drove the brain's evolution and increased the size from 300 g to 1.5 kg.

But a fascinating new study we're going to be discussing today that was just published in Science in August 2026, a study by Jenny Brand-Miller and David Rabinheimer, suggests we might have been overlooking a major key ingredient, sugar. And so here, by modeling 4 million years of hominin nutritional demands, researchers discovered that before our ancestors mastered the use of fire and before they started cooking food, they simply could not have survived on meat alone. And that's because generally our brains are fueled almost entirely by glucose and trying to form this glucose from meat is actually a very inefficient process. Or basically trying to convert glucose from proteins that comes from meat is not something that our bodies are very good at. And so instead, in this study, there is now what's known as a kind of a sweet evolutionary model. The model that

suggests that early hominins, like Lucy, were possibly reliant on natural sweet carbohydrates, very likely from different types of fruits and honey. And well, here this of course has quite a few implications for the evolution of human anatomy and even the implications for our own cravings today. So basically this kind of reframes human evolutionary anthropology. And so based on this study, it was not meat and fat that triggered the encephalization or brain growth, but instead the focus on various plant-based carbohydrates that very likely involved seasonal foraging and even specific social behavior, which suggests that they had very complex foraging strategies and most likely created early tools, such as for example digging sticks and honey harvesting tools in order to collect all of this necessary glucose. And the scientists behind the study are pretty certain they required all of this because they conducted a relatively complex multidisciplinary analysis mapping human metabolic rates against primates and other ancestors and examining carbon isotopes in fossil teeth to estimate plant versus animal intake ratios. But

also by analyzing jaw mechanics and tooth structure, as well as what seems to have been left on teeth as a result of consistent chewing. They also focused on some of archaeological evidence of various tools and specifically food producing tools and tools used in cooking. Lastly, they also compared all of this to modern chimps who usually go to great lengths to harvest honey and very often go after fruit in order to satisfy their glucose cravings. In other words, they managed to find just a little bit of clues from here and there to confirm this somewhat unusual hypothesis that it was really not meat but sugar that evolved human brain. With this basically solving this biochemistry problem that could not be solved through the previous meat eating assumptions. As

a matter of fact, here it even solves the so-called protein poisoning problem. At the same time, we know that the idea of cooking meat in terms of archaeological evidence seems to have arrived relatively late in human history when our brains were already quite developed. And since the brain expansion began 2.5 million years ago, controlled use of fire for cooking could not have helped us become smarter. And so definitely quite an intriguing proposition.

But the thing is, there's also been some other studies on very similar topics that essentially tried to find additional clues of why our brains became so developed compared to pretty much everything else on the planet. With one of the clues coming from a very specific DNA fold that seems to have changed everything. And that's because on a genetic level, there actually isn't much that separates us from chimps and bonobos. In fact, our DNA is approximately 90% identical. But for some reason, our brains are just dramatically different from a typical chimp and it's not entirely clear why. Which is essentially

where this study comes in and tries to answer this. And to understand this, we basically have to look at a discovery made by Katie [clears throat] Pollard and her team. And here this is actually a kind of an unusual region referred as human accelerated region or HAR. And well, these are specific recipes in our DNA that remain virtually untouched and identical across all mammals for millions of years, but changed when humans came along. For some reason in our ancestors, these regions went through a very rapid and very intense rewriting, creating something that's a little bit different from everything else. What this study discovering that

the secret to these HARs isn't just the sequence of letters themselves, but actually in how DNA is physically folded inside these cells nucleus. And well, to understand this, imagine your DNA strand as a kind of a striped scarf. Here, each stripe has a different color, representing different regulatory elements. But over time, if the strand goes through various changes, various inserts and deletions, it can actually cause the entire DNA to fold in a completely different 3D shape compared to our cousins like chimps, despite potentially containing very similar sequences. And because many of these genes inside these HARs act as enhancers, or basically they turn up the activity of genes close to them, this unusual 3D folding change place some of these enhancers in a slightly different location. For example, some of them,

responsible for regulating blood hormones for millions of years, suddenly bent over and were placed right next to neurotransmitter genes active in the brain. Basically, imagine an enhancer that was responsible for blood cells suddenly finding itself next to a gene responsible for brain cells. Which meant that our cells had to rapidly adapt to all of this, with all this potentially happening in at least 30% of these HARs. And though this might sound complicated, the overall picture here is that this change in 3D shape inside our DNA seems to have dramatically increased the development of various brain cells and specifically neocortex, and shaped the neural pathways that give us our intelligence, memory, and focus. With all of this potentially being a kind of a structural accident? Or basically that

fold itself very likely happened accidentally, [clears throat] placing some of these generic switches in such a way that it started to build a brand new brain that never existed in primates before. But the genetic accidents did not stop here because a different study discovered something else. And well, for a long time scientists also believed that genes, specifically new genes, only evolved from pre-existing genes. But in recent years we've discovered a process that basically sounds like science fiction. For some reason our cells can actually turn junk DNA, or DNA that we thought was useless, into something else fully functional. And so, here we're

talking about long non-coding RNA, and something that generally does not produce proteins, and actually something that's usually used as a kind of a manager or a regulator, that suddenly becomes a protein of its own. And so, during human evolution some of these so-called long non-coding RNAs, or lncRNAs, unplugged from some of their old networks, escaped the nucleus, and then started producing brand new proteins, which is what this study was all about. The scientists identified a very specific gene that seems to have evolved after we split from chimps and bonobos, and that seems to produce a tiny protein that's extremely active inside human brain cells. And when the scientists tried to study this gene, they discovered that it does something extraordinary. It keeps the neural stem cells in a kind of an immature state, allowing them to divide many more times before they mature into neurons. In other words,

they create a kind of a Peter Pan state for newly developed brains, which [snorts] means that one of the main secrets of why our brains seem to be larger is also the fact that they seem to stay in a kind of a childish state for much longer. And this was even sort of proven when scientists injected some of these genes into mice, with mice actually developing significantly longer neocortex, because their neural development also slowed down. And that means that our ancestors very likely experienced this unusual mutation sometimes in the past, which seems to have been yet another reason [clears throat] why our brains are so different. Which of course leads us to this beautiful concept that's now referred to as the Peter Pan syndrome of human brain. This was officially published in the Nature Ecology and Evolution by Stephen Row.

And here this was the analysis of various brain lobes in a lot of different primates. For example, in chimps, the different lobes of the brain seem to evolve independently, and their integration usually stops around adolescence. But in humans and also our extinct cousins, Neanderthals, we actually evolved a highly integrated brain structure, especially between the parietal and frontal lobes. But more importantly, unlike chimps, we actually maintain this high level of integration throughout most of our adult lives. And [snorts] well, in the very realistic anatomical terms, it means that our brains never fully grow up, which is why it's called the Peter Pan syndrome.

Which actually means that we retain a high adaptability, plasticity, and learning capacity of a typical juvenile primate forever. And which also suggests that our intelligence is not just about the size of the brain, it's also about staying young inside and the overall structural interconnection. Which brings us to the next important question. Okay, so hypothetically, can our brains actually grow larger and become even more complex? Or in other words, can we actually reach the next evolutionary level in terms of intelligence? Well, we

do have at least one answer from a separate study, and that answer seems to be no. And so here, based on a study by Dr. Mareike Albert at the Dresden University of Technology, we now have a very intriguing experiment using brain organoids and a growth factor referred to as a period going. Now this growth factor is not actually unique to humans and does exist in a lot of other animals. It's actually present in mice and primates. But in mice for some

reason this genus permanently shut off and is never used for the brain development at all. Yet in humans it's extremely active and promotes the rapid division and expansion of the stem cells that eventually result in the brain. And well here is the strange part or I guess the interesting discovery from the experiment. Here researchers decided to add this growth hormone to a tiny brain organoid created from the gorilla neuron cells or basically gorilla stem cells that were turned into brain cells. And interestingly they also began to divide and expand extremely fast mimicking human development. Implying that if

gorillas had very similar amount of this growth hormone they could potentially develop very similar brains. But when they added this extra hormone to human brain organoids pretty much nothing happened at all. And by the way if you want to find out more about these brain organoids check out one of the previous videos in the description. But in essence the implications here are pretty clear. The human brain or human neocortex seems to have already expanded to such a massive extent that it hit a kind of a maximum biological limit for this particular growth pathway. And it also implies that

the main difference between us and some of our closest living relatives is not just the existence of brain new genes but also the amount of specific growth factors inside ourselves that seem to have now been turned to maximum. Something that hypothetically could be achieved with other primates. And so definitely quite a lot of interesting and unusual discoveries. And though obviously this doesn't tell us everything about why our brains are so different and so unique, it does tell us quite a lot. In essence, showing us that being human is not just the result of some kind of a magical intelligence gene, or involves some kind of a straightforward evolutionary path, but instead is a beautiful mosaic of highly complex and deeply unlikely evolutionary accidents, all of which then joined together and produced us. As a matter of

fact, there are a few more discoveries I haven't mentioned here, mostly because this video is already getting pretty long, but that we will talk about in the next part, which might be a good reason to subscribe because this video is coming out really soon. And so, in essence, a series of these biological accidents, everything from unusual 3D shapes inside DNA to specific gene development to the fact that we started to eat fruit and consume honey to feed our brains, is basically the main reason why you and I are able to sit here today and talk about this, watch this video, and then even wonder about how we got here in the first place. But, it's really the future research that's probably going to make this picture just a little bit more clear and reveal a few more surprises about these really unusual wrinkly walnuts inside our heads. On that note, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support this channel on Patreon which you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can join me directly or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below.

Stay wonderful, I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.