---
video_title: "Project Hail Mary vs. Real Biology: Could Astrophage Exist?"
video_id: ywQqMwhV0Z4
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywQqMwhV0Z4
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the real life astrophage and how life thrives on radiation
  Links:
  Newman-Portela et al. Pentavalent and tetravalent uranium formation via glycerol-stimulated bacteria in mine water https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-026-72560-z
  Dadachova et al. Ionizing radiation changes the electronic properties of melanin and enhances the growth of melanized fungi https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0000457
  Averesch et al. Cultivation of the Dematiaceous Fungus Cladosporium sphaerospermum Aboard the International Space Station and Effects of Ionizing Radiation https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2022.877625
  Zhdanova et al. Ionizing radiation attracts soil fungi https://doi.org/10.1017/s0953756204000966
  Cowan et al. A Natural Fission Reactor https://doi.org/10.1038/scientificamerican0776-36
  Meshik et al. The Workings of an Ancient Nuclear Reactor https://doi.org/10.1038/scientificamerican1105-82
  Gauthier-Lafaye et al. Natural fission reactors in the Franceville basin, Gabon: A review of the conditions and results of a 'critical event' in a geologic system https://doi.org/10.1016/s0016-7037(96)00245-1
  
  0:00 Project Hail Mary and the Astrophage idea 
  1:30 Life on Earth uses chemical principles only 
  2:40 Why nuclear life never evolved 
  4:00 Natural nuclear reactor on Earth - Oklo reactor 
  6:00 No signs of life 
  6:40 Some organisms can still harvest radiation 
  10:10 Using uranium for breathing 
  12:15 Implications and conclusions
  
  #astrophage #hailmary #astrobiology
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Okay, today I wanted to talk about a fascinating topic that tries to bridge the gap between science fiction and some very real, very strange biology right here on planet earth. And the reason I wanted to discuss this is because, well, I finally got to watch Project Hail Mary, the film based on the Andy Weir's famous novel by the same name. And if you've seen the film or even the trailer from the film, you know that the premise here is a fictional microbe referred to as astrophase that's essentially absorbing electromagnetic radiation from the sun and is then storing this as mass using the enstion E= MC² and well in the story this organism is so dense that it's even used as an efficient energy source to propel a spacecraft. Okay, I guess if I say anything else, that's going to be officially spoiler territory. But it's really this idea that then made me fall into [clears throat] this rabbit hole where I started researching the idea of nuclear energy used by life or basically while the astrophase itself is speculative, it does raise a serious scientific question. Could life actually evolve to

use nuclear energy for survival? And not in the way that we use it in nuclear reactors, but actually physically use [clears throat] it for various physical processes. And well, as it turns out, technically we have discovered some organisms that do something similar, but not exactly the same because the reality of this nuclear life is much more complicated compared to what we see in the movies. But to understand why we don't really have nuclearpowered life anywhere on Earth, we first have to take a look at fundamental differences between nuclear and chemical energies. Because all life on Earth from you to the smallest bacteria essentially runs on chemistry alone, which means that we derive all of our energy through various chemical bonds and through the use of electrons when various electrons in the outer shells of various atoms get exchanged. And though I guess you could

argue that technically some life also use quantum effects. For example, we know that plants also use quantum principles to try to capture light from the sun. For the most part, most energy is still generated using chemical principles. And in contrast, nuclear energy and specifically fish involves splitting an atom or the nucleus of the atom that involves separating protons and neutrons inside the atom's center. But compared to a typical electron-based energy or compared to chemical reactions, the total energy stored inside the nucleus is millions of times greater compared to an electron bond, which is potentially one of the main reasons nuclear life never actually evolved. And that's because a typical

biological system is made out of delicate organic molecules. And the sheer heat and radiation produced by splitting an atom would instantly vaporize any cell. In other words, a typical biological cell or really any biological mechanism involving enzymes and proteins simply does not have the required tools to first of all manipulate a nucleus in order to break it apart. But second of all, even if it does so, it is going to be unable to survive so much energy coming out all at once. I guess it's just too much of a good thing. And furthermore, there is a

kind of a evolutionary bootstrap problem because normally evolution works through very tiny incremental steps where every individual stage offers some kind of an advantage. But here if you look at the bigger picture, you cannot evolve a nuclear reaction or some kind of a biological nuclear reactor partially without the use of a huge amount of stuff. In other words, it requires a massive concentration of relatively rare materials such as uranium 235 and a way to moderate the reaction which does not happen in small simple biological steps. But interestingly, here we do have a very intriguing example from right here on planet Earth where a natural nuclear reaction actually did occur and you might have heard of this location before. This is referred to as Ollo. So

basically here long before humans even existed, the Aqua region in Gabon, West Africa contained this very strange and somewhat accidental structure, geological structure that surprisingly started its own nuclear reaction because of a large amount of uranium present on this site. And so back in the 1970s, geologists discovered 17 separate sites that you can basically see right here where natural fish reaction occurred. approximately 1.7 billion years ago. So way way before animal life even evolved and when the life on the planet was more or less primitive. And the signs of this

were discovered in the geological samples. And so today scientists believe that approximately 1.7 billion years ago, this was actually possible because the overall levels of uranium 235 on Earth were just much higher. It was a much more abundant element making up about 3% of all uranium on Earth compared to less than 1% today. Naturally, because with time, uranium 235 decays into something else. But

based on the geological structure here, it looks like it was really because of groundwater that all of this became possible. And specifically, all of this groundwater flowed into these uraniumrich deposits and then acted as a kind of a moderator, slowing down neutrons and allowing a self-sustaining chain reaction to actually occur. And though this was obviously not as powerful as modern nuclear reactors, here the natural process seemed to pulse on and off for hundreds of thousands of years. But eventually uranium became depleted and the reactions stopped. Although in this case even in the presence of these reactors where some basic life might have already existed we know that no life evolved to directly use any of this directly. So for example

none of the samples here contain anything to do with life or contain any biological fossils and only show us signs of previous nuclear reactions that happened at this time. As a matter of fact, biologists believe that at this time these natural reactors were most likely a life hazard. They probably produced a lot of heat and boiled the local water and created so much radiation that most of the bacterial life that existed here very likely perished. With all of this, only leaving signs of natural reactions and geological processes that have nothing to do with life. Okay, cool, cool, cool.

But while nothing on earth is able to use fishing or basically is able to produce nuclear reactions to survive, we know that some organisms have adapted to harvest radiation produced by nuclear decay and even powerful radiation coming from the sun. And there's at least one interesting organism on the planet that seems to thrive on radiation with this one probably being the most famous cryptocus newformance. And well, as you can imagine, these were found in a very bizarre location. These fungi were actually found inside the destroyed Chernobyl nuclear power plant where they were basically not just growing but thriving because nothing else could survive. And so these radio fungi are a kind of a specialized group capable of what's known as radiosynthesis, a process that uses ionizing radiation such as UV light, for example, as the energy source to drive metabolism. In

other words, they still use chemical reactions, but normally the energy for these reactions come from nuclear sources. And so unlike bacteria that can survive in high radiation environments, here cryptocous neoiforance appears to actually grow more efficiently if there is radiation around them. And they do this in a very unusual and never before seen way. They actually use something that all of us contain as well, melanin, which is why here they actually appear kind of dark. And so the pigment that makes your skin brown and that usually is used to protect you from radiation in this case is also used to capture gamma radiation and then convert it into a form of biological energy. And

intriguingly they actually use an extremely similar process to how plants usually use chlorophyll for photosynthesis. Although even today the exact biological mechanism is not fully understood. We just know that there seem to be several such fungi such as for example one gela dermatitis and codisporium sperospermum that despite being somewhat different overall seem to all employ a similar strategy when it comes to radiation. They're able to easily grow in high radiation environments and generally increase their biomass and metabolic activity when there are a lot of gamma rays around them with melanin being used for protection and for these chemical reactions. As a matter of fact, when it comes to cryptocous neoiforance in various lab tests, it was able to grow much much faster when exposed to radiation levels 500 times the normal levels, implying that for some reason these types of fungi actually evolved to survive in extremely radioactive conditions which may have existed on Earth at some point. This is actually

one of the current biological mysteries because it does seem to be some kind of an adaptation, but we just don't really know what they adapted to because such high radioactive conditions are not normally found anywhere on Earth. Naturally though, because they're able to do this and because they're able to survive these extremely radioactive conditions, this also presents us with some intriguing implications for something very similar evolving somewhere else out there that's able to use melanin in a very similar way to how plants use chlorophyll for photosynthesis. And in [snorts] this case, we might even be able to use something like this on planets like Mars, where radiation is usually much, much higher. But on top of all of this, I then discovered this new study that surprisingly found that some bacteria can even use uranium for breathing. In other words, it's not just about surviving radiation. It's also about

using the uranium atoms for various chemical reactions. And so in this new study you can find in the description, researchers discovered that sometimes bacteria also use metals for breathing. And so instead of breathing oxygen, these extreophiles, specifically geobacttor and dissolve vibrio, managed to use dissolved uranium in their own version of chemical respiration. And so here they essentially pass electrons onto uranium, which then changes its chemical form from a soluble state to a much more stable solid state, which is actually a pretty intriguing discovery for one simple reason. And that's because here scientists were actually studying water from a flooded uranium mine in Germany. And that's where they

made this unusual discovery. Here by putting these bacteria in this water and by giving them food such as glycerol, they discovered that these bacteria were able to essentially cleanse the water by removing all of the uranium. And the main breakthrough in this case is the fact that this bacteria was able to create an extremely rare but very stable isotope of uranium referred to as pentavalent uranium. And though previously scientists believed that this was just a temporary step, something that would eventually disappear. Here these bacteria were able to lock this into tiny nano particles that then remain stable for many months even when exposed to oxygen. And well, this is a

really important discovery for the principle known as bio- remediation. Basically using a life to clean up some kind of a mess normally left behind by humans. And so by understanding how these microbes immobilize uranium, we can even develop much better ways to keep radioactive material in a much more stable and much safer compounds while at the same time maybe even finding ways to recycle this and to use this as energy production once again. But at the same time, this also changes our perspective on the limits of life. Specifically going back to that project Hail Mary again, even though something like astrophase is extremely unlikely to exist or to ever evolve, based on these recent studies and these recent discoveries, we're actually still learning that life is incredibly resilient and incredibly creative. And

some life is even capable of thriving in some of the most dangerous conditions on the planet and can even find a way to breathe using the very same elements we usually considered toxic or that we usually use in nuclear energy. But because this is such a fascinating topic and well the book and the story are also pretty interesting. I'm definitely going to come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos once there are some additional exciting discoveries. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn

something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful prison t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.

Heat. Heat.