---
video_title: "The Little Red Dot Discovery That Just Rewrote Cosmic History"
video_id: 4IidxRZ47M0
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4IidxRZ47M0
video_date: 2026-06-07T22:00:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about little red dot revelations
  Links:
  https://science.nasa.gov/missions/webb/nasas-webb-reveals-black-hole-that-formed-before-its-galaxy/
  https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/548/1/staf2109/8607050?login=false
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-026-10579-4
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.20177
  Previous videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkkWrKMDzzk
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V21YRa5Sy9M
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-oX7tfz80DU
  https://youtu.be/OLGf-tolsco
  #littlereddot #jameswebbspacetelescope #astronomy 
  
  0:00 Another little red dot update 
  1:38 Why they are strange and what we know 
  2:35 Possible explanations 
  3:15 Alternative explanations and similar objects 
  5:20 New study based on QSO1 in Pandora's Cluster 
  6:18 So here's what was found... 
  7:45 Why this is strange 
  9:10 Implications and why this is a challenge for models
  11:30 Conclusions and what's next?
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
And looks like it only took a few weeks before another exciting update in regards to little red dots, the mysterious discovery from the James Webb Space Telescope that was first revealed only in 2022 and has since become one of the biggest mysteries in astronomy. And well, ever since then, the James Webb Space Telescope has been showing us things we never expected to see in a lot of these locations in the very early universe. And this is one of the biggest mysteries so far. It involves hundreds and specifically almost 400 of these somewhat tiny red glowing objects that appear very compact, relatively bright, and seem to also appear in almost every image produced by the James Webb, but only at extreme distances in the super early universe. And because even today nobody actually has any idea exactly what these are, they essentially now have been nicknamed LRDs, little red dots. And well, obviously, initially,

scientists believed that these were probably very young galaxies, most likely full of old stars. But following additional observations and additional analysis, that turned out to be not the case because they don't really produce the same emissions. And so, since the original discovery in just the last 4 years, researchers have found a lot of things about them. But this recent study that was just released and that we're going to be discussing today may have now solved one of the major mysteries while the same time completely redefine our previous assumptions about the early universe because the data from this particular study is actually very surprising. But first, super quickly, so why exactly are they so strange and what do we know about them so far? Well,

first, in terms of size, they're incredibly small, only 2% of the radius of the Milky Way or just a few hundred light years across. But their total brightness rivals a typical galaxy, implying that whatever is happening here has to be super energetic because we're seeing this after the light traveled for at least 13 billion years, which is essentially almost at the edge of the universe. And after analyzing 340 separate objects, they all seem to have very similar properties. They all share a kind of a V-shaped spectrum, or basically they seem to be very blue in the ultraviolet light, then have nothing in the middle, and then become extremely red at longer wavelengths. And because of these observations, and also because they basically produce so much energy, there were essentially two potential explanations, or at least two main propositions. First, these were

extremely compact galaxies packed with stars extremely close to each other. With the other side arguing that these were probably active galactic nuclei, or basically growing black holes surrounded by a lot of dust. But, additional observations with radio telescopes like Alma revealed that, first of all, they don't really seem to possess that much dust, and many of them potentially barely have any dust. And on top of this, X-ray observations revealed that many of them do not produce X-ray emissions expected from a typical active black hole, or at least black holes that are actively eating and are actively producing very powerful emissions. Which is why in the last few years, there's also been quite a few alternative explanations, some which actually kind of made sense. Some of the more exotic

explanations suggested that maybe these are actually unusual black hole stars, or quasi-stars. And in this model, a massive star collapses into a black hole, but instead of exploding, its outer layers stay intact, and the black hole then force-feeds on the star from inside out, creating a kind of a glowing object much larger than the entire solar system. But, from a distance, this unusual star would resemble a single red dot. With additional explanations suggesting that maybe these were giant black holes and were actually sort of surrounded by so much dust that it kind of formed this very thick cocoon that pretty much blocked most of the light except for red light and certain types of ultraviolet emissions. In other words, for the most part, whatever this was, it involved some really extreme explanations. And interestingly, some of

the more recent studies we discussed previously, with videos in the description, even potentially found something very similar much closer to us, but basically a version of this that has kind of evolved over time. In other words, astronomers believe they might have found certain objects that might have been little red dots in the past and have now become something else. For example, objects referred to as blue dots or blue dust obscure galaxies may represent an evolved version of a little red dot, but it is slightly later time. With the proposition being that little red dots evolve into much brighter blue galaxies as they blow away some of the gas and become more blue. But interestingly, there was even a discovery of a barely visible galaxy extremely close to the Milky Way that seems to also possess unusual properties implying a very massive central object and the overall compact size. With that

particular object even suggested to be a kind of an ancient little red dot that possibly existed near the Milky Way long time ago. But basically, as of June of 2026, right now we actually still have no idea exactly what most of these are. But at least some of them have now been potentially resolved. And specifically based on this very recent study you can find in the description, based on the analysis of a very famous little red dot QSO 1, the object that was actually found inside this image of Abell 2744, also known as the Pandora's Cluster, a cluster that's known to contain a lot of dark matter and thus creates very beautiful gravitational lensing effects. And well, it just so happens that at least one of these objects that's gravitationally lensed turned out to be one of these little red dots. In other

words, it allows us to see this object with a much higher magnification than usual, which in this case for the first time ever allowed scientists to perform a direct mass measurement of everything inside this object and especially in its center. With the results essentially now challenging our entire understanding of how galaxies form and of course how some of the black holes form as well. And so without further ado, so what's the actual discovery and the conclusion? Turns out it is a black hole. But in this case because this object existed when the universe was only 700 million years old, what's really unusual here is the mass of the black hole and the mass of the entire object overall. But once

again, studying such an object is actually very difficult and is usually impossible. But in this case we got super lucky because this sits behind a massive cluster of galaxies inside the Pandora's Cluster with the overall warping effect from all of the mass in front of us makes this image much much bigger by a factor of six. And so this magnification allowed the international team led by Ignes Georges Baal to use a technique referred to as spectral astrometry, which is essentially what you're kind of seeing here. Here they were able to map how fast hydrogen gas is swirling around the central point with the motion showing us that something is orbiting the center. But in this case with what we refer to as Keplerian motion or in other words, whatever is here seems to be moving in a very similar way to how planets orbit the sun, which is actually very different from typical motion in galaxies as normally it's a lot more flattened and does not follow the same pattern. And this means that almost all

of the mass in this case is concentrated in a single point at the center. Mostly because there's really no other way to explain why this contains capillary motion. Okay, so far so good and so far I guess nothing unusual except for one strange fact. Whatever is in the center seems to be approximately 50 million solar masses and that something very likely is a supermassive black hole. Which for such an early time in the universe would be super super difficult to explain. In comparison, that's about

12 times more massive than the central black hole in the Milky Way galaxy. But the part that sort of confused everyone and the part that really made no sense is when they measured the mass of everything else. Because the total mass of all stars and all of the gas surrounding the galaxy is estimated to be less than 20 million solar masses. Which basically suggests that the black hole outweighs the entire galaxy by approximately two and a half times. And it's this confirmation and this discovery that suddenly creates a major challenge for cosmology and for galactic models. And that's because in the local

universe a supermassive black hole usually only accounts for 0.1% of galactic mass. With some extreme examples maybe being around 1% but even then it's usually super rare. In contrast QSO 1 is thousands of times more over massive compared to anything in the nearby space. With the astronomers now referring to this as naked black hole. And basically because

it seems to have formed before the galaxy had a chance to develop around it. And the reason this matters is because this officially rewrites the overall timeline for the formation of galaxies but more importantly how we actually believe galaxies form. Because in the standard model of cosmology galaxies form first and black holes potentially grow slowly inside, coexisting with galaxies and coevolving at the same time. This was mostly based on observations from the last 10 billion years and is also mostly based on a lot of simulations. In other words, the assumption was always that black holes and galaxies increase in mass proportionally. But, this object, J01,

definitely suggests that at least in some cases, if not all cases, black holes definitely come first. And not only did everything start with black holes, they also seem to have started with ridiculously massive sizes, which confirms the proposition in regards to direct collapse models. Or basically, following the Big Bang in the early universe, it's quite likely that giant clouds of pristine gas directly collapsed into massive black holes without forming stars first and without forming anything except for an extremely dense massive object. And it was actually after that gas arrived with stars forming afterwards. And this potentially also provides a very important piece of evidence for primordial black holes. Black holes that

existed before anything else, very likely after the first microsecond following the Big Bang. And as we discussed in one of the previous videos, they might have actually even formed right before the Big Bang started from the space-time that might have been in a slightly different phase, a kind of a crystalline phase. You can learn about this in the video in the description. And right now, a lot of evidence for this comes from the fact that the gas around this object seems to be near pristine and has not actually had a chance to evolve or to create supernova. This is basically almost entirely hydrogen and helium with the less than 0.5% of heavier elements. And so, this

is an extremely young system that barely evolved at all and seems to just contain this massive black hole with some stuff around it. And it's actually because this is a naked black hole that it doesn't seem to produce enough x-rays to be visible to modern telescopes or to be visible in any other light except for red light and ultraviolet light, which basically makes this one of the most exciting James Webb discoveries in the last few years. What also makes little red dots one of the most significant finds in modern astronomy, that seems to have already redefined our previous understanding and basically challenged modern cosmology, officially confirming the existence of primordial black holes and confirming that black holes most likely came first. But as we get more data from JWST or additional data from other telescopes like the extremely large telescope, we might end up discovering that the early universe was a much more violent place than our models predicted. For now though, that's kind of all we know and that's all of the evidence scientists were able to find. We'll definitely come back and

discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel picture on where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a general membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the 144 present t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as

always, bye-bye.