---
video_title: "Scientists Just Realized Neptune May Not Actually Be an Ice Giant"
video_id: nGcFbcd4VwM
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGcFbcd4VwM
video_date: 2026-07-06T22:00:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about discoveries from Neptune
  Links:
  https://www.science.org/doi/epdf/10.1126/sciadv.aeb1429
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-025-02507-9
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/full_html/2026/05/aa59098-26/aa59098-26.html
  #neptune #solarsystem #astronomy 
  
  0:00 Neptune updates and new discoveries 
  1:50 Discovery of Neptune and why it's so hard to study 
  2:57 Its strange moons 
  3:40 Moon Nereid changes the Neptunian history 
  5:30 Neptune's aurora and other atmospheric discoveries 
  7:35 It's not an ice giant? It may be full of rocks 
  9:10 Implications and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  tm-md - https://www.flickr.com/photos/28224460@N00/15803973590/  CC BY SA 2.0
  Aveh8 CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nereid_(moon)#/media/File:Nereid's_orbit_around_Neptune.svg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
And it's about time we discussed a planet we haven't talked about for a pretty long time. It's about time we discussed Neptune, the beautiful eighth planet on the edge of the solar system that for a very long time was considered to be a somewhat bland, frozen sibling of Uranus. But based on a lot of recent studies and recent data from the James Webb, we're now starting to understand Neptune just a little bit better with some of the more recent studies even going as far as essentially changing what we always believed this planet looked like by definitively showing us that it seems to have a very different color from what scientists believed. We've actually discussed this in one of the previous videos, but here, based on the reprocessed data from different observations, scientists are now pretty certain Neptune does not look as blue as you see in this image. As a matter of fact, it seems to be extremely similar in color to Uranus. And so for many,

many decades, many different textbooks and different press releases presented Neptune in an unusually blue color that doesn't seem to exist. But new observations have also revealed a much more chaotic, unusual planet around which scientists have even discovered several new moons. As a matter of fact, as of 2026, Neptune contains 16 confirmed moons with two of the newest moons only being discovered in 2024. But extremely recently, when studying these moons, at least one study has also discovered something somewhat unusual that very likely happened around Neptune that they now refer to as Moonpocalypse, or basically the event that wiped out the original satellites of Neptune, leaving behind something entirely different. And that's on top of some other discoveries we're going to be discussing in this video, because in just the last year or so, there have been some new, exciting studies. But to

understand why it's so difficult to study Neptune and why it's always been so mysterious, we have to briefly discuss its discovery. because unlike every other planet, Neptune was actually found through mathematics before it was even seen through a telescope. And that's because earlier astronomers noticed that the orbit of Uranus was not doing something quite right. Something invisible was pulling on it, but something that was not Jupiter and not Saturn. And so by calculating a potential hidden planet through sound these gravitational wobbles, it was this wonderful person, Johann Galle, who was able to point his telescope and discover Neptune within approximately one single degree of the predicted spot back in 1846. Here's actually the telescope he

used to find this. And once again, because it's so far and because it's basically so difficult to see with any Earth-based telescopes, this is essentially why for several decades we even got the color somewhat incorrect. And that's despite the fact that it's a much bigger planet than planet Earth. And so here it's really the result of incredible distances. It's approximately 30 times as far from the sun as Earth.

But one of the most striking things about Neptune is actually its moons. And that's because most other planets, most gas giants and ice giants, contain a somewhat more regular moon systems. Or basically moons that very likely formed in a relatively same place and orbit in much more neat circular paths. But the system of Neptune is a bit of a mess. And in this case, it's the largest moon, Triton, that seems to be unique among all large moons. And that's because it's

basically orbiting in the opposite direction, which tells us that this moon was almost certainly captured from somewhere else and most likely came from the Kuiper Belt, or basically the same location where we find Pluto. And so for many years, this was believed to be some kind of a sibling of Pluto that accidentally got captured by Neptune. But it's really this recent study that you can find in the description, in this case focusing on a different moon referred to as Nereid, a moon whose picture basically looks like this, just a tiny smudge with no details in it, potentially changes the story of what happened here and how this system evolved billions of years ago. And that's because for decades this moon was also thought to be another captured object just because of its somewhat unusual orbit. As a matter of fact, compared to other moons, its orbit is very eccentric or very stretched out and it's kind of difficult to explain. But

here, by looking at this moon with the James Webb, scientists were able to analyze its surface because this moon, as it emits infrared light, also shows us its spectrum, which then essentially tells scientists what's on the surface. And surprisingly, they found that Nereid looks very similar to icy moons orbiting Saturn and Uranus and does not resemble anything from the Kuiper Belt or basically objects coming from the same area as Pluto and Triton. With new simulations suggesting that this is actually one of the original moons and not a moon that came from somewhere else. And so, the story of what happened around Neptune billions of years ago has now officially changed because scientists now think that Triton, when it was captured by Neptune billions of years ago, likely smashed most of the Neptune's original moons to tiny pieces, which eventually became the rings of Neptune or possibly crashed into the planet itself. But Nereid appears to be the only survivor of this moonpocalypse and instead of being destroyed, it was violently kicked into this unusual orbit as a result of the interaction with Triton. In other words, Nereid, the

third-largest moon of Neptune, seems to be one of its original moons that's been completely disturbed by Triton. But on top of this, we also had some additional discoveries in regards to Neptune itself and specifically its atmosphere. This was also once again discovered by the James Webb. And here, for the first time ever, researchers were able to identify its aurora. And technically, aurora have been seen around other planets, with planets like Jupiter and Saturn essentially having them pretty much at all times. But surprisingly, Neptune

turned out to be very elusive, and it was only very recently that scientists finally identified them. And so, here, based on this study, scientists using the James Webb finally captured the aurora by detecting a specific molecule referred to as trihydrogen cation, or basically H3+. With the discovery revealing two strange facts. First, [snorts] the Neptunian aurora do not happen at the poles of the planet like they usually do for objects like Saturn and Jupiter, and of course, Earth. And that's because the magnetic field here is very tilted, with a sharp 47° inclination. And so, the aurora actually

appear at the geographic mid-latitudes, or essentially in a location where we have South America on Earth. And well, they technically look like this. This is the observation from the Hubble Space Telescope, compared to the observations from Hubble mixed with the observations from the James Webb seeing the aurora. But at the same time, the second fact here is that Neptune seems to be going through some kind of an unusual cooling event, with temperatures in the upper atmosphere dropping by several hundred degrees since the original observations in 1989. As a matter of fact, it seems to be losing approximately 10° or 10 K per year. And at the moment, nobody

actually knows why. And it's really this cooling that seems to be the reason why most of these aurora are so extremely difficult to see. Although, these colder temperatures make them much fainter than we expected. Although, in this case, we're talking about the upper atmosphere, and specifically, thermosphere, that does not actually contain that much pressure. The cloud layer on Neptune has not really changed temperature that much. But perhaps one

of the most significant shifts in our understanding of this planet comes from studies on what seems to be hiding inside, and specifically this study from January of 2026. And that's because traditionally we call Uranus and Neptune ice giants. That's basically to distinguish them from other planets like Jupiter and Saturn, which are considered to be gas giants. But new research suggests that the name might be a complete misnomer. And so a study led by Yamila Miguel suggests that Neptune's atmosphere and its outer shell might actually be full of rocks and not just hydrogen and helium as previously assumed. And so here she argues we

should reclassify most of these objects as minor giants and not ice giants. And that's because according to the study, the envelope of both Uranus and Neptune seems to be dramatically enriched in a lot of rocky material comparable to some of the outer solar system bodies like Pluto and the Kuiper Belt objects. And [snorts] so basically Neptune seems to have a relatively rock-rich mantle with a fraction of rock being 55% but Uranus contains a little bit less and seems to be a little bit more ice-rich with the rock percentage being 41%. And so instead of being just gas and ice, both Uranus and Neptune seem to actually contain quite a lot of rocky material. But because both Uranus and Neptune are a little bit different, it also means they probably evolved in a slightly different way early on. But assuming

this is correct and assuming this is confirmed, it basically redefines what we think of about these planets and also potentially explains why so many other exoplanets that resemble these objects eventually transform into something like a super-Earth by losing a lot of the atmosphere, turning into these unusual objects we don't actually have in the solar system. In other words, having these large rocky deposits does actually kind of make sense. With the study concluding that both objects are essentially a mixture of rock, ice, and gas. But it's not clear exactly how all of this is mixed, and if all of this creates some kind of distinct layer, that could maybe explain why it has such an unusual magnetic field. Although, based on some of the previous studies, scientists have also discovered that inside of these objects, we might actually find completely new states of matter, including new states of water, that very likely creates a lot of bizarre effects. And [snorts]

specifically, because of extremely high pressures and extremely high temperatures, a lot of stuff inside these objects, such as carbon and hydrogen, very likely start forming very strange crystallized formations with many different properties that we still do not understand. But, in at least one case, it was discovered that they do seem to produce extremely magnetic effects, which could explain Neptunian magnetic fields. As a matter of fact, the carbon atoms under these extreme pressures seem to form a very unusual lattice that only allow electricity to flow in one direction, but not the other direction, which might also contribute to this bizarre magnetic field this planet possesses. Although, when it comes to the internal structure and the internal effects, there are still a lot of unanswered questions. But, why does any of this matter? Well, one of the

main reasons is because quite a few exoplanets scientists have discovered seem to be actually very similar to Neptune and Uranus, both in size and in mass. As a matter of fact, this seems to be one of the most common exoplanets out there. And so, in order to try to understand exoplanets and how they evolve, we definitely have to understand Neptune and Uranus first. And well, based on these recent studies, we now know that it does seem to have quite an exciting, violent history, and even potentially possesses a lot of exotic matter inside, which one day we might be able to create on our own planet and use it for something in the future. But, because we haven't visited this planet since 1989, today many planetary scientists are pushing for some kind of a new mission, such as the proposed Neptunian Odyssey. Although, if it does

happen, it's not going to happen until at least 2040. So, yeah, quite a long time from now. On that note, once we actually discover something else about Neptune, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, the videos without any ads, and can join me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this show

by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.