---
video_title: "AI Just Designed Entirely New Viruses From Scratch"
video_id: vk3TQ3np2SY
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vk3TQ3np2SY
video_date: 2026-08-18
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the study of AI creating viruses that don't exist in nature
  Links:
  https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.aec2657
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12827736/pdf/main.pdf
  https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/9780470015902.a0027771
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2819212/pdf/41587_2009_Article_BFnbt1593.pdf
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4227300/pdf/nihms631922.pdf
  
  #virus #ai #virology
  
  0:00 AI creates a virus that doesn't exist in nature 
  1:50 What's a virus and synthetic virology? 
  3:05 First synthetic virus 
  4:05 Archeovirology 
  6:00 Better vaccines 
  7:20 So why was AI used for this? 
  9:40 Surprising results and why this is important 
  10:45 Can it be dangerous? What needs to be done now 
  12:30 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Wonderful person, this is Anton, and today we're going to be discussing yet another one of those topics that sounds like it was ripped right from a science fiction novel, but in reality represents a massive achievement for biological sciences and represents something very, very important. Because here, for the first time in history, scientists have used generative artificial intelligence, or AI as it's usually known, to design functional replicating viruses completely from scratch. But before we start panicking and imagining some kind of a Resident Evil style bioweapon outbreak, uh don't worry. All of these newly created viruses are what's known as bacteriophages, viruses that only infect and kill very specific species of bacteria and are completely harmless to humans. And in this case, they're specifically designed to target E. coli. But in reality, this

massive breakthrough also marks a very important turning point in our understanding of biology because we're now moving away from simply editing or copy-pasting existing genes to creating DNA like a language that artificial intelligence can write fluently. And so in this video, we're going to discuss some of these recent studies about these synthetic viruses and how synthetic virology went from a very small but highly controversial experiment back in 2002 to this recent AI breakthrough in 2026. In the process, also discussing some of the more bizarre discoveries, like for example, a kind of a resuscitation of an ancient virus from our own DNA, but also hacking the genetic code of viruses in order to build safer vaccines. And actually, we'll also discuss some of the ideas behind the biohazard in this case and if any of this has any benefits. But to start, let's answer a simple question.

So, what is synthetic virology? And more specifically, what exactly is a virus? Well, in biological terms, it's essentially is submicroscopic infectious agents, an incredibly simple organism mostly consisting of genetic material, which can be DNA, but sometimes can also be just RNA. And in most cases, it's wrapped inside a protective coat referred to as a capsid. And because viruses lack cellular structure or basically anything inside, they cannot replicate or even metabolize on their own, which is why they're sometimes described as organisms on the edge of life. They always require the host cells

machinery in order to make their own copies. But for a very long time, in order to study viruses, we had to somehow isolate them from the host. And that by itself was not very easy. But in the early 21st century, that changed with the rise of synthetic virology, a kind of a multidisciplinary field in biology that combines virology with computational biology and even nanotechnology. With the core concept of this being very simple. If we know the

sequence of a virus genome, we can chemically synthesize that DNA in a lab and basically then create our own viruses. And back in 2002, this concept was officially proven. And here a team led by Eckard Wimmer at Stony Brook University chemically synthesized the entire genome of poliovirus. In this case, strictly following a written digital sequence. And when they introduced the synthetic genome into a cell-free extract, it was able to translate its own proteins and then assembled a fully infectious poliovirus particle. And for chemists, this was a

beautiful proof of a very important concept. A virus is essentially a kind of a chemical with a life cycle. And once inside a cell, its program for survival takes over and that's when the replication begins. But just 18 months later, in 2003, a separate team successfully synthesized the first DNA virus genome of a bacteriophage, assembling over 5,000 base pairs in just 2 weeks. And naturally, this was just the beginning. Once scientists realized

we can basically write our own genomes, they started to take this to the next level, which basically brings us to this next branch of science that was technically started less than a decade ago, archaeovirology. Using genetic synthesis to resurrect ancient viruses in order to understand how they work, which can then be used to prevent this from ever happening again. And well, here's one of the best examples, based on a study from 2009. And this involved the infamous 1918 Spanish flu. But the thing is, this pandemic happened before virology existed, and so we literally know nothing about the virus itself. But

starting back in 1995, a team led by Jeffrey Taubenberger managed to recover tiny fragments of the viral DNA preserved in the lung tissues of some of the victims. And they then managed to sequence these fragments, synthesizing the genes, and reconstructing the virus using reverse genetics. And well, by studying this reconstructed virus, they were able to discover why it was so lethal and so dangerous. And it was mostly tied to what's known as hemagglutinin gene, which they then were able to prove by splicing this into a modern seasonal flu strain, and basically making it much more deadly to mice. Discovering that this particular strain seems to trigger a massive immune system overreaction, which then causes a lot of strong mice to basically die. But

young or old mice surprisingly survived much better, which is precisely the same pattern that was observed in 1918, where most of the victims were actually young, healthy adults. And so here we finally had an exact explanation, and of course a way to treat this, and to potentially create vaccines if this ever happens again. And so despite controversy, this was actually an extremely important study for preventing pandemics. And well, over the past two decades, a lot of these new studies essentially focused on one thing, trying to understand these viral genomes, which can then be used to discover new vaccine designs in order to create vaccines that are way more effective than anything we've ever had before, which is actually what that previously mentioned team that recreated poliovirus was able to do as well. They exploited some of this new knowledge to build a new kind of a vaccine and used a computer algorithm to redesign the capsid encoding region of a poliovirus while still keeping the same amino acid sequence and the overall physical structure. And so, by creating a

slightly different variant and by changing its genetic code just a little bit, they essentially designed a kind of a dead phenotype. With additional designs even creating viruses that were highly weakened and could even barely get inside cells in order to propagate, which has now created this new technique in virology referred to as SAVE, synthetic attenuated virus engineering, which allows scientists to rapidly design customized vaccines by basically de-optimizing actual viruses through hundreds and hundreds of silent mutations inside. And importantly, this makes it impossible for the virus to mutate into something more dangerous and basically makes it seroneutral, unable to cause the disease. But, at the same time, by having this virus inside the body, it suddenly activates the immune system, which it then learns to protect itself from these specific viral particles. In essence, it creates a perfect vaccine, which essentially brings us to this main study from 2026.

A study published in the journal Science by a team of researchers from Stanford and the Arc Institute. And that's because up until now, when it comes to virology and developing these vaccines, all these breakthroughs involved us, humans, copying and modifying existing viral templates. Basically, we were editing existing natural designs. But designing a complete genome from scratch is incredibly difficult because essentially you have to take into account how all the genes interact and how they then overlap. And trying to create this high-level genomic architecture is exceptionally difficult.

As a matter of fact, here a single mutation can completely disrupt everything, making the entire process non-viable. And so to solve this, the researchers used two advanced generative AI foundation models referred as Evo 1 and Evo 2. And so just like in a typical language model similar to ChatGPT, the model is essentially a kind of a word predictor, but with the extreme power. Here, Evo was trained on generic sequences across all domains of life, including viruses, bacteria, plants, and humans. And it essentially learned the language of DNA in the same way how other language models learn languages like English and French. In essence,

allowing this model to understand relatively complex evolutionary designs in order to create a functional genome. And so here AI was instructed to generate complete genomes for a bacteriophage, with the model trained on the genome of the small bacteriophage referred to as Phi X 174. But nevertheless, being able to write these 5,400 letters in a single left-to-right pass without any human correction and without any mistakes is a huge feat of engineering, which this model was able to achieve. And out of thousands of different designs, the scientists then picked the most promising 302 designs and chemically synthesized them in a lab. And basically then tested them on E. coli bacteria. With the result being

quite surprising. 16 of these AI-generated not found in nature designs were fully functional viruses that successfully infected and killed the E. coli very effectively. In fact, some of them were even able to kill mutated strains of E. coli that developed resistance to the original strain of a very similar virus. In other words, when

it comes to the idea known as the superbug, or essentially bacterium that's able to defend itself against the war of things, here we might have discovered a new weapon. And this was the main motive behind the study, the antimicrobial resistance or AMR, a kind of a rising threat of these superbugs that are currently to CDC now infects more than 2.8 million people in the US each year, and apparently causes at least 35,000 deaths. So, this is not a small problem. And so, if a bacterium develops resistance to some kind of a virus or some kind of a medication, here by using these biological models, it can be possible to write thousands of genetically distinct phages that can then be used to infect this bacterium.

Although, the obvious next question is, "Okay, so can this be used to develop something else? Can this be dangerous?" Well, I guess here let's look at the facts. These specific phages created in this study are entirely safe for humans. And that's because once again, phages only target bacteria, and their surface proteins cannot bind to human cells. Furthermore,

the team behind the study took a lot of proactive ethical steps and deliberately excluded human infecting viruses from the training database, making sure that the model is unable to create anything that can be dangerous to humans. And all of this was of course performed in a very secure lab. But, there is obviously still hazard for the future of this technology and for the so-called dual-use research. And so, as pointed out by biosecurity experts, especially the ones from Johns Hopkins University, none of this is obviously foolproof, and some kind of a bad actor could potentially fine-tune these models including deadly human pathogens like smallpox and Ebola. And because viral genomes are pretty short, chemically synthesizing them actually is not that difficult and technically is widely accessible. What is interesting in

consensus right now being that this technology has definitely arrived. It's definitely going to be used, but the global governance and international policies in order to regulate all of this do not exist yet. They have to exist, but no one's talking about it yet. Which means that we definitely need clear frameworks and very specific discussions from organizations like NIH and of course World Health Organization that need to ensure that these tools are used for human benefit and not for something dangerous. But ultimately the study is actually still fascinating and the breakthrough is still quite incredible. And if these tools are

managed safely and are used under specific regulations, they actually have an extremely high chance to usher a completely new era for medicine by allowing us to write custom-tailored genetic vectors to cure various diseases, defeat various superbugs, and possibly find new treatments for a lot of different medical problems that have not been addressed yet. But obviously right now we still need a little bit more caution. Anyway, let me know what you think in the comments below. On that note, once we learn something else or once there are some other breakthroughs, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe, come

back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the channel Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can name me directly. Or by joining the channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support the channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll

see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.