---
video_title: "Why Advanced Aliens Probably Don’t Build Dyson Spheres"
video_id: YSjdtYnMb0c
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YSjdtYnMb0c
video_date: 20260708
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about an interesting study on the Fermi paradox, type II civilizations and...bitcoin?
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.23026
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.03249
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.17516
  #fermiparadox #bitcoin #science 
  
  0:00 How we measure alien civilizations 
  2:00 Kardashev scale conundrum 
  3:25 New model using bitcoin and artificial intelligence 
  4:08 Why bitcoin? The Karnac unit 
  5:50 Energy required to change a unit of information - Landauer limit 
  8:00 New definition for Type 2 civilization 
  8:45 AI demand is changing energy consumption 
  10:20 Energy limit speculations 
  11:40 The great filter hypothesis 
  12:30 The crossroads for humanity - conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Archibald Tuttle CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson_sphere#/media/File:Dyson_Swarm_realistic_representation_cropped.jpg
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person. This is Anton and today we're going to discuss some really intriguing propositions in regards to the famous Kardash scale. The method proposed by a Soviet astronomer Nikico Kardash measure the level of civilization and specifically technological advancement based on the total amount of energy the civilization is able to harness. With this proposition dividing [clears throat] all civilizations into three separate types, type one, two, and three. Or the planetary civilization that's eventually able to harness the energy of the entire planet, equivalent to about 10 to the^ of 16 W. The stellar

civilization that increases this output by approximately 10 billion times and can basically start building structures like the Dyson spheres. And [snorts] the last type, the galactic civilization, whose output is now 10 ^ of 36 W and they can basically harness the energy of the entire galaxy. And for humanity, the assumption is [clears throat] that we're still somewhere below one or basically we're roughly around.7 on that Kardashian scale. But today, we're going to discuss a few studies that kind of create a fundamental shift in the way we measure all of this and in the way we think about the idea of energy production and energy consumption. at

least when it comes to civilizations with the several recent studies you can find in the description in essence showing us that this old way of thinking from 1964 does have a major problem something that at least one researcher is now referring to as Kardashia's conundrum and so let's talk about these studies and these new reinterpretations of this concept linking some things that you might really not expect Bitcoin artificial intelligence and the fundamental laws of thermodynamics and heat. And so to understand these concepts and what these studies are proposing, let's first discuss some of the initial assumptions by Nikolai Kardash once again from 1964. And let's actually put a face on that name. And so this is what he looked like before he passed away. And well, his assumption was that civilization's energy would actually grow at a steady 1% per year. And based on that

prediction, he assumed that we are going to reach type two status or basically control the entire solar system in approximately 3,200 years. But there is a problem with that proposition and this assumption. And that's because when scientists recently looked at 60 years of real world energy data, they found that this 1% growth model is an extremely poor fit. In fact, the actual growth was closer to 2% but also fluctuated quite a lot on certain black swan events. For example, the year when COVID started. And moreover, if you try

to fit the current progress into a simple linear model or basically you assume that the energy increase is going to be linear here, the prediction really makes no sense. It would actually take us 1.6 quadrillion years just to reach type 2 status. This is longer than the sun will ever exist. And well, in essence, this is the conundrum. The old

way of measuring progress, just looking at how many watts we create, does not seem to work. And that's because in this case, these assumptions do not account for quality of energy production. The original scale only measures quantity, how many watts, not what we do with it, and not how it was produced. And so to solve this in this one study researchers proposed the new Kardashian Sean Nakamoto model with the name actually being just a little bit funny because well we have Kardash then we have Sean obviously named after Carl Sean specifically after the Sean's information axiom that argue that civilization advancement must also be quantified by its information richness and its ability to transmit complex data structures or basically how well and how fast we can communicate. And Nakamoto is the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, creator of Bitcoin. And it's actually the use of

Bitcoin as this yard stick that's somewhat intriguing here. Okay, before you click away, this is not a crypto video. Let's actually talk about why Bitcoin was chosen. Because here it's actually used as a really intriguing scientific measurement. And that's because Bitcoin network uses what's known as a hash rate. And it provides

the only global publicly auditable and unforgeable measure of so-called proofof work computation. Or in other words, it provides us with extremely accurate measurements of energy to information conversion. And so here the researcher behind the study proposes dividing global energy production by the Bitcoin network's hash rate in order to get a new hypothetical unit referred to as carak. Basically jewels per hash. And so here Bitcoin network represents a measurable thermodynamic anchor for this idea of computational work that basically Carl Sean was talking about back in 1973. And in this case, by

analyzing data from 2009 to 2024, the paper definitively shows that while energy production around the planet increased by a factor of four, the Carac unit that he creates in the study increased by 14 orders of magnitude or approximately 100 trillion. And that's because Bitcoin mining started with relatively weak CPUs, but now uses extremely advanced application specific integrated circuits. They're essentially used for mining Bitcoin, which is a fancy way of saying trying to break cryptographic codes extremely fast. And that means that in just the last 15 years, we dramatically improved our efficiency in turning energy into organized information, at least in that one particular example involving Bitcoin. But to resolve these propositions by Kardashov that no longer make sense here the paper synthesizes concepts from astrophysics computing and thermodynamics and also proposes immeasurable goal. It's actually

referred to as the Law's limit or the Land principle which physically establishes a bridge between physical and digital world. And this is a fundamental physical law that tries to find the minimum amount of energy inside a computing device that it must dissipate as heat in order to change one bit of information. Or just to rephrase this, when you erase a single bit or when you change a one into a zero, you essentially force it into a new known state. And this creates a kind of an entropy transfer that then has to satisfy the second law of thermodynamics. This lost entropy cannot just vanish. it must be exported into

the environment and become heat with this heat then being released into the surroundings. Now originally this was proposed by Rol Londau back in 1961 and he essentially used this to prove that information is physical and does affect classical thermodynamics. [snorts] But because back then and even more recently computers were extremely inefficient, this was actually seen as purely theoretical because in this case they would often dissipate billions of times more heat than this limit proposed. In other words, actual computers were never even close to this limit just because of heat inefficiency. But as modern silicon transistors started to shrink and become more dense, power dissipation has also become the primary bottleneck. And while

we're still a few billion times above this limit, this gap is actually closing with this study proposing that a true type 2 civilization is not just the one that burns a lot of energy, but it's really the one that becomes so efficient that it finally reaches this Lond's limit, the absolute physical minimum of energy required in order to process one bit of information. And at this point information processing becomes so efficient that at room temperatures this limit becomes very very small approximately 3 * 10 to the^ of -21 jewels or 0.018 electron volts. And so the type 2 civilization according to these new propositions is not the civilization that can build a Dyson sphere. It's a civilization that has such an efficient information processing network that the information barely generates any heat and can use extremely small amounts of energy to conduct ridiculous amounts of calculations. And it's this efficiency

that now becomes really important when talking about the next study because additional studies have now started to speculate what's going to happen to our society and our civilization as we start adopting artificial intelligence even more. And that's because the sheer speed of expansion in this case once again is way beyond anything Kardash predicted. Historically the energy demand usually grew pretty slowly but with this AI boom the requirements are now decoupling from traditional economic trends. With this research you can find any description essentially suggesting that even though the general energy use increased by about 2% the AI demand is growing electricity demands by staggering 15% per year. which is going to be unsustainable if it continues for several years. As a matter of fact, by

2050, it means that AI energy consumption is going to equal the rest of the world. With this acceleration now also creating a kind of a new problem, the Kelvin limit here. Even if we create more energy and even super clean energy such as the hydrogen fusion, due to the laws of thermodynamics, it means that every bit of energy is still going to become heat. And that means that we're not actually going to run out of fuel and instead we're going to generate so much waste heat that the planet will potentially boil in just 67 years assuming of course that 15% per year acceleration. And so this continuous growth of 15% is completely unsustainable. And in that sense, this

AI craze also creates a problem for our ability to one day become that type 2 civilization because first of all, this introduces a kind of a decoupling from previous models with the energy requirements suddenly becoming much larger and the information processing not actually being efficient enough. And it also creates a major limit on resources that our planet can only sustain for a few more decades. which is why this study creates a kind of a speculative progression that's slightly different from that first study or basically the progression of energy expansion based on the AI growth models. This is basically how long it takes to exhaust various thresholds. And well, here based on this 15% per year growth, the traditional resources such as fossil fuels and uranium are going to be exhausted in just a decade. And even if

humanity manages to unlock perfect nuclear fusion, for example, by maybe using AI to help us, even using all the deterium available in the oceans, the sheer volume of energy demand is going to deplete the fuel stock and boil the oceans in 67 years. And so if AI continues to grow, we basically have to become interplanetary or we have to achieve that Kardashian type 2 scale pretty fast. And that means that this expanded intelligence must now find a way to capture the energy of the sun and to physically build some kind of a Dyson sphere in order not to run out of fuel. In other words, the conclusion from this paper is that the AI's rapid development and advances are now forcing us to confront physical limits of the planet and actually much much sooner than we anticipated. And so what we once thought might take hundreds or even thousands of years because of this sudden growth of AI has now been compressed into mere decades. Assuming of course it continues

and the AI bubble doesn't pop which it might pretty soon. Although in this case based on these studies it actually might tell us a little bit more about this idea of great filter or basically the main reason we don't seem to see other alien species with a lot of Dyson spheres exploring the galaxy. And that's because maybe this transition from burning fuel to mastering information and creating these super intelligent AI systems may be either extremely difficult and results in a planetary collapse or a truly advanced type 2 civilization might not be a giant glowing factory and instead become extremely efficient, silent and barely visible information processor basically sitting at that Lower limit. In other words, they are just invisible to us because they've become so ridiculously good. But for us, for humanity, we now find ourselves at a kind of a crossroads. Because this might be the

most volatile part of this journey or a kind of a gateway to this potential great filter. Our artificial intelligence information engine seems to be growing faster than our ability to cool the planet. And our current success depends on shifting our focus from just using more power to actually learning from Bitcoin and processing information much more efficiently without using as much energy. Okay. Well, on that note, this was of course more speculative and moreformational. And we obviously have

no idea what's going to happen in the next few decades, but it's still kind of exciting to explore these Kardashian skill ideas and talk about why we don't really see anyone out there. the firmy paradox. Once there are some additional studies, we'll talk about this in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else.

Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.