---
video_title: "Major Evidence for Massive Black Holes Traveling Between Galaxies"
video_id: pQhmJauJAY4
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQhmJauJAY4
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about wandering or rogue super massive black holes traveling between galaxies
  Previous videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2imlUyTyJD4
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRTw2am7TdI
  Links:
  "A Wandering 35,000-Solar-Mass Black Hole Fed by a Gravitational Wake, https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.10719"
  "NASA's Swift Sees 'Wandering' Mega Black Hole Shredding Star, https://science.nasa.gov/missions/swift/nasas-swift-sees-wandering-mega-black-hole-shredding-star/"
  "The Astrophysical Journal Letters paper describing TDE 2025abcr on the outskirts of a galaxy, https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ae77f3"
  "Progenitor of the Recoiling Supermassive Black Hole RBH-1 Identified Using HST and JWST Imaging, https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.18986"
  "JWST Observations of the Double Nucleus in NGC 4486B: Possible Evidence for a Recent Binary SMBH Merger and Recoil, https://doi.org/10.3847/2041-8213/ae52ef"
  "BlackTHUNDER: Evidence of three massive black holes in a z ∼ 5 galaxy, https://dx.doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202557419"
  #blackhole #astrophysics #galaxies
  
  0:00 Wandering black hole phenomenon 
  1:50 Recent discovery of a triple black hole system 
  4:30 How did this form? 
  5:55 A black hole that ate a star 
  8:50 Stellar stream in the Milky Way 
  10:25 Wandering intermediate black hole that's forming a trail 
  13:45 Implications and conclusions 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person. This is Anton and in this video we're going to once again discuss some of the new discoveries and some of the more mysterious discoveries about the phenomenon involving black holes that are basically found in places where they technically should not be and especially super massive black holes that we actually expect to be in the center of various galaxies representing a kind of a galactic anchor. But as it turns out, sometimes super massive black holes may leave a galaxy for one reason or another and become what's known as a wandering black hole representing an object that suddenly finds itself without any galaxy or even any stars traveling through space completely by themselves. And [snorts] though these objects have been predicted to exist and some scientists try to find them for many decades, it's only recently because of the advances in various telescopes and because of new technologies that we physically started to find them in locations where there is basically nothing. And well, not so long ago, just a few months ago, we've actually discussed the officially confirmed RBH1 or the runaway super massive black hole one that was officially confirmed to exist because of a discovery of a very strange streak of gas and newborn stars that's approximately 200,000 light-years across. Something that was apparently

formed by a 10 million solar masses black hole tearing through intergalactic space at approximately 1,000 km/s. And so here, this black hole left its original galaxy approximately 70 million years ago. And because it was officially confirmed through observations by new telescopes, researchers realized that these objects must be pretty common and should exist in a lot of other locations with some of them basically being formed as a result of a galactic collision and a kind of a recoil, but others potentially formed through some other mechanism. And here, let's I guess start with one of the most recent discoveries coming from an extremely far away distance and a discovery reported in this study that's actually strange for several reasons. And that's because this is the first time in history, researchers found three separate super massive black holes inside a single galaxy. A galaxy you see right here

known as J0148-4214. And well, first this is incredibly distant here. This is at a red shift of 5.02. 02 or essentially representing the light that traveled to us for at least 12.5 billion years. So basically coming

from an extremely far away distance when the universe was only about 1.2 billion years old. And so in a study led by Dr. Hannah Uber from the Maxplank Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics here, astronomers used the James Web Space Telescope to investigate this newly discovered galaxy. And well, they did discover that it seems to contain not one, not two, but three actively feeding super massive black holes, which is basically the first in astronomy when it comes to this type of a discovery. But

obviously the question is how exactly did they find this? And how do they know these are black holes? Because technically black holes are obviously invisible. But because they're super massive and because these galaxies contain a lot of gas as the gas falls into them, they essentially start glowing extremely bright and in this case produce very specific spectral fingerprints involving hydrogen atoms moving at extreme speeds under intense gravitational pool and extreme temperatures which is essentially what this image here shows us. And so these spectral lines reveal that in the center of the galaxy there seems to be a pair of super massive black holes separated by approximately 620 lightyear with the main black hole being about 80 million solar masses and the smaller black hole being approximately 600,000.

Although ironically it's the smaller black hole that seems to be much brighter because it's consuming a lot more gas. Here this black hole is so voracious that is secretreting gas almost at its theoretical limit. the famous Eddington limit. Basically, this black hole is extremely extremely bright. But the obvious shocking part here was the third super massive black hole. the one that's actually kind of in

the middle about two million solar masses and is also very far away at 5,500 lightyears away from the center which officially makes this black hole a wandering black hole or a rogue super massive black hole that's now traveling by itself far far away from the center of the galaxy and very likely moving farther and farther until it leaves the galaxy and becomes its own object. And though obviously right now we have no idea how this formed, right now there are maybe two possibilities. First, this is a result of multiple galactic collisions with that third black hole basically being a kind of a remnant and once again a result of a gravitational recoil from several black holes colliding in a short period of time. Or it could be a leftover from a smaller galaxy that became completely consumed and stripped away by tidal forces, leaving nothing but the black hole behind. Either way, eventually the central pair of black holes is going to merge and become a single object. And

that third black hole is most likely just going to become a rogue black hole traveling across space. But as of today, this is the first time ever we've seen three active super massive black holes in a single galaxy and especially at such an early cosmic history. confirming that even early on the universe was extremely efficient at combining these objects and at [clears throat] making them interact with each other while also creating these wandering giants that will eventually end up between galaxies. Only in this case, this one is still visible to us. At some point, when there's no more gas, it's going to become completely silent and just travel through space without anyone knowing.

And so that means that sometimes these wandering black holes do end up traveling through outer space and may occasionally collide with something or absorb something suddenly revealing their presence which is apparently exactly what we've just witnessed from once again really far away. In other words, what if a super massive black hole that's somewhere out there and is hiding announces itself by devouring a star and once again somewhere on the outskirts of the galaxy almost in the intergalactic space. And so that's what scientists captured not so long ago by using the Palomar Observatory in Southern California and the Ziki transient facility that automatically scans the night sky trying to find some kind of a new explosion somewhere out there. As a matter of fact, it's capable of detecting half a million flashes of light every single night. And so to sift through all of this data, And so to sift through all of this data, astronomers developed new machine learning algorithms designed to recognize specific patterns, which is exactly what you're seeing here. This is one of such

discoveries. And this is what happens when a star drifts a little bit too close to a super massive black hole with the extreme gravitational forces, literally ripping the star apart and stretching it like a spaghetti in just a few days. At this point, the stellar debris forms a new accretion disc, creates extremely bright and very powerful emissions before slowly fading away and allowing the black hole to disappear once again. But in pretty much most cases, these TDs or tidal disruption events are only seen in centers of galaxies, the locations for super massive black holes. But in this case, the machine learning algorithm flagged a new explosion approximately 750 million light-years away from us, but also 30,000 light-years away from the center of the galaxy. So definitely

not where the central black hole should be and practically on the galactic outskirts. But first, scientists had to confirm that this was not just some kind of a supernova or just a variable star and was indeed an explosion caused by a black hole. And so here scientists relied on ultraviolet observations with the Swift telescope in order to observe the temperature and the additional properties. And while first this turned out to be pretty hot, 54,000 fah or 30,000° C, which was just a little bit too hot to be just a typical flare. But more importantly, the way that the light faded, the friendly confirmed that this was a TD and nothing else, which is now named 2025 ABCR. With this black hole

potentially being about 1 million solar masses and representing an extremely rare occurrence with such events potentially happening 1 in 10,000. But once again providing this ultimate proof that there are wandering black holes on the outskirts of various galaxies that occasionally snack on something and announce themselves in the process. Although in this case, it likely originated inside some kind of a dwarf galaxy that once again eventually got shredded apart and left nothing behind. And intriguingly, even right here in the Milky Way galaxy, there has been this unusual discovery of some kind of a perturbation caused by something that's about 1 million solar masses detected inside one of the ancient leftovers from different galaxies referred to as a stellar stream. These are basically these really large streams of stars representing leftovers from various galaxies that were observed over time.

And while one of them has this very strange formation inside as if something moved through it, disturbing all of the gas and stars in the process. And even today, it's not clear exactly what happened here with only two potential explanations feeding this data. Either this was some kind of a chunk of dark matter, which is obviously still kind of hypothetical, or this was also a wandering super massive black hole somewhere on the outskirts of the Milky Way shooting through it like a bullet. You can learn a little bit more about this discovery from a few years back in one of the videos in the description. In other words, even here in the Milky Way, we potentially have these wandering super massive black holes hiding somewhere inside the galaxy. With all of

these discoveries also forming this new mystery. So for some of these wondering black holes, if they actually move away from the center of the galaxy and into this intergalactic space, how exactly do they survive? Mostly because a lot of these black holes do require a constant supply of gas and a constant supply of captured stars in order to continuously form emissions and in order to produce galactic winds and accretion discs. Naturally, a wandering black hole that's very far away from everything should have none of that and thus never announce itself remaining silent. So, how do they feed and what actually falls into them? And that's in essence the

main premise of this recent study from August of 2026. Here, an international team led by Shin Lee and Yong Xi potentially solved this mystery by discovering a wandering intermediate mass black hole that weighs approximately 35,000 solar masses representing a much smaller object and actually an object that's even more mysterious. [snorts] Mysterious because we've always been looking for these intermediate giants, but they're extremely difficult to find with this one being found in a nearby dwarf galaxy referred as UGCA 320. approximately 20 million light-years away from us. And while intriguingly, because this black hole seems to be far away from everything else, this location contains very little background light, allowing astronomers to see this completely unobstructed from everything, creating a perfectly clean view of a black hole.

And in this case, what they observed is a direct confirmation of a process referred as Bondi Hoy Littleton accretion or BHL accretion for short. And in essence, it kind of looks like this. This shows us a black hole moving through interstellar gas and creating a bow shock as well as a dense wake behind it. And so in simple terms, imagine a boat plowing through water. As the boat moves forward, it pushes water aside, but behind the boat, the water converges, creating these very dense V-shaped wakes that spread away from the boat for a very long distance. And turns

out that a wandering black hole seems to do exactly the same. When it flows through all of this gas of its host galaxy or even some kind of an intergalactic space, as it moves through it, the gravity pulls all of this gas toward it with the gas then becoming focused and compressed behind the black hole creating a very dense downstream wake that resembles something that you see in this image. And as the black hole does all of this, it also basically creates enough material to feed itself by capturing some of the gas from the wake itself, which allows it to create this food source as it travels through empty space, or I guess relatively empty. And while this process was predicted decades ago, this is the first official observation and the first official proof with researchers here detecting three distinct gas components surrounding this black hole, all of which seem to confirm the prediction. For example, they found a low density upstream gas in front of the black hole.

The gas is actually blue shifted and is moving at -27 km/s. They also found a dense downstream wake behind the black hole with this gas being redshifted at plus 27 km/s. And they even detected very specific lines of iron and calcium that can only be created when the gas is extremely dense and involves some kind of a compression that should not be happening by itself which in this case is explained at these gravitationally focused wakes. And lastly they also detected an extremely dense clump right at the location of the black hole where everything seems to be moving at 50 km/s in a circle of emotion. And over just a few years of observations, the emissions from this black hole seem to have faded and reappeared several times as a lot of these dense clumps passed directly in front of it. Kind of like a cosmic

shutter that hit the black hole. And so here these images provide us with a visual proof of how these wandering black holes feed and how they eventually start creating something like this. Because as they move through something even larger and more massive and as some of these black holes acquire mass here the weight becomes so dense and so extreme that it physically starts to condense gas behind the black hole and form new stars. So this literally becomes a star forming engine which is actually really counterintuitive and somewhat bizarre. We normally expect black holes to destroy stars, but these giants are making them, which presents these giants in a completely different light and possibly explains quite a few mysteries out there, especially the mysteries of these bizarre stellar streams that might contain brand new stars which formed for reasons we cannot explain. And so, it's really only in

just the last few years we started to find these traveling super massive giants because up until this point, we only found them in centers of galaxies. But we now know that they can indeed wander away. They can run away from galaxies and then can actually actively feed and grow while forming new stars in their wake. But obviously as of today, we have no idea how many such objects exist out there or where most of them are hiding. Although with new operational telescopes like the Vera Rubin Observatory, we might be able to finally detect hundreds of such objects hiding in the vicinity. And for all we

know, maybe there's one on the outskirts of the Milky Way, like hinted by these recent discoveries from just a few years ago. But once we discover something else, we'll come back and talk more about this in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on

Patreon where you can find additional videos without any ads and can me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.