---
video_title: "Scientists Found a New Type of Life Hidden inside Our Bodies"
video_id: u7xJMQJy5S4
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u7xJMQJy5S4
video_date: 2026-05-27T22:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about discovery of viroids
  Links:
  https://www.cell.com/action/showPdf?pii=S0092-8674%2822%2901582-3
  https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4409/9/12/2555
  https://www.mdpi.com/2075-1729/12/1/103
  https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/advs.202204308
  https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2024.01.20.576352v1.full.pdf
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-023-38301-2
  Human viroids: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFxomyt4oDA
  #viorid #biology #science 
  
  0:00 Strange new discoveries of viroids inside everything 
  1:05 How viroids were found (not a virus) 
  2:50 How viroids function 
  4:00 Major misconception until now 
  4:55 They are everywhere 
  6:05 Viroids inside humans 
  7:40 Nobody knows what they do but here are some propositions 
  10:07 Conclusions and implications for life
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Wgscott CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virusoid#/media/File:Hammerhead_ribozyme_ribbons.png
  kyknos CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potato_spindle_tuber_viroid#/media/File:PSTviroid.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
How wonderful person this is, Anton, and today we're going to discuss some of the more unusual discoveries when it comes to microbiology that essentially explore the absolute limit of biological simplicity. Or in other words, how small and how tiny something can get while still maintaining properties we usually attribute to life. And specifically, even though we believe that viruses sometimes represent the smallest possible living things, it turns out that based on the research from the last few years, there's a whole new subviral world that seems to be filled with entities that are even simpler, smaller, and of course, much more mysterious than we ever thought. And so, in this video, let's talk about some of the studies that you can find in the description on a somewhat less known concept of so-called viroids. Although here, it's such a new concept that it technically doesn't even have a name yet. And to

understand why this is important and why this is so bizarre, let's I guess discuss the discovery first. The discovery of these naked molecules. And here the story starts in 1971 with a scientist named Theodor Diener, a Swiss-American plant pathologist who was trying to figure out what was happening to various potato crops on various farms. Because here, something was destroying potatoes with this disease referred to as potato spindle tuber disease. And for many years, biologists assumed that this was some kind of a virus that was just not identified yet.

Yet this wonderful person found something that did not fit any of the viral patterns. And specifically, he caught the infectious agent using a filter so fine that it should have let only molecules through, not entire viruses. And so, basically here, he used such a fine filter that it actually should have trapped everything including viruses. Yet it didn't, and the disease was still able to spread, which led him to a discovery of a new agent that was not a virus at all and instead was a single naked molecule of RNA. Unlike viruses here, it did not have any protective protein shell, something we refer to as a capsid, and was basically just this very tiny circular loop of genetic material only containing RNA.

And he basically named these viroids, mostly because they were virus-like but not viruses. And ever since then, ever since 1971, they remained as the smallest pathological agents in biology. In other words, we know viroids can be infectious and so far there seem to be the smallest. And to give you an idea of the scale, in comparison, the smallest virus would usually have a genome that's about 2,000 nucleotides long. A typical viroid seems to be 10 times smaller at 246 nucleotides, which basically makes them sort of like an ultimate parasite.

They don't really carry any of their own tools, they have no means of creating themselves or copying themselves, and do not code for any proteins at all. In comparison, viruses very often bring genes that tell the cell how to build new virus parts and how to recreate a viral copy. So here, viroids cannot even do that. That's because they're basically super small. And so instead, they seem to rely entirely on the host machinery and basically trick the host, and specifically the host enzyme called RNA polymerase, the protein that's responsible for reading the DNA molecules and producing RNA from it, to instead make a copy of the viroid, ignoring any DNA instructions. And

intriguingly, they seem to do this by trapping these proteins in a kind of a loop or a kind of a rolling circle mechanism where the enzyme just keeps spinning around the circular viroid RNA, creating a very long ribbon of copies, which are then cut into parts by a special part inside the viroid referred to as the ribozyme. Okay, so I know this is getting pretty complicated, but in a nutshell, this is the most primitive parasite known to us. But the thing is, for the last 50 years, so once again, since 1971, not a lot of biologists paid attention to these, mostly because pretty much everyone believed, and this is even mentioned on Wikipedia, that all known viroids are inhabitants of angiosperms, or flowering plants. In other words, everyone thought that this was just something that plants have and has no relation to us or any other organisms. In other words, viroids were mostly believed to be some kind of a niche related to plant pathology and possibly farming. Everybody believed

they were only affecting plants. But then, everything changed in 2021. Between 2021 and 2024, several major studies, you can find in the description, completely changed our understanding of the world of viroids. And mostly thanks to one specific genetic technique. It's known as metatranscriptomics.

Basically, a way to scan massive amounts of genetic data from environments like soils, oceans, and even the human gut. And to everyone's surprise, a major study in 2023 by Benjamin Lee essentially discovered viroids everywhere. They identified 11,000 new species existing in different [clears throat] types of life. Not just plants. First, they were identified inside fungi, where they're now referred to as mycoviruses. Then, they were found

inside algae, and more recently, in 2024, they were also found inside various invertebrates and, of course, vertebrates. And while at this point, it's actually unknown what most of them seem to do, because not a lot of them seem to be pathogenic, or basically, not a lot of them seem to cause disease. At least some of these mycoviruses have already been discovered to change how a fungus grows, making it grow slower and altering its physical appearance, or even making the fungus, for some reason, a lot less effective at infecting the plant host. Or basically, it seems to have a direct biocontrol over several types of fungi. So, inside fungi, they seem to control a lot of things. With

various viroids making the fungus more resistant, other viroids making them more susceptible to certain things. And obviously, because of this discovery, this research already suggested that this could be developed into a new class of biological tools to protect crops from fungal disease. But, perhaps the most interesting and the most unusual discovery was, of course, from our bodies. This was a joint Canadian-American study based on human microbiome. And in this case, a team led by Andrew Fire from Stanford University discovered a never-before-seen class of viroids that they now named obelisks.

Something that's approximately 1,000 nucleotides long, and something that once again folds into these striking rod-like shapes that though not circular, are still viroids. In other words, we also seem to contain quite a lot of them. And in this one study, they identified quite a bunch. And what makes them different from classic viroids is that they don't seem to code for proteins. Instead, they seem to encode something referred to as oblins, whose function is currently completely unknown to us. We just know that they were

detected in about 7% of human gut samples, and approximately 50% of oral samples. So, possibly not everyone contains them, or more likely, some people just contain very different types of these obelisks, with pretty much all humans containing some. With the title of the paper basically summarizing everything. Viroid-like colonist of human microbiome. And to date, scientists have already identified nearly 30,000 of them, but a lot more are probably still hidden. Essentially

representing a very unusual, massive, overlooked part of the human genome, or technically global virome, that we never knew existed until relatively recently. But I guess the scary part is that we have no idea if they're good for us or bad for us. We just know that they appear to be a common part of our internal biological landscape. So essentially, pretty much everyone seems to have them. And because these have been discovered in pretty much all other organisms, it of course raises the question of why? What exactly are they

doing inside of us? And well, quite a few scientists have already suggested that these could be so-called living fossils, which was actually the original proposition by Theodor Diener. He hypothesized that they might be the plausible candidates as the living relics from the super early development of life, and specifically the idea known as the RNA world hypothesis. Something that quite a lot of scientists today seem to support. And according to this proposition, life, when it just began on Earth, before using DNA and proteins, was possibly only using RNA. Or

actually, was RNA. And that's because RNA, unlike other molecules, is unique in its ability to store information and to also perform various chemical reactions similar to a typical protein enzyme. And so a lot of evolutionary biologists believe that life very likely started as RNA molecules before transforming into DNA and everything else. But in this case, these viroids, since they seem to contain extremely small RNA particles, potentially represent the minimal version of this, forming a kind of a self-replicating loop that uses its own ribosomes to reproduce. And so if viroids are truly the relics of ancient world, studying them gives us a direct window into how life might have functioned over 3 and 1/2 billion years ago. But not everyone

agrees with this, and some of the recent data presents a slightly different story. Because some scientists now think that viroids might be just escape pieces of much more modern genomes that essentially became separated and then created their own functioning RNA loops. And that's because in the past scientists have also discovered what's known as retrozymes, tiny pieces of viral DNA that can pop out and form circular RNA that seems to resemble a typical viroid. And so it's possible that viroids and obelisks are just pieces of cellular machinery that somehow grew their own legs and just walked away, basically becoming independent parasites instead of being a part of a functioning DNA-RNA machinery. Although realistically speaking, even though there are some explanations to how they formed, don't know and will probably not know for quite some time.

But at the moment, they basically represent at least the smallest possible piece or the absolute minimum requirement for something to basically be alive. And something that's of course subject to evolution. As of 2026, nothing smaller has been found yet. And well, based on a lot of these recent studies, what seems to be pretty clear is that we're really just scratching the surface of modern microbiology. And even though back in the days when I was going to school, a lot of textbooks described the tree of life as made out of cells and viruses, today we know that this is a very incomplete picture and there is just so much more going on inside our bodies and all of the life around us.

And in this case, we now have this subviral biosphere that's existed this whole time and has never been seen until recently. But because we have no idea if these obelisks or these microviroids make us sick or make us healthy, that's why this research is actually kind of important. For all we know, maybe it's actually helping our microbiome and is making it more stable and thus making our lives better. And so since we now have tools to see this and to study them, this is what a lot of new studies are trying to focus on. Right now though, we still have no idea. Anyway,

if you want to read these papers by yourselves, I've linked all of them in the description below. But we'll definitely come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos because this is definitely a somewhat interesting topic in microbiology. And so, as always, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can give me directly or by joining a channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support the channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful.

I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.