---
video_title: "New Measurements of the Largest Galaxy in the Universe IC 1101"
video_id: lEF3WcTtQ78
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEF3WcTtQ78
video_date: 2026-08-07T22:00:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about IC 1101
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.15340
  Other videos: https://youtu.be/8tJVtUlpbcU
  
  0:00 How large can a galaxy get? IC 1101 example 
  2:00 What are these galaxies though? BCGs 
  3:50 New observations using most powerful telescopes 
  4:40 Results 
  5:30 Is it the largest though? The measurement issues 
  7:40 Additional strange discoveries: depleted core 
  9:30 Strange sloshing gas 
  11:00 Conclusions and implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello wonderful person, this is Anton, Anthony. We're going to discuss an idea of how large a galaxy can physically get, or essentially the absolute limit of the size of a galaxy in the entire universe. And well, for a very long time in astronomy, if you looked up the largest galaxy in the universe, one name always came up, IC 1101. A monster of a galaxy sitting inside the cluster referred to as Abell 2029. A cluster that's just over a billion light years away from us. But the thing is,

measuring a galaxy is not actually very easy. It's not like measuring a table or measuring someone's height. There's no hard edge that you can define as the galactic limit, and the stars normally just get thinner and thinner until they blend with the background. But extremely recently, a team of astronomers led by Carlos Marín de la Rosa published a very detailed study using some of the most precise imagery collected from this galaxy in order to basically find its true edge and to physically confirm if it's the largest or not. With the obvious question being answered in this study being, "So, is it the largest or is there something else that beats it?" And

in some of the previous videos, we've discussed some of the potential candidates that appear to be larger. For example, this galaxy known as ESO 444-46 and ESO 306-17, as well as actually a handful of other galaxies. In pretty much every single case, it's the same problem. We don't really know exactly where the edge is, and even though some of them do appear to be larger, here all of this is still preliminary. And so today we're going to take a look at IC 1101 once again, discuss the strange physics going on inside of it, discuss its over massive black hole, and the unusual sloshing on the outskirts. But first, let's actually

define what sort of a galaxy this is and why quite a few similar galaxies exist out there. As a matter of fact, here, this is actually kind of similar to the famous M87, the galaxy that's just over 50 million light years away from us, where the Event Horizon Telescope team was able to finally capture a picture of a black hole. And so, this is essentially what I see 1101 is as well. These are technically known as BCGs, bright cluster galaxies, or I guess in simpler terms, central galaxies of various clusters that almost always seem to be much, much larger and much more massive, and they're almost always elliptical in shape. And so, they're not actually born in a similar way to the Milky Way galaxy, but are instead a result of billions and billions of years of active galactic cannibalism, or essentially galactic merger, that seems to happen way more often than in most galaxies. And so, in some of these very

dense cluster environments that very often contain hundreds of galaxies, there seems to be always this one central winner, and the massive galaxy in the center that seems to eventually consume most of the neighbors nearby. But, unlike a typical galactic merger like the ones that Milky Way experienced, here these galactic mergers are basically dry, meaning that there isn't much gas left to make new stars, and instead the stars from the much smaller galaxy just get mixed with all of the other stars, or sometimes get flung into the outer space between galaxies, becoming rogue stars in the process, which basically creates this somewhat unusual phenomenon referred to as ICL, a kind of a massive diffuse halo known as intracluster light. And almost every one of these galaxies seem to contain it, which is precisely why in most cases galaxies like IC 1101 are so ridiculously hard to measure. So, basically, where does the galaxy end, and where does this intracluster light begins? Which brings us to this new study where scientists used the Isaac Newton telescope to take some of the deepest images ever captured. But even

here, even though they were using a very powerful telescope, they basically had a major issue, light pollution. But not light pollution from Earth. Here, because IC 1101 is so faint at its edges, the light from some of the foreground stars in the Milky Way galaxy was actually affecting the measurements and washing things out. And you can kind of see some of these washed out regions right here. And to fix this, they modeled something referred to as point spread function. Basically, how the

telescope spreads out light, which was then manually subtracted by using 250 individual stars from the image. And so once they cleaned up the image, they discovered something remarkable. The main body of this galaxy seems to definitely have an actual edge that's approximately 260 parsec in radius. Or just to rephrase this, this galaxy seems to have a diameter of 1.7 million light-years, which is approximately 17 times larger than the Milky Way. And it

also seems to contain 3.4 trillion solar masses in mass in terms of stars alone. So basically, not including the dark matter and the gas. In contrast, the Milky Way galaxy is believed to be maybe 60 billion solar masses based on the recent stellar census data. Once again, this is not including dark matter. And

so essentially, here we have something that's much larger and much more massive than the Milky Way, definitely confirming that this is a huge galaxy. But is it the largest? Well, here, if you go on Wikipedia or something, there's obviously a very long list of galaxies with some appearing to be larger, but in many cases, these measurements are preliminary or even outdated. So once again, for example, ESO 383-76 is also often cited to be one of the largest with a diameter of 1.76 million light years. Whereas LEDA 2222102

is possibly 1.9 million light years. And so, where does it put this galaxy? Well, the reality is that it depends on how you measure it because in pretty much all of these studies, the actual measurements use different size tracers. For example, sometimes it's effective radius or basically the radius containing half the galactic light. And

that basically only tells us half the story because sometimes some galaxies have a lot of light in the center, but do spread out very gently and do contain a lot of stuff on the outskirts too. We also have something known as isophotal diameter that measures the galaxy down to a specific brightness level and then compares it to others. Naturally, this is also not very accurate. But there's also a new metric referred as R1 radius, basically marking where the stellar density hits a kind of a specific threshold, unofficially defining this as the edge. And so, this 2026 study confirms that IC 1101 seems to sit at the extreme upper end of this mass-size relation and these new size tracers. Or

just to rephrase this, it appears to be one of the largest galaxies we've seen and possibly is the largest. Although here this is not certain yet. And while other galaxies might have a much larger isophotal diameter or basically have more brightness distribution in the center, IC 1101 remains the most extended coherent stellar system that has been accurately measured so far. Or essentially, when it comes to the actual edge of the galaxy, it does currently appear to be the largest. And in any case, it's currently the most massive and the most extended galaxy known to us where we can actually see the structural transition of its edge. But in just the

last few months, there's also been some additional discoveries that basically present this as a somewhat strange galaxy as well. Because first of all, here scientists discovered what's referred to as a depleted core, or basically its center seems to be kind of dim. Now, normally in a lot of these galaxies, the center of the galaxy is the brightest part. But, in this galaxy, the core seems to be unusually large and also flat. As a matter of fact, it appears to be the largest galactic core known to us that's approximately 13,000 light years across. Which by itself is

very strange because normally cores are very compact and relatively dense. And the question here is, so why is it so empty? With the current proposition being referred to as core scouring. And so here, when two massive galaxies merge and when their central black holes form some kind of a binary pair, as they orbit each other, they can occasionally act as a kind of a gravitational slingshot, slowly kicking out all of the stars from the center into outskirts. In other words, imagine a kind of a sprinkler that as it spins starts to spread stars in a much wider region, which eventually makes the dense core a lot more spread out. And so after

several billion years of mergers, many of these binary black hole systems cleared out this massive hole in the middle that now makes this the largest core known to us, or at least the largest seen so far. But, it also implies that the central black hole here must be massive, too. And that does seem to be the case. So, with the more recent measurements, estimate this black hole to be 40 to even 100 billion solar masses, making this what's known as an over massive black hole, and the one that technically should not exist because it's so massive. It's essentially sitting near the absolute limit of how large black holes can get.

And once again, right now this doesn't make a lot of sense and it's somewhat difficult to explain. But, perhaps the most unusual recent discovery is actually visible right here in this new ultra-deep image. And it's basically this connection between light and hot gas. And so, right at the edge of the galaxy, researchers also discovered these unusual asymmetric structures. And two of them seem to line up perfectly with the X-ray disturbances inside the hot gas surrounding the galaxy. And so,

here imagine some kind of a bowl of hot liquid where you're basically using a spoon to slosh it back and forth. And here astronomers discovered this very bizarre sloshing spiral of gas that's nearly 2 million light-years long. And the fact that these stars are following the same sloshing pattern suggests that this galaxy hit another group of galaxies approximately 2 to 3 billion years ago. With the collision then sending a kind of a splash of gas and stars moving through this entire cluster. And this is something that has not settled yet and has been basically disturbing this whole system for the past 2 billion years. Which essentially

suggests that IC 1101 is not a finished project. It's still evolving, it's still growing, and it's still changing in shape. With this galaxy representing a kind of a glimpse into the future of the universe and a kind of an end state for many different galactic clusters. Where basically all of the galaxies in the local neighborhood eventually get consumed into one single object creating this massive elliptical structure. But, it also confirms that these artificial boundaries between being a galaxy and being in their cluster space are still kind of difficult to define and are extremely blurry. With this essentially

being the most accurate measurement so far that seems to define this galactic edge. But, at the same time for black hole studies, this is also a really important laboratory because it shows us how black holes seem to evolve the galactic shape and at the same time how they basically become extremely massive and absolutely silent in the process. because this particular black hole has not been active for a very long time. And so in any case, we definitely have some of the best measurements of this galaxy so far that put it up there on the list of some of the largest galaxies we've ever seen. Now, it's most likely not the largest, but only because we haven't measured other candidates with the same precision yet, which means that we'll probably come back and discuss this idea in some of the future videos.

And until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and content you may directly, or by joining a Telegram membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as

always, bye-bye.