---
video_title: "Bizarre Discovery in NYC Cemetery Rewrites What We Know About Bees"
video_id: uFxi7YrbNJQ
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uFxi7YrbNJQ
video_date: 20260511
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a strange discovery in a New York cemetery - bees, lots of bees
  Links:
  https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13592-026-01256-6
  #science #biology #bee 
  
  0:00 NYC cemetery with a surprise 
  1:05 5.5 million bees 
  2:27 How this was discovered 
  3:02 Regular mining bees 
  7:05 Why they are so important 
  7:45 Discovery from the NYC cemetery 
  9:25 Major implication for pollination 
  10:12 Strange new ecosystem 
  11:30 Why cemeteries? 
  13:00 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Winchell, Alexander Sketches of Creation (New York, NY: Harper & Brothers, 1870)
  VortBot CC BY SA 2.0 https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Tawny_Mining_Bee_nest_-_Andrena_Fulva_2d.jpg
  Bryan Danforth Laila Milevski/Cornell University 
  Alvesgaspar CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrenidae#/media/File:Bee_February_2008-3.jpg
  Darkone CC BY sa 2.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nomada#/media/File:Wespenbiene_Nomada_succincta_2.jpg
  Judy Gallagher - https://www.flickr.com/photos/52450054@N04/26177146031/  CC BY 2.0 
  
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
So, this would have been a perfect Halloween video, except that I guess I couldn't hold it and had to talk about this sooner. And that's because today we're going to start with the cemetery, kind of. Like a real one in New York. And usually people go to cemeteries to find some peace and quiet and possibly spend time with their loved ones who passed away. Or maybe to stay away from the living just because life can get pretty hectic in a typical city. And

sometimes, if this is a horror movie, there's also a zombie infestation. But all jokes aside, something absolutely mind-blowing has recently been discovered in one of the cemeteries in New York, and it's actually something that literally nobody expected and to some extent provided us with just a little bit of good news when it comes to nature. And so, hold on for a person. This is Anton. Today, we're going to discuss some really mind-blowing discoveries coming from this somewhat typical New York cemetery. Referred to as the East Lawn

Cemetery in Ithaca. And no, it's not zombies. Here, scientists discovered these little guys, bees. But not like one or two or even a hundred. They've discovered 5.5 million

bees literally making this their new home because turns out there's a massive underground city that was recently discovered here. And instead of being a city of undead and zombies, okay, I'm sorry. I'm going to stop. So, yeah, instead of being some kind of a unusual city, this is a city of bees that literally nobody knew existed and literally nobody expected to exist because we actually did not think bees were even capable of making this happen. And by itself, this is a profound discovery because in this case, in this video at least, you're also going to discover that bees, or at least bees as we know them, don't actually usually come in the form that produces honey that we consume. In other words, the

honey bees were used to only represent a small fraction of total bees on the entire planet. And so here this actually challenges what most of us think we know about bees. It also challenges what we know about their habitation, and it essentially reveals this somewhat bizarre world that we never knew existed under our feet. And by the way, this is just the first discovery. This seems to exist in many locations on the planet and usually in cemeteries. We'll discuss

why in a few minutes. And so here let's start the story with a bit of a walk. Here Rachel Forcade, one of the technicians at the Cornell University lab, was walking through the Eastlawn Cemetery back in 2022. And she was mostly doing this to save money on parking. And while she was walking here, she noticed something somewhat strange.

The entire ground in the cemetery was actually crawling with bees in numbers she hasn't seen before. And so she decided to collect some of them in a jar and brought them back in the lab to discuss this with Professor Bryan Danforth, one of the main researchers from the recent study we're discussing. But pretty quickly they discovered that this was not your typical honey bee, but instead a species referred to as Andrena regularis, commonly known as the regular mining bee from the family of Andrenidae. And what makes these bees different from what we're used to, or basically those social bees we usually think of when we think of bees, is actually the fact that they're not social. Unlike honey bees, which are eusocial, living in highly organized colonies, mining bees are entirely solitary. And so here every single

female is its own queen. Basically, it has its own tiny kingdom. And in comparison, in a typical honey bee colony, there is one queen, thousands of workers, and of course additional bees inside the colony. But in a mining bee's life, a single female does pretty much everything. She builds the nest, she forages for food, she lays the eggs, and she then feeds her young. And so,

there's no royalty class here. There's actually no class at all because the mother does everything. Hey, that's kind of like my mom back in the days. And so, basically, once the male bee mates with a female, his role officially ends, and the female spends her relatively short adult life, usually lasting just a few weeks, ensuring the next generation survives. But, as you can see from this image, they do actually resemble a typical honey bee quite a lot. As a

matter of fact, just like honey bees, they also produce honey, but these solitary bees do not produce surplus honey for us to harvest. And that's because, once again, they don't live in a colony, so they only have to take care of their young. And even though they do collect nectar and pollen and produce honey in the exactly the same way, instead of depositing honey inside the wax, here they mix it into a little ball to then feed it to the larva inside these underground cities. And while the main difference between honey bees and these mining bees is actually in their habitat. Most colony bees seem to prefer to live in various hives or hollow trees and are basically aerial. But, mining

bees, as the name implies, prefer to dig underground burrows consisting of the main vertical shaft and several offshooting chambers, very similar to a typical anthill. And each of these chambers contains a ball of pollen and a nectar, usually referred to as bee bread. And it's actually here, and specifically inside this bee bread, that the mining bee then lays its eggs. And after this, it basically seals the chamber with a waterproof secretion that she paints into the walls. In other words, she completely seals away her future larva because it's essentially just going to survive by consuming this bee bread. But, the thing is, even

though technically they are solitary, they're also sort of gregarious. As a matter of fact, you might see hundreds and sometimes thousands of mounds in a single patch of lawn, which are basically kind of like their neighborhood and in some sense form these bee cities. And so even though you would not call this a true colony, this is a kind of a bee neighborhood where each of these individual mothers choose to coexist in because it seems to be a kind of a prime real estate. But here's the important part. Like I mentioned, even though most of us assume that most bees are these aerial bees or honey bees, in reality, 70 to possibly 80% of all bees worldwide are actually these solitary ground nesters. In other words,

the majority of bees in the world are not honey bees and are not social. Instead, they seem to be these solitary mothers. And because of this, there are also some individual differences and even physical differences because of their lifestyles. So for example, for these mining bees, since they don't have massive hives or the queen to protect, they're also incredibly non-aggressive and almost never attack. And even though they can sting you if you squeeze them, even their stinger is usually too weak to penetrate human skin. They also have

no guard bees that would protect the typical hive. And so basically, when you see one, they're actually usually extremely passive. On top of this, even though they're technically smaller than honey bees, they seem to contain very dense feathery hairs that actually makes them ridiculously important. And so here's where we come to this most important part of all of this. Compared to typical honey bees, mining bees are actually excellent pollinators. Because

[snorts] of this excessive hair, they actually collect a lot more pollen when visiting flowers and essentially resemble something like this even after a single visit. And that means that when it comes to pollination, they seem to be the primary pollinators for a lot of locations in many different regions. And so for at least some plants and some trees, they seem to be way more efficient in terms of pollination, as this particular study discovered and as we're going to discuss very soon, because first, let's briefly talk about exactly what scientists discovered in this New York cemetery. Because following this initial discovery back in 2022, researchers decided to use what's known as the emergence traps to try to capture some of these insects and to then estimate how many exist in this region. And so between March and May 2023, the traps collected 3,200 individuals across 16 species of various mining bees with the Andrena regularis being the most dominant species. And by

using this number, they then modeled how many bees seem to be present in the entire cemetery, discovering that there seem to be at least 5.5 million members, which is three times as much as the population of Manhattan. But importantly, by using historical records, they also determined that this bee population existed at the site since the early 1900s. And so this seems to be a very stable and a very long-term habitat for at least some of the species of these bees. But even more importantly, they seem to be directly connected to various apple orchards in this region. And so here scientists

discovered that these bees seem to be incredibly efficient at pollinating fruit trees, and especially apples. And since in New York, which is also known as the Big Apple, apples are a massive industry, technically these bees should now be the state animal. And so this study notes that a lot of these mining bees seem to emerge from the ground in April, exactly when temperatures reached the point where the apple trees start to bloom. And the nearby Cornell Orchard, 600 m away, seemed to be directly pollinated by most of these bees, and involved more mining bees than honeybees coming from nearby farms. And this is a huge discovery because it actually tells us that our previous assumptions about honeybees and various pollinators were a little bit incorrect. Mostly because it

looks like these solitary bees are just so much better at pollination, especially because pollen seems to stay dry and powdery when attached to their bodies, and so it falls off and pollinates the next flower much easier. And so quite a few different plants like apples, cherries, and blueberries have been discovered to be pollinated mostly by these types of bees, not honey bees as previously assumed. And that of course means that they possess an enormous agricultural importance, something [snorts] that was literally unknown until this relatively recent study that basically started with a walk in a cemetery. And additionally, the study also reveals a somewhat complex miniature ecosystem because here it doesn't just involve mining bees. Other insects have also evolved and join in to take advantage of all of this with for example a number of cuckoo bees from the genus Nomada sort of using this for their own benefits. And these bees are

basically like the pirates of the bee world. They even kind of look like pirates, too. And that's because they technically have a cleptoparasitic lifestyle. They don't actually build their own nests or collect pollen, and instead sneak into other nests and then lay their eggs inside. Kind of like the cuckoo bird, which is why they're known as the cuckoo bees. And so once the

mining bee finishes provisioning its cell with food, they then sneak into the same nest, place their own egg, and run away. And when the cuckoo bee larva hatches, it usually kills the host larva and eats all of the stored food. And on top of this, they even discovered certain types of beetles, specifically blister beetles or Meloe americanus, which also emerge from the site as well, suggesting that it might be the other parasite of the bees, but exactly how it's doing this is currently unknown. Which basically means that this particular cemetery in New York has this really massive ecosystem that seems to have developed successfully for one simple reason. It's a cemetery. And so

the next question is, okay, so, why cemeteries? Why exactly would these bees choose a cemetery of all places? Well, it turns out that, based on some other research, cemeteries are often sentinels of biodiversity. Mostly because they're usually very quiet, very peaceful, there's no pavements, there's no construction, and there are very often no pesticides, and simply because in most cultures, you're supposed to respect the dead. And well, by association, it's actually the dead that are now protecting the living ecosystem above them. And because the soil in

cemeteries is very rarely disturbed, it also provides a very stable home for generations of bees, which they've been doing for decades and decades. And so, this aggregation in Ithaca has likely been there for at least a century, but possibly longer. And something very similar has also been discovered in separate locations, usually involving cemeteries or untouched and undisturbed lawns, with most of these locations containing hundreds of thousands of bees, and sometimes over a million. With this research pointing out the unusual importance of cemeteries as a habitat for many ground-nesting bees, and especially important for pollinating bees, which is actually a kind of an ironic discovery. Here we had this discussion and talk about a potential bee apocalypse, yet turns out quite a few bees have been surviving for quite a while, and doing exceptionally well in locations that people tend to respect a little bit more, and disturb a little bit less. And so, definitely quite an

incredible discovery. But I guess in the end, so, what have we learned from all of this? Well, first of all, we now know that there could be some kind of a bustling metropolis involving millions of different bees living in locations that we kind of take for granted, but very rarely visit. And we've also learned that most bees in the world are not social and don't live in colonies, but actually prefer to live in complete solitude. On top of this, we've also learned that in terms of pollination, it's really these solitary bees that seem to play the biggest role. And so,

even though honey bees are also important for producing honey, the process of pollination is actually done much better by someone that most of us have not been aware of until recently. And so, next time you walk around a cemetery, maybe keep your eyes on the ground because you might be actually stepping on someone's house or possibly even walking over a city of millions millions individual solitary bees. But, we'll definitely come back and talk about this in some of the future videos because this is a really cool discovery. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining our channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay

wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.

>> [music] >> Mhm.