---
video_title: "Earth’s Closest Planetary Neighbors Are Utterly Uninhabitable"
video_id: Wb9L2FTe_TI
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wb9L2FTe_TI
video_date: 2026-08-23
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the Barnard's Star planets
  Links:
  https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/550/2/stag1207/8715836?login=false
  Other videos: 
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R9AQ6YffF78
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfWRqX21T_k
  #barnardstar #exoplanet #alienlife
  
  0:00 Barnard's star planets 
  2:19 What type of a star is this? Original discovery 
  3:40 First planetary claims 
  4:30 2024 breakthroughs 
  6:28 New study and new analysis 
  8:10 Mineral differences from Earth 
  9:40 Stability and resonance 
  10:10 Implications and conclusions 
  11:45 What's next? 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Jason Wang (Caltech)/Christian Marois (NRC Herzberg) CC BY 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exoplanet#/media/File:Hr8799_orbit_hd.gif
  Marskell, Poppy, User:Richard-59 CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnard%27s_Star#/media/File:Barnard'sStarSize_en.jpg
  ESO/L. Calçada - https://www.eso.org/public/images/eso1806a/ 
  Thomas Witzke - http://tw.strahlen.org/fotoatlas1/periclase_foto.html CC BY sa 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periclase#/media/File:Periclase_-_Ronneburg,_Thuringia1.jpg
  Rob Lavinsky, iRocks.com – CC-BY-SA-3.0 
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and welcome to this is Anton, and today we're going to be discussing one of the closest stellar neighbors to the solar system. A star that teased astronomers for several decades with the possibility of several hidden worlds. And a star that we discussed previously in some of the videos in the description, referred to as the Barnard's star. The one that you see right here, captured by Steve Quirk. But a star that as you can see in this image, is actually not that big. This is

your typical M-type star or red dwarf. But despite of this, this is a very well known star because of this one property you see right here. It has the fastest proper motion of any stellar object out there. Or essentially, it appears to be moving across the night skies at the fastest velocity. And it's not just moving swiftly across the night skies, it's also approaching the solar system and will make its closest approach in approximately 90,000 years from today.

And so even though right now it's the fourth nearest star, it's going to become the closest object in the near future. But for astronomers, for an extremely long time, the holy grail when it comes to the Barnard's star was essentially trying to discover some kind of an exoplanet in its orbit. And that's because it's basically extremely close to us and is thus very easy to study. But the history of exoplanetary research is full of these false positives or essentially potential discoveries that turn out to be something else entirely. Usually some kind of a stellar flare.

And so for over 60 years, various astronomers claimed to have discovered something here, only to have those claims eventually debunked because it was just once again not a planet. But all of this changed last year in 2025. And that's because for the first time ever, it has been officially confirmed that Barnard's star does indeed host a planetary system. With the most recent study from 2026, the one we're going to be discussing today, now officially confirming the types of planets these seem to be and basically confirming that none of them are going to be Earth 2.0.

These are not habitable planets. As a matter of fact, they seem to be relatively small, somewhat strange, and extremely likely uninhabitable. But before we dive into the actual planets themselves, let's discuss the star just so that we understand what this whole system is like. And so let's discuss the Barnard's Star, an M-type red dwarf that's much smaller and much dimmer than the Sun, and only contains about 16% of the solar mass. And well, apart from this, it's also incredibly old. It

appears to be at least 10 billion years old or more than twice the age of the solar system, making this a somewhat exciting world to study because, obviously, any planet here is also going to be extremely ancient. But because of its unusual proper motion, back in 1916, the American astronomer Edward Emerson Barnard discovered that it seems to travel faster than any other known star in the night skies. And though he did not call it the Barnard's Star, eventually, because he was the one discovering it, that's kind of became its name. And here its proper motion is pretty high. In a single human lifetime, it's going to move by approximately a quarter of a degree or basically approximately half the diameter of the full moon. And so between the time

you're born [clears throat] and you die, the star will have moved by quite a large amount. But as I mentioned, for astronomers, the most exciting part of research here was always about trying to find some kind of a planet. And so for decades, they tried to find some kind of a wobble in its motion that could confirm the existence of some kind of a planet. And that's because the gravity from the planet would be pulling on a star and making it move just a little bit. And the claims for these discoveries started back in the 1960s.

Here, famously, the Dutch astronomer Peter van de Kamp claimed to find a gas giant here because he observed this kind of a motion. Although, it turns out that this was an error on his part and was actually caused by the accidental adjustment inside the telescope lens. But, every few years we had a new claim or some kind of a new discovery with all of them eventually being debunked. As a matter of fact, as recently as 2018, there was a claim of a super-Earth that was once again later disproven because it turned out to be just natural activity from the star itself and was basically just a massive flare followed by a sunspot that sometimes can resemble a planetary passage. Yet, in 2024 and in 2025, there was finally this real breakthrough. Using high-precision

instruments like the ESPRESSO spectrograph on the Very Large Telescope, not one but two independent teams differently confirmed the existence of four separate planets. And intriguingly, one of the main reasons these planets were previously invisible was because of their overall size. All four of them turned out to be what we refer to as sub-Earths. You can kind of see their masses right here, but they were all smaller than Earth and Venus and just a little bit larger than Mars. What researchers basically dub in this a Lilliputian system, a reference [clears throat] to tiny people in the Gulliver's Travels. And so, all four

planets were extremely small, much, much smaller than what we usually find. And all of them were discovered using radial velocity method. Or, once again, the method that looks at tiny red shifts and blue shifts of the star's natural emissions, which, if they happen periodically, suggests there's something orbiting around it. And so, if there's a shift in spectrum and it seems to move backwards and forwards, it basically implies the star is wobbling due to a planetary presence. But, in this case, these were extremely tiny wobbles equivalent to a few centimeters every few weeks with the least massive planet, planet E, producing a wobble that's basically just this much, which by itself makes it an incredible discovery because we're talking about detecting this motion in an enormous star. But the

biggest catch here was the fact that all four planets seem to be in extremely tight orbits ranging from about 0.01 to 0.04 astronomical units away from the star. So, much closer than Mercury to the Sun. But nevertheless, these were still extremely exciting discoveries, which is why so many scientists wanted to study them more and understand what's happening here just a little bit better.

And that's in essence what this study is all about. Here the study by Xander Byrne from Cambridge University tried to look at the chemical makeup of the star system in order to figure out the composition of these planets. And naturally because we expect planets to be made from the same stuff that the star contains as they're both made from the same cloud in the beginning. And so here [clears throat] the Cambridge team focused on the fingerprint of the elements in the Barnard star itself with researchers basically discovering a huge amount of magnesium, which [clears throat] implies that the planets very likely also contain a lot of magnesium as we expect the ratio to be relatively similar. And on Earth magnesium usually combines with other elements to form minerals like olivines, >> [snorts] >> which we know are extremely good at storing water inside them. But because

this system contains a lot of magnesium, this potentially implies that the chemistry changes as well. And so according to this study, instead of olivines, these sub-Earth planets are potentially dominated by a different mineral referred to as periclase, basically magnesium oxide. A mineral that looks like this and that's technically kind of a rare on the Earth's surface and is usually found hundreds of kilometers underground. Although pure periclase is normally colorless, various types of impurities such as iron may cause it to appear kind of grayish white, yellow, or brownish yellow, depending on what's inside. And so, inside the lower mantle of planet Earth, certain types of periclases may make up approximately 20% of everything, basically making this the second most abundant mineral and the primary host for the iron deep inside the planet. But

unlike Earth, where we usually find this inside, on these planets, it potentially is everywhere, including, of course, the surface. And that might be a problem for these planets because periclase does not store water very well, and instead usually stores a lot of other stuff like iron. With the study suggesting that because of this, it's quite likely these planets are not able to contain a lot of water, or basically have less than half the water carrying capacity of planet Earth. And on top of this, because they're so close to the star, chances are they've also been bombarded by a lot of different types of emissions from the star itself for the past 10 billion years. With the team now estimating that even if they started with atmospheres and some types of water on the surface, these atmospheres were blown off by radiation pressure in the first 2 billion years, with all of the water escaping as well, or potentially interacting with periclase, and basically turning into something like this. This is what we usually find on

Earth when periclase converts into brucite when exposed to water. Although once again, here the color could be this, or maybe even this, or possibly even this. It really depends on what kind of impurity it contains. But I mean, for all we know, maybe these planets actually have a lot of this on the surface. Although they're almost certainly airless, do not contain any water, and are still pretty hostile because of the proximity to the star.

With the additional discovery suggesting that one of the main reasons these planets are so stable is because of what's known as the orbital resonance. In other words, over billions of years, they were actually establish a kind of a pattern of motion, specifically 9 12 16 ratio, which creates a mathematical harmony and prevents them from affecting each other, allowing them to stay in the same orbit for billions of years. And as we know from the moons of Jupiter, these resonances create a kind of a permanent stabilizing effect that keeps these planets from colliding with each other and from moving into a different orbit. But, having said all this, so what exactly does this mean for the star system and for these planets? And why exactly is this so important for astronomy and for the exoplanetary research? Well, even though these

planets are most likely uninhabitable, this is still a major [clears throat] milestone. First, the study here proves that we can use chemistry of the star to predict the geology of the planets. Or basically just knowing that the planet is rocky is not enough. Here, we need to know the types of minerals on the surface in order to be able to predict if the water conditions can even exist. Second, this is also important for a kind of a bias correction. And that's

because for a very long time, researchers kept finding a lot of Jupiter-like worlds or a lot of massive planets simply because they're just much easier to see. And so it was not entirely clear if a lot of terrestrial planets exist as well. With this finding officially confirming that even tiny sub-Earth worlds seem to be pretty common, but are just extremely difficult to detect because they don't really produce a lot of effects on the star. In this case, one of the closest stars contains three such planets. And that means that future missions, such as the ESA's Plato mission and instruments like ANDES on the Extremely Large Telescope, will actually be able to use extremely similar techniques to possibly find even smaller planets, the likes of which we cannot even imagine right now. Which

means that we're moving from just finding planets to now actually being able to characterize their properties and even speculate about their surfaces and their interiors just based on what we see from the star. Well, then actually, at some point this has to be confirmed somehow, most likely through additional observations with maybe infrared telescopes by observing these planets directly. But in the end, the Barnard star reminds us that nearby does not mean similar to the solar system or similar to planet Earth. Because this is basically as alien as a planet can be and as different from planet Earth as we can imagine a terrestrial planet to be. And while it might be disappointing that the closest single star with four planets does not contain anything habitable, for science this is still an incredible feat. Basically being able to

observe and characterize a planet six light-years away from us. And as our technology improves, at some point we might be able to find at least one of these planets that may contain conditions that we could even call habitable. We just haven't found one of those yet. On that note, once we discover something else about the Barnard star or some other exciting star system, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support the show on Patreon where

you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can hear me directly, or by joining our channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support the channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.