---
video_title: "We Just Found Over 1,000 Winged Galaxies (And They Defy Explanation)"
video_id: DXyOUM4LAvY
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DXyOUM4LAvY
video_date: 20260629
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about radio winged galaxies
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.22347v1
  Other videos: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A7SiM0oA-4M
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CU5ImOoNqxQ
  #science #astronomy #radiogalaxy
  
  0:00 New types of galaxies - Winged Radio Galaxies 
  2:10 Here's what they're all about 
  3:20 Why radio galaxies are different 
  4:50 New discoveries and how this was found 
  6:10 New classes and properties 
  7:15 How do they form? 3 possible explanations 
  9:10 Implications and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  MoreInput - CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centaurus_A#/media/File:RadioCenA-EN.png
  Martijn Oei CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_galaxy#/media/File:GRGAlcyoneusIRBlueRadioOrange.png
  Mhardcastle CC BY SA 3.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_galaxy#/media/File:Radio_galaxy_3C98.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello everyone, this is Anton, and today we're going to once again discuss a very unusual type of a galaxy that only recently started to be discovered and whose origin and exact properties were more or less unknown until some of these recent studies. And here we're talking about a subset of galaxies referred to as winged radio galaxies. Or basically galaxies that look like they have wings. And galaxies whose morphology is not that easy to explain. But in this case, these galaxies can only be seen with radio telescopes and actually look entirely different in optical light or in other wavelengths. And though for our

eyes or for optical telescopes, these galaxies would form familiar shapes such as spirals or elliptical shapes, when we switch to radio waves, these galaxies and technically the entire universe transforms completely. And we actually discussed some of these observations in one of the recent videos because the radio collaboration known as LOFAR has recently created the largest radio map of the entire universe. The map containing millions of different structures, including of course these newly discovered winged formations. But astronomers didn't actually expect to find this because they actually thought they'll find something that resembles this. Massive jets of plasma blasting from centers of galaxies stretching millions of light-years. And this is of

course what we usually see because these are formations created by central black holes. And some of them are so big, they form some of the largest structures in the universe. This is Alcyoneus, a giant radio galaxy 60 million light-years across. You can learn about Alcyoneus in one of the previous videos in the description. And so for a very long time, most of these radio galaxies followed a standard pattern. Two giant

lobes of gas on either side of the galaxy. With many similar shapes discovered all over the place. As a matter of fact, this one is probably the most famous of them all and is also the closest to us. The galaxy known as Centaurus A, whose radio loops have been studied for a very long time, but that naturally looks very different in the optical light. But in the last few years, astronomers have also found a somewhat rare type of a radio galaxy that was basically a kind of a strange subset, winged radio galaxies. Here's

actually one of the most famous ones discovered a few years back. And these galaxies don't just have two loops, they seem to have a kind of an extra pair or a fainter low brightness loop that sometimes resembles wings. And it actually gives them a distinct X or even Z shape, which is what these galaxies are now referred to as, X-shaped or Z-shaped galaxies. But until very recently, these were considered to be super rare and were also a kind of a cosmic enigma because nobody actually knew exactly how these shapes form. But today we're going to discuss this recent study, a study by Suman Kumar released in May of 2026, which has just expanded this cosmic class by over 1,000 new discoveries. Many of them containing

even stranger shapes and many of them forming something that's super difficult to explain. Although obviously there are some explanations. But to try to understand exactly how this forms or what this even is, we first have to briefly discuss radio galaxies and how they normally form their jets. And so here we need to first discuss the basics. And that's because a radio galaxy is always some kind of an active galaxy that's just incredibly luminous in radio wavelengths. And this is of

course the result of the active supermassive black hole right inside the core. We call these active galactic nuclei or AGN. And so as the black hole feeds on the surrounding gas and the surrounding dust, normally it produces two opposite jets. But as these jets travel, they sometimes hit a lot of thin gas between galaxies, especially if this is happening inside a galactic cluster, which contains a lot of gas between galaxies, which then causes the jets to slow down, spread out, and form these giant lobes that start to emit synchrotron radiation from the interaction of electrons. And this is what produces these radio emissions. And

so basically, the change in velocity and acceleration of these jets starts to produce these radio signals. But here we pretty much always expect a double lobe structure, or basically two jets. Would this once again mean a kind of a stereotype? And so, how exactly would you get a winged radio galaxy? So essentially, how would something like this form? And so this represents a

fascinating deviation from classical symmetry. But for many decades, we've only known of a handful, and even there they were quite different and were believed to be produced by different phenomena. But this new discovery conducted using a massive search using the data from LOFAR has now officially confirmed over a thousand more. And this was actually only discovered because this telescope looked at very low frequencies, which were previously invisible to us because other telescopes focused on different wavelengths. And this was important because these wings seem to represent much older, or I guess much more aged plasma that just does not glow as brightly and does not produce higher frequencies. And so this is only

visible to much more sensitive telescopes and telescopes able to see much longer wavelengths. And so here, by scanning a data set of 4.3 million radio sources, this is of course that map we discussed in the previous video, and also by focusing on structures that were larger than the galaxy, specifically larger than 20 arc seconds in the night skies, they were able to confirm 200,000 initial candidates. And out of all of these candidates, 621 were confirmed to be wing galaxies, and 403 were confirmed to be possible wing radio galaxy candidates. With this study effectively confirming that this is not a rare subclass of galaxies, but instead seems to be a more or less common phenomenon, because quite a few of them seem to exist out there. And because so many

have been discovered, researchers could now definitely divide them into two additional subclasses. The X-shaped radio galaxies, or XRG's, and the Z-shaped, ZRG's. And so for the X-shaped, like the ones you see right here, wings seem to emerge directly from the center of the galaxy, with at least 300 AU of these discovered in this study. This is most likely formed by some kind of a different phenomenon from the Z-shape. And the Z-shaped radio galaxies seem to contain wings that branch off from the outer edges of the primary lobe, creating a kind of a Z or S-shape. As if the jets bounced off and

went in a separate direction. 239 of these were found. And so basically, both types seem to be pretty common, but seem to form from a different phenomenon. As a matter of fact, the X-shaped galaxies seem to have much steeper spectral indices compared to the Z-shaped galaxies. In simpler terms, this means that the X-shaped galaxies are likely made out of plasma that's much older and much more diffuse, whereas the Z-shapes are younger and the plasma is a lot more compact. But the obvious question is, of

course, okay, so what exactly is this and how is it formed? So how does such a galaxy get its wings? Well, right now there is no one answer, but there are possibly several explanations. And actually, three main explanations based on this study. The first explanation involves a backflow model. This is the

most widely accepted explanation for the X-shaped galaxies. It suggests that as the jet travels outwards, the plasma eventually hits a wall of some kind of a dense intergalactic gas and is then deflected back toward the center. And so if the galaxy is shaped like an oval or an elliptical galaxy, the plasma just follows the path of least resistance, normally along some kind of a shorter axis, which eventually results in these wings. So essentially jet in this case bounces off something and spreads back into the galaxy. Then we have the second explanation referred to as the spin flip or jet reorientation model. And here

they suggest that the wings are actually a kind of a relic from a past event. And specifically, if the two galaxies merge, their supermassive black holes will eventually collide and merge as well. And this violent collision can suddenly flip the axis of the black hole's spin, causing the jets to point in a completely new direction. And so the wings we see are just the fading remnants of the old jets, while the primary lobes are the new jets. So basically we had two jets before galaxies collided, now we have two new jets. And lastly, the third explanation

is a little bit simpler. Maybe there are just two central black holes. Or essentially, it's possible that some of these galaxies host two active black holes, each shooting its own pair of jets in different directions. But exactly which explanation applies to which galaxy is of course unknown. As a matter of fact, so far none of these explanations seem to explain any of these galaxies too well. But in general,

this definitely tells us a lot more about the violent history of galaxies and their black holes, and thus suggest that quite a lot of galaxies out there seem to go through some kind of a major event that completely changes the jets. With this study also discovering that at least 16% of these galaxies also qualify as giants. Or basically in terms of the linear size from end to end, a lot of them seem to be over 2.2 million light years across. That's approximately 20 times larger than the Milky Way galaxy, with one candidate, a galaxy G1155 plus 4029, measuring at nearly 6 million light years. One of the largest radio

galaxies discovered. And well, finding so many giants suggests that the mechanism triggering the formation of these wings might also be responsible for making these galaxies grow so ridiculously large. In other words, whatever is happening here seems to be directly connected and also helps us understand how many of these black holes pump energy back into the environment, which for many galaxies stops star formation and makes them almost entirely dead, eventually making them become somewhat red in color. But naturally, this is just the first step because radio astronomy is only getting better and better. But the researchers now planning a follow-up, especially because they want to capture these galaxies in both optical and infrared light in order to find out how the host galaxy reacts to these formations and changes over time. Because for many of these wing

galaxies, only radio image exists for now. And so, by comparing radio observations with the infrared and optical measurements, it might help scientists to figure out exactly how this forms because they might contain, for example, signs of mergers or even binary black holes. But anyway, at least for now, this is just one of the latest unusual discoveries from the rest of the universe, these very strange winged cosmic structures. And it's also a reminder that the more sensitive the telescopes become, the more we realize the universe is actually much more unusual than we thought. On that note, once we find out more, we'll come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for

watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and you name me directly or by joining a channel membership to you access? You can also put this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.