---
video_title: "New Type of Planets Confirmed and It's Super Weird: Mega-Earths"
video_id: trKcz0JXkSk
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trKcz0JXkSk
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a major confirmation for a new type of planets out there: MegaEarths
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.24682
  Previous videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idohfn-EceY
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L7z-VeAhwCw
  https://youtu.be/HHfKj5I2_E8
  https://youtu.be/mkyGK2FQs7c
  #exoplanets #megaearth #astronomy 
  
  0:00 New type of a planet confirmed - Megaearths 
  1:30 GJ 523b and why it makes no sense 
  2:55 What is a Megaearth though? 
  5:30 How scientists figured this out 
  7:30 How and why did this form? 
  11:40 Additional candidates that are even more extreme 
  13:01 Implications and conclusions 
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Nrco0e CC BY 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mega-Earth#/media/File:TOI-1853_b_size_comparison.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
So, it's actually been quite a while since we've discussed some kind of a new type of a planet or some kind of an unusual planet somewhere out there in outer space. And that's because in the last few years, most of the planets discovered so far essentially fell under one of known categories. For example, super Jupiters and hot Jupiters or objects like super Earths that scientists have discovered pretty much everywhere. Everywhere except for the solar system, of course. But that's of course until now because in this recent study that just came out, scientists have now officially confirmed an existence of a completely new type of a planet. In this case, a terrestrial

planet that's like nothing we've seen before and like nothing we can even imagine because it is absolutely extreme. And so in this video, we're going to discuss this relatively recent study by Maxwell Croft and the team you see on the screen that has now officially confirmed the existence of a planet referred to as Giza 523b that seems to represent a new type of exoplanets referred to as mega earths. Planets that are even more extreme than super Earths that were already quite exotic and quite difficult to explain. And so here at a distance of about 87 lighty years away from us in a constellation of Camilo Parardalis, researchers found this somewhat typical orange star, the star Giza 523 that was actually hiding this really bizarre planet. A planet that on paper even sounds like some kind of a typo because in terms of size, it's about 2 and 1/2 times wider than Earth. But in terms of

mass, it's approximately 23 and 1/2 times more massive, which is even more massive than planet Neptune. despite the fact that it's smaller than Neptune in size. And that of course is really strange. And we've never seen anything like this ever before. And that's because when you actually measure the density of this planet, it turns out to be terrestrial. It has a density of

about 7.8 8 g per cm cube, which is even higher than Earth's 5.5, which essentially implies that this is a much denser, much more massive, and much larger terrestrial planet, very likely containing super bizarre surface and possibly representing a giant hyperdense bowl of solid rock and metal with very likely no hydrogen and helium on its surface, but possibly some kind of an atmosphere. And that's where this mystery begins. Because according to some of the best computer simulations involving planetary formation, any planet that grows to these sizes and these masses is supposed to immediately pull in a massive envelope of gas from the surrounding disc and basically turn into a typical gas giant not so different from what Saturn would be as well. But in this case, for some reason,

Giza 523b didn't. It remained rocky and solid. And so let's explore the study and this planet in a bit more detail and discuss exactly what scientists found here and what they think is happening. And I guess let's start with the term first. So what exactly is a mega earth and why do we even need this term in astronomy? Well technically for over a

decade astronomers have occasionally [clears throat] used this phrase but usually informally. For example, planets like Kepler 10C, which was discovered in 2014, was also at first defined as a mega earth because it has a mass of 17 times planet Earth and was also at first believed to be rocky. But a further reanalysis determined that it was only 7.4 Earth masses and in reality was most likely some kind of a mini Neptune. A type of a planet were discovered in many different star systems. And well, in the

last 10 years, scientists did discover a lot of different main actions and super Earths, but pretty much most of them were either one or the other. As a matter of fact, as you can see from this picture, there was always this planetary radius gap where in terms of size between a typical mini Neptune and a typical super Earth, there was actually not that many discoveries. And so this definition for a mega earth was not very clear and was potentially not even needed. But in this recent study now the definition is that it's basically any planet with a radius between 2.1 and 5 * planet earth but also whose bulk density is 5.5 g per cm cube or higher which is

of course the density of earth and can only exist on a terrestrial planet that's not a gas giant. And the reason why they chose 2.1 Earth radi is because we know that anything below 1.5 radi is almost always going to be terrestrial. either some kind of a super earth or a mini earth with a potentially thin atmosphere. But normally above this

radius we find a lot of sub neptions or basically gas giants which contain a lot of gases on the surface and usually have large sizes because of this enormously thick atmosphere mostly contain hydrogen and helium. And so according to most models we had so far, planets above 2.1 radi should not really be rocky anymore because at this point their gravity is so strong that they should have accreted a lot of gas during the formation period assuming they formed in a regular way. And that's where the mega earth concept seems to defy this rule. It seems to occupy the same radius space as a typical sub neptune but instead contains very small size and thus extremely high density. and sub by using an advanced

statistical model and a new catalog of exoplanets. In 2026, the team behind the study confirmed that at least some of these highdensity worlds seem to exist and are not just statistical errors. As a matter of fact, they seem to form a statistically distinct fourth group of planets that we never knew existed until now. And this would be separate from super Earths, subnons, and gas giants. But the question is, how do they know this? And how exactly was all of this

measured? Well, to confirm the planet's existence and of course its measurements, here they used an extremely advanced specttograph referred to as NAD, the Nan Explorer exoplanet investigations with Doppler spectroscopy instrument. And yeah, the acronym here does not make a lot of sense even to me. But the point is that this is an extremely precise measurement instrument that's able to measure the stars velocity change down to about 1 m/s. But in essence, this is how this instrument works. It uses these extremely precise

detections of a subtle gravitational wobble of a star caused by the planet's orbit around it. And so here by seeing how much the star wobbles, they can precisely calculate the planetary mass and thus find out the overall density if we actually know the size of the planet which can be determined by looking at the passage of the planet in front of the star. But here scientists did not stop at the mass and the density and were even able to recreate the overall orbit of the planet. while also determining the overall age of the system. And this was actually done by using the method known as gyrorocrronology, the measurement of how fast the star spins in order to estimate its age and to determine that it's basically 169 million years old, which in terms of stars and planets is relatively young. In comparison, our

solar system and the sun are 4 1/2 billion years old. While also discovering that for some reason, this planet seems to have an extremely inclined orbit. Here it seems to be about 72° where it's basically orbiting almost over the polar regions of the star and also finding no additional planets in the system so far. Essentially confirming that this is maybe the only main planet and because it's alone and has this unusual polar orbit as well as the fact that this is a massive terrestrial world. It basically presents astronomers with a massive puzzle. And the puzzle being okay so how

and why did this form and why does it have such a strange inclined orbit. And here just for a contrast it's kind of important to understand how we usually think planets form and why this one does not make sense. And so in a typical planetary science model, we believe that these solid planets usually grow relatively slowly at first, colliding and merging from various planet decimals or smaller rocks inside the protolanetary disc. This is of course something we've seen in a lot of different systems with many such objects detected over time. But there is a bit of a limit. Once the solid core reaches

certain mass, usually 10 to 20 times the mass of Earth, it becomes so gravitationally intense, that it starts to vacuum up huge amounts of gas from its surrounding. In astronomy, this is usually referred to as runaway gas accretion, and this has also been seen in several systems. This actually creates an enormous gap in the disk of the planetary system and can be easily visible from really far away. And eventually once the disc dissipates, what's left behind is a massive gas giant. Yet here we have an object that has 23 Earth masses, but it's just a chunk of solid material. With authors

now proposing four possible explanations for its formation, and each one tells us slightly different cosmic story. First, we have the proposition involving its orbit and some kind of tidal stripping. And so in this scenario, this planet formed as a gas giant at first and possibly really far away from the star, but a gravitational encounter with some kind of an object, possibly a planet that eventually got kicked out of the system, dramatically change its orbit, bringing it much closer to the star, but also causing the star to use its intense heat and gravity to tidily strip away everything from the surface, leaving nothing but this naked rocky core behind. And we actually have a term for these planets and they're usually called Konian planets. You can learn a little bit more about this in one of the previous videos in the description. But

there is a bit of a problem with this hypothesis. Because of the timeline and the overall age of the system, it's supposed to take much much much longer for this planet to settle in its current state. And so 170 million years is just not enough. Okay. The second explanation involves some kind of a disc misalignment. Maybe the planet didn't

actually tilt after it formed and instead it's possible that the entire disc of dust and gas around the star system was actually misaligned from the beginning because of some kind of a passage of a nearby star or some kind of a turbulent magnetism inside the molecular cloud. And so here the planet might have actually formed on this tilted plane from the beginning. But that still does not explain why it seems to have no gas and why it did not become a gas giant. The third hypothesis involves some kind of a giant impact. And so maybe there were actually several very large rocky super Earths with all of them orbiting very close together.

But as their orbits became unstable, they basically smashed into each other and created a series of colossal collisions that were so energetic that they literally blasted away any additional gas from the surface of those planets, merging into this one giant mega earth and basically relocating it into a different orbit. Intriggonally right now this is maybe the best explanation with the last hypothesis involving what's known as hybrid pebble planetessimal accretion which suggests that instead of accreating smaller pieces or basically smaller rocks this object might have been accreating much larger planetessimals which made this young growing planet extremely extremely hot and this thermal support prevented the gas from cooling down and from contracting on the surface which basically prevented this object from accumulating an enormous gas atmosphere. But despite this being a somewhat elegant proposition, it would not explain the orbit. And so, as of today, as of right now, this being the result of massive collisions seems to make the most sense. But the important part in the study is the fact that this is maybe not the only such object. Or to be more

specific, the authors in the study checked the NASA catalog of various exoplanets that was released not so long ago and essentially confirmed that there might be a lot of other candidates. As of 2026, they've now identified 13 precisely characterized mega earths with some of them being even more extreme than Giza 523b. For example, Tess 1853b seems to be at least 3 1/2 times the radius of Earth with a staggering 73 Earth masses in terms of mass, which is actually more massive than Saturn and would suggest density of 9.7 g per cm cube, implying that this is a massive huge object made almost entirely out of rock, iron, and maybe some water on the surface with quite a few such objects discovered and identified in this table. And this basically shows us a relatively incredible diversity of these somewhat bizarre worlds that have been mostly ignored until recently. And though some

of them like Giza 523b seem to be lonely and isolated, others seem to come from multilanetary systems. And they also seem to orbit different types of stars and contain different temperatures. In other words, this planet is definitely not a fluke and they do seem to sometimes happen in certain systems. Now, right now, this is one of the rarest types of exoplanets discovered, but there seem to be at least 13 out of several thousand confirmed to date, and that suggests some kind of a alternative pathway of planetary evolution that we still don't really understand very well. I mean, it is possible that all of them were formed as a result of massive multiple collisions. But right now, we

actually don't know. And here this is of course really important because once again this highlights how little we know about the universe and how terrestrial planets sometimes actually end up being super extreme. And even though previously scientists thought that super Earths were already kind of strange here this survey shows us that some planets are actually even more ridiculous challenging our most basic assumptions about how matter behaves under extreme gravity. And depending on the astronomer you talk to, some have even suggested that on the surface of these planets, we might actually have some really bizarre supercritical water conditions or these superc critical oceans that might contain really bizarre states of ice that we cannot even reproduce in laboratories on Earth. And you can learn about some of these discoveries in one of the videos in the description. But in

essence, this might represent a major physical boundary where water becomes something entirely different. And so in the coming years, hopefully we'll hear more about these unusual worlds. And with telescopes like the James Web, we might even be able to capture what's happening on a surface by analyzing the spectroscopy of the light coming from their reflections as this planet passes behind the star. And so once we know a little bit more about its surface and its atmosphere, we might discover what's happening here after all. But as of today, as of mid 2026, Gua 523b and these other 12 planets you see on the list remain some of the most fascinating exoplanets we've ever seen and ever detected in the history of astronomy.

Which means that we'll definitely come back and discuss this more in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching. Subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel where you can find additional videos, videos without ins and directly or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful.

I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.