---
video_title: "What Looking at an Eclipse Actually Does to Your Eyes"
video_id: eNJWlFXa-8Y
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eNJWlFXa-8Y
video_date: 2026-08-14T22:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about the 2026 solar eclipse and why your eyes may be hurting
  Links:
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11309525/pdf/OJO-17-173.pdf
  https://www.aao.org/eye-health/tips-prevention/solar-eclipse-eye-safety
  https://eyewiki.org/Solar_Retinopathy
  Other videos:
  https://youtu.be/2eoimjL7-rE
  https://youtu.be/5-FNxZX-BXg
  #eclipse #solareclipse #retinopathy 
  
  0:00 Once in a generation solar eclipse and the google phenomenon 
  2:25 Do NOT look at the Sun 
  3:08 Historical examples and how emergency system handled it 
  5:45 Eye strain effects and why it happens 
  8:00 Solar retinopathy and permanent eye damage 
  10:50 Paradox of eclipse observation 
  11:30 Delayed symptoms 
  12:30 Is it permanent? 
  13:30 Possible therapy? Summary and conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and for business, this is Anton, and if you're from certain parts of Europe, you potentially have just experienced once-in-a-generation type of an event, this, the total solar eclipse. And the thing is, every time this type of an event happens, there is a rather fascinating social and biological phenomenon that seems to occur shortly after the moon passes in front of the sun. Okay, technically there are quite a lot of different phenomena, some which we'll discuss in videos in the description, but today we're going to discuss one particular phenomenon that might be affecting you as well, assuming you watch this in real time. And you can sort of see it visualized right here. It's visible as these very strange search spikes on Google following major solar eclipses in various locations. And

here we have the 2017 and the 2024 spike, and almost a vertical spike of people typing things like, "My eyes hurt, eye damage, and even did I go blind?" And surprisingly, this happens like clockwork, and it's happening right now as well. And that's because thousands and thousands of people suddenly rush to Google gripped by a sudden panic that they permanently damaged their vision because they basically pulled a Donald Trump. They looked at the eclipse without protection, or possibly used something that was not really protecting them, such as actually what I did back in the days by using an empty CD in front of the sun, thinking that somehow it's actually going to make things better. Uh, and FYI, yeah, don't do that either. I

actually got pretty lucky my vision did not get worse. And so the question is, what exactly is happening here, and is this actually going to lead to permanent eye damage, or are our bodies just playing some kind of a trick on us, and people that are searching for this might actually be okay? And so to understand this, we basically need to separate public anxiety from actual medical facts, and look at some of the detailed studies published in major medical journals, diving into this somewhat bizarre topic that seems to reoccur every few years. And it's actually going to be very relevant very soon in 2027 when planet Earth is going to experience one of the longest eclipses ever seen. And I can only imagine even more people are going to be doing this followed by the Google search afterwards. And so in

this video we're going to discuss exactly what's possibly happening with most people, but also discuss a condition called solar retinopathy and look at what science has about recovering from this damage. But I guess let's start with something that should be obvious. Do not look at the sun, which I guess is kind of ironic because that's something we constantly hear from various public health agencies and especially before a major eclipse. But human curiosity is a very powerful force, which is why some people, actually a lot of people, still do. But for a lot of these public health agencies, there's always a hazard that because of this the emergency departments might become completely overwhelmed because many people might suddenly have major issues with their eyes. And so the question is does the

data actually support this and is this a reasonable fear? And here we do have a very interesting historical example. Following a total solar eclipse in 1999 in the UK, a lot of public health units were on high alert and approximately 70 cases of visual problems were officially reported in the country with the Moorfields Eye Hospital in London receiving approximately 1,600 helpline calls. Other hospitals also receiving a few hundred calls each with 220 people presenting themselves directly into the emergency department and 64 patients attending special eclipse clinics in Birmingham. In other words, there were definitely a lot of emergencies following the eclipse, but the reality is that none of them were serious damage. They all turned out to be false

alarms. Out of all these presentations and following eye examinations, only 14 cases of actual solar retinopathy were officially confirmed at the end. And in pretty much all cases, they all happened because people look at the sun without any protection at all, including one serious case where a patient reportedly looked at the sun for approximately 20 minutes. And honestly, I don't even know what to say to that, but definitely do not do that. And so in the end, following months of investigations and analysis, researchers found that out of 45 people who actually attended a vision therapy, 20 reported visual symptoms, but only five had visible retinal changes. In other words, the actual

physical damage only seemed to occur in some people, but not most. And if we fast forward to 2024, where the biggest spike on this graph representing the total solar eclipse in North America, here another massive study that examined various emergency departments in America discovered that compared to the 853 visits before the eclipse related to various types of eye injury, following the eclipse, this increased to 921, or just under 70 more. And so statistically speaking, the difference was completely insignificant. And so basically for public health departments, there was no measurable surge in emergencies. Although here I guess the major side note is that attending an emergency room in the UK is basically free, whereas in US you do pay quite a lot. And so in

some sense, you cannot actually compare these directly. But importantly, the source confirms that this public messaging definitely works, and at least in 2024, no actual physical eye damage was reported following weeks and weeks of preparation before the eclipse. But if the emergency rooms are not being overwhelmed, why is everyone searching Google because their eyes hurt or are possibly scared of eye damage? And so here it's important to talk about these two potential conditions that are causing this, and basically what to do if you think you might be one of these people. And the first and the most obvious concept we have to understand is simple eye strain. And so, if your eyes

feel sore, if they kind of hurt a little bit, and if they feel super dry following the eclipse, according to American Academy of Ophthalmology, it's most likely the result of eye strain, not an actual permanent solar damage. And there are a couple of very simple biological reasons for this. First, there is the pupil dilation. For example, [clears throat] if you were actually wearing the solar eclipse glasses, especially the certified types, they were able to filter out 99.99% of sunlight completely. And when you put

them on, your eyes are suddenly in near total darkness, forcing your pupils to dilate in a very similar way to what usually happens if you turn the lights off at night. But following this, what do you do? Well, you take off the glasses, possibly to talk to your friends or to look around, and your pupils are suddenly blasted with bright daylight, forcing them to contract rapidly. And doing this repeatedly puts an immense amount of physical stress on your iris, and specifically the muscles responsible for dilation. This alone is enough to cause a lot of pain. But

second, there's also just simple squinting and focusing that a lot of people usually do during this time, because you're staring at a very distant, but also relatively small astronomically event, possibly for up to an hour. And this forces your eyes to use very tiny muscles inside of them, and also on your forehead, in a somewhat unnatural way. With this particular activity even actually having a name. This is today known as the the computer vision syndrome, a very similar muscle fatigue you usually get from staring at the screen, especially at night in a dark room. And in this case, the muscle fatigue does actually cause real physical pain. In this case, your eyes

will actually once again feel dry, they will most likely hurt, and you might even get a tension headache. But, the obvious good news is that all of this is purely temporary. All of this resolves itself within a few hours and following proper hydration and rest. And so, essentially, for most people, typing in a search that their eyes hurt will usually have everything resolved by itself within just a few days. But, there's still a very slight chance for something else. A kind of a pain with

danger that we also have to discuss. And that's because there is a real danger from a condition referred to as solar retinopathy, also known as photic or eclipse retinopathy, where biology gets exceptionally deceptive. Now, I'm going to post the link for this in the description below, but as the name implies, it's basically something to do with your retina. And well, retina is that light-sensitive tissue lining the back of your eye that captures images and sends them to your brain. But, the thing is, it has absolutely no pain receptors at all. It cannot feel pain.

It cannot even feel any heat, and can thus feel nothing if it's being damaged, which actually creates a very bizarre psychological trap. And that's because during a partial eclipse, because the moon blocks a large portion of the sun and the sky starts to appear dimmer, our natural reflex of looking away and squinting is physically suppressed. And so, it technically becomes much easier to look at the sun directly, sometimes for seconds or in some cases, minutes. But, even though the sun does look less bright, the intense radiation coming from the sun is still passing through the lens of your eye and is still being directly focused on the central part of the retina referred to as macula, responsible for the sharpest, detailed vision. And here, in some cases, there are two mechanisms that can actually cause serious damage, thermal and photochemical. And so, first, the light

absorption by the cells in your retina raises the temperature of the retinal tissue by up to 25° C, which can literally cook the proteins inside the cells, causing a physical thermal burn. That's essentially what you've seen in this image. And typically, this only happens if you look at the sun through a focused optical aids, like a telescope or binoculars. But, the second and a much more common damage is a photochemical damage. This does not require extreme heat and can actually happen even if the temperature increases by just 4° C. Because in this

case, this creates a kind of a cascade of chemical reactions inside the cells, triggering an event referred to as lipid and protein peroxidation. Or essentially, the light creates highly reactive oxygen species that then physically destroy photoreceptors, causing them to break down. And this is something that can happen very, very quickly. With some of the famous case studies examining patients who watched a partial eclipse, reporting this damage after just 10 to 20 seconds. And this basically involved physical destruction of photoreceptors that surprisingly mirrored the exact shape of the crescent from the partial eclipse. In other

words, looking at the eclipse without protection for just 10 seconds reproduced the exactly same shape on the retina of the patient. But, they had no idea this happened or that this was even happening because once again, retina does not feel pain. And that's of course that paradox of the solar eclipse observations. If your eyes hurt, you might think your eyes are damaged, but in reality, it could just be some kind of an eye strain. In contrast, you might not feel any pain, but the eye could be damaged and you're only going to find out way later when you actually start realizing that your eyes are just not as good anymore and you might have some kind of an unusual shape inside your vision. And the question here becomes,

so if retina has no pain receptors and you just watched the eclipse, how can you actually know if you've sustained damage? Well, because the damage here is photochemical, the symptoms were almost always a bit delayed. So, basically, you're not going to feel anything during the eclipse, but the symptoms will appear within 12 hours, possibly by the next day. And the symptoms are not subtle. So, when it comes to solar retinopathy, these symptoms usually include somewhat blurry vision, a central blind spot, something known as scotoma, that basically appears in one or both eyes, difficulty reading because the letters become blurry and difficult to see, sensitivity to light, also known as photophobia, and even difficulty with colors, also known as dyschromatopsia.

In other words, the vision before the eclipse and after the eclipse, and here we're talking about at least 12 hours after, will not be the same. And that means that if you do experience these symptoms, you may want to consult with an ophthalmologist. Basically, go to an eye doctor and they'll tell you exactly what's wrong. And so, if you are one of those unlucky people feeling something in your eyes and basically have some of the symptoms, the next question you might have is, "So, is it permanent?" Well, the good news is that not always.

It can be permanent, but in a lot of cases, the prognosis for solar retinopathy is usually favorable. Basically, in most cases, there is a kind of a recovery period, and even without specific treatments, within about 6 months, the vision slowly returns. In fact, studies show that 80 to 84% of patients with mild signs of retinopathy usually [clears throat] recover after 6 months as the surrounding retina compensates for the permanent damage. But, some people are not going to be just as lucky, and about 10% of people might actually suffer from a permanent vision loss. The effects will obviously be different from person to person, but overall, the solar damage can indeed be permanent. With that 1999

study basically reporting that after 7 months, at least four patients still reported difficulty seeing. Most of them contained some kind of a central blind spot that might have never resolved. And unfortunately, as of today, there's no proven way of treating this, and there is no specific medical therapy. So, once again, don't look at the sun. Although, the good news from recent studies, especially the 2018 study by Nakamura and the 2023 study by Fereshteh, do suggest that there might be some therapies in the future, such as certain injections and certain oral steroids that can be taken that can recover some of the vision over time. But, I guess in

summary, well, so, what do you do if you're feeling stressed by sudden pain in your eyes following the eclipse? The good news is that chances are that this is just eye strain. And so, if your eyes do hurt, don't panic. It's unlikely to be permanent eye damage. Once again, your retina has no pain receptors, so the eye damage could not have been possibly felt. But, if you wake up next

morning and notice a blurry patch, a dark spot, or see something that's wavy and blurry, you may want to go to an optometrist just to see what's up. And that's because up to 84% of people that went to an optometrist following damage recovered within 6 months and did not suffer any permanent damage. And so, since there's no proven medical cure just yet, the absolute best treatment is, once again, prevention. Never look at the sun, even during the eclipse, without specialized glasses that are certified to protect you from damage. And so, if you thought you damaged your eyes because they hurt, hopefully this video clarified it for you and you know what's happening. On that note, we'll

definitely come back and discuss more things about eclipses in some of the future videos. And if things go well in 2027, I'll try to stream this and discuss this in a little bit more detail just because it's such a special event. On that note, thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on

Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads and can DM me directly, or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.