---
video_title: "Pluto Is Far Stranger Than We Thought (JWST Observations)"
video_id: yUEByXK8C34
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yUEByXK8C34
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about Pluto and Charon
  Links:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-025-02573-z
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/PSJ/ae6cdd/pdf
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-025-02573-z
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-51826-4
  #pluto #charon #solarsystem
  
  0:00 Pluto updates 
  1:20 Haze hypothesis proven 
  4:45 Seasonal change and atmospheric freezing 
  7:20 Penitentes and the bladed terrain 
  9:10 Geologically alive and water inside 
  10:55 Charon's atmospheric discoveries and internal ices  
  12:20 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Hello and welcome to this is Anton, and today we're going to be heading to the outskirts of the solar system in order to discuss everyone's almost planet, Pluto. Technically a dwarf planet that we officially visited almost a decade ago. And that's because in 2015 New Horizons was able to take these incredible shots of Pluto, in the process revealing a world nobody expected. A world filled with a lot of different activity, including geological activity, and even a somewhat thin atmosphere. But now, thanks to James Webb Space Telescope and some clever ground-based observations, researchers have now confirmed some really unusual facts about Pluto and about how this unusual world seems to work. Everything

from these very strange skyscraper-sized ice blades, referred to as penitentes, to an atmosphere that seems to be actually collapsing right now. Which basically suggests that this particular object seems to be very complex for a type of a body we expected it to be, or basically for a typical dwarf planet. And I guess as a side note, which is actually why some scientists still think this is technically a planet. But that's beside the point. The point is that Pluto seems to be much more than just a dormant ball of ice, and does seem to contain quite a lot of activity. And

here, let's start with the somewhat crazy haze hypothesis that was actually discussed back in 2017. And as always, you can learn about this hypothesis and a lot of other studies we're discussing today in the description below. And so here, back in 2017, Xi Zhang from UC Santa Cruz proposed a somewhat unusual explanation for Plutonian atmospheric cycles. He essentially suggested Pluto's climate is not controlled by gases like what we usually have on Earth and on Mars, but instead seems to be the result of very tiny organic haze particles. For example, here on Earth, and of course, planets like Venus, generally CO2 plays a really big role in trapping a lot of heat on a planet and basically regulating temperatures. And yeah,

sorry, climate change deniers, it is kind of true. But here, Zhang hypothesized that on Pluto, very tiny organic haze particles created by sunlight and very likely reacting with methane and nitrogen ices actually absorb energy and then release it back into outer space as infrared light. And in this case, this would be the result of sunlight interacting with the surface of Pluto that essentially contains methane and nitrogen ices. In other words, he actually proposed a kind of a bizarre haze-regulated climate that would obviously be very different from Mars, Venus, and Earth. And though this was a cool proposition and an interesting hypothesis, it was just a little bit difficult to prove. Mostly

because Pluto is obviously very small and very, very far away. And more importantly, its moon, Charon, is so close that the heat signals from both objects sometimes get blurred into a single object. But then, James Webb became operational and everything changed. Here, the mid-infrared instrument known as MIRI was powerful enough to finally separate Pluto and Charon and basically tell us exactly what's happening. And Zhang was right.

Pluto's upper atmosphere was roughly 3° C colder than it should be. Or basically approximately -203° C as opposed to -170. And this was because haze is just very efficient at dumping heat, cooling down Pluto even more. Which means that this is basically a new kind of a climate control that currently we don't really see anywhere else in the solar system, though chances are it potentially exists somewhere else. But right now, this is officially only confirmed on Pluto and seems to be unique to this object. But

it does imply something else. It basically implies that a lot of other objects that are covered in hazes, so anything from Neptune's moon Triton to Saturn's moon Titan might actually have very similar effects. In other words, Titan that contains huge amounts of hazes is potentially colder for exactly the same reasons. But, I guess more importantly, this may have also happened to Earth way, way back in the past. So, before Earth actually had a nitrogen-based atmosphere, it was potentially also thick with a lot of hydrocarbons, very similar to Pluto, which means that Earth back then might have been very different in terms of temperatures, and it may actually help us understand the exact conditions needed that eventually created Earth as we know it today, and conditions that basically started first life. In other

words, this particular research also has some implications for the origin of life story. But, while haze cooling the planet is, I guess, cool and all, huh, I made a pun. Here, we actually have some recent updates in regards to Pluto's general climate change, or technically seasonal change. And well, that's because Pluto's orbit is very eccentric, or basically stretched out. It's not a perfect circle, and technically it reached the closest point in its orbit back in 1989.

I guess you could call this a kind of a midsummer. But, currently, it's on a very long and somewhat icy march back to the farthest point of the orbit, where it's basically going to have its winter. And as it moves farther and farther away, it obviously gets less sunlight, which scientists now believe is leading to its freezing. And specifically, its atmosphere seems to be physically freezing in real time. And in this case, it actually becomes frost, which is what this recent study by Amanda Sickafoose and the team you see right here explored in this very recent study. But, since we

don't actually have any spacecrafts there right now, researchers had to rely on a very different technique to discover all of this. Specifically, one of the oldest techniques referred to as stellar occultation. Essentially, watching Pluto pass in front of a distant star, and then by measuring how the starlight dims, discovering everything about Pluto's thin atmosphere. As a matter of fact, these observations are so accurate, we can physically measure the pressure of the atmosphere even though it's nearly 40 astronomical units away from us. And so, this recent analysis involving the year between 2017 and 2023 revealed a definitive decline in pressure pretty much every single year. As a matter of

fact, between 2021 and 2023, it seems to have dropped by 16%, which definitively suggests that the atmosphere is collapsing, mostly because the nitrogen gas here is physically condensing into ice and snowing onto the surface of Pluto. Where it's going to stay for up to 200 years. And that's because Pluto takes 248 years to orbit once. And so, if this trend continues, Pluto might eventually lose most of its atmosphere for the next 160 years. And this may happen pretty soon, which means that in the next decade or so, we might actually finally see no atmosphere at all.

Although naturally, only future observations will tell us for sure. And so, basically, once this dip changes shape, this is when we're going to know for sure that Pluto no longer has atmosphere. But here, on top of this, we even have some discoveries about the surface of Pluto, and specifically, these very unusual structures that are technically kind of terrifying. And that's actually one of the strangest features discovered by the New Horizons as it captured the surface of Pluto during its flyby. Here, it discovered what's known as the bladed terrain.

These enormous giant spires of methane ice, some of them as tall as the Eiffel Tower, or basically a 100-story skyscraper. Except that here, it's not a building, it's literally a blade of ice. And not just one or two, thousands or even millions side by side. And we actually know exactly how this forms because we have a very small version of this right here on Earth. These are normally called penitentes, and they very often form in locations like the Andes in South America. But on Earth,

the tallest you'll ever find is maybe 3 m or about 10 or so feet in height, and not something as 300 m in height. With new research now suggesting that these blades might even cover up to about 60% of Pluto's equator. In other words, this could be extremely common on Pluto, resembling these massive cities of ridiculously terrifying blades of ice. And here, I guess my apologies for using AI to generate this, but I really wanted you to imagine what it looks like. And here, well, this is the AI version of all of this as a visual representation.

And so, imagine seeing this all over the place. And we know that all of this forms as a result of sublimation, where ice basically turns directly into gas without melting. On Earth, this only happens in very certain locations, but on Pluto, it seems to happen almost everywhere. Which basically then carves out these very unusual, jagged, sharp pieces of ice, which in some cases potentially takes millions of years. And so, yeah, that's probably not the Pluto most of us imagines. But we also know

that the surface here is not just scary-looking, it also seems to be alive, as in geologically active. Because there is a feature called Kiladze Caldera, which scientists now believe seems to be a cryovolcano. So, essentially a volcano producing cryolava instead of regular lava, a kind of a slushy mixture of water ice and ammonia. And scientists know this because the surface close to it seems to be relatively young and only a few million years old as opposed to everything else in its surrounding. But here it's not clear exactly where the heat is coming from and what makes Pluto able to generate these formations and this type of geological activity. Although it's

very likely the result of tidal heating from its partner Charon. Either way, it seems to be warm enough to potentially contain some kind of a subsurface ocean or at least pockets of liquid water somewhere underneath the surface. With some of the other research based on the studies of the area referred to as Sputnik Planitia suggesting that there might even be something really large inside at least in certain locations. And so here under Sputnik Planitia approximately 40 to 80 km in depth, the current cracks and bulges suggest that there seem to be a massive ancient impact which very likely formed very hot conditions underneath melting the water and basically creating a salty ocean. As a matter of fact, based on the recent study, it's even been now determined to be at least 8% denser than Earth's seawater with the same salinity as the Great Salt Lake in Utah. In other words,

there seems to be at least one salty lake underneath the surface of Pluto. And last but not least, we also have some research on Pluto's partner Charon which is approximately half the size of Pluto and which also makes it the largest satellite relative to the parent body in the solar system. And here the two are so close that Pluto is literally sharing its atmosphere with its moon. With methane gas occasionally escaping Pluto's atmosphere and then getting trapped by Charon settling close to its poles. And well, over time radiation turns this methane into a kind of a reddish organic material referred to as tholins which basically gives Charon its distinctive red cap. But just recently,

JWST also discovered that Charon's surface seems to contain carbon dioxide and hydrogen peroxide, which basically tells us a slightly different story. The carbon dioxide very likely comes from Charon's interior and seems to be the result of ancient impacts, whereas hydrogen peroxide very likely formed when radiation hits the water ice and then chemically alters it, turning it into something else. And though it's quite likely Charon also contained a liquid ocean back in the new models now suggest that it's most likely all frozen and the moon remained solid for the past 2 billion years, with the freezing causing the moon to expand and basically creating these massive kilometer-high canyons that we observe along its equator today. And that's because when water freezes, it tends to expand. And the expansion here produced these canyons. And so, all

in all, in just the last few months, we've discovered quite a lot about Pluto we've never known before, with some of these discoveries obviously being somewhat surprising. But, more importantly, we now know that Pluto is not just some kind of a dead icy world. It does seem to be active and possesses quite a lot of intriguing features on the surface and inside of it, many of which we actually did not expect. And even though, technically, this is still a dwarf planet, its complexity definitely rivals anything else we've seen so far, except for, obviously, planets like Earth and Venus. But, as it moves farther and farther away from the sun, its atmosphere may potentially finally disappear and only reappear in the next two centuries. And though there

are no official plans to go back to Pluto anytime soon, there have been some talk of maybe sending something there at some point, although obviously not anytime soon. Anyway, on that note, we'll definitely come back and discuss Pluto and its partner in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the show on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and you can donate to me directly, or by joining a channel membership of your choice. early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll

see you tomorrow and as always, bye-bye.