---
video_title: "The Wonderdrug Breakthrough That Scientists Say is Impossible"
video_id: 6KQUUY_EEgI
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6KQUUY_EEgI
video_date: 20260517
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about a strange proposition from Korea in regards to Magnetogenetics - let's discuss
  Links:
  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0092867426003302
  https://www.science.org/doi/epdf/10.1126/sciadv.adp9150
  https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlepdf/2022/nr/d1nr06303k
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11163773/pdf/12951_2024_Article_2616.pdf
  Optogenetics: https://youtu.be/isd8bbtMNxQ
  LK-99 controversy: https://youtu.be/luVJ5IQH4Uo
  #magnetogenetics #biotechnology #biology 
  
  0:00 A perfect medical solution? Magnetogenetics 
  2:00 Modern biomedical miracles 
  3:40 Shortcomings 
  4:10 Magnetogenetics explained 
  6:35 Controversial Korean study and the problems with it 
  9:10 Rebuttals and why it makes no sense 
  11:05 So what do we know so far about magnetogenetics 
  13:00 Conclusions
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  Pama E.A. Claudia, Colzato Lorenza, Hommel Bernhard - http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00610/full  CC BY 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optogenetics#/media/File:Optogenetic_stimulation_consists_of_several_steps.png
  Ilya Vilinsky (University of Cincinnati), Karen Hibbard (Janelia Research Campus), Bruce Johnson and David Deitcher (Cornell University) https://bdsc.indiana.edu/stocks/teach/teach_optogenetics.html
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Okay, imagine for a second you could actually treat pretty much any major issue or disorder such as for example Parkinson's disease without performing any major surgery or without implanting anything inside the body. As a matter of fact, what if you can actually treat something without any drugs and thus without any side effects? Sounds like science fiction? Well, kind of and also not because for years now certain biomedical scientists have been searching for a new way to treat things by literally interacting with the cells in our body by using various external signals. And especially by trying to for example control neurons through the use of certain electromagnetic frequencies that simply pass through our bodies or specifically through the skin and through bones without interfering with anything yet still having certain effects inside. And

well, in this video, we're going to actually discuss some of the recent discoveries in this field, specifically the field referred to as magnetogenetics because it is kind of real and is actually being thoroughly studied even today. But, we already have our first controversial study that was just released by scientists in South Korea. And so, hello and welcome person. This is Anton and well, today we're going to discuss this somewhat unusual and somewhat intriguing field of magnetogenetics or basically the idea of using the magnetic field which once again passes through our tissues and through our bones without affecting anything to physically control cells inside our bodies that have been specifically designed through genetic modification to respond to certain magnetic interactions. And so once again, not really science fiction as much as a potentially game-changing way of treating medical disorders.

But, there's always a but. And so let's discuss all of this in detail. I guess first, just a very brief overview in case none of this right now makes any sense. Well, the thing is, when it comes to biomedical studies, in just the last decade, we've already had quite a few different discoveries, and especially discoveries in terms of controlling genes, using mechanisms that were previously impossible. Here's one example we discussed a few years back, referred to as optogenetics, or literally using certain types of light to flip biological switches on and off.

And so here, by using certain colors of light, scientists have already developed techniques that basically allow them to control either neurons inside mice, or even cells inside various worms, allowing them to be turned on and turned off at will. And so here, through genetic modification and using light-sensitive proteins referred to as opsins, something we usually find inside, for example, green algae, by inserting them into DNA, it then becomes possible to physically control cells, and specifically various neurons, by shining light on them. And in some sense, this actually has exactly the same as electrical stimulation. And so basically, instead of zapping those neurons, and thus shocking every cell in the area, here you're actually only targeting certain neurons without affecting anything else. And for quite a lot of neurological diseases, such as Parkinson's or even depression, theoretically this has incredible medical benefit if it's ever approved to be used in humans. In essence here,

instead of using electrical stimulation, like it's usually done in Parkinson's disease, it might become possible to do the same with light. And similarly, we have something known as chemogenetics. In essence, it's a very similar technique, but here it uses designer drugs or engineered molecules to physically control activity of very specific cells, instead of affecting everything in the body. But both of these techniques have major shortcomings. For optogenetics, light generally doesn't travel deep inside the body, and so you actually have to have a fiber-optic cable drilled into the skull. This is, for example, for

Parkinson's or any kind of a neurological disorder. For chemogenetics, they're actually kind of slow to work and take a relatively long time to clear out of the system. So, there's a relatively high chance for some kind of a side effect, which basically brings us to this. You can find several studies in the description on this topic, but basically this is a field that's now referred to as magnetogenetics. The idea of using magnetic fields which pass through our tissues to control various genetically modified cells in a very similar way to how it's done with light or with chemicals. And then, once

again, this might sound like science fiction. Quite a few studies have already provided a kind of a proof of concept. But recently, a team from South Korea, whose study is also in the description, claimed that they made it a reality in a very game-changing way, which we'll discuss in a few seconds. Because in this case, sometimes things are maybe just a little bit too good to be true. And in this case, this story has already taken a controversial turn.

But before we discuss the controversy, okay, so how exactly would this magnetogenetics work? So, let's talk about the actual technology. Well, here it would be a magnetic field affecting some kind of a cellular function either by using heat or force. And so, there are actually two separate approaches. The magnetothermal approach involves putting tiny magnetic nanoparticles very close to a specific protein on a cell, such as, for example, some kind of a protein that usually responds to heat, which can then be basically activated by applying a high-frequency magnetic field, making those nanoparticles vibrate and heat up, which essentially tricks that protein to open up and to activate. In other words, here the

approach is to make things just a little bit warmer in order to activate the cell. But then, there's also the magnetochemical approach. Instead of heat, this uses magnetic force to physically pull or twist proteins open. And so here some cells have mechanosensors such as Piezo1, which act like tiny trapdoors that open when they feel pressure. And so once again, by attaching some kind of a magnetic nanoparticle, this can then be used as a magnet in order to pull on it, which can once again turn the cell on or off completely wirelessly. And by itself,

this actually sounds really because theoretically, magnetic fields have absolutely no effects on our bodies and on our tissues. So physically, they can reach deep inside the brain without losing their strength or causing damage, essentially making this perfect control mechanism. Except that at least as of today, this has always been a little bit theoretical. I mean, it sounds good on paper, but does it actually work? Which is where we come to this Korean controversy, kind of similar to the one we discussed a few years ago with the superconductor. And so here we have a

new and unusual study from South Korea, where a team whose paper has been published in the prestigious journal Cell have now claimed to have created a magnetically controlled switch that could turn on specific genes inside a living mouse. In other words, just like the announcement of the superconductor a few years back, here we had a very similar shock because this, if true, would be absolutely mind-blowing. Here the claim was that they could physically activate or deactivate gene expression by just using electromagnetic fields. Or just to give you a kind of a visual explanation, imagine having some kind of a remote control that activates the magnetic field and you basically press a button and suddenly it makes you super happy inside. That's because your body starts to produce a lot of oxytocin or some other hormone that just makes you so so happy, which is why a lot of scientists from around the planet suddenly took interest in the study and started to discover some things that just kind of didn't add up because having this magical magnetically controlled switch that could physically turn on specific genes inside of even organism sounded just a little bit too good to be true. But I guess let's

discuss the study first before discussing some of the rebuttals. And so according to the researchers, they used the very specific electromagnetic signal of 4 kHz pulsing at 60 Hz or basically 60 times per second. And here they realized that the signal interacted with the protein referred to as cytochrome b5, a protein that causes calcium ions to move back and forth inside the cell every 50 seconds. And according to the report, the oscillation was the key in order to turn on the gene referred to as LGR4. Okay, there's a lot of technical jargon here, but in a nutshell, they were able to use very specific electromagnetic emissions to activate a gene that controls serotonin in the brain. And they were then able to make

mice a lot less depressed. Because in general, serotonin makes you very calm and somewhat happy. And well, if any of this were true, this would be a massive breakthrough because it would mean we could turn on any gene we want, like for example, the one that produces insulin or even growth factor, just by kind of waving around a magnetic device over a patient. Because according to the study, this would then activate this unusual calcium wave that would trigger the genes. Except that there is a major problem here. Many physicists and

biologists, including the physicist Andrew York, now say the results are just incredibly implausible. As a matter of fact, they even argue that it makes no physical sense that a fast 60 Hz signal can even create some kind of a slow 50 second oscillation inside a cell. In other words, they basically say that right now none of this seems physically possible. On top of this, additional critics noticed that the calcium signal was so large that it should have affected almost everything inside the cell. Yet, for some reason, these researchers claim that only one gene was activated. And that right now

makes kind of no sense. But, the worst offense was in the data provided. Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. And unfortunately, the evidence in the study has come under severe fire. As a matter of fact, on a website called PubPeer, where scientists very often discuss published papers, experts have already pointed out that one of the images is literally just a flipped and duplicated version of another image. And that

really doesn't look good. Because imagine you're trying to prove something, but your proof is you take some results, you flip them, and you post them as a new picture. And though the lead researcher has already called this a clerical error, that did not change the conclusions, unfortunately, this kind of response have been heard before. And so, basically, here when we look at the overall picture, and specifically the so-called clerical error and these wild physical claims, pretty much most physicists and biologists are very skeptical. Which is, of course, why this reminded me of that LK-99 controversy, when a separate team claimed the discovery of a room-temperature superconductor, which turns out to be just a misunderstanding of basic physical principles of dielectrics. You can learn about this in

one of the older videos here in the description. Long story short, though, in that case, it was just an insulator with impurities. But, for this particular study, the issue is going to be replication. Before any of this can be confirmed, other labs will have to produce the same results. And right now, none of this has been done because this is a very recent study. As a matter of

fact, even other tools and other studies, such as a tool referred to as Magneto 2.0, have also faced criticism in the past, when several teams tried to recreate this particular design and could not actually do it. Which basically means that for the field of magnetogenetics, right now it's still very, very hypothetical, as many studies seem to have these issues. Probably because we're dealing with extremely tiny things where it's very easy to make a mistake and attribute some kind of a random event to magnetic effect that changes the cells. But this doesn't mean that the whole field of magnetogenetics is a bust. And that's because while some

studies are controversial, there are studies that provided solid evidence. As a matter of fact, a large collaboration between Weill Cornell and Rockefeller University with a study published 2024, instead of using these mysterious waves, used a tiny protein binder or basically a nanobody that sticks to something referred to as ferritin, a natural protein inside our bodies that usually stores iron. And so here by connecting these inside a cell and injecting this into a specific brain circuit in mice, here they were able to produce very specific effects. And so when they put these mice near a standard MRI machine, the magnetic field pulled on the iron in ferritin and ended up opening the channel with mice literally freezing or slowing down their movements in response to this magnet. And in this case, this was used specifically to reduce abnormal movements in mice with Parkinson's disease. Which actually was a really

exciting study because it showed us that clinically, it might become possible to create devices to treat Parkinson's by just using magnets. Although once again, this particular study involved very specific injection of materials inside specific neurons in the brain. But nevertheless, as of today, as of 2026, magnetogenetics is definitely still in its infancy. Some of the produced effects could be just noise or possible errors. And because here we're talking about really tiny materials being used in tiny amounts, sometimes reproducing this can also be extremely challenging.

So it will take a long time to see if this is actually a legitimate technique that can one day be be on humans or if it turns out to be a bust after all. Which means that, at least for now, magnetogenetics is a field with very high expectations, but a very bumpy path. But, the Korean study with these very extraordinary claims gave me a reason to talk about this because this is probably a field most of us are just not familiar with. And so, one day, maybe we'll hear more about this, and maybe there will be a new study that creates something even more incredible. But, until someone replicates the results, or until we find out what's going on here, we have to remember that in science, usually things involve very slow progress and a lot of controlled experiments that have to be recreated by others. Either way, once we learn

something else, we'll come back and discuss this in some of the future videos. Thank you for watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon, where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can deal with me directly, or by joining our membership, which grants you early access. You can also support this

channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.