---
video_title: "Never Before Seen Helium Nova Is Shooting Cosmic Cannon Balls At Stars"
video_id: noPflajYoa4
channel_name: "Anton Petrov"
channel_id: UCciQ8wFcVoIIMi-lfu8-cjQ
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=noPflajYoa4
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Support this channel on Patreon to help me make this a full time job: https://www.patreon.com/whatdamath (Unreleased videos, extra footage, DMs, no ads)
  Alternatively, PayPal donations can be sent here: http://paypal.me/whatdamath
  Get a Wonderful Person Tee: https://teespring.com/stores/whatdamath
  More cool designs are on Amazon: https://amzn.to/3QFIrFX
  
  Hello and welcome! My name is Anton and in this video, we will talk about strange cosmic cannon balls coming from a strange nova
  Links:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.12586
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2412.17286
  https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ad969b
  https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/full_html/2026/03/aa57753-25/aa57753-25.html
  #nova #astronomy #milkyway 
  
  0:00 Strange new explosions 
  2:00 What exactly is a nova? 
  4:20 Some novae don't follow rules - Helium nova 
  8:10 Millinovae discovery 
  9:35 Hybrid nova 
  10:25 Conclusions and implications
  
  Enjoy and please subscribe
  
  Bitcoin/Ethereum to spare? Donate them here to help this channel grow!  
  bc1qnkl3nk0zt7w0xzrgur9pnkcduj7a3xxllcn7d4
  or ETH: 0x60f088B10b03115405d313f964BeA93eF0Bd3DbF
  
  The hardware used to record these videos:
  New Camera: https://amzn.to/4pCVINS
  CPU: https://amzn.to/4qXIaxC
  Video Card: https://amzn.to/2M1W26C
  Motherboard: https://amzn.to/2JYGiQQ
  RAM: https://amzn.to/2Mwy2t4
  PSU: https://amzn.to/2LZcrIH
  Case: https://amzn.to/2MwJZz4
  Microphone: https://amzn.to/2t5jTv0
  Mixer: https://amzn.to/2JOL0oF
  Recording and Editing:  https://amzn.to/2LX6uvU
  Some of the above are affiliate links, meaning I would get a (very small) percentage of the price paid. 
  
  Thank you to all Patreon supporters of this channel
  Special thanks also goes to all the wonderful supporters of the channel through YouTube Memberships
  
  Credit:
  Mark Garlick www.markgarlick.com
  PopePompus CC BY SA 4.0 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V445_Puppis#/media/File:V445PupLocation.png
  
  Licenses used: 
  https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  and relevant Creative Commons licenses
---
Wonderful person, this is Anton, and in this video, we're going to discuss yet another cosmic mystery. And this time in regards to explosions that should not happen the way they seem to happen. But before we discuss this mystery, I wanted to preface with this. For a few years now, a lot of astronomers were actually waiting for this. They've been waiting for something in the constellation of Corona Borealis because a star referred to as T Corona Borealis, also known as the Blaze Star, was supposed to erupt.

And that's because it's a classical example of what's known as the recurrent nova. It seems to explode roughly every 80 years, with the last big explosion being in 1946. And in every single case, it usually start with something like this. A kind of an outburst that seems to follow an actual nova a few months later. And that's exactly what scientists observed in 2023 and 2024, which is why by September of 2024, it was supposed to explode. Yet, it didn't.

And as of today, as of August of 2026, the star is still quiet, and the nova still has not occurred. With this unusual delay now being a kind of a scientific mystery, and basically tells us that something about our models and our understanding of nova is not complete. Or basically that these types of explosions are way more complex and are definitely non-linear in a sense that they're a lot more difficult to predict. But while this particular star is keeping us waiting, other very similar stars have definitely been busy. With scientists in the last couple of years discovering a new type of mini novas and even hybrid novas, as well as this new mystery we're going to be discussing today referred to as the helium nova. The one that seems to be

even firing these very bizarre cosmic bullets into outer space. And so let's discuss these new studies and new discoveries in a bit more detail. But to understand why some of this is already strange, and why some of it is mysterious. Well, let's I guess discuss the definition first. What exactly is a nova, and specifically a classical nova?

Because despite the name, these are not supernova. This is a very different phenomenon. And well, first, imagine a binary system, but in this case of two slightly different stars. Here you have a white dwarf, or basically this very dense remnant of a star very similar to our sun, and a normal companion star next to it. In a sense, this is a result of a typical binary system, in some sense kind of similar to the one we find in the nearby Alpha Centauri. And so,

actually quite a lot of star systems will probably end up in a very similar way. But because the white dwarf is so dense, and because its gravity is so immense, at some point, if it's close enough to the star, it can literally start siphoning hydrogen gas from its neighbor. With all of this stolen gas now basically building up first as the accretion disk around the white dwarf, and then eventually landing on the surface, and forming a kind of a dense layer. And though at first it starts as a very thin layer, eventually this builds up, and as you can imagine, both the pressure and the heat inside this layer start to go up as well. As a matter of fact, the bottom of this layer becomes so ridiculously hot and pressurized that eventually it triggers your typical thermonuclear reaction. Or,

just to rephrase this, it literally creates a hydrogen bomb on the surface of this white dwarf. A bomb that detonates and destroys the accretion disk, and disperses all of this hydrogen that accumulated over time. And so, here all of this material is blasted into space, with this white dwarf becoming thousands of times brighter for at least a few weeks. But, unlike a typical supernova, or a lot of other explosions, here both the white dwarf and its partner do not get affected as much, and basically survive. In other words, following this explosion, they usually restart this process. And so, in a

typical classical nova, this process can repeat itself many, many times until the larger partner runs out of gas and has nothing [clears throat] else to give. But, because all systems are different, this can be either extremely fast and happen every few years or can be extremely slow and appear to happen just once, but in reality might happen every 100 or every 1,000 years or possibly even longer. Or at least, that's the general principle of the classical nova. Turns out that some nova do not really like this classical definition. And so, basically they created their own thing, like the one scientists just discovered by looking at the star referred to as V445 Puppis. A star that had its last

eruption in the year 2000, but it's actually only now that scientists realized this one is really strange because after basically 26 years, it became finally possible to look inside and to see what's happening. And well, actually because this nova produced this really bright explosion with a lot of emissions that made the observations of the star itself a little bit challenging. And well, it turns out that this is the only confirmed helium nova in the entire galaxy. In other words, it's the only nova that seems to explode with helium or because of helium and not because of hydrogen. And so, in this system, the white dwarf isn't stealing hydrogen from the star, it seems to be feeding on a rare type of a helium star or basically a star that has already lost its hydrogen layer and only has helium left behind. And so, when this

system exploded, the spectrum showed absolutely zero hydrogen, which is incredibly rare in astronomy as hydrogen is basically the most common element in the entire universe. Yet here, there was nothing and everything that was expelled was helium. With several recent studies you can find in the description, essentially exploring this idea in a bit more detail and discovering that on top of all of this, this explosion is also firing these high-speed bullets or these massive cosmic bullets of oxygen-rich gas at ridiculously high velocities, approximately 9,000 km or 6,000 mi per second. And we've never seen anything like this ever before. And once again, the only reason we even see these now is because the Nova finally dissipated and it's now possible to see certain things that were previously invisible. And

here's actually a really cool shot showing us how this Nova changed from 2005 all the way to March of 2007. But additionally, another study by Brad Schaefer that was recently published and as always can be found in the description below, used some of the archival observation data going back to 1896 and basically focused on measuring the orbital period between these two stars. And he actually discovered that after every single explosion, the orbital period seems to have increased by approximately 2 and 1/2 minutes, which though might sound like not a lot, suggests that the system basically lost mass and a lot of mass after every single explosion. And so here, Schaefer discovered that every single eruption blows away such a huge amount of mass that it physically increases the orbit of these objects, making them move away a little bit farther apart. And this explosion was so violent that the white dwarf seems to have lost more mass than it accumulated as a result of all of this helium absorption, which is actually a major discovery because here, it almost certainly confirms that at least some white dwarfs cannot possibly grow from this or cannot get more massive from this and thus cannot explode in type 1a supernova that we've been seeing pretty much everywhere in the universe. A type 1a explosion that

happens when the white dwarf reaches a mass of 1.4 solar masses. and previously it was actually believed that it was because of this mass accumulation by siphoning the mass from the partner. But here this discovery suggests that at least for this nova this doesn't seem to be the case. It essentially suggests that type 1a supernova might happen for a slightly different reason such as possibly white dwarf collisions or even collisions with something more mysterious which has been proposed previously but never officially proven.

And so at least for now this is once again going to remain a mystery. But then on top of all of this scientists have also discovered something we've really never seen before anywhere. So called millinova. And there were actually 29 of these discovered in the Magellanic Clouds and this is a different type of a strange explosion because as the name implies they're not very powerful. Here this particular star seems to brighten by about 10 to maybe 20 times and they do resemble a nova to some extent but it is usually a thousand times dimmer than a classical nova and on top of this it emits a lot of x-rays at temperatures of 600,000 degrees Celsius. But despite these x-ray

emissions remains relatively dim in visible light. And while conventional white dwarf models currently cannot explain what's happening here and what exactly is producing these types of emissions that are mostly visible in the x-rays because it basically implies a lot of very very superheated material. And because 29 such events have been discovered so far it means that there's something that does happen in certain systems. What though and how that's another mystery. And last but not least researchers have now also identified something that they refer to as a hybrid nova. Or essentially here at least one

nova nova will be cool in 2024 that was recently analyzed in a study in description started as a typical nova but then transformed into a different group involving different elements. And well, here, this was basically as if a nova morphed into something else while it was happening in real time. Once again, nothing like this has been seen before. And this is also a challenge for modern classical models, suggesting that sometimes there is no single shell and some white dwarfs seem to accumulate multiple elements, which can actually create multiple stage explosions and can even create very complex layers that change as they expand. Very likely because certain stars might possess a lot of different elements and as the white dwarf accumulates them, they potentially form different layers on the surface with each layer responding differently to a thermonuclear explosion on the surface of the object. And so in

this particular case, this nova was observed to have multiple stages and resembled multiple types of nova at the same time. But in the end, so what have we actually learned from all of these unexplained and bizarre explosions observed in the last few years? Well, first, this obviously tells us that the classical model does not explain everything and potentially does not really explain much because here some explosions seem to only produce some types of emissions while other explosions, such as V1674 Herculis, seem to be so quick that they explode and dim in just over one day. While other nova remain very bright for months and even years, implying that for many of these explosions, we just don't really have any good model and any specific explanation. But at the same time, this also creates a bit of a problem for type 1A supernova explosions because in the past, all of them were explained as white dwarfs consuming a lot of mass from their partner and eventually reaching their limit where they suddenly explode. Yet here, based on these recent

observations, this also does not make much sense because in several cases, the white dwarfs were actually is mass and previous type 1A supernova explosions did not contain any giant companions from which the mass could have been acquired, which basically implies that even models when it comes to supernova are also not entirely correct. Right now, one of the best explanations potentially involves white dwarf collisions or maybe some kind of an internal destabilization possibly caused by something more exotic. But, basically when it comes to both nova and supernova, once again, things just got a little bit more interesting. We're now moving from simple models and classical models that focus on one-size-fits-all explanation to something that requires new theories and very likely involves phenomena we still don't understand. With these observations showing us nova that can switch classes, nova that can fire these very bizarre cosmic bullets, and even nova that only brighten by just a little bit, but also produce superheated matter on their surface. And

while we're still waiting for that T Corona Borealis to explode, in the meantime, all of these new discoveries are definitely going to be rewriting astronomy textbooks. And by the way, I do hope it explodes at some point because as far as I remember, in the last video from like 2 years ago, I promised that whoever can predict the date of the explosion might be able to win some kind of a prize. Well, since it hasn't happened, nobody wins yet. But, I do expect it to explode at some point because I don't think our current theories are that wrong. But, anyway, we'll definitely come back and discuss this more once there are some additional explanations. Until then, thank you for

watching. Subscribe. Come back tomorrow to learn something else. Support this channel on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos of that nature, and can DM me directly, or by joining our membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying the wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay

wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow. And as always, bye-bye.

>> Mhm.