---
video_title: "New AI Finally Solved The Hardest Animation Problem!"
video_id: nHBgc_oNfQw
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nHBgc_oNfQw
video_date: 2025-08-31T17:03:20+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  Guide:
  Rent one of their GPUs with over 16GB of VRAM
  Open a terminal
  Just get Ollama with this command - https://ollama.com/download/linux
  Then run ollama run gpt-oss:120b - https://ollama.com/library/gpt-oss:120b
  
  📝 The paper is available here:
  https://diffusecloc.github.io/website/
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Gordon Child, John Le, Juan Benet, Kyle Davis, Loyal Alchemist, Lukas Biewald, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Sven Pfiffner, Taras Bobrovytsky, Thomas Krcmar, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
---
Here is an animation technique that…oh no. What is going on here? This problem is a bit like an orchestra with a genius conductor, but the musicians are useless inflatable tube men. Okay, so we need a new AI animation technique that we can control properly. Now I’m not saying that animated movie and video game characters can’t walk. Of course they can - although…. not sure about this one.

Now these classical animation techniques are produced for every single motion by an artist. However, AI-based techniques offer something incredible: just taking a soup of motion captured animations, and learning how to use them and weave them together. But there is a problem. The AI-based animation techniques that are controllable, often fail to create physically viable motion. And there are ones that are realistic, but those are unfortunately not easily controllable.

So, does this new technique perform the impossible? Let’s see the intro sequence with the new method called Diffuse-cloc…oh yes! Excellent! This is the best of both worlds. Controllable, realistic motion from a soup of data.

And here’s the best part: it can also do 5 other amazing things too! One, it can do static obstacle avoidance. It won’t walk into walls. That’s a start, but now, check this out. Dynamic avoidance too, where you put together a bunch of AI people, and they hopefully won’t bump into each other, when everyone is moving. Yup, I think this one checks out.

Two, it works for longer animation sequences too. Three, my favorite. Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars for…generalization! This character only saw jumping sequences on the ground, but now. Three pillars. Let’s see if it can do it. One,

two, three! Excellent! I think this really highlights how powerful these learning methods are. They can do things in ways that they haven’t seen before. Amazing.

Four, you can specify two or more poses, and it will generate the motion between them. This is not possible with most other diffusion-based AI techniques. Five, of course, you can grab this character and try to disrupt its movement. With previous methods, this was…well, was it fun? Yes, very fun. Was it disrupted? Oh yes! So how did the new method do? Now as you see, it is not perfect,

it still looks a bit like someone who had a couple drinks. But it is pretty resistant to these perturbations. Loving this. This is what we researchers do in our work hours, and we call it work, and we even get paid for this. Best job in the world. And this is

an incredible leap forward. So how is all this possible? How did they do all this magic? Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Dr. Carroll.

So remember, all this should work from a bunch of unconnected input motions. No information on how to weave them together. No information on how to use these in new situations. No obstacles, no other people. This is all learned behavior.

And this new AI is like teaching a dancer not just the steps, but also how to feel the rhythm a few seconds ahead - so every move already anticipates what comes next. The dancer isn’t blindly following choreography anymore - it can improvise while staying graceful. That’s exactly how this system weaves states and actions into one seamless motion. Absolutely incredible. What a time to be alive!

And all this is trained on a single GPU in 24 hours, something you can easily do in a Lambda instance and then run it anywhere. And what excites me most is that this is all zero-shot. No retraining, no task-specific tuning - just one model that learns to walk around walls, jump over obstacles, play nice with others, and even respond to a controller. Imagine game characters, VR avatars, or robots that just move naturally out of the box. And this is only the beginning.

Just imagine what we will be able to do two more papers down the line. My goodness.