---
video_title: "Researchers Built a Tiny Economy. AIs Broke It Immediately"
video_id: KUekLTqV1ME
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KUekLTqV1ME
video_date: 2025-12-14T09:33:06+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  Using DeepSeek on Lambda:
  https://lambda.ai/inference-models/deepseek-r1
  
  📝 The paper is available here:
  https://simworld.org/
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Fred R, Gordon Child, Juan Benet, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Taras Bobrovytsky, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
---
This is SimWorld, a research work that aims to generate an entire video game city procedurally, roads, buildings built on the fly, have a traffic system, everything. You can be a vehicle, a robot or a human. And then, put all of these smart AIs like ChatGPT, Gemini, DeepSeek in there. Then, create a delivery economy and see what happens. So, what happens? Well, this is where the surprises and absolutely hilarious things happen.

Okay, so multiple agents receive delivery tasks: pick up food from a restaurant, deliver to a location, earn some income. Agents need to bid on orders, not get too tired, invest in efficiency upgrades like scooters and so on. They also decide whether to cooperate or compete to maximize their income. Really cool. Six incredible surprises happened that made me smile. Surprise number one.

So, what works here? Greed or stability? Well, of course, stabi…wait what? What is going on here? Well, according to this, greed is what works best. Welcome to the real world! DeepSeek and

Claude were the high rollers. They bet big, and they win big, and sometimes lose big. They had almost 70 units of profit, but look at this. Holy mother of papers! Their chaotic behavior creates huge variance. Gemini, on the other hand, was much more

steady and measured, with about 42 units of profit, but with much, much less variation. Also, get this, previous generation AI, GPT 4o-mini. How did it do? It got zero. Nothing.

It simply could not comprehend the rules and just stood there while the others were busy running their delivery empires. Surprise number two. This is my favorite. Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Researchers assigned Big Five

personality traits to the agents. People study these in real humans too. And I was thinking, you need an AI agent that is high in openness to experience to succeed, right? Try new things? Pfft! Wrong. Dead wrong. Get this, agents with high openness kept exploring

new methods… yes, but too often. They became shopaholics, kept buying scooters that they never used and went broke. Absolutely hilarious. Meanwhile, conscientious agents that kept their heads down, ignored the shiny upgrades, and did the work. And they did much better.

Surprise number three. Undercutters. As agents had to bid against each other to get orders, a price war emerged. DeepSeek and Qwen were notorious undercutters. They always bid significantly lower prices to guarantee that they win that contract. While ChatGPT refused to lower its prices, and lost the contracts entirely.

I find it hilarious that they realized that if they bid suspiciously low prices, they could steal all the contracts. Capitalism baby! The scientists also reported that some agents tried to find a bunch of cheap delivery orders and charge a fortune for it. Maybe someone falls for it. Yes, these AIs are scamming each other like crazy. Insanity.

Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars for surprise number four. When researchers started flooding the market with orders. Then what happened? The agents started working harder to get rich! Kidding, that’s not what happened at all. They

got lazy instead! How? Well, they chose the “do nothing” action a lot more often. Instead of hustling, they got lazy and decided to wait for the perfect opportunity instead. Surprise number five. Your personality determines your fate!

Three amazing little nuggets here. If you actually want your orders delivered, you choose someone who is conscientious. There is a strong positive correlation between conscientiousness and picking up orders. Much like in real life, these AIs are boring winners. They don’t spam the chat. They just sign the contract and do the job.

Okay, I expected that. But I didn’t expect this! AIs that are low on trait agreeableness, in other words, disagreeable, they just sit there and refuse to take up any work. These are the grumpy employees that clock in and just stare at the wall. Now in AI form. Hilarious.

And now, the dreamers! We mentioned that AIs high in openness go broke because they always buy new shiny stuff to try. But! In reality, they also try to explore lots of unconventional bidding strategies. Essentially, they are too busy overthinking the meta-game to actually deliver that pizza! Ha!

So what is the lesson here? Frankly, I have no idea, but this was super fun. Maybe that if you create a world that feels like the real world and imbue these AIs with human-like properties, they will behave a bit more like humans. So now I guess we are now simulating entire economies where AIs develop strategies, buy stupid shiny things, go bankrupt, and undercut each other for fun and profit. All of this, of course, in a little simulated video game as a fun little experiment. What a time to be alive!

Make sure to subscribe, hit the bell icon, and leave a really kind comment to get more papers like this from the youtube algorithm.