---
video_title: "The Worst Bug In Games Is Now Gone Forever"
video_id: VOORiyip4_c
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VOORiyip4_c
video_date: 2025-10-15T16:17:24+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  Guide:
  Rent one of their GPUs with over 16GB of VRAM
  Open a terminal
  Just get Ollama with this command - https://ollama.com/download/linux
  Then run ollama run gpt-oss:120b - https://ollama.com/library/gpt-oss:120b
  
  📝Paper: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OrOKJH_im1L4j1cJB18sfvNHEbZVSqjL/view
  Code and examples are available here: https://github.com/st-tech/ppf-contact-solver
  Guide on how to try it: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n068Ai_hlfgapf2xkAutOHo3PkLpJXA4/view
  
  Sources:
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5GDIoshj9Rw
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X53VuYLP0VY
  https://www.youtube.com/shorts/x0WjJgotCXU
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qu4Of18Kf2M
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Gordon Child, John Le, Juan Benet, Kyle Davis, Loyal Alchemist, Lukas Biewald, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Sven Pfiffner, Taras Bobrovytsky, Thomas Krcmar, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
---
I can hardly believe that this is possible now, but it really is. Pinch me. You, see gaming has a big problem. And that problem is that things clip into each other all the time. Sometimes it is so bad, there are gamers who specialize in finding these bugs, clipping through walls and doors, and skipping through whole areas to speedrun the game. Yes,

the only people who love clipping more than barbers are speedrunners. Surprisingly, the same problem shows up in movies too - but usually you don’t notice it because VFX artists spend weeks if not months fixing those by hand before the movie is released. Studios throw huge compute farms and armies of technical directors at it just to make sure that Superman’s cape doesn’t pass through his neck halfway through the shot. Every cape is one bug away from becoming a scarf. So what is the problem? The problem here is that when the geometry of two thin objects,

like cloth, ribbons, or our favorite, noodles, touch each other in the digital world, they often sneak through or get stuck. And now we are going to do the impossible. What if I told you there is a completely freely available piece of research where you can put together an insane amount of these little noodles. And see if they clip into each other. Yes, we are literally solving spaghetti. This one showcases millions of collisions,

and my goodness…not a single one of them slipped through. This is absolute insanity that all this is possible. Try to speedrun this one! Ha. Checkmate.

But that’s nothing. We are also going to mercilessly crush some ribbons. Then, you know what? More twisting! Not just one thing, but you know what? Now hold on to your papers

Fellow Scholars, and make it five! This goes up to 168 million collisions. Then, we’ll play with these squishy spheres, torture a poor armadillo, and do so much more. Wow. This is incredible. And

you can even try it yourself through the link in the video description, if you are a bit technical. Plus I got you a huge surprise in the end. I found something I never expected. So how the heck is all that possible? Well, the research paper tells us exactly, but it’s written for the very best experts in the world. Well, I am not among those people,

but I’ll try my best to explain it in a moment, but I’ll tell you in advance that it uses no AI whatsoever, this is all human ingenuity. Let’s dive in. Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Dr. Carroll.

So the input here is just the geometry - the mesh of the objects, and the output is a simulation where no matter how many millions of contacts happen, not a single one passes through the other. It’s like trying to juggle thousands of glass marbles and making sure none of them ever overlap or fuse into each other. But this one can do even crazier things. Like twisting this piece of cloth into oblivion. It is still going…and still going. Crazy. And it is so accurate, even if we look more closely,

I can’t believe it. It is still stable! Wow. And not only that, but look at how beautiful that is. You cannot see this kind of thing anywhere else.

So at this point, I’m dying to know - how does this technique do this incredible magic? Well, two things. One, instead of using the old "logarithmic barrier" trick, which panics and freezes when objects get very close, this new method uses a "cubic barrier." So what does that mean? Well, instead of slamming the brakes when two surfaces are about to touch - like the old logarithmic method - this new system eases into the collision with a smoother force curve. Imagine our spaghetti

bowl again: instead of waiting until two noodles are fused and then yanking them apart, instead it creates a little elastic bubble between them that dynamically adjusts, so they slide past each other gracefully. It’s like adding soap to the spaghetti water - suddenly, everything untangles itself. And two, the paper says that it uses a 3x3 Jacobi block preconditioned Conjugate Gradient method. That sounds crazy, so what is that? Let me try to explain. This is a way to efficiently solve

the massive mathematical equations that describe all these forces and movements. Think of it like coordinating a huge, multi-person dance routine where everyone has to avoid bumping into each other. A regular method would try to tell every single dancer exactly where to move all at once, which is chaos. The "3x3 Jacobi block" part means we break the dance floor into small groups of 3x3 dancers and tell each group what to do independently. Then, the preconditioned Conjugate Gradient is like a smart coach who quickly refines these instructions for all the groups, making sure everyone moves smoothly and no one crashes, without having to restart from scratch every time. It’s a specialized, iterative way to get

everyone moving in harmony without having to calculate every single minute detail at once. A really technical paper explained in simple words anyone can understand. Now, wait a second. We are wise Fellow Scholars here, so we remember the Offset Geometric Contact paper, OGC. It did something similar. So how does this relate to that? Okay, you are going

to love this one. This OGC technique was a big step forward because it added a tiny offset layer around objects, like wrapping everything in bubble wrap, so they don’t pass through each other. Of course, that trick worked well for many cases - but when the gaps get extremely tiny, like many of these tough cases, OGC still struggles, especially with thin shells or when millions of contacts happen at once. Now get this, this new cubic barrier method doesn’t just wrap things - it actively adjusts its stiffness using the material’s own elasticity, so it can keep even microscopic gaps open. In other words, OGC puts a safety cushion between objects, but this new method is like using a memory foam cushion - it adapts on the fly, reshaping itself to keep even the tiniest gaps open, so the whole system doesn’t tear itself apart. Genius.

And I absolutely love that all this runs on not a huge data center somewhere, it is just one graphics card. The thing that I rent one of at Lambda. Now of course, you need to be patient, how patient? Well, not seconds per frame, but minutes per frame patient. And it gives me great joy that this research is a one-author, yes a one-author paper, so who is that incredible scientist? Oh my, look at that. It’s our man, Dr.

Ryoichi Ando, who created these super cool adaptive fluid simulations before where computation was concentrated around parts where the action really happens. This work is a treasure, and I am happy to be alive on this planet and to be able to enjoy it. So good. What a time to be alive! Now, here is the unexpected thing. It is published in the colors of Zozo. Wait wait wait.

Hold the phone. Why is a Japanese fashion e-commerce giant publishing at SIGGRAPH Asia, the top graphics research conference? It makes zero sense, until I realized from their press release, aha! Because they want to automate clothing production. Imagine skipping months of sewing prototypes and instead simulating how fabrics drape, wrinkle, and collide - all running on the computer. Of course, to do that, your simulation must never let two

layers of cloth clip into each other. This cubic barrier research makes that possible, at scale. So it’s not just academic fun, this is the papers coming alive in the world around us. It’s a stepping stone toward less wasted fabric, faster fashion design, and automated digital tailoring. They also have a cloth fitting example. Finally, a way to see if those jeans fit

without having to do a small workout in the dressing room! More time to read papers! Okay, limitations? Well, it’s accurate, but slow. How slow? Well, think of it like watching

paint dry, except the paint is a million silky noodles colliding. It’s like an orchestra that plays a beautiful symphony, but there is one problem. It is playing at one note per minute. And you know what the craziest thing is? I think this paper is going to change a lot of things in the industry, and absolutely nobody talks about it. This is deep technical wizardry

available for free for all of us, and nobody is talking about it. Insanity. This paper is like endangered species, if we don’t talk about them here, I am worried that no one else will. So if you wish to help us save these endangered species, save a paper today, please like, subscribe, hit the bell icon, and leave a really kind comment. We are currently at episode 996, we are close to 1,000 paper videos now so we’re not going anywhere. Join the paper club.

Noodles, ribbons, spheres, and capers, no collisions with 168 million neighbors. Subscribe to Two Minute Papers.