---
video_title: "NVIDIA’s New AI’s Movements Are So Real It’s Uncanny"
video_id: FM8yNkWad1w
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FM8yNkWad1w
video_date: 2025-10-20T15:12:41+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  Guide:
  Rent one of their GPUs with over 16GB of VRAM
  Open a terminal
  Just get Ollama with this command - https://ollama.com/download/linux
  Then run ollama run gpt-oss:120b - https://ollama.com/library/gpt-oss:120b
  
  📝 The paper is available here:
  https://add-moo.github.io/
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Gordon Child, John Le, Juan Benet, Kyle Davis, Loyal Alchemist, Lukas Biewald, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Sven Pfiffner, Taras Bobrovytsky, Thomas Krcmar, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
  
  #nvidia
---
There is one thing that I really want. What I want is a digital character to move exactly like a human. Well, just copy it then, right? Do a little motion capture with the sensors on the human body, record it running, jumping, reading papers, and then, copy it within a computer program. Well, unfortunately, that is impossible. Okay, why? Well, this motion capture data shows you what

you need to do, but it does not tell you how. You see, these virtual characters have muscles and joints, and to copy these movements, you would need to come up with the forces and torques exerted everywhere at every time instance to be able to mimic it. Oh man, that is hard. Really hard. But, this amazing paper from 2018 could already do that. It was called DeepMimic,

and goodness, this…am I seeing correctly? This really is able to match the reference motions superbly. Is that a word? I don’t know. I don’t care. We talked about this work

approximately 500 videos ago. Yes I heard you. I heard what you just said. And the answer is yes, we’ve been around that long. Almost a 1,000 paper videos now.

Okay, DeepMimic. This worked by turning motion imitation into a video game where every joint, angle, and contact had its own little score counter. The controller played this game over and over, tweaking its moves through endless retries, until it learned how to rack up the maximum score. Which is perfect imitation of the motion capture performance. And boy, does it look perfect in places.

But it got better, it worked on a bunch of different body morphologies as well. And you could even do the favorite pastime of the computer graphics researcher: throwing boxes at it, for how long? Until it collapses of course. You could even do some art direction where you would ask it to dance a bit more vigorously. Yes, more life, more life, more energy! Oh baby. It looks terrible but

I still love it. And now, you’re tired after doing all this kung fu. Yup, that one checks out too. So, is this work perfect? It sure seems so! Well,

it is not. Here is a dirty little secret, but don’t tell anyone. So here’s the problem: every single one of those little score counters in DeepMimic had to be designed and tuned by hand. You had to decide exactly how many points to give for matching a knee angle, how harshly to punish a wobbly torso, and how much to care about foot placement versus balance. Change the motion, or even switch to a robot body, and suddenly all your scores are wrong again. You spend days turning invisible dials just to get something

that doesn’t collapse into a breakdancing mess. Just to get a flavor of the paper, you have to optimize these: joint rotations, velocities, root velocity, end effectors that describe where hands and feet should go, and center of mass. Yum yum yum. Tastes great, but man, that’s a lot to optimize. And you have to do it by hand, manually? Oof. This system is

held together by duct tape and the tears of PhD students. There’s got to be a better way! And that’s where this new paper, ADD, the Adversarial Differential Discriminator comes in. Instead of hard-coding hundreds of score counters, it introduces an AI judge that learns automatically what a perfect performance looks like. The system plays the same imitation game, but now, instead of manually juggling separate scores for elbows, knees, and toes, the judge gives a single verdict on how close the motion feels to the real human one. As training goes on, this judge gets smarter,

focusing attention on the parts that still look off and pushing the character to refine them. So, previous DeepMimic lots of hand-tuning, new ADD, single automatic AI judge. Okay, good. But that does help? Hmm… they say this is better than DeepMimic? Well, I’d like

to see that! And, well well well. I am not seeing that. With pink, we got DeepMimic, the previous method and with blue, ADD, the new technique. Both are nailing the problem, but it’s not better. So,

have we been deceived by the marketing department again? I swear I’m not buying more car insurance. Okay, let’s calm down and see if this next test is better. Here is the reference movement. A little parkour! Loving it. So, the previous AMP method does exactly what we all feel like at the

moment. Disqualified. Get out of here. And now, DeepMimic is about to nail it, as always. Wait a second…that’s not it, sir. You need a little more carbohydrates before working out! Wow,

it failed. And if you think this is a failure case, now check this out. Now off with you, eat a nutrition bar while we watch the reference motion do the jump. Okay, got it? Got it. So now,

start running, and…oof! Sir. Sir! Are you okay? Goodness, failed again, even worse.

Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars and let’s see if the new technique with the AI judge is any better, and…oh my goodness. They did it. What about the climbing? Let’s see…absolutely nailed that too. Wow!

The motions are really fluid and believable, and physically correct. It controls all the joints correctly. That is really tough. And yes, I know what you want. You also want to see the earlier low energy AMP do the jump too.

Your wish is now granted. Ain’t no jumping here brother. They don’t pay me enough. And believe it or not, it’s going to get even better. Here’s how. Dear Fellow Scholars,

this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Dr. Carroll. Oh yeah! We still retain DeepMimic’s wonderful

property of working on different body morphologies. I am starting to flip out. So, the crowd favorite, the walking sausage man, not a problem. ADD does as well as hand-tuned techniques, but this one works automatically. It can control a robot too, it can fall and get up.

It can do a variety of different behaviors, karate, jumping on one leg, walking an invisible dog. And at this point, I am so happy, this is basically me. So good! Mother of Papers. Here we also have an ablation study, which takes out each individual puzzle piece that they invented, and they show how the system breaks when you remove these individual puzzle pieces. In short, they show one by one that everything they

invented here is indeed useful. Not just a soup of stuff that works, but they show that each piece is necessary. I still can’t believe that they’ve actually done it. Wow! And now, before I tell you about the limitations of this new method, look at this. Oh my goodness. Is this for real? This research paper is an

absolutely marvelous piece of work, and nearly nobody is talking about it. Wait a minute. Not nearly nobody. Actually nobody is talking about it. Let me try to help.

So this is why I feel that talking about these research works is so important, it’s a bit like saving endangered species. If we don’t do it here, nobody does it. So please, save a paper today, like this video, subscribe, hit the bell icon, and leave a really kind comment. Okay, so it’s not flawless, of course. Sometimes the AI judge gets confused on the flashier tricks - instead of pulling off a smooth backflip, the poor thing just lies down and gives up halfway. It’s a bit like a dance judge who judges the waltz well but freezes

when the performer suddenly tries parkour - you know, still learning what “graceful” means when gravity is involved. Reminds me of an earlier paper where an AI player collapsed, get this, in a way that reprogrammed the mind of the other AI to lose. Insanity. But just think about it. AI systems now don’t just imitate motion, they actually understand how we move around. And just two more papers down the line,

and I am sure these digital creatures will learn to move with the same grace and intent as living ones. That is the First Law of Papers. Do not look at where we are, look at where we will be two more papers down the line. What a time to be alive! So, digital ninjas, motion shapers, smoother than your graphics shaders - subscribe to Two Minute Papers!