---
video_title: "Blender 5.0 Is Here - A Revolution…For Free!"
video_id: Py1I96F_R4Q
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Py1I96F_R4Q
video_date: 2025-11-20T16:46:16+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  Get Blender 5.0 here: https://www.blender.org/
  Example scenes: https://www.blender.org/download/demo-files/
  Multiple scattering paper: https://cg.iit.bme.hu/~szirmay/volreuse_link.htm
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Gordon Child, Juan Benet, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Taras Bobrovytsky, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
---
Yes! Now we can create better virtual worlds, movies, avatars for videoconferencing, you name it. Why? Because the new version of Blender, the popular 3D modeling program, 5.0 is now here. And it can now do so much more.

Now, you can already do all the stuff that you see here if you “buy” 3ds Max. Yes, it really says “buy” 3ds Max. But, you’ll find that there is nothing to buy here, you are subscribing for $255 per month, and after you stop paying, you get nothing. Hooray! So no, don’t do that, use Blender instead because one, it is completely free for all of us, you can own it, and two, over the years it has become an absolute powerhouse.

Well, first, have a look at the quality of movies that you can create with this system. These are eye-poppingly beautiful scenes, all done with a free tool available right now for all of us. What a time to be alive! Now, here are 10 amazing things that it can do. One, when you want to place not just one tree, but a bunch of them, this looks a bit unnatural. But if you use scatter on surface. That

makes it super easy to distribute these objects in a way that looks natural. Two, Cycles, their ray tracing engine has something incredible called adaptive subdivision. This automatically adds geometric detail to objects as we get closer with our camera. You can get super high resolution surfaces, and only render them when absolutely necessary. This feature is not experimental anymore, but now is a production feature. Oh baby.

Three, metal shaders can now use thin film interference. This is where tiny surface layers make light waves create these shifting rainbow colors. Wow. And with this, you can get really advanced tempered and anodized metal models. Four, when you render a smoke plume with proper ray tracing technique, you get fewer artifacts.

And you see that it always starts out from a noisy image, which cleans up over time, and now it does it faster. And this is also an unbiased algorithm, finally, which means that the noise fades away more correctly, more reliably, and you get a better result that is closer to physical reality. This is the holy grail of ray tracing research, in my opinion. Loving it. And if something still takes lots of resources, I just rent a GPU at Lambda, and have lunch in peace while it renders my stuff super fast.

Five, OSL cameras allow you to create your own camera lenses, you can get something really subtle, or get absolutely crazy results with this. Six, hair rendering can get 50% faster, or even better than that! This is coming from a new curve rendering algorithm. The tradeoff is that if you look at it super closely, it’s not the best. But for regular views, it looks the same, and is way faster! Superb.

Now, onwards to real time stuff. Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Dr. Carroll.

Seven, switching to Eevee, their real-time renderer now has higher quality and faster hair rendering at the same time. For instance, self-shadowing used to be a problem, but after 5.0, not anymore. Material previewing is also better. So good!

Eight, Blender 5.0 can now output to HDR displays. Finally! Pair it up with these better, bright sky models that now support multiple scattering. Oh my. This is the simulation of sunlight bouncing

between several molecules before hitting our eye. This normally takes a ton of computation, and many papers have been written on how to do this efficiently for more than 20 years now. And this is finally the papers coming alive in the hands of you Fellow Scholars. This super quick multiple scattering can even improve the reflections in your scene. Loving this.

Nine, geometry nodes also improved a great deal. These are used to create new kinds of geometry using logic operations. If you like this kind of mad science, you’ll love the new socket shapes, support for volume grids and signed distance field workflows. And ten, yup. You are seeing correctly. This is a video editor inside Blender,

and what I love about it is that you can simultaneously edit the scene and the video about the scene in one app. That is kinda insane if you think about it. Oh, and if you check the official Blender announcement video, you may also hear a bit of Papers action there around the 31 minute mark. Thank you so much for the honor. This is a dream come true.

So, to get started, just download it from the description, it is your for free forever. And don’t start from zero, use one of the example scenes. And if you enjoyed how finally the research papers are coming alive, you can hear so much more about these techniques on our channel, so make sure to click like, subscribe and hit the bell icon. And let me know what you use Blender for. I would love to hear it!