---
video_title: "Why Gamers Will Never See Hair The Same Way Again"
video_id: WYTOxOhKl3Y
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYTOxOhKl3Y
video_date: 2025-09-29T14:20:13+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out the Fully Connected Conference by Weights & Biases - https://wandb.me/fclon2025-2min
  20% discount code: FCLON2025-2MIN
  
  📝 The paper is available here:
  https://www.cemyuksel.com/research/hairmesh_rendering/
  
  Try the demo and try to break it, it is super fun:
  https://www.cemyuksel.com/research/hairmesh_rendering/demo/
  
  📝 My paper on simulations that look almost like reality is available for free here:
  https://rdcu.be/cWPfD 
  
  Or this is the orig. Nature Physics link with clickable citations:
  https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-022-01788-5
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Christian Ahlin, Gordon Child, John Le, Juan Benet, Kyle Davis, Loyal Alchemist, Lukas Biewald, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Steef, Sven Pfiffner, Taras Bobrovytsky, Thomas Krcmar, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
  If you wish to appear here or pick up other perks, click here: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  X/Twitter: https://twitter.com/twominutepapers
  Thumbnail design: Felícia Zsolnai-Fehér - http://felicia.hu
---
This is an amazing piece of work but it’s not about what you think. It’s not about the physics and movement of hair, which is what we often do around here, no-no. This is about how to store hair, or even better, how to get an entire army of teapots with glorious 80s rock-band hair flapping around like it’s a shampoo commercial. And this research work also describes how to render all this on a computer super quickly. Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars, because all this is done 2 milliseconds per frame. Not 2 milliseconds per character. No. Two milliseconds for all

hundred of them. Yes, that is 500 frames per second. Wow. And you can try it out yourself too. And the geometry, now that is where things get even crazier.

This only needs about 18 kilobytes per model. You know how small that is? That is approximately the same storage needed as one second of music. That is insanity. At this point, I really wanted to know more and looked into the research paper, and boy, is it amazing. So how on earth does it do all this so quickly and efficiently? Well,

listen closely now, because it uses no AI whatsoever, only human brilliance. Here’s how. Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Dr. Carroll.

If you look at the title, it says Hair Mesh Rendering. What do you mean hair mesh rendering? Meshes are a terrible way of storing and rendering hair. You see, hair is made of countless individual, thin strands, while meshes are collections of flat polygons. This is a fundamentally wrong tool for the job because you'd need an astronomical number of tiny polygons to represent each strand. That is heavy on storage and rendering. So how on

earth did they solve this? Well, this paper gets around this by not using the mesh to be the hair, but to act as hair-growing pot, from which the strands are generated on the fly on the GPU. The core idea is brilliantly simple. Instead of storing millions of individual hair strands, which is a data nightmare, instead they store a much simpler thing they call the "hair mesh" that defines the overall volume and the flow of the hairstyle. Think of it like a blueprint for the hair. This blueprint is then converted into a special 3D texture. When it's time to render,

the GPU uses this texture map to generate all 100,000 hair strands from scratch, in real-time. It's like having a hyper-efficient hair factory on the graphics card that reads the blueprint and creates a new complex hairstyle for every frame. And here’s the best part - after the frame is rendered, the data for all those strands is simply discarded, saving a massive amount of memory. And it gets better! Because the hair is generated on the fly, they can easily implement level-of-detail. As a character moves further away, the system automatically generates fewer,

thicker strands, reducing the geometric complexity…and. Super nice, I think there might be no noticeable drop in quality. The left shows what you would see in the game, and the right shows what is secretly being rendered under the hood. But you never see this one. It’s just a bunch of noodles now - a huge performance saver that works seamlessly. What a time to be alive!

Now these videos flicker a bit, we all see that. I think that has to do more with the rendering technique than with the geometry, but I wanted to make a note of that. But wait wait wait. If all this is really that fast, that means that it can generate this kind of hair geometry on the fly. Well, prove it then! Oh my, they put out a demo that can do all this

kind of craziness in real time. You can try it yourself too in the video description. Okay, so here is how the demo works. First, well grow some hair dude. Okay, this will do.

And there are a bunch of parameters we can play with, and if we continue like this, we can make this gentleman into a rockstar metal musician. And as he ages out of it, and as we play with his physical parameters, he quickly grows out of it. He has now entered a bit of a conductor phase. I played with it too, here, and since it gives you a lot of freedom…kinda too much freedom, I recommend that you also play with it and try to break it. Now, a limitation of this technique is that this only works if the hairstyle is built with their special mesh system. But it is absolutely brilliant. Wow. And strangely,

almost no one seems to be talking about this paper - even despite the fact that it’s literally rendering what would otherwise be billions of triangles of hair in real time. This deserves way more attention. If you wish to help us give these papers a voice, because frankly, I am not sure if anyone else does it, please like, subscribe, hit the bell icon, and leave a really kind comment. We’ve tried it before, and it is the only thing that helps. So, hair on teapots, hair on gators, faster than your graphics shaders - subscribe to Two Minute Papers.