---
video_title: "This Fluid Simulation Should Not Be Possible"
video_id: O7q52WxYZN8
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O7q52WxYZN8
video_date: 2026-01-18T14:42:42+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Weights & Biases and sign up for a free demo here: https://wandb.me/papers
  
  📝 The paper "Fast Octree Neighborhood Search for SPH Simulations" is available here:
  https://andreaslongva.com/pdf/2022-SA-NeighborhoodSearch-compressed.pdf
  https://animation.rwth-aachen.de/media/papers/79/2022-SA-NeighborhoodSearch.pdf
  
  Our Patreon if you wish to support us: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Adam Bridges, Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Cameron Navor, Christian Ahlin, Eric T, Fred R, Gordon Child, Juan Benet, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Ryan Stankye, Steef, Taras Bobrovytsky, Tazaur Sagenclaw, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
   
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
---
Look at what is possible today! This is a massive wave generator pushing water towards a sloped beach with obstacles. Not real of course, this is a computer simulation, but it is so accurate it is absolutely breathtaking. Now check this out. Yup. That is a view

that shows us that this simulation is done as a collection of particles. How many particles? Well, this is 9 million particles moving at the same time. Absolutely incredible that it is now possible. I’ll tell you in a bit how. Now this is supposed to be borderline impossible.

It's borderline impossible because traditional methods just can't keep up. Look at this fountain scene. As the simulation runs, more and more particles are emitted over time, reaching up to 3.5 million particles. First, for each particle, we gotta find some neighbors to be able to compute density or pressure forces. To do that, we can put a uniform grid on this scene,

and check the grid points to find which particles are neighbors. Yes…up until a point. Now as we add more water, it spreads out, and finding neighbors just gets more and more expensive. But it gets worse! Because the grid is uniform, we either waste time checking empty space or get bogged down by having too many particles in one cell. In these scenarios,

regular grids simply can't keep up with the complexity. Not a chance! Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars, because here is the solution to our troubles. Instead of a rigid grid, researchers proposed a specialized structure that gives us multiple resolutions at the same time. Look at how beautifully the grid adapts to the scene! It is designed in a way so that each of these little grid cells has

not too few or too many particles, just the right amount to work with. They call these Octrees. Now, wait wait wait. Octrees are nothing new, they were invented more than 50 years ago now. So what is new here?

Well, usually an Octree is like a map that helps you find things, but you have to stop and ask for directions at every intersection. Computer scientists call this branching. Now this incredible work just supercharged that. I mean, of course they did. If you have a lot of stuff, and you want them to be in order, what do you need? Of course, you want a bunch of German scientists write an algorithm for it.

So what did they do? Well, hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars because they supercharged the way we read this map. I’ll tell you how. Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér.

Think of the old methods like a driver who has to pull over at every single intersection, unfold a giant paper map, and see whether to turn left or right. Oh wait, we have a new intersection. Stopping again, checking the map, got it, proceed. All that constant stopping and second-guessing is what we call "branching" - this totally slows you down. No good!

Now get this. This new technique is like driving a car where you never have to look at a map because the lanes are so perfectly designed that they guide you exactly where you need to go. Instead of stopping to check your location, you just keep your hands on the wheel and the pedal to the floor. And the lanes just guide you to your destination. In computer science, we call this property “branchless”, and computer hardware loves that! It loves that because normally, it does not work like that. Normally,

it takes a small batch and asks a ton of questions before processing it. Then, another small batch, another bunch of questions. Terrible. This new technique helps it to process data in big, clean batches. So it gets way faster. It’s incredible because this is not impossible anymore!

But they did a lot more than that! And they also challenged an older golden rule of fluid simulations. For decades, the "golden rule" was that your grid cells must be the same size the particle’s “neighborhood”. Imagine a little bubble of space where one particle can feel its neighbors. That should be the grid cell size too. This paper proves that's

wrong. They found that using larger cells - about 1.5 times the support radius - actually makes the simulation faster. It’s like using a slightly larger scoop to move coffee beans. You might get a few extra beans you don't need, but you finish the job way faster because you aren't carefully counting every single bean as you scoop. Absolute genius.

But it gets better! Check out this Double Dam Break scene. Here, we see two variants of fluid particles interacting. We have fine particles, you see these with yellowish colors, these are for high-detail motions on the surface. And then, coarse particles with blue for the bulk of the fluid underneath. This allows the simulation

to capture beautiful, splashing details on the surface while saving massive amounts of computing power by using "simpler" particles for the deep water where you can't see the movement anyway. Now, here is my favorite. Check this out. Here we mix thick, gooey slime with splashing water. At first, you’ll notice those three orange armadillos are actually made of high-viscosity "goo" that moves much slower than the surrounding blue water. As the water pours in, the slime deforms slowly. And finally at the end,

they start slowly mixing. And, look, we get a cheeky little little splash. Bloop! Loving it. This whole thing is actually genius. Why? Because previously, if you had a low resolution

simulation, it looked very coarse. Or if you went high resolution, it took up to weeks to compute. But now, this is genius because we can have our paper and eat it too! Or cake or something. We get the incredible visual detail of millions of tiny particles where it matters most. And this technique even works for complex fluid-solid interactions, like these deformable

bunnies being tossed around by 5.6 million fluid particles. This makes me so happy. But something else does not. It is truly heart-wrenching that this groundbreaking work was published about three years ago, yet it sat quietly in the archives, almost forgotten. Look. Man! So I thought I have to make a video about this and let

you know. Because if we don’t, nobody else will. So save a paper today - subscribe, hit the bell, and leave a kind comment to get more like this.