---
video_title: "Google’s New AI Just Broke My Brain"
video_id: 7YVrb3-ABYE
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7YVrb3-ABYE
video_date: 2026-04-01T14:21:33+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Lambda here and sign up for their GPU Cloud: https://lambda.ai/papers
  
  📝 The TurboQuant paper is available here:
  https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19874
  
  Reproductions: 
  https://github.com/tonbistudio/turboquant-pytorch
  https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLM/comments/1s6edoi/turboquant_implementation/
  https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/comments/1s73yby/implemented_turboquant_in_python_over_weekend/
  https://x.com/AlicanKiraz0/status/2038245538865275274
  I'll note that I have found several reproductions and benchmarks with all kinds of results, so take each of these as just one data point, not definitive yet (thanks for the feedback Alon Torres). Some later tests even better at KV-cache compression!
  
  KV-cache source: https://huggingface.co/blog/not-lain/kv-caching
  
  Reviews and criticisms of the paper:
  https://openreview.net/forum?id=tO3ASKZlok
  https://x.com/gaoj0017/status/2037532673812443214
  
  Our Patreon if you wish to support us: https://www.patreon.com/TwoMinutePapers
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Adam Bridges, Benji Rabhan, B Shang, Cameron Navor, Charles Ian Norman Venn, Christian Ahlin, Eric T, Fred R, Gordon Child, Juan Benet, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Richard Sundvall, Ryan Stankye, Shawn Becker, Steef, Taras Bobrovytsky, Tazaur Sagenclaw, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
   
  My research: https://cg.tuwien.ac.at/~zsolnai/
  Thumbnail design: https://felicia.hu
---
Google made a huge announcement about their new method that lets us run AI techniques cheaper. The news took the world by storm. This came at the best possible time, because we have a worldwide memory shortage. So the prices for capable laptops and GPUs and anything that can run these AI systems is up by…insane amounts. And this work would make them much cheaper to run. They call it TurboQuant.

Roughly speaking, they claim 4 to 6 times less memory, that is insane. And 8 times faster computation for a part of the neural network called attention. No meaningful loss in output quality. And it works on top of existing models as is. If true, that is a total game changer. The news was so huge it even moved the

stock price of huge semiconductor companies. Because of that, I did not want to publish an early video on the huge sensation. No. I really wanted to wait a bit, and find out whether it actually works in practice. I’ll tell you about that. And I’ll also tell you that not everyone is happy about it.

So, three questions. What does it do? Does it work? What is the controversy about? Dear Fellow Scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér.

It feels so good to do it like this. Well, this compresses the KV cache of AI systems, like large language models. This is the short-term memory of an AI assistant. If you would look into that, you would see tons and tons of numbers. These numbers relate to what you are currently talking about. Movies, a bunch of documents or a huge codebase.

Now, personally, I am a research scientist, what caught my eye was not the media hype, but this. Oh! A formal mathematical proof that it works. Now we’re talking. Okay, one, so what does this do?

And these numbers have lots of digits. Scientists propose that we chop off the end of the numbers to save memory. Is that a new idea? No. Is that a good idea? No, unless you are very

careful. Because you can lose a lot of information and your neural network might output nonsense. So, how do you do that? Well, imagine a vector, this is like an arrow pointing somewhere. Sometimes that arrow points mostly along one axis. So most of its "energy" is in one direction,

and a little in other directions. When you chop that information off, it snaps on to the grid, you basically lose everything except that one direction. That is not useful. Now here’s a brilliant idea: before chopping it off, rotate the arrow in a random direction. Now the energy spreads more evenly across all directions. So when

you round off parts of it, you lose a little from everywhere instead of everything from most places. The result? Much less information lost. Is this idea new? No. This is a very old idea.

Now they do one more thing. They use a Johnson–Lindenstrauss Transform to compress the data. What is that? Remember, we have a bunch of numbers, representing arrow directions. And we want fewer numbers to describe these directions. But very carefully. You

do this in a way that guarantees that the distances between these arrows is roughly the same after squishing. If you want to sound really cool, just call it the JL transform. Is that new? Not really. 40-year old technique. And I think that is the

key. Everyone loves to invent shiny new stuff. But here, quantization is not new, rotating things around is not new. This transform is not new. These are three age old ideas combined together to great effect. Sometimes you don’t need to invent

grand new theories. Sometimes you need a smart combination of existing methods. Okay, second big question: so does it work in practice? To conclude that it works in practice, I wanted to see other scientists reproduce the technique and benchmark it for themselves. This is why this video appears later than most others, but I think it makes it more truthful.

So were other scientists able to reproduce this technique? Yes. Did they also benchmark it? Yes. Does this technique help? Yes.

But, not so fast! The first tests reveal that it decreased the memory cost of the KV cache, short term memory by 30-40%. That is fantastic. I would have been very happy with this. But it doesn’t end there. Typically you have a tradeoff where you decrease memory usage at the cost of

something. So something needs to slow down. Now hold on to your papers Fellow Scholars, because it also sped up processing the prompts by about 40% as well. What? That is…my brain crashed. We get faster AI assistants that need less memory at

almost zero cost. That is insane. In a world where it’s harder and harder to own things, this is a blessing. Thank you so much! It is also remarkable that the paper has barely been out for a week and some of you Fellow Scholars already coded it up. Nice work. Link is in the description.

So, it’s not quite like the media says. Based on the results, we cannot conclude that every AI machine suddenly needs 6 times less ram. No. That is a bit idealistic and only true for some corner cases. You know when you see an official benchmark of a phone battery or electric car mileage with somewhat idealized conditions? It is a bit like that.

So careful with the media hype. Experienced Fellow Scholars like you know that in your mind, you have to tone these numbers down a little. This is why we wait for more data and analyze experiments here, to get the highest quality information for you. But it’s still good. Really good! It helps most people who run AI

systems with very long contexts. When you chuck in a huge pdf document, or a movie, or a huge codebase for an AI to analyze. Yes, you will be able to do that cheaper, with meaningfully less memory. Often a few gigabytes less. And I think that is absolutely amazing news.

Third, I will note that other researchers point out that the paper overlaps with previous techniques. They felt that it has similarities that should be discussed more thoroughly. There was more. Eventually, the paper was accepted for publication, though not all researchers agree the concerns were fully addressed. I put the links to all of these in the video description.

But this proves that even in modern AI, there are still basic things we haven’t invented yet. And that makes this a very exciting area to be in. What a time to be alive! And if you agree that this is the way of talking about papers, please consider subscribing and hitting the bell icon.