---
video_title: "Claude AI Failed 650 Times…Then Beat The Human Record"
video_id: QnGNF8k_uoc
channel_name: "Two Minute Papers"
channel_id: UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QnGNF8k_uoc
video_date: 2026-08-14T08:42:07+00:00
video_description: |
  ❤️ Check out Weights & Biases and sign up for a free demo here: https://wandb.me/papers
  
  📝 The paper is available here:
  https://www.anthropic.com/research/riemann-zeta
  
  Source:
  https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/no-ai-didnt-just-solve-the-thorniest-problem-in-math/
  
  🙏 We would like to thank our generous Patreon supporters who make Two Minute Papers possible:
  Adam Bridges, B Shang, Carlos Galarza, Christian Ahlin, Eric Tyson, Juan Benet, Lukas Biewald, Michael Tedder, Owen Skarpness, Ryan Stankye, Shawn Becker, Steef, Taras Bobrovytsky, Tazaur Sagenclaw, Tybie Fitzhugh, Ueli Gallizzi
---
What is happening? An unreleased version of Claude was asked to solve a long-standing mathematical problem, the Riemann hypothesis. Simplified, it is a statement about the distribution of prime numbers. Devilishly difficult. No human has ever been able to prove it. Did it solve it?

Nope. >> [laughter] >> So, what did it do then? Well, it actually was able to improve a related bound beyond human record. It pushed humanity further. Sort of. I think that is incredible.

Now, there's the mathematical side. Many mathematicians I heard seem to be both surprised and impressed by the results. Some call it a massive leap forward. I ran a verification myself, but I am just a student looking to learn, and I am not qualified to speak more about the mathematical side of it. But, the AI side is incredible. Three things that

happened that I found super interesting. One, surely exquisite mathematical prompting was done, right? No. Not really. Here's what happened.

First, a non-mathematician person prompted this AI. Wow. Okay. The first 650 tries did not work. Now, hold on to your papers, fellow scholars. Quoting,

"Throughout this process, Jared's input was mostly limited to sending Claude messages of encouragement. Mostly variants of keep going and believe in yourself." What? He had to give words of encouragement to an AI to keep going, and it succeeded. Perhaps in the future, the most powerful mathematical proofs will not be written by geniuses. They will be written by

life coaches. What a time to be alive. And get this, it's not the first time this has happened. Quoting, "A prompt including similar encouragement was used to help Claude disprove the Jacobian conjecture." Okay, but I was even more surprised about two more things. Dear fellow

scholars, this is Two Minute Papers with Dr. Károly Zsolnai-Fehér. Two, the full technical paper is available, but it's pretty tough, of course. So much so that they asked the AI to explain its findings. So it did. And in the

meantime, a formalized version of the proof is also available, which can be automatically verified. You can even run it yourself right now. Now, something I don't think you hear too much about elsewhere. I went through more than a hundred pages of transcripts and some super cool tidbits from the journey. Claude had internet access in general, but did not need to use it during the key breakthrough run.

Claude went down many wrong roads first, but was able to learn from them and recover. Then, the first crucial result appeared after about 37 minutes of radio silence. Imagine how tense that must have been. And then, pop! And the AI itself also thought the result is suspiciously good. It said, quoting,

"Too strong to be new." Absolutely crazy. And three, even Claude was surprised about its finding and it was skeptical at first. They also say, "Perhaps Claude itself also underestimates the rate of AI progress." But, an AI that is surprised Of course, this does not mean a human-like surprise. It

simply reflects patterns learned from us during training. But still, I feel like we are living in a new world where sentences that didn't used to make sense now suddenly do. And in a world where these AI systems built by human ingenuity are now pushing humanity forward. What a time to be alive. We need new tools for the era of LLMs and Weights & Biases now has weave a lightweight toolkit to confidently iterate on LLM applications. Use traces

to debug how data flows through each step of your app and use evaluations to measure your progress. It is the best. Try it out now at wnb.me/papers or click the link in the description below.