---
video_title: "Linus vs iFixit: LTT Precision Screwdriver, Tested"
video_id: bUl6MbI2jKo
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUl6MbI2jKo
video_date: 2024-10-31
video_description: |
  Is the LTT Precision Screwdriver a clone of the iFixit Precision Bit Driver?
  
  Or does it have something unique to offer? I'll test both in this video, and compare them to some other precision screwdrivers I own.
  
  NOTE: LMG sent the LTT Precision screwdriver I tested in this video. They did not pay me to make a video, nor did they have any input into the (silly) testing methodologies I used, nor were they able to see any part of this video before it went live on YouTube.
  
  Links to all the things I mentioned (some links are affiliate links):
  
    - LTT Precision Screwdriver Kit (61 bits): https://www.lttstore.com/products/precision-multi-bit-screwdriver-bundle
    - iFixit Mako Driver Kit (64 bits): https://amzn.to/3YCtmcd
    - iFixit Moray Driver Kit (32 bits): https://amzn.to/3YGXK4j
    - Klein Tools 14-in-1 Precision Screwdriver: https://amzn.to/48oXbAl
    - Klein Tools 4-in-1 Electronics Pocket Screwdriver: https://amzn.to/4hibTgH
    - MacBook Air to Linux upgrade: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1G0v5s1nEZk
    - My LTT Screwdriver Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l40dncKq38s
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - Why does this exist?
  00:38 - iFixit drama
  02:11 - It is different
  02:57 - Leveling the fidget spinner playing field
  06:55 - Bits and build quality
  08:57 - Grips and precision driver design
  12:44 - Bit selection
  13:50 - Ancient MacBook Air re-paste
  18:20 - iFixit CEO's statement
  19:16 - Is the LTT Precision Screwdriver worth it?
---
I like the LTT screwdriver. I didn't intend to like it, but after buying like 12 other ratcheting screwdrivers, I find myself using Linus's the most. I still have tons of other screwdrivers—the right tool for the right job and all that— but one thing that it's laughably bad at is any kind of precision work. Which is why Linus is trying to strike gold twice with this: the LTT Precision Screwdriver. —You guys have some explaining to do about this whole situation.

They commissioned the creation of a 4x scale precision multi-bit screwdriver that is so big it holds precision multi-bit screwdrivers in the storage cap. —What's its claim to fame? Well, it's like the iFixit Precision Bit driver, except Linus's has a fidget spinner on top. And it's called a 'Screw'driver instead of a 'Bit' driver. I jest, but there was a little drama that went down between iFixit's CEO and LMG.

And while that's not the focus of this video, I did get a statement from iFixit's CEO, which I'll get to. But first, I'll let Linus sum up his side of the argument. —Either it's a copy at a higher price, in which case he shouldn't be worried about it. Right. Or it's a product that innovated.

—After you watch this video, I'll let you be the judge. I'm just here to test out a new screwdriver and share my thoughts. Now, anyone who works with phones, tiny electronics, or anything with tiny screws already has a few precision screwdrivers. Even here, I mostly settled on a few of these Klein drivers. I have a few of them scattered around in each of my workspaces, and I love having all the main bits that I need self-contained inside this shaft.

These Klein's have a nice rubber grip, a long thin shaft for getting in tight spaces, and a spinny part on top that lets you quickly screw things in. Does having a fidget spinner help screw things in better? Well, here's the deal. LMG sent me one of their Precision Screwdriver kits. It has 60 bits, and it comes with this nice black plastic case with a magnetic closure.

I decided to do an almost one-for-one comparison. I bought the iFixit Moray, which has 32 bits and also comes in a nice black plastic case with a magnetic closure. Looking at these two side-by-side, maybe iFixit's CEO was onto something when he said Linus is good at copying their products. Now, the LTT case does add on a few features. It has a detachable hinge, and the whole thing is magnetic and stackable.

And the LTT set has 60 bits. But iFixit also sells the Mako, a 64-bit kit, for $40. LTT's full kit is $50 and doesn't come with the handy flex extension you get with the Mako. Both precision drivers have hidden storage at the top, though Linus's is a little nicer and remains attached like on the bigger driver. When it comes down to it, though, the major difference between these two driver kits is the fidget spinner.

Is that worth $10 to you? Or put another way, would the iFixit driver get $10 better with a $5 fidget spinner stuck on top? How about these two fidget spinners in a pack? $10 for two. Can I replicate the experience of the LTT driver by just VHB taping on one of these guys?

Just a little square should do, I think. There we go. And I'll pop this back on, and let's check. Seems to be working pretty well. And now I have my own fidget spinner for $5 less.

Here's LTT's fidget spinner. The advantage with the iFixit method is... Whoops!

Well, that's one advantage. You can pop it right back off, and the VHB tape doesn't hold it on. But assuming it holds on, I can take this whole little kit with me, and I don't have to take the screwdriver. So it does look a little silly. But the advantage here is I can pop this off and take it with me, and now I have a pocket size fidget spinner.

And I don't have to take the screwdriver with me everywhere I go. But it does the trick, and it's nice to have a fidget spinner that holds your bits. You can't do that with this one. I don't think so. Yeah.

See? But that's pretty silly. Now that both drivers are on an even playing field, I thought I'd do a scientific test. Which fidget spins better? For the first test, I'll just measure how long it spins.

And for that, I'll use my handy scientific timer. I'm going to start this one when the timer hits 5 seconds, and this one when it hits 10 seconds. So we can deduct 5 off this and 10 off that one. That way we have a fair comparison here. Okay.

All right. Here we go. Time. 27 seconds. Time.

36 seconds. So, you know, the fidget spinner is a fidget spinner. I think that's the conclusion that I have here. It also depends a lot on your technique with your fidget spinning, and whether you get a good thumb start with a lot of friction, or I guess even the way that you hold it could make a little bit of an impact. But these are all just silly tests to prove the point that it's just a fidget spinner.

But for the second test, I was going to see if I can get my tachometer to show how fast these fidget spinners go. But then I realized I don't know where I put the thing, so I won't be doing that test today. Plot twist! As I was editing this video I actually found the tachometer, it was hanging up next to my sound pressure meter. So Here it is, and it looks like it gets over 2000 RPM.

Is that good? I don't know. Is that bad? Not sure. But the next test I wanted to do is seeing if the gyroscopic effect makes any difference when I'm screwing.

...That statement sounds a little weird. Anyway, I'll take this Raspberry Pi and unscrew a couple screws while the spinner is going.

Okay. It doesn't seem that it makes any impact on screwing abilities. Because of the mass of the screwdriver, it barely even makes an impact on how the screwdriver feels. I think if you had a more massive fidget spinner, that would make a bigger difference. But the key would be, it might hold it a little more stable.

But that's about it. I don't think that the fidget spinner is making a material difference on my ability to screw things in or unscrew things. The iFixit screwdriver seems a little bit lighter. Let me check. I'm going to check the weights.

This is with three bits included. I'll make this a fair fight. This is not the world's best scale. Here's the LTT driver. That looks like it's about 20 or 30 grams.

And iFixit, including the spinner, is maybe 15 to 20 grams. So this is a lighter screwdriver. The gyroscopic effect would be greater on the iFixit. It still don't feel much. So I don't think that the spinner is going to help you much in terms of screwing things in.

First up, Linus made a point that his driver is compatible with iFixit bits. And if that's true, then his bits should work in the iFixit too. And as a third benchmark, I'm also going to test out some bits from this cheap no-name kit I inherited from my Uncle Mark. So first, here's one of the LTT bits. It fits, of course, because it comes with a screwdriver.

It'd be pretty terrible if that didn't fit. Let's try one of the iFixit bits. And that fits just as well. The LTT bits have a slightly different finish. The iFixit ones are more chrome, whereas the LTT ones are kind of polished.

But otherwise, they look very similar. The iFixit bits also have labels with text on them. So SL4 instead of just a 4 on here. And then let's try one of LTT's bits in the iFixit driver. That fits.

So with the LTT bits, the shank of it goes down inside of the shaft there. So the shanks of these are a little bit bigger. And again, it says Torx T6H on here. This one just says TR6. So the actual part that fits into the driver is a little bit smaller on the LTT bits.

Again, not a big difference. But it is a difference. And finally, let me try one of these bits from this cheap no-name set. It literally has no name on it. I don't know who makes this thing.

Probably from Harbor Freight. But they fit just as well. No problems there. I would prefer to have this part longer. But on the flip side, that could fit in tighter spaces sometimes.

It's a difference. It's not a big difference. But yeah, bit compatibility. It works. Now at first glance, I did think the LTT driver was pretty much a copy of iFixit's.

But when I lined it up with all my other Precision drivers, I kind of agree with Linus that it's not. That doesn't mean it's better or anything. Just looking at all these, they have some things in common. Like the spinny bit on top, the rubber grip. Well, Linus's doesn't have that.

It's metal. And they're all a similar length. And they have a bit holder in the end. The biggest difference is really in the way the bits work and what bits are included. So like I mentioned earlier, Linus's bits have a shorter shank down here that fits inside.

And the bit holder is nice and integrated. You can hold three bits in it. It rotates, which I like. And it stays with the screwdriver, which means it's going to be hard to lose it or drop it. The metal grip is fine.

It's, you know, rubber. Rubber is nice. I think that this metal grip is just as grippy, at least as iFixits rubber one, because the grain on it is not all that defined. Whereas the LTT one has some good knurling in it. The Klein one has a nice grip.

It's actually located up a little higher. There are differences. And really, it depends on your hands how well you like each of these different approaches. And that's why I think a lot of us have a ton of different drivers. Sometimes it's nice to have a rubber grip up high that you can really mash on with one hand.

Other times it's nice to have it down low for you to kind of screw in and out something very delicately. This one also from Klein has a shank that is longer in one orientation, which is helpful sometimes because you can get into a tighter space or you get the built-in extension basically. But if I want this bit on the other side, then you've got to pull it out, pull the bit out, pull the other bit out, switch the bits, and then stick the thing back in. And now I have this bit hanging out over here, which I could stick back in here, but that's just one more step. Whereas all these other drivers, if I want to do the same thing, I just pull out the bit and grab a different bit.

I included this large driver as well because it has almost all the bits I need for of typical projects built into this one shaft. It has four, five, six. It has six bits per side. So that's 12 and then two more. So that's 14 with nut drivers.

So this is handy to have around in terms of, I just need everything and I can put it all in one little thing in my pocket. But it does not have the same assortment that you get if you buy a kit with all these different bits. I think that the way that they're held in with the kind of the foam on both of these is a lot nicer than the trays that come with this cheap no-name one. The trays do pop out separately, but I've never actually done that. I just grab the bit out of here.

But the foam holds them in nicely. My only concern would be over a long period of time, like let's say 10 years. Some of these are already not tight in there. So over 10 or so years of use, this foam might not hold that well. But you could always just stick some rubber in there or something to hold them a little better.

Well, I've used all of these drivers and I haven't really had major issues with any of them. I think the main issue with this one is it's so big that it doesn't fit in a lot of projects. It's just kind of awkward to use. It's handy to have all the bits in the shaft, but it's also a little bit awkward. This one, the biggest annoyance I have with it is sometimes I do want that extra reach, but I need this bit.

So you have to do that little dance, switching them around. But all three of these have been very similar. I don't really like the...

I can demonstrate why I don't like it. I don't like the way that this works where you have to tighten it down. So you put in the bit and then you tighten it. It's not great in terms of if you're pushing and you didn't tighten it all the way, the bit can just slide up into the shaft. It's also just annoying.

It takes more time. So I do like having the magnet where you just drop it in like that on these two. But it's different strokes for different folks. That's why there are lots of different screwdrivers in the world. And I'm also noticing there must be...

There must be a magnet inside of here or something because as I'm moving this around, it actually kind of slides back into place there. You can see that. Interesting. But one last note before I move on is the actual bit selection. So I noticed that Linus Tech Tips has triangle bits.

They have tri-wing bits. Torx security screws. Torx bits. There's square bits. There's pentalobes.

There's security like the forked slotted tool. All these different bits. And iFixit really kind of pioneered the particular bit set. And I think that is one area where iFixit probably looked at all of their information and said, here's the bits that we should put into these sets, the most useful ones. And LTT didn't have to do as much work for that because they kind of just took all the bits that were in here and put them in here.

On the flip side, this No-Name one is many years older and it has a lot of the same bits, but it doesn't have things like the triangle bits. It doesn't have some of the security bits and things. So, you know, that is something that is a substantial difference in these two kits. And I think that the LTT designers probably had a leg up because they could look at what was in here already. A few weeks ago, I took this old 2013 MacBook Air and installed modern Linux on it.

When I did that, I noticed the fans were almost always maxed out. The fan is nearing takeoff levels, but I'm still seeing blinking and this little spinner stopped spinning. Apparently, that's not how it's supposed to be. A few comments mentioned I should repaste the CPU to see if that keeps it cooler without the fans having to ramp up. And just a couple weeks ago when I tore down the brand new Qualcomm Snapdragon X Dev Kit, just days before Qualcomm killed the whole project, I used the iFixit kit.

The iFixit worked great, so I think it's only fair to see how the LTT kit does repasting this MacBook Air. It's especially appropriate because I know how much Linus loves Apple. And this is a bit ironic because I'll be using one of iFixit's own teardown guides. So it says there's P5 pentalobe. Let's make sure that we got that.

Yep, right here, P5 pentalobe. And I'll get to work on getting this back cover off. And I am not taking advantage of the LTT screwdriver's magnetic parts tray for this. I like to live dangerously and let my screws just hang out. If I remember correctly, yeah, it says right there.

Just wedge your fingers in and pop up. And there we go. It's actually not too dirty in there. I will give it a little spritz with the spray air.

And I'll probably make a screw go flying too. There is a little bit of dust in here. Oh, you know what? I might have upgraded this. There's an OWC drive in here instead of the Apple one.

I think I upgraded this to 512 or 256 gig. Wouldn't it be nice if you could upgrade your storage on a Mac? Maybe Apple should look into that someday. This has discrete graphics. It looks like there's a CPU and graphics on here.

I guess I'll do the TR8 because I don't see a T8. Security screw. Yep, that's right. Good job, iFixit guides. So you got a T5 for the heatsink.

Another T5 here. Take off all of these little T5s. Yeah, this is coming out nice and easy. That thermal paste is crusty. Definitely not liquid anymore.

Definitely needs a repaste. I don't know if you can see that, but that came off a little too easy. Usually thermal paste doesn't come off that simply. Yeah, there's the Nvidia GPU. It's funny, the GPU on here is actually larger than the CPU.

And then I'll do a little bit of isopropyl alcohol. Cleanliness is next to godliness, they say. Okay, I'll do the same. Whoa, I'll do the same thing on the heat spreaders. Make everything nice and clean.

There's a little bit for you. Oh, you know what? I am out on this syringe. I need to go grab a different one. Okay.

I think getting this rubber thing back on is going to be the hardest part of this whole operation. For a screw like this that's going deep into a recessed area, it is nice to have that magnetic tip, which some precision drivers don't have. I'm going to make the executive decision to cut this because it's just annoying. That's silly. Yeah, we'll just act like that never happened.

This is how we do repairs in the Midwest. "If it doesn't fit, you cut it until it fits." Uh-oh. I just found a screw that I did not screw in. Let's come back out.

There's always a screw missing. Oh, the fan screw right here. Oh, and the battery. It would be good to plug the battery back in, probably. It would be so much easier if these were all just Torx, Apple!

That all worked fine and none of the bits broke or anything. So let's see if this power's on now. And we'll see if the fans kick in. It's booting. Someone told me I should put on Xubuntu or there's another version of this that's meant for older computers.

So I might do that at some point. The fan hasn't started spinning yet. Let's check, uh, can we get temperatures? Exhaust 2,000 RPM. It's very quiet.

So I'm going to try running stress on here and we'll see if it can get those fans going. There we go. Yep, fan is starting to spin up. CPU's up to 90. That's not too bad.

I think that this is success. It's not due to this. It's more due to this. But it's not a hindrance at all. So that's it for testing these things out.

When I was working on this video, I contacted iFixit CEO Kyle Wiens and asked for more thoughts on the LTT situation. He said he hasn't seen their screwdriver in person, so he can't comment on the quality. I'll show his whole statement on the screen. But it boils down to iFixit basing all their kits on real-world testing of 100,000 repair guides like the one I just used. I asked him about sponsorships too, because they paused sponsorships on LTT, but I've seen sponsorships since then on channels like JayzTwoCents.

—So what are you waiting for? Click the link in the description below for discounts and savings and explosions! More explosions! —Kyle said basically they're focusing on their new soldering kit now, and they're pausing a number of sponsorships. So I think anyone trying to drum up drama out of this is probably misguided.

Do I think LTT releasing the Precision Screwdriver affected their relationship with iFixit? Sure, probably. But do I think there's bad blood between them now? Probably not. You can put down your pitchforks.

But for this video, I'm more interested in finding out if Linus's driver is worth the money, and if you should consider it versus the iFixit or another driver. I kind of copped out on the LTT screwdriver review and said "it was a good screwdriver, but would be better at $50." I'm going to go out and say the Precision Screwdriver isn't worth the extra money over something like the iFixit. Consider this: I can go on Amazon right now and buy the Mako kit for $42.24, including shipping, and have it here tomorrow morning.

If I want the LTT kit, well, first of all, it's out of stock. But if it were in stock, I'd be looking at $58.04, and that's with 3-9 day shipping. Now, both of these kits are marked down currently, but that's almost a $20 difference in total cost, and I have to wait a week longer to get the LTT. And if you're not in the US or Canada, the price might be even higher and the wait even longer.

So, no, unless you really like fidget spinners on your screwdrivers, or think a few tiny improvements like the hinge are worth it, or if you just want to show your support for LTT, I don't think this screwdriver is worth it. The regular LTT screwdriver had some nice changes, like the ratchet system and the flip-up bit storage. The only main difference with this precision screwdriver is the fidget spinner on top. And if you want one of those, just buy one of these things and stick it in your pocket. Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.