---
video_title: "Radio Hacking 101: Raspberry Pi SDR with a CaribouLite"
video_id: Hz2WqhWmjZE
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hz2WqhWmjZE
video_date: 2025-01-24
video_description: |
  SDR lets you peek into the invisible world of RF, or radiofrequency!
  
  The Raspberry Pi is a great tool for SDR, and in this video I finally tested it with the CaribouLite I bought a couple years ago.
  
  See my blog post for full setup instructions: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2025/cariboulite-sdr-hat-sdr-on-raspberry-pi
  
  More resources (as an Amazon Associate, I earn for qualifying purchases):
  
    - CaribouLite: https://www.crowdsupply.com/cariboulabs/cariboulite-rpi-hat
    - RTL-SDR v4 kit: https://amzn.to/3WzId5R
    - Project MINI RACK: https://mini-rack.jeffgeerling.com
    - LabStack mini modular printable mounts: https://github.com/JaredC01/LabStack
    - Raspberry Pi SMI: https://iosoft.blog/2020/07/16/raspberry-pi-smi/
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - A peek behind the curtains
  01:14 - Setting up CaribouLite with a Pi
  02:13 - Driver and software installation
  03:32 - GQRX SDR intro
  09:29 - Testing CaribouLite SDR, decoding signals
  10:53 - Is a Pi 4 enough?
  12:18 - Mini Rack and PoE SDR setup
  15:06 - Remote SDR and a WiFi issue
  17:40 - It's like magic
---
SDR, or software-defined radio, is like getting to look behind the curtains at a magic show. And that magic show is radio communications. I've had this little Raspberry Pi HAT called the CaribouLite for two years, but I never tried it out until just recently. It's a tiny, software-defined radio that uses an FPGA, or Field Programmable Gate Array, to let you send and receive radio signals from all over the radio frequency spectrum. The reason I think this guy's neat is it uses kind of a hack with the Pi's undocumented secondary memory interface, or SMI, to stream a ton of data back and forth to the little chip on the back of the board.

Doing that, it can tune into frequencies 30MHz up to 6GHz, scanning them 4 million times per second. It doesn't quite have the bandwidth to, like, decode WiFi packets or 5G, but you can listen to the radio and even transmit at low power, opening up a world of RF possibilities using a Raspberry Pi. Like, you could build your own little radio app with GNU Radio, or install DragonOS and have a whole suite of radio hacking tools at your disposal. And at some point I'm going to go deeper with a cheap RTL SDR dongle, probably over on Geerling Engineering, but for this video I want to dig right in with my CaribouLite. My ultimate goal? To install this in my mini rack and use it remotely from anywhere on my network.

So my first goal was getting this installed on a Pi, and I had to choose a Pi 4 for an interesting reason. Basically, any Pi with a 40-pin GPIO header has the ability to use this SMI hack that the CaribouLite uses, but not the Raspberry Pi 5. And that's because the Pi 5 has an RP1 chip between the GPIO header and the CPU. SMI to the GPIO requires direct connection to the CPU, so the Pi 5 doesn't work with this. But I chose a Pi 4 with 1GB of RAM because it's cheap. It was only 35 bucks. And of course,

people are always like, "Oh, Pi's are so expensive nowadays." Well, the Pi 4 is still 35 bucks. It's a cheap computer. But once it's plugged in, when you boot the Pi, you'll see a little red LED, a little 3-volt LED that means that the board is getting power. And antennas, they're a whole science. It's kind of a dark art

choosing the right antenna for whatever purpose that you're using. But for starters, I plugged in a couple random antennas that I had sitting around at my desk. The next step was getting the software installed. And for that, I'm going to actually refer you off to my blog. I have a blog post up with all the instructions for how to compile the CaribouLite installation drivers and all that. There's actually

two patches that you have to apply, which is a little bit annoying, but I have all the instructions in the blog post. So if you have a CaribouLite, follow that. If you have some other SDR, follow the instructions from whoever makes that SDR. The installation for CaribouLite actually installs SoapySDR for you. SoapySDR is kind of a tool to let you stream a software-defined radio out to other things on your network. It's a nice way to kind of package up what comes out of the radio

and send it to some other computer on the network or even to other applications on the same Pi. So that's a nice tool to have to make it so that you don't have to have like particular drivers in every application for every SDR. The other tool I use for SDR usually is GQRX. It's an application that runs on Mac, on Windows, on Linux, Raspberry Pi, ARM, whatever device that you have it's going to run. There's a lot of other tools out there. There's SDR++. I'm not going to go through a list here. I

probably will someday because a lot of these tools have some specialty options. But GQRX is pretty much universal and it's very easy to get installed on almost any device. So this is GQRX and to install it on my Mac I just used Homebrew. I think it's 'brew install --cask GQRX'. On a Raspberry Pi it's 'GQRX-SDR', I think if you install it with apt. But when you when you open it the first time it'll show up this little

window: configure I/O devices. And assuming your CaribouLite is either directly connected on the Pi or it's over the network and you have all the drivers installed, it should show up like this. Otherwise other SDRs that you plug in would show up in this list too. But that just makes it easy. All I have to do is select it and sometimes you might have to put in some extra information. But you don't need to

worry about these things too much. Usually it's all just populated when you select it automatically. Another thing that I should let you know is I am not an expert on GQRX or SDR. I'm learning and I hope that you can learn with me. But this is a very daunting interface. There's lots of numbers. These are my

bookmarks. I already have these set up because I've been using GQRX for a while on this computer. The main things are this is your area where you're going to see the radio signal the most. This is going to be a display of the waveform and this is going to be a waterfall. That's what it's called because it's like water falling down. And you'll see that in a minute. This is your frequency selection and this

what you can select is based upon the receiver that you're using. So in my case I'm using the CaribouLite which if I try to receive at let's say 10 megahertz and so all I do is I hover my mouse over this then I type in 10 and that's how you can change frequencies. Another way is you can click on the bottom of a number and it goes down click up on a number and it goes up. So see that clicking up and clicking down. You can also use arrow keys to do that. Arrow key up and arrow key down.

So that can be a little bit confusing just entering a number but I basically to get a frequency I hover over it and this is in this is megahertz so if I went five megahertz I'd say zero five that's five megahertz and then one zero is 10 megahertz and then you know 25 megahertz or if you're doing an FM radio station like in St. Louis we have 98.1 is Y98 which has a tower very nearby I would do that and that's that. So over here there's three sections one is input controls with some controls for the receiver itself another is receiver options so like how are we going to decode the signal or are we going to center on a different frequency there's a lot of things that I could get into here I'm not going to in this video and then FFT settings for the display over here how it displays what it's going to display over here so let me just start decoding a signal I'm going to hit play on here and that starts decoding and I just realized if I do that I'm going to get demonetized because this is commercial music so let me choose a different station that probably doesn't have music right now although with my luck they'll be playing music. I'm going to go to KMOX-FM which is a talk radio station and I'll hit play

and so yeah there's some talk so I'm going to turn this down a little bit so that you don't have to hear whoever's on the radio behind me. But this is a mono radio station WFM mono and you can also choose stereo stations for like the music stations are usually in stereo and there's some other things here that I might mention later but generally the interface here lets you like let's say you see another signal over here you can just drag this little bar over and get to there. And now this would be a stereo station so I could switch that to stereo but there's different signals and different decoding methods and those are all set in here and go down to weather radio. So this is our national weather service office at 162.5 but you'll notice that it's still offset there's a lot of little quirks to these interfaces. So you could drag this little line back over here again but we're still doing weird stuff

here it's it's centered over here so I'm going to just set this to zero zero zero. And there's probably a shortcut to like reset this to zero all the time but if I do that now I can get back to the weather radio by double clicking on here. And now you can see that signal now this is very narrow you can't even see this on some signals and this is also kind of crazy all the all the noise around here. But you can also do a few things in this FFT settings thing. So one thing is you can make the waterfall smaller if you want to see the little little display up here more or you can make the waterfall larger if you want to see the history of the signal a little better. So that's the split plot now you can also change how the

display is on these these uh both of these sections like if I wanted to make it so that signals stand out a little more I would change this the low end of the the db and then it shows less of that blue. But if you want to see some things that are down in the noise you'd want to give a little bit more of that and same thing on the high end you can kind of change those things. The other thing is right now I'm seeing a pretty wide spectrum from like 160 megahertz up to 165 megahertz and if I want to zoom in on this signal in particular I can go down to the frequency zoom and I can zoom way in. And now we can just see this signal and you can even see there's like a carrier wave here and then this is the actual FM signal coming out and I think this should be on yeah narrow FM. So those are kind of the basic settings and generally the things that I touch I mostly mess with the the mode to change what kind of signal I'm listening to. And you can also do RAW IQ if you just want to hear whatever the signal is or turn this off

so that you're not hearing anything. If there's like digital signals they just sound like hash it's it's not fun to listen to. [sarcastically] If you're a robot you might enjoy it! So that's GQRX in a nutshell and for these tests I just had a short whip antenna sitting over here and it was plugged into the high frequency SMA connector on the CaribouLite. The high frequency connector gets the higher frequencies like six gigahertz all the way down to 30 megahertz the other one does sub 1 gigahertz frequencies. First I tuned into a local

FM radio station here in the US at least we still have analog FM and there's also sidebands and you don't see those in this in this image but that's because of a problem that I'll identify later. But it's usually easy to tune into some FM stations because they're very high power you're getting a lot of RF energy even a bad SDR is going to pick up FM radio stations here. One that's a little bit less powerful signal is the local weather radio. But using a good antenna you can still pick it up. Here in in St. Louis our weather radio station is 162.55 megahertz. And then I tuned up

to 2.437 gigahertz which is way higher than the FM band but this is the wi-fi 2.4 gigahertz band but it's channel 6. if you look at your own wi-fi network you'll you can find out if you're in Linux or on Mac or Windows even uh if you go into the kind of the details for your wi-fi connection you can see what channel it's on and then you can look that up on like wikipedia so if you want to explore your own wi-fi channels you can do that here. And if I click record I can actually save all the raw data out as audio and look at it more closely later or I can even reprocess it or you can save off data and then re-import it to look at it later in other tools too. Like I said though, the CaribouLite isn't really made fast enough to

encode or decode wi-fi signals or 4g or 5g or anything like that it can do lower data rates and other types of things but it is cool to at least see those things. So while I was doing this testing I also wanted to see if I was overloading that Pi 4 because it is two to three times slower than a Pi 5 which is kind of a sad thing about using an older Pi generation but SoapySDR when it's streaming to my Mac is it's single threaded but it wasn't even using half of a CPU core so a Pi 4 is plenty faster and probably a Pi Zero 2 is going to be perfectly fine too as long as you're not doing things on the Pi other than this SDR work. One thing to keep in mind though is your network connection depending on the type of data you're streaming over or what settings you use it'd be between like 50 to 120 megabits of data. So you probably need to stick to wired ethernet if you're streaming SDR across your network and I also installed GQRX directly on the Pi itself but the Pi didn't quite have the grunt to render things out the same level that my Mac would it could work at really low settings but ideally you know I think the Pi is better suited as a headless SDR server that you can run somewhere near an antenna and then send that data over the network to another computer I could also try running GNU Radio on the Pi and it works and you could build out your own little radio display app or something and as long as you're not doing too much signal processing or too much GUI rendering or something like that the Pi probably has plenty of processing power to to take a radio signal and do some stuff to it. If you want to run a headless Pi doing something with networking whether that's decoding something or encoding and transmitting or two-way communications I had the software working fine and I wanted to get this into my mini rack because my goal with this mini rack is to get it to be like my 'SDR rack' something that lets me do communication stuff and I can move it around and take an antenna with me and put it somewhere to get better reception for different signals. But I had a couple problems: one is I needed to power it

and I wanted to use power over ethernet. So I had a Raspberry Pi PoE HAT but when I plugged it in I noticed I had a 40 pin pass-through header to kind of extend the GPIO up to the CaribouLite, but I didn't have a four pin header. So I took another extra one of my 40 pin headers and pulled out a few pins and snipped it with my snips. And I wouldn't necessarily recommend this—you should probably just buy the right headers, they actually sell these things—but it works. You know if it if it works it works that's that's my philosophy here. But once I did that I had a mounting problem when I stacked up the PoE HAT and

the CaribouLite on top of it it was too tall to fit into my dual sbc module, part of my LabStack system that I talked about in my MINI RACK video. So I had to switch tracks a little bit and use a single SBC module in the LabStack without, you know, instead of two Pis I had one Pi in that module. But that works fine and I am extremely grateful to JeremyC01 who already had that thing in his LabStack project. But anyway now that I have that there I can put it into the rack and this just looks amazing. I I love this setup it's it's uh it's much more compact and manageable than having stuff splayed all over my desk or sitting in a pile in my rack. And there's other rack mounting options for a larger rack or

something, but I really wanted this to be a portable system and as standalone as possible. So turning around on the back side I ran the SMA connection out to a panel on the back using an extension cable and that extension is way too long. I actually ordered a shorter one that's like six inches or eight inches or something and that'll come in sometime. But this is still fine; it's not that much signal loss from a cable this short. But the nice thing is now I have an SMA connection on the back that I can screw any antenna into. I also

stuck a little stubby antenna on the S1G connection and you know it'd probably be better to break that out to the back too but I only have one SMA cable right now uh so you know when I get more I'll do that. But for now I just at least I have an antenna there in case I accidentally transmit or something. Hopefully that antenna will be able to dissipate that and not burn something out it might be better to put a dummy load on there too just a little tiny dummy load to accept any transmission if I accidentally transmit. It's not like this thing's going to give that much power that could burn something out... But that is something you have to think about

when you're transmitting. Your radio is putting out a lot of power through the antenna connection and if you don't have an antenna on that antenna connection, the power is still going somewhere and usually it can go into burning up your RF circuit! But anyway it's running in the rack it looks awesome and I even have another Pi 5 running in here with a JetKVM so if I wanted to I could run GQRX on that Pi and log into it remotely and that would have definitely have enough grunt to display pretty much anything that I need to that the Pi 4 might might choke on a little bit with its slightly slower processor. But my ultimate goal is to stream it over the network. And I have a Mac with really good capabilities it can it can stream and it can process a lot more and uh so I fired up GQRX on it and it automatically identified the CaribouLite because it uses zero configuration or bonjour or rendezvous whatever it's called nowadays, and it automatically picked it up over the network. And I started streaming in and I noticed I was

getting good reception with with the dipole antenna I was I was using which is a little bit better for the FM radio stations but it was choppy I was getting kind of like a choppy sound. And after troubleshooting a bit I realized I still had wi-fi turned on in addition to the wired ethernet and it seemed like either the the Pi was sending packets over both wi-fi and ethernet or the wi-fi was causing some weird packet issue with delivering the SDR data because it needs a really solid stream to get a good steady data stream over to GQRX remotely. So I turned off wi-fi and now the signal is coming through clearly and I could hear it and it was awesome. And I tested a bunch of things I tested weather radio again and the signal on that was actually much better now that I had this I had wi-fi turned off and the great thing about using a visual tool like GQRX or one of the other SDR applications is you can see the the spectrum. You can see the waterfall graph over time you can see the audio waveform of decoded audio you can play with the decoding settings.

It's just such a cool thing to be able to do and you can even explore other things like digital signals like Meshtastic. I have these Meshtastic radios and the default LongFast channel that's used for that is 906.875 megahertz (at least here in North America) and if I watch that when I send a message from one of my nodes it looks like it actually sends out two bursts then it's quiet for a while so you can kind of understand the way that radio works on these kind of devices just by looking at what's happening. You can read the code and try to figure that kind of stuff out too or just read someone's description but actually seeing the data when it happens really makes you understand how these things work and sometimes also why interference or why a weak signal or how weak of a signal you might be getting sometimes whether it's Meshtastic or you know a body pack transmitter for a wireless microphone system or your bluetooth mouse or whatever. I just love playing with SDR because it's like magic being able to watch the invisible RF that permeates the environment around us. Like here I'm centered on one of St.

Louis's hard rock radio stations and it's interesting just seeing from the waveforms how some stations really crank up their processing to stuff a louder signal in there while other stations, especially talk stations, will let the audio breathe a bit. And those bands you see on the other side are digital sidebands for HD radio, a proprietary radio signal in the US, but luckily even that can be decoded with the open source nrsc5 software. And having a setup like this with CaribouLite is great: it gives me access to a huge range of frequencies apparently it could even reach down to 1 megahertz though I haven't tested that yet. But if I can I could also watch WWV time signals AM radio and a lot more besides that. Anyway SDR is like peeking behind the curtains at a magic show and that magic show is radio communications. If you want to get

into software-defined radio it can be way cheaper too! I also have a couple these RTL-SDR dongles, and and those start in the $30 range. Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.