---
video_title: "Who would pay $120 for a Raspberry Pi?"
video_id: apWi16EROKc
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=apWi16EROKc
video_date: 2025-01-09
video_description: |
  Raspberry Pi's 16 GB Pi 5 completes their lineup: from 2 GB ($50) to 16 GB ($120).
  
  Raspberry Pi sent me the Pi 5 used in this video for testing and review. They did not pay me to make this video, nor have any editorial input or review before the video was live.
  
  Mentioned in this video:
  
    - Raspberry Pi 5: https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/
    - 52Pi Armor Lite: https://52pi.com/products/armor-lite-v5
    - All my Pi 5 16 GB benchmarks: https://github.com/geerlingguy/sbc-reviews/issues/21#issuecomment-2579400396
    - D0 Stepping of BCM2712 SoC: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/new-2gb-pi-5-has-33-smaller-die-30-idle-power-savings
    - SDRAM Tuning Benefits for Pi 5: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2024/raspberry-pi-boosts-pi-5-performance-sdram-tuning
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - Are they out of their minds?
  01:10 - Not too much, not too little
  02:27 - N100: a better deal?
  02:57 - Cosmetic improvements
  03:53 - Keeping up with the Joneses
  04:30 - LLMs and AI
  05:12 - Better performance
  06:46 - Consolidation
  07:50 - Fun and 4K Gaming
  09:04 - Should you buy it?
---
Today, Raspberry Pi is selling a new 16GB model of their flagship Pi 5 for $120. That's the most memory ever on a Pi, but some other Arm SBCs already hit 16 and even 32GB of RAM, like this little Turing RK1. But Raspberry Pi also launched a low-end 2GB model earlier this year for $50, and with this new 16GB model, the Pi 5 ranges from $50 all the way up to $120. For stats nerds, the pricing follows this polynomial equation almost perfectly. The RAM doubles while the price slowly rises. And that's not at all like Apple's pricing for the Mac Mini,

which is all over the board. Don't get me started on how much I paid for 2TB of storage. But the Mini is a lot different. The base model has 16GB of RAM, and sure, it costs 5x more, but it delivers 8x more performance. So the value equation for computers with soldered on RAM chips isn't always simple. But the M4's CPU is fast enough to really benefit from 16GB of

RAM. Or even more than that. Because the Pi has a slower processor, for most people at least, 16GB is overkill. Even the 8GB model is overkill if you're not running multiple apps or playing AAA games like Forza Horizon 4. I'll get to that later. I still think the 4GB model is the sweet spot.

At 2GB my Pi's run out of memory sometimes. When they do that, they either get really slow, or just crash because the Pi has to dip into swap space. Whenever you run out of RAM on Linux, it tries using slower storage, especially slow if you're using a microSD card. And it kind of extends the amount of RAM the processor can access. But at best, it makes things go really slow. At worst, it leads to stalls and

crashes. And I've experienced that on my 8GB Pi 5. When I tried running Forza Horizon 4 a couple months ago, I noticed the RAM was filled up, and the system just went unresponsive, and I literally let it sit there for hours. That's an extreme case, though. For most projects, I don't use all the RAM. The 4GB

model is right in the sweet spot for value. Camera projects need RAM to handle video streams or photos, but it's rare I've used more than 4GB. And the Docker containers I run, like Pi-Hole, Frigate, and Home Assistant, run comfortably with 4GB. But right now I run all those apps on separate Pi's. If you have modest needs like I do, like you're not serving hundreds of clients, or you don't have like 8 4K cameras or a thousand smart devices, having more RAM means you could consolidate multiple apps onto one Pi. That's the main reason someone might consider the 16GB Pi. Or, you know, with 16GB of RAM,

you could finally run more than one Chrome tab! But the 16GB Pi dips into low-end mini-PC territory, in terms of price. Spend a few bucks more, and you can have an Intel N100 with 16GB of RAM, an SSD, more I/O, more compatibility. You can even run Linux on it, too, unlike on a Mac Mini. And that's ignoring the used market, where a hundred bucks gets you a mini PC with all the bells and whistles, like this little Beelink. So why would anyone buy a 16GB Pi 5? Well, as someone who will,

I'll give you five reasons. And you might enjoy the fifth one. It's certainly the most fun. Before that, I should mention the physical difference on this new Pi. I'm guessing this change will roll out to the other models, too, but the 16GB model drops the little silkscreen RAM size indicator, in favor of the RAM size being right up front and center with the Pi wordmark.

I'm still sticking on my own little label to make it easier to see what size it is at a glance, but at least with this new design, you can just barely make out the RAM size if you look between the cooler and the GPIO. And speaking of coolers, I decided to try out 52Pi's Armor Lite on here, and I have to say: I kind of love it. The larger fan on here is nearly silent. The active cooler isn't bad, but you can hear the thing when it ramps up. The Armor Lite keeps the Pi just as cool, but it's inaudible unless you run it full blast. And full disclosure, 52Pi sent this one to me like

six months ago, but after seeing how it performed, I bought a few more. The one caveat is the fan sticks out a tiny bit from the top, so don't set anything right on top of your Pi while it's running. But back to the reasons why some people might want a 16GB Pi 5. First, this is more of a reason why Raspberry Pi did it than why _you'd_ want one, but it's the idea of 'keeping up with the Joneses.' Even Apple, the perennial laggard in this area, bumped the base model max to 16GB of RAM last year.

An SBC is far from a typical desktop, but with the Pi 5 being advertised as the "everything" computer, having a model with as much RAM as a typical desktop makes sense. The Pi's LPDDR4x memory bus isn't quite the fastest, so filling up that 16GB of RAM is actually a lot slower than even other Arm SBCs. But having 16GB means running multiple Chrome tabs and doing literally anything else is finally possible. A second reason, and probably the most practical, if only for a tiny sliver of Pi users, is running large language models. Those things love RAM, and the Pi 5 could only comfortably run smaller models, like with 3 or 8 billion parameters. I tested Llama 2-13b with 13 billion parameters on the new model,

and it actually runs. It would bail out on the older Pi's. Of course, it still only gives a little over one token per second, so it's not fast, but it does run. If you want to get better performance, though, you're better off running a used graphics card. But even there, Nvidia has been so stingy with VRAM, you're going to be hard pressed finding a good price on a GPU with more than 16GB of RAM.

And having more RAM also helps when you're training smaller models, like you might do with a Halo AI accelerator. And with RAM being so much faster than microSD or even NVMe access, it can also speed up certain applications a lot. I ran high performance LINPACK, my top 500 benchmark, and I was actually kind of surprised. On most of the computers I test, the performance scales up as RAM increases. And here, it is faster than the 8GB model, but only like 1 or 2%, so there might be some RAM optimizations that Raspberry Pi still needs to do. I also noticed the power efficiency was a tiny bit better,

but I think that might be more because of the 16GB model using the newer D0 version, or stepping, of the main BCM2712 chip. I have a blog post that covers the D0 stepping, so check that out below. Editor Jeff here. Just a few hours before launch, I was told there's a new firmware for the Pi 5, and indeed there is. I upgraded it and just re-ran all my benchmarks, and the new memory timings make a huge difference. tinymembench went from 9.4 to 10GB/s, High Performance Linpack went from 35.6 Gigaflops

to 36.7 Gigaflops, and llama 13b went from 1.2 to 1.36 tokens/s. If you want to learn more about the impact these memory timing changes can make, check out my blog post on that topic, also linked below. Now, back to past

me for the rest of the video. Overall, raw CPU performance doesn't seem to be affected much by having double the RAM. I think the area that would help performance the most is if you run something that uses RAM for caching, like my ultimate Pi NAS, which I'm still using today. It runs on ZFS, and ZFS loves caching files in RAM to drastically speed up network file access. So I might actually upgrade that Pi 5 to the 16GB model. Probably the best reason to use a 16GB Pi 5 is if you want to run

multiple apps or servers on the same Pi, even if you're running the Pi as part of, like, a Kubernetes cluster. A lot of apps, like web servers and database servers, need a minimum of maybe half a gig or a gig of RAM per process. And if you want to serve more clients, having more RAM means you can have more parallel workers. I know for my own website, it runs on Drupal, and it needs 256 megs of RAM per worker thread. Running on an 8GB Pi 5, especially if I run the database on the same Pi and give that 2 gigs of RAM, I'm limited to about 24 worker threads. That's actually more than the server that I'm actually

running it on in the cloud right now, but if I wanted to run two or three websites off one Pi, I could, giving each one 24 workers. Love it or hate it, developers are not getting any more efficient. The app that takes 256 megs of RAM today will eat up half a gig tomorrow. And you might fit Chromium in like 4 gigs today, but it's going to be 8 gigs in a few years, especially when you load up a modern website with like half a gig of auto-playing video ads. Which is why you should probably have a Pi running Pi hole somewhere on your network.

But that's besides the point. Far and away the most fun I've had in my testing is getting more triple-A games to run on my eGPU Pi 5 setup, like Forza Horizon 4, which I mentioned earlier. It overloaded the 8GB Pi 5 and crashed. With 16 gigs, the game doesn't stall out, though it's still a bit much for the Pi's anemic CPU. Like I said, developers, especially game developers who are always crunched for time, add more bloat every generation.

Most triple-A games now require a minimum of 16 gigs. And riddle me this, why does Steam require four cores running full out just to download a game? I mean, I get it has to decompress the download file, but using 30 gigaflops of CPU powered just to download a game file seems like a lot of waste. I did realize if I switch to the small mode for Steam's UI, that seems to free up a little bit of CPU, but Steam downloads were still being bottlenecked. Maybe we should just switch back to buying physical disks. Anyway, with 16 gigs of RAM, I could finally run Forza Horizon 4. It doesn't run great, but it does

run. And on low settings, I could even get about 20 fps at 1080p. Honestly, though, for the games that the Pi 5 can actually run well, like Portal 2, RAM isn't a bottleneck. But having more RAM never hurts. But a lot of games still aren't compatible with Proton and Linux, much less Arm Linux.

So should you buy a 16 gig Pi 5? At 120 bucks, it's not the best value for most people. By the time you pass a hundred bucks, a full Intel mini PC for just a few bucks more is mighty tempting. But it's not like it's a bad value either. It's just in line with the rest of the Pi 5 pricing. Memory chips are

still expensive, and because of that, the Pi 5 16 gig is also expensive. But at least it exists now. Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.