---
video_title: "Do you need a whole PC to run a GPU?"
video_id: 8X2Y62JGDCo
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8X2Y62JGDCo
video_date: 2025-12-20T15:00:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Shop Micro Center Holiday Deals: https://micro.center/e787eb
  Check out Micro Center's Other Top Deals: https://micro.center/315b05
  Shop Micro Center Bundles: https://micro.center/f7b037
  Visit Micro Center News: https://micro.center/9b77f2
  
  Can a Raspberry Pi match the performance of a modern desktop PC when it comes to GPU performance?
  
  Of course not, in a general sense. But there are specific use cases where you'd be surprised by how close the Pi comes, performance-wise. In some cases, the Pi is actually faster!
  
  Resources I mentioned in this video:
  
    - AI Benchmark results and methodology: https://github.com/geerlingguy/ai-benchmarks
    - Multi-GPU benchmark results: https://github.com/geerlingguy/ai-benchmarks/issues/44
    - Use AMD GPUs on Pi: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2025/using-amd-gpus-on-raspberry-pi-without-recompiling-linux
    - Use Nvidia GPUs on Pi: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2025/nvidia-graphics-cards-work-on-pi-5-and-rockchip
    - Use Intel GPUs on Pi: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2025/all-intel-gpus-run-on-raspberry-pi-and-risc-v
  
  eGPU Setup (some links are affiliate links):
  
    - Minisforum DEG1 eGPU Dock: https://amzn.to/4s3gUz6
    - Micro SATA Cables Oculink to M.2 adapter: https://amzn.to/49dKKcE
    - Super Flower 850W PSU: https://www.microcenter.com/product/684393/super-flower-leadex-iii-gold-up-850-watt-80-plus-gold-atx-fully-modular-power-supply-atx-31-compatible
    - AMD Radeon AI Pro R9700: https://www.microcenter.com/product/702853/xfx-amd-radeon-ai-pro-r9700-single-fan-32gb-gddr6-pcie-50-graphics-card
  
  Dual GPU Setup (some links are affiliate links):
  
    - chenyang PCIe 4.0 M.2 NGFF to SFF-8643: https://amzn.to/4pyqSqt
    - 10Gtek SFF-8644 to SFF-8643 Cable: https://amzn.to/3MKNbup
    - Dolphin PCIe HBA MXH932: https://dolphinics.com/products/MXH932.html
    - Dolphin 3 slot PCIe Backplane: https://dolphinics.com/products/IBP-G4X16-3.html
  
  HUGE thanks to Patrick from @ServeTheHomeVideo for helping me record at Micro Center in Phoenix :)
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - Pi vs PC
  00:53 - Enough for Jellyfin? Local LLMs?
  01:50 - 4 GPUs 1 Pi
  02:16 - Comparing costs and energy use
  03:07 - Gaming on haitus (for now)
  03:39 - The setups
  04:56 - ffmpeg and Jellyfin media transcoding
  07:31 - 3D rendering with GravityMark
  08:39 - LLMs on AMD
  09:36 - LLMs on Nvidia
  12:27 - Drivers, Vulkan, and CUDA
  13:06 - Dual GPU - Setup
  15:24 - Sharing memory and PCIe ACS
  16:28 - llama.cpp performance - mixed Nvidia GPUs
  17:08 - 52GB of VRAM on AMD
  17:28 - Intel PC dual Nvidia GPU comparison
  17:56 - Who wins?
---
To get the full performance of a beefy graphics card like a 4090, you have to have a fast PC, right? Well, what if I told you you don't? For some things, you could do just as well with... a Raspberry Pi. And what if I told you you could run multiple GPUs on one Raspberry Pi

and still get full performance? Don't believe me? Well, what if I told you a segue to our sponsor...

Micro Center! And I'm here at the Phoenix, Arizona store specifically to look for graphics cards because somehow they're cheaper than RAM these days. But I come here a lot, because for every project where I need a graphics card, a power supply, a PC case, or maybe even this weird little S-video adapter, Micro Center has it. It's crazy to think they have everything from tiny electronics and 3D printers, all the way to pro workstation graphics cards that I can run on a Pi. Thanks to Micro Center for sponsoring this video.

Whether you're a gamer, an IT pro, a maker, or whatever, this is a great place for all your tech shopping needs. The big question I had going into this video is whether a Raspberry Pi is enough to handle things like Jellyfin or local LLMs. Or are you leaving performance on the table if you don't use a full computer like this one? For, like, gaming, of course, there's no contest here. Well, we have some problems to sort out first. If you look closely here, the Pi only has one tiny little

PCI Express lane. And not only that, it's two generations behind the times running at a maximum of PCIe Gen 3. Gen 5, which this PC has, is way faster. So, 1 lane of Gen 3 bandwidth versus 16 of Gen 5, this seems like a pretty uneven matchup—or so I thought. I got to testing both of these systems, and I found something interesting: the Pi can hold its own. A lot of that comes from how

good support is for modern Linux standards on both of these systems. In my testing, I learned a lot about how PCI Express works, and how to make up for the Pi's somewhat smaller stature. Like, look at this setup. GitHub user mpsparrow plugged in not one, not two, but four NVIDIA RTX A5000 GPUs into a single Raspberry Pi, and he was able to get them working together to run a huge large language model, Llama 3 70B. On the Pi, it was generating responses at 11.83 tokens per second.

On a modern Intel server using the exact same GPU setup, he got 12. That's less than a 2% difference. While I was testing my own setups, from a 4090 to dual AMD GPUs, I realized there was an interesting difference. My Pi setup, everything, including this eGPU dock that holds the graphics card, and an external power supply, this whole thing costs about $350. This PC setup? $1,500. And

that's pricing before the RAM shortages hit. So the price of this thing is probably closer to $2,000 now. Also, the Pi? By itself, it idles under 5 watts. The PC? 30. That's 6 times more

power draw while they're doing nothing. And yes, 25 watts might not mean much to you, but to some people it does. And could you do a lot with something like a mini PC or a used desktop? Yeah—use what you have. Like I said, I do this stuff for fun and learning, and you might not.

That's okay. So let's get to the hardware, starting with the AMD Radeon AI Pro from Micro Center. And before you ask, I did try and didn't get it to run Crysis or even Doom on this setup yet. Gaming on the Pi is a little hit or miss sometimes. Not only are we dealing with driver patches that aren't fully upstreamed, but also FeX or Box64 quirks with Debian Trixie on Arm. I did try getting FeX working with Crossover, but Steam was having trouble getting installed.

It just sat there waiting for an update to finish, but after hours it never actually finished. Anyway, I'm testing a few other Arm Linux gaming setups before the Steam Frame launch next year, so maybe we can get the Pi going by that time. In lieu of that, the focus today is raw GPU power. And I have three tests to stretch out each system: Jellyfin, GravityMark, and LLMs. Here's my setups.

For the Raspberry Pi, I'm using a Minisforum eGPU dock that plugs into a Compute Module 5 I/O board with an M.2 to Oculink adapter. The dock needs extra power, and most GPUs do too, so I also picked up an 850W Super Flower power supply while I was at Micro Center. And yes, this setup is just splayed across the workbench. We're hot-rodding this thing, we're not going for looks here. As far as drivers go, I already covered setup in older videos in my blog,

so I'll link to blog posts with step-by-step instructions below if you want to replicate this setup. Switching tracks to the PC, I built it around a fancy ASUS ProArt motherboard, one that has a hidden feature that I'm going to talk about in a future video on time, so make sure you're subscribed. But I mounted it on my OpenBenchTable with another 850W power supply. I stuck in 64GB of DDR5 RAM, which—have you seen the prices on these things? Holy cow! I'm glad I

bought this set months ago for like $200. For the CPU, I went with the Intel Core Ultra 265K, and keeping it cool is a Noctua Redux cooler. And that's it. And for '2 GPUs 1 Pi,' well, we'll get to that setup in a bit. For now, I wanted performance baselines. Let's start with

the most practical thing, I think: using a Pi as a media transcoding server. Since Nvidia's encoders are more polished, I tested them first. Even an older budget card should be adequate for a stream or two, but I had a 4070 Ti available, so I threw it on my Pi. The first thing I wanted to try was maxing it out with some big video files. I used Encoder Benchmark, a Rust tool that benchmarks hardware encoders using FFmpeg and raw video streams.

I ran it on the Raspberry Pi and the PC, and well, the PC kinda does slaughter the Pi here. At first I was wondering why, but then I watched the GPU with nvtop and immediately spotted the problem. On both computers, the video file gets copied to the GPU, then the GPU sends back a compressed MP4 stream to save to the disk. Well, on the Pi, we're maxing out at like 800 MB/s over PCI Express. And with a video file that's like 10+ GB, that's going to take a little time.

But it gets worse. The Pi only has that one lane of PCIe, so my boot storage is actually running on a USB SSD that tops out at like 300MB/s. So the encoder on the card is kind of sitting there and waiting for the Pi to feed it data, and you can see that in the graph going up and down and up and down. Switching gears to the PC, this thing's chomping through the video files over 2GB/s. And because it has a fast NVMe SSD, the PC can feed that thing constantly and there's no dropouts.

So yeah, in terms of raw throughput, the PC is hands down the winner here. But the way Jellyfin works, it's a different kind of use case. Most of the time, you just want to transcode your files on the fly. And assuming you're not storing your movies and TV shows in ProRes RAW, the data rate's going to be a lot less than 800MB/s. I installed Jellyfin and set it to use NVENC hardware encoding. That worked out of the box.

Like, this is Sneakers in 1080p, and I can skip around with transcoding without any issues at all. I also opened up Galaxy Quest and tested out different bitrates, like if I was watching movie through my home VPN on my phone on the road, and that worked fine too. Apollo 11 was good too, at 4K, without any dropouts and perfectly smooth playback. Even with two transcodes going on at the same time, like here for Dune in 4K and Sneakers in 1080p, it's running just as smoothly. It does seem to max out the decode engine at that point, but it wasn't causing any stuttering that I could see. So I guess, while the Intel PC wins in raw

throughput, like if you were building a full-on transcoding server, the Pi is fine for real-world use cases, like with Jellyfin or Plex transcoding. Historically, AMD isn't quite as good at transcoding, but they're certainly adequate. And while transcoding worked on the AI Pro and the Pi, I had a few more stability issues. I mean, how do I know if the context is innocent if it was lost? Anyway, these are graphics cards, so I wanted to see how 3D rendering performed. So I switched

tracks to the GravityMark benchmark. This is a good cross-platform test that focuses on GPU performance pretty much exclusively. And no surprise, the Intel PC was faster, but only by a little. The rendering here is all done on the GPU side, and it doesn't really rely on the Pi's CPU or PCIe lane, so it can go pretty fast. But what did surprise me was what happened when I ran it again on an older AMD card, my RX 460. This GPU is ancient in computer years, but I think that gives

a leg up for the Pi. The RX 460 runs at PCIe Gen 3, which is exactly as fast as the native Pi bus, and the Pi actually edged out the PC here. But the thing that gave me a bigger shock was this: the score per watt. This is measuring the overall system efficiency, and while Intel's not amazing for efficiency in general right now, it's not like the Pi's the best that Arm has to offer, either. Anyway, I wanted to see how Nvidia did, so I fired up a 3060, 3080 Ti, and an A4000, and, well, here are the numbers on the PC at least. Hopefully we'll get

a desktop environment going on the Pi for Nvidia cards soon. Something that doesn't need a desktop, though, is Large Language Models, or LLMs, for running your own private, local AI. And starting with the AI Pro, it has 32GB of VRAM, so it's perfect for my full gauntlet of AI benchmarks. I ran models anywhere from like 600MB all the way to Qwen 3's 30 billion parameter model that takes up 20 gigs. And here are the results: Pi vs PC. And, ouch! This is not what I was

expecting to see. I thought you just feed the GPU and the GPU goes wild, right? Apparently not. I was a little discouraged, so again, I went back to my trusty old RX 460. And, okay, I mean, we only have 4 gigs of VRAM to play with and the card's over a decade old now, but this isn't a bad showing at all. Maybe that R9700 performance is from, like, driver quirks, or it's expecting a

a large BAR, and that's somehow crippling the performance? I mean, I guess I can't blame AMD's engineers for not testing their beefy AI GPUs on Raspberry Pis. But that made me wonder if Nvidia's any better, since they've been optimizing their Arm drivers for years. Well, this is the RX 3[0]60 12GB. It's a popular card for cheap, at-home inference, since it has just enough VRAM to be useful, and it's a pretty modern GPU. And, well, the Pi's

holding its own here. Some models seem to do a little better on the PC, like Tinyllama and Llama 3.2 3b, but some of those medium-sized models, the Pi is within spitting distance. Heck, the Pi beat the PC at Llama 2 13b. What really surprised me was this next graph. This

measures how efficient each system is. Accounting for the power supply, CPU, RAM, GPU, and everything, the Pi is actually pumping through tokens more efficiently than the PC while nearly matching its performance. Okay, well, that's just the 3060. That card's also 5 years old now. Maybe bigger and newer cards won't fare so well. I decided to run my AI gauntlet against all the Nvidia cards that

I can get my hands on. Here's the 3080 Ti. The PC does kinda destroy the Pi in Tinyllama again, but everything else is pretty close. And there again, somehow the Pi is eking out a win for Llama 2 13b. But how's efficiency? Well, here again, the Pi edges out the PC, at least for Llama 2.

The PC does beat the Pi for the smallest model, but only just barely. Moving on to a newer generation of cards, I tested my 4070 Ti, which also has 12GB of VRAM. And it's a similar story. A few models the PC pulls away a bit, but in general, efficiency's a little bit better on the Pi. Or a lot better, actually, for Tinyllama here. I don't know

what's going on with that. I think it's just an outlier, so don't read too much into that particular benchmark. But next up, I wanted to try this workstation card. The A4000 is a one-slot card, and it's more for stable, reliable performance versus flat-out number crunching. And here, the Pi surprised me. It looks like if the card's built to be more reliable and less,

like, overclockable, the edge on the big PC is actually a bit less. And I think the biggest surprise overall was this graph, showing the Pi reliably beating my PC in every single model, at least as far as efficiency is concerned. But going all out with the fastest graphics card I own, here's the 4090 running on the Pi. And it's kinda comical. I kind of forget how funny it is that the GPU is like 10 times the volume of the dwarfs the PC a bit, though it does look a little less out of place there.

Anyway, this is what it looks like comparing the two for AI. Tinyllama just completely nukes the Pi from orbit here, but surprisingly, the Pi still holds its own for most of the models, and like, the 32 billion parameter Qwen 3 model is less than 5% slower on the Pi. With a card that can eat up hundreds of watts of power on its own, how's the efficiency? I was thinking that since the rest of the system would be a smaller percentage of the power draw overall, the PC would fare better here, and it does actually for a few models. But the Pi is still edging out the bigger PC in the majority of these tests, which is weird. I honestly didn't expect that. I was expecting the Pi to get trounced everywhere and

maybe pull off one or two little miracle wins. Now, one major caveat is I'm using Llama's Vulkan backend for all my tests to keep them consistent from AMD, to Intel, to Nvidia. CUDA could change things a little, especially the individual numbers, but actually, overall, not that much. And it works fine on the Pi, surprisingly, if you want to run it that way. And for r/localllama folks watching this video and yelling at the screen about prompt processing speeds and all those other metrics, I have links to all the test data I used, so before you complain, go check out the GitHub issues. But so far with all these tests, we've just been running on one GPU. What if we could do

two? For the dual GPU setup, I have a Dolphin PCIe interconnect board, which is way out of focus, because there you go. And that has 2 x16 slots. I think it's PCIe Gen 5 rated, maybe Gen 4 [it's Gen 4]. There's this card from Dolphin that has a PCI Express switch chip inside, and that is connected through, I forget what this is, SFF something, I'll put it on the screen, that goes into this M.2 to SFF something. So this is for signaling, and then I have external power coming from

this power supply, which I was using in that dock for one GPU, and it has 12-pin power to this 4070 Ti, and it has 6-pin power over to the A4000. So we're going to run both of these GPUs and see if we can put them together to make things go fast. Oh, and I have this little Noctua fan sitting over here blowing air between the two cards because—I don't know if you can see that—but down there there's a giant heat sink and that card gets pretty hot and we're blowing we're actually blowing some pass-through heat right through this card into that thermal zone so you can see I'm supporting the 4070 with an A400 because otherwise it kind of flexes and pulls on the board a little too much so yeah let's uh let's see if I can get this to get started I have that turned on. The Pi is plugged in, and then I press my power outlet down here and this should turn on. There we go!

And we can see the PCI Express card has a few LEDs to tell status for the different slots. And it's connected now to the Pi, and of course we have no display output from the cards because I'm still working on that in the Nvidia drivers. But we do have a display coming from the Raspberry Pi itself. So this should come up with Raspberry Pi OS and we'll see if we can see these cards. Let's see, I'll make this bigger so you can see them a little better. So it shows there's an RTX A4000 and an

RTX 4070 Ti. And I should be able to say nvidia-smi and there's the two cards. Before I ran any LLMs, I wanted to see if I could share memory between the two cards directly. PCI Express has a feature that lets devices talk straight to each other instead of having to go north-south through the Pi's CPU. That would remove the Gen 3 x1 bottleneck and give the cards a full Gen 4 x16 link so they could have tons of bandwidth. For that to work, you have to disable ACS, or the Access

Control Service. And Dolphin apparently set that up for me already on their Switch card, and you can see that setting here. Normally, you don't want that to be your default. You want your PCI Express devices to talk through your CPU for better security. But if you're building a supercomputer or multiple network cards or GPUs, you want them talking as fast as possible to each other so you can disable it.

Anyway, what I found is, unlike mpsparrow's setup where he was running four of the same NVIDIA cards, I only had different model cards. And it looks like the NVIDIA driver doesn't support VRAM pooling the same way if you have different cards like my 4070 and an A4000. But that's okay, there's still things I can do with Llama.cpp and multiple GPUs going north-south with the PCI Express going through the CPU. And here's the performance of the 4070 and A4000, compared to just running the same models on the A4000 directly.

I'm guessing because of that extra traffic between the Pi and the cards, there are tons of little delays, like you can see here with nvtop. And there are some periods where all the traffic is just going to one GPU or the other, regardless. So it's not better for performance, but the setup does let you scale up to larger models that won't fit on one GPU. Like Qwen 3 30B is 18GB, and that's too big for either of these two cards by themselves. Would it be faster to just buy a card with enough VRAM to fit the whole model in memory?

Yes–and more efficient. But if you have two graphics cards and you want to run them together and run bigger models, at least it's possible. I also ran the two biggest AMD cards I have, these two monsters, and that gives me a whopping 52GB of VRAM to play with. But there again, maybe due to AMD's drivers–I'm not sure. But there I couldn't even get some models to finish a run.

Like, now "the context is guilty". Earlier it was "innocent". Which is it, AMD? Make up your mind! To close out my dual GPU testing, I also ran all these tests on the Intel PC, and it shouldn't be too surprising: it was faster. But at least with Qwen 3 30B, the Pi holds its own again.

I think if you optimize things more, like if you have multiples of the same card, or if you use tools like vLLM—which I couldn't get running on the Pi—you might do a bit better than my numbers. But the main lesson still applies. More GPUs can give you more capacity, but they'll definitely be slower than one bigger GPU and a lot less efficient. So after all that, which one is the winner? Well, obviously the PC if you care about raw performance and an easy setup experience. But for a very specific niche of users, the

Pi is actually better. Like, if you're not maxed out all the time and have almost entirely GPU-driven workloads, the idle power on here was almost always 20 to 30 watts lower. And other Arm PCs, like ones with Rockchip chips, are even more efficient and have more bandwidth too! But ultimately, I didn't do this stuff because it made sense. I did it because it's fun to learn about the Pi's limitations, GPU computing, and PCI Express, and that goal was achieved here. I want to thank Micro Center for sponsoring this video, and Dolphin for letting me

borrow a few of their PCI Express boards. Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.