---
video_title: "The 1 Million Subscriber 'It was DNS' Livestream"
video_id: 27J-wwgZydE
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27J-wwgZydE
video_date: 2025-10-29T20:55:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's celebrate the Internet going down again by *maybe* reaching 1,000,000 subscribers.
  
  And thanking a few folks along the way!
  
  Creators who inpsired me:
  
  engineerguy: https://www.youtube.com/@engineerguyvideo
  Stuff Made Here: https://www.youtube.com/@StuffMadeHere
  Sampson Boat Company: https://www.youtube.com/@SampsonBoatCo
  LOOK MUM NO COMPUTER: https://www.youtube.com/@LOOKMUMNOCOMPUTER
  Action Retro: https://www.youtube.com/@ActionRetro
  BamaBass: https://www.youtube.com/@BamaBass
  GreatScott!: https://www.youtube.com/@greatscottlab
  Novaspirit Tech: https://www.youtube.com/@NovaspiritTech
  Pecos Hank: https://www.youtube.com/@PecosHank
  Factory Monster: https://www.youtube.com/@Factory_Monster
  
  Creators who've helped me:
  
  ServeTheHome: https://www.youtube.com/@ServeTheHomeVideo
  Level1Techs: https://www.youtube.com/@Level1Techs
  ExplainingComputers: https://www.youtube.com/@ExplainingComputers
  Smarter Every Day: https://www.youtube.com/@smartereveryday
  Homelab community, from RaidOwl to Hardware Haven!
  Vintage Mac community, from Veronica Explains to Mac84!
  (And so many more...)
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - We're live
  01:32 - Arduino Uno Q is on the desk
  01:48 - Noctua livestream camera fix
  02:24 - It was DNS
  04:30 - YouTube retrospective
  08:35 - Argon ONE UP Laptop appearance
  10:24 - Community projects and channels that inspire me
  25:53 - YouTube creators who've helped
  32:04 - Confetti popper prepper
  36:10 - NDIcam time for stream timing quirks
  39:05 - Everyone watch a Kevin McAleer video!
  41:10 - The final 20 subscribers
  42:33 - A million!
  44:32 - Happily distracted by chat's questions
  49:56 - Technical difficulties (are learning opportunities)
---
Okay, I think that we're live. Hopefully we're live. Yeah, so I have up here, right, right here. It's hard to point at things. Right here I have a little live counter for how many subscribers there are. So it'll be funny if that goes down. You know, there's always some trolls out there

who are like, now's the perfect time to unsubscribe. But it's going up right now. So you can see that it's actually working. I actually have that. Here, let me show you how I have this set up, because this is fun. Yes, I had I had a couple things that I thought I was going to do for this

live stream, but I was like, you know what? I have stuff set up from that live stream we did a while back, and I might as well just go ahead and do this. And one of the computers is playing sound. I don't know where that's coming from. Hold on a second. Let me I'll pop open the NDI camera so

you can see what I'm seeing. Here we go. iPhone. That didn't work at all. Let's try this again.

There we go. Okay. Here we go. Yeah. So one of these computers is making noise.

Is it this one? Nope, not there. Oh, it's over here on my main computer. I must have left the stream up on here. Let me quit that. Nope, nope. Stop. Okay, there we go.

there we go and uh i should probably close out of here don't want to have sounds of discord and all that kind of stuff i'll just mute the computer there we go you can see i have the unoq over here i'm just finishing up a video that i was going to post this week hopefully i'll have that finished but i had to run some tests on the pi 3b plus because that's the closest thing to this that i have found in terms of spcs very fun oh but uh so from the live last live stream my camera was overheating so this is my new setup i have the noctua usb fan blowing on the back with the screen open over here and that way some air gets in here where this was getting very hot so hopefully this camera doesn't die this stream and i don't even know if you can see what i'm doing because i'm not looking at the preview but i imagine that you can't yeah okay i think you can so that's good but yeah the keyboard that's a keychron yes um but anyway i thought it was also a fun timing because somebody on x or blue sky or threads or mastodon or one of the chat things uh said that my shirt is probably selling out again and it actually has sold quite well in the past couple weeks after that aws thing it's uh it's funny i was going to do a video on dns because i before YouTube I did a lot of infrastructure work, I did a lot of web work, back-end, front-end programming, all that kind of stuff. And you know someone made the point that no it's not always DNS, but there are so many times when you're building anything that has to do with the internet at all, or even internal services that aren't public-facing but it uses networking. DNS is like the backbone of everything and it usually works fine, but when it doesn't like everything blows up and usually it's not obvious where that problem is but if you dig and dig and dig you find DNS in there and this well that's not the right screen and this uh this is the case again today Microsoft said that their Azure and Microsoft 365 was down because of DNS I don't know if it still is let's check down detector so indicate problems it looks like the problems are tailing off now so it looks like things are recovering but that's how it is with dns a lot of times things explode and then they start coming back at some point thank you also for anybody who's donating i still have that donation link up let's see is it's over i think it's over here on desktop like right up here if you donate to the ua i have an ostomy and you can find out more about that i have a couple older videos going over that stuff but i have an ostomy and the ua has been amazing to help me and other patients who who have ostomies. There are like a million of us in the U.S. I think, and you probably wouldn't

notice for most people, but for some people, you know, they might tell you about it, but a lot of, you might know somebody that has one, and they might have had struggles and things. UOAA is an organization that helps people with those, so go ahead and donate to them. And on that theme too, one of the things I wanted to talk about in this live stream, because you know, when I started this YouTube channel, it was 2006, that I didn't really plan on posting many videos but i posted random videos here or there i think the first video that's still up on the channel is something that we did in college for one of our classes on mythology greek mythology theseus and the minotaur but anyway when i started the channel it was just for fun and that's what that's what most of the internet was back then people sharing things web 2.0 was was kind of the when that the floodgates open there but i never thought i would get to a point where youtube would be like a thing that made money for me and in some ways that's you could argue whether that's a good thing or bad thing for the society in general but anyway it is cool to be able to work on youtube stuff full-time because now i can devote a lot of time to open source work a lot of time to contributing back that i couldn't before when i had to justify it to a boss who was like well that's not really contributing to finishing this project so now i can like spend the extra two or three days to wrap something up or to document something or submit a PR or write up a new project and put it on GitHub. I love doing that stuff. And on that theme, like in my whole career,

open source has been the big thing that kind of brought me into programming and into all the different communities I'm part of now. So a few projects that really, that I think were, I was the most involved in, that I got the most out of, and that I try to put the most back into. Drupal, which is a lot of people here probably never heard of Drupal. Drupal runs a lot of the web. It used to be a lot more for like NGOs and nonprofits and education and government, that kind of stuff.

It still is in some sense, but it's grown a little more enterprisey. So I still run my blog on it, but the community was amazing. And there was a saying back then, come for the code, stay for the community. And that's what it has been a lot of times in open source. Sometimes there's drama and crazy things in all these different open source worlds.

but it doesn't have to be that way, and I try to make it drama-free and fun and interesting and sharing and trying to help people, bring people up and give... You get free code, but you also get free life advice and help and all that kind of stuff. Anyway, Drupal is awesome.

Ansible is another community that I've been part of for years and years. Ansible's changed a lot. You know, Red Hat bought Ansible, and then IBM bought Red Hat, and now IBM and Red Hat are kind of an interesting thing, but Ansible community is still pretty cool, has a lot of great people in it, and has helped me to automate so much and helped other people automate things. And also Kubernetes was a big thing. I think the first, the two big things on this channel that went from like, this is just my little tinkering channel to this is something that was kind of big and interesting and could make money someday, was Ansible 101 and Kubernetes 101 livestream.

So anyway, thanks for those communities. There's tons of other open source projects, especially in like PHP and in Python and in other open source languages and libraries and things that have helped me tremendously through the years. And I was just reminded of that, you know, I have this project that I've been working on

and this is part of it, which I keep looking at the wrong screen here. is part of it and you can you can think about what what could this be what what could we be doing here but i i wound up writing a a script that used ffmpeg to change some video into some frames and do some other stuff used i used like 12 different things on it and it's the first time that i tried actually using a little vibe coding or whatever because i needed to do some quick stuff with a microcontroller that i wasn't familiar with getting the the frames from something converted into i'm going to tell you too much about it because it'll be a surprise it'll be a fun surprise coming up but yes it it's like a blinky that did some fun stuff the argon one up laptop am i excited about that i i am very excited about that sorry for the little squirrel moment here but i did order one this is the one that they sent me for testing and i made a very very brief video on it but this is the argon one up and i'm not going to do a full video or review until i get my full unit but it's uh it's interesting it's not i have i think the biggest problem that i have with it which this is a pre-production version was the trackpad how that worked so i'm going to see what happens with the final production units if they solve that issue or not but it is interesting and Speaking of interesting laptops, and we'll get back to whatever I was talking to, maybe. This is also, you might have noticed, I have this here. This is because this is what I've been working on for a video for a few weeks now. This is technically a framework, but it is a DC Roma.

This is a RISC-V laptop, which I think compares interestingly against that Argon 1 up for many reasons, which I'll get into. But one thing that I'm about to do on this is pull out the main board. This is one of the cool things I like about this idea is instead of having like a custom laptop with a Raspberry Pi, this is a framework laptop that you can pull the main board out and put a new one in, completely swap it out. And so, you know, once this DC Roma RISC-V processor, which is already pretty slow, once it's obsolete, you can pull it out and put in a new thing and have a brand new laptop. So that's cool. You can see I have my Mac over here. This one is

not upgradable at all but with the M-series processors that's not too bad. And Pierre Luigi's here, yeah. Another thing that's awesome is besides like content creators on YouTube, besides the open source projects, on this channel in particular one of my goals is to try to find cool projects in the community that I think either have a lot of potential or just are inspirational and I try to build those up and Pierre Luigi had the minimum boards I think which was cool because I talked about those boards in a video and then later on I got, I was able to kind of put together the build a CubeSat with the minimum boards and I've seen that happen time and time again. So again that open source mentality is like I get something out of this but I also put things back into it and that's what makes the community better. So anyway, I hope that for another 10-20 years we can keep that going through this channel.

yes the framework this I haven't actually used like an x86 processor in a framework but the hardware itself is kind of cool it's uh it's different than uh something like a MacBook but I I could imagine using this as a laptop for Linux if I wanted to with whatever main board that they have uh six hours and yeah I think a couple people notice this guy here before the stream started so if you look at the thumbnail for this this guy had dashes here or it had nothing there because this is what is the clock called the mitzella precision clock mark 4. i think i have a short video about this i was going to do some more stuff with this but um this doesn't look like it's changing but that's actually updating this is updating with an analog circuit instead of digital pwm so that these digits are updating by this is tenths of a second hundreds of a second and thousandths or milliseconds. So that is actually updating. And when these are updating, that means it has a GPS lock. So it's getting its time from GPS satellites, which is very cool.

And yeah, a lot more timing stuff coming up on the channel. I've done, I've gone so far down that rabbit hole and have not come back up yet to actually make a video and I should.

Don't unsubscribe and subscribe, then YouTube's going to get too confused. Where are we? Have Oh, no, wait, 59. OK, we're going up. That's cool.

Yeah, five seconds delayed. Oh, interesting. So I guess I never thought about that, but you could actually see the actual delay on your stream looking at this guy, because this is this is about as precise as you can get without going into more specialized hardware, having specialized antennas or having multiple clocks and comparing them. A very cool clock project. And actually, this is in a 3D printed case.

But if I take that off, you can fold it out and it becomes an ISO timestamp, which is a fun little trick. But yeah, so back to the open source stuff, too. It's so cool to be able to see the people that see things on the channel and then build on that. And, you know, for me, I'm trying to learn how to do some PCB design work. And I learned from so many people that share their stuff on their blogs and on YouTube and all that.

And really on a high level, it's some people ask me like, what do you watch when you're when you're doing your own like watching YouTube? And some of them I've watched for years and years. Well, before I went into the like the modern era of Jeff Geerling YouTube in 2000, it was 2019, 2020 was when I kind of transitioned into actually taking YouTube seriously. But one of them was Engineer Guy. I don't know if you've seen any of his videos, but he it's it's funny.

Like sometimes when I'm writing a script or when I'm saying phrases, I think of somebody's voice in my head when I'm saying it. And sometimes I think of Engineer Guy. And I think that Engineer Guy and Technology Connections are both two YouTube creators who have a great ability to take something that you might not think about too much, but give you the information about it that makes you understand like this is actually a really cool thing. And here's why it's cool. Here's how it's cool. And here's how it's made.

And they do it in a way that you can actually understand it in the end. Anyway, I've loved his videos. It's funny, like he hasn't had a video and he had a video like last year or something, but you can go back and watch the back catalog if you've never seen it before. Another one is Stuff Made Here, which is, he's newer, Shane, he's newer on YouTube, but his videos, every time that he posts something, him and probably DIY Perks, I'm like, there's no way that like one person could make the thing that he just showed being made in like one month or three weeks or two weeks or whatever. It's just crazy, but it's always good to know.

It's good to be humble. I'm like, I can 3D print something. I can design something like this. And then meanwhile, there's other people that are making things that I don't know. I don't even know how you could do that as an individual, some of those projects, but they do them and they do a great job of it.

And they can, like the other ones, they convey it well. And that's, I think, one of the things that I enjoy about some of the channels that I am inspired by. Samson Boat Company. And note that down in the description, I have links to all of these channels, too. So if you're wondering where they are, Samson Boat Company, I watch every single video that comes out on there.

I have for five years, six years. I don't know how long he's been doing this project, but he bought a boat that anyone in their right mind. It's kind of like the vintage computer community. They'll buy something for five bucks, e-waste or whatever. And it's like, there's no way you could ever get that thing going.

And for his boat, he bought this boat, which has an interesting history behind it, but he basically rebuilt the thing from board, like every single board inside of it, every single part. And he still used some original wood from it. He used some original metal parts. It's just a fascinating look into the way the boat is designed and how boats have evolved over the years, but also how, you know, with persistence and with some funding from your Patreon community, you can do some pretty amazing things. and now he's sailing the boat.

But anyway, if you haven't seen it, go back and watch that whole history if you are, I'm not even interested in boats, but for some reason I loved that whole series that he did. I already mentioned technology connections. Look Mom No Computer, another one of those guys who it's like, how can he do all of these crazy things? If you look on Look Mom No Computer, that channel has everything from like car restoration to, you know, EDM type music, to synthesizers. I guess it's look, mum, no computer.

So a lot of analog stuff, electronic circuit design. And his style is interesting. I don't know. I mean, if I ever get back over to London and can go out and visit the place, he has a place called, this is not a museum, I think it's called. Anyway, if I can get over there, I would love to do that because a lot of fascinating things there.

Action Retro, another person who sometimes when I'm writing, I'm like, I just wrote in the style of Action Retro, and you might see that sometimes in some of my videos. He, the phrase that I love the most is like totally normal computing. He does a lot of things like I do with the Pi, it's like you're not supposed to do this and it's not supposed to work, but you make it work and you learn something along the way. Or you don't learn something, you just have a fun time, but I love watching his videos. Another one that's off the beaten path a little bit is Bama Bass. He built

a pond on his property and took us through like the whole journey of how that works. Now it's a lot of the videos are about wildlife and about that kind of stuff so it's just interesting to see that perspective and also somebody who fishes like I again I've never I fished a couple times as a kid and I think I caught a fish or two but I'm not a fisher guy, fisherman, fisher person or whatever. I don't fish, but I like that channel and I enjoy it. He always posts on like a Sunday night, so it's fun to kind of have that be a little relaxing thing to watch at the end of the week or at the beginning of the week, I guess. Great Scott. I'm

sure many people that are subscribed here have seen Great Scott. How can I be a midwestern and not fish? I mean, I know a lot of people that fish a lot, but I just don't. I don't hunt either. It's I haven't done that much. But Great Scott, I have learned so much about electronics from him and his

way of breaking things down. And I love like a few of the things like, one thing that I don't think I'm very good at and I want to get better at is illustrating an idea with either graphics or text or some sort of way of showing it on paper or something. And Great Scott has done a great job of he'll write a circuit out and he'll show you things on paper or he'll write kind of the relationship between things. And it's very visual and interesting. It just, it works in my brain very well. I have an honorary mention here too of Nova Spirit Tech who died this past year.

And that was, that was, it was sad for me to see that like that. You know, I've heard of people who were on YouTube or whatever who passed away before, but it was, it was hard to see. And it was, I had only communicated with him like five or six times ever, but it was always great interaction. And he's one of the people who, again, built up community and tried to make the world a better place and was very good and helpful in his videos. And you could see that his passion for technology would come through in those. And he passed away far too early, I think. But anyway, I wanted to

give him a mention because that's, you know, death is something that you always have to consider in life. And, you know, what are we doing this for? Are we doing it for future generations or for fame and glory or for money? Like, what is the purpose of being here? And I think that he had a good life helping, you know, his kid and his wife and the people in his community to better their lives. So, yeah, that's a sad one, but I wanted to make sure that I included him on the list because

that that was impactful for me. He was also one of the reasons why I got into doing Raspberry Pi stuff on YouTube. I'm not a Raspberry Pi guy, just they're great for illustrating a lot of things that I'm interested in. The reason I got into Raspberry Pi clustering was I was working on clusters for Drupal and clusters for early like LAMP stack scaling and I found that using a Raspberry Pi helped me find a lot of issues that were buried when you ran it on super high-end fast hardware or you ran it in the cloud and you couldn't see the networking connections so anyway i i saw his cluster video where i think he had like four of them with a water loop or something and and that that really put me onto his channel and put me onto the idea of like maybe i could do these kind of weird projects and put them up on youtube instead of just blogging about them so anyway um yeah i see there's there's tons of other great uh great um channels being mentioned in here too and I watch like Big Clive and I think I'm subscribed to like two or three thousand maybe maybe not that many but I'm subscribed to a lot of channels and a lot of them it's like I see one interesting video and hit subscribe so I treat my subscription feed that's like the only way I use YouTube and I just treat that as like you know Twitter or Blue Sky or whatever it's just it's always there and I pick a video or two every every now and then to pop into my watch later list and I'll watch it at some point but these channels that I'm mentioning now are the ones that I watch pretty much every video. And another one is Pecos Hank, which I love meteorology. And I think if I didn't do YouTube, and I didn't do tech, and it paid better, I would

have been a meteorologist. I just love the weather. I love observing it. I love the science and the research behind it and the technology. I actually have had on my list of videos going and seeing a weather radar at some point and talking with the NWS, but it's just never worked out. I got close a

couple years ago, but it never worked out because the best time to do it is when they're down for maintenance, and they only go down for maintenance here and there, and they also don't want to, I guess they don't want to like do that all the time because people actually rely on radars for health and safety. Anyway, Pecos Hank has an awesome channel, and he distills the art of chasing tornadoes and the structure of storms, lightning, clouds, wind, all that kind of stuff really well. And I think he actually actually wrote a book too. I have not purchased it, but I might at some point. But anyway, he has an awesome channel. Yes. This, what is, it's 1523 now,

but yeah, we don't use the PM. Connections Museum. Yeah, there's, there's so many. Yeah, there are some, there are some cities where the radars go down quite, quite a lot. St. Louis has

been pretty good. We have KSTL, I think, is our airport one, or that might be the main one. But anyway, I'm getting off on a tangent. The last content creator who's inspired me and I think I want to mention is Factory Monster. It's an interesting channel. I don't know how many people,

you can raise your hand, have watched how it's made and were inspired by that show as a kid. Factory Monster, for me, is that. It tickles that same itch. It's kind of on the same theme of, I don't know, it feels in the same theme as that. Sometimes Strange Parts has interesting factory tours too, but the cool thing about Factory Monsters is it kind of brings you into a factory and guides you through it, and there's no dialogue, which is crazy.

It's kind of like the WALL-E of factory tours. So anyway, those are all linked in the description. And yeah, we're getting to 150 or so. We'll see. Yeah.

Well, so this is, Frederick says it's bad timing since the world has no internet. Well, anybody that's not on Microsoft is here, so go ahead and subscribe, you know.

Yeah.

Yep, yep. Yeah, and thank you to everybody. I mean, the other thing is thank you so much to everybody who subscribed. Obviously, we wouldn't get to a million subscribers without a million people or 999,855 clicking subscribe. So thank you for that. It's funny, subscriptions on YouTube don't mean the same

thing that they did five or ten years ago when I started with this. Back then it was like you want to get as many people to hit subscribe because I think that was a bigger flag in the YouTube algorithm for recommendations. And it was used a lot more if like I take sponsorships very sparingly because there's many reasons for that. You can look on GitHub, I have a YouTube repository that that talks about my philosophy with sponsorships and reviews and that kind of thing. And in the past, those sponsorships were tied to like how many subscribers you had and maybe views, but it was more sponsorship, more subscriber based.

But nowadays subscribers means almost nothing. So but to me, it means a lot because it means somebody likes something enough that they thought, I want to see something more from this person at some point, which is crazy to me. like I don't know I guess I don't know what I do that people click that button for me for because I feel like there's a lot of other people that do things better than I do but but thank you you know but that doesn't mean unsubscribe right now you can do that after we hit a million but yeah another little list I have here and if you're in the description you can see that I have this on here too there are some other content creators who more more or less directly have helped me pass on the journey. And there's actually a lot that I won't list here because like I have the entire HomeLab community. We talk with each other quite a bit and we, you know, we help each other with issues. If we're having issues with, you know, equipment or if we're

having issues with, there's something in the comments that's like bothering you or whatever. A lot of us will talk and try to help each other out, which is amazing. And so there's too many to list. I think I have a list of a few in the description, but if you've seen a HomeLab video from somebody, odds are that I've at least said hello to them in email or Twitter DMs or whatever at some point in the past, and it's just a great community that we have. I'm glad that it's not so drama-filled like some crazy communities are, but also individually, there's Serve the Home.

Patrick from Serve the Home has been helpful. We've talked quite a bit. We've collabed in the past a couple times on videos. And on that same thread, Wendell from Level One Techs, who's, everybody says he's like the tech support on YouTube. I've actually talked to him three or four times for videos that never ended up getting made. But I still have all the footage because

those are videos that might get made. But then it's like, if it's two years later, do I like call him again? Because I can't use like two-year-old footage or whatever. So I don't know. But he's is willing to help and he's always active in his forums too like anybody that posts in the forums about something he's interested in he will he'll help and I love that service that they have I've I've often recommended people if they email me directly which I don't unfortunately have time to respond to everybody sometimes I will say have you have you posted in the level in text forums because they have a lot of great stuff on home labbing and on old servers and on new servers and all kinds of stuff. Similarly to the HomeLab community though, the vintage Mac community is just,

it's, it's, I went to my first vintage computer festival in the Midwest and I knew the video was going to do terribly. It's like a 10 of 10, worst video I've done in like three or four years. I knew it would do that, but it was such an awesome experience to meet some of the people that I've talked to online and talk to them and be a little bit more integrated into that community and, because they do important things in my opinion they show us that old tech not only the way that it worked and how how it can be restored and all that but they show us what it was like and one of the things that i hate about the modern tech world is everything is becoming a subscription everything is becoming a rental everything is none like it's not yours anymore back in the old days you'd buy a computer you bring it home and it would be there um my my wife said can you pick up some bananas on on the way home. Yes, I will definitely do that. But it's so disappointing. And that's one reason

I think I'm getting into older computers besides the fact that I am, I guess, is in a midlife crisis or whatever. Instead of buying like sports cars, I now have a collection of old computers. But yeah, that was cool. And the people in that community are amazing. Also from explainingcomputers.com, Christopher, he's great. I've talked to him in the past in a

couple videos, and I've emailed him back and forth with him a few times. And he's another one of those like, his channel is never going to be like a viral sensation type channel, but he has been so consistent for years and years. That's one thing that like some people say, don't worry about posting every week or whatever, which I missed last week, which is kind of funny. But that's partly because of that project I showed a little bit earlier, which will be fun. That'll be on Gearlink Engineering, by the way, so subscribe there too. Yes, Gearlink Engineering, my goal is to have a

video every month or two, Penguin Overlord. So yeah, yes, and I am at my studio. But anyway, explaining computers, he's just been so consistent and so, I don't know, in the midst of all the screaming and yelling and crazy intros and stuff, it's been fun to see him continue just nailing all these different topics. And he, like me, he's interested in a lot of different things and he gets to share a lot of those little projects that he works on through his weekly videos and sometimes more than one a week. And finally, Destin from Smarter Every Day, who I met this year.

I don't know if I met him last year or this year at OpenSauce. I think this year at OpenSauce. We had a chance meeting at the Eclipse. That was, was that this year? I think it was this year.

It might have been. This year has been a long year. It's been a quick year and a long year in both ways. Yes, Stanley the knife and the scissors. I forget what the scissors is called.

Unexplaining computers.

But Destin and I have talked a little bit. We met at that thing and we got to talk about some of the, you know, the science of observing things in space, some of the photography stuff. I still have my first film camera, the Minolta X700. And he tries to get me to do more film photography. And it's like, yeah, it's such a bother though.

I know why digital won out. It's not only because you get more dynamic range nowadays, but back in the day, it's like the process of taking the pictures and developing them and all that stuff is not as fun. But it is interesting. And I still shoot a roll probably every three or four months because it's nice. It's interesting.

Similar to retrocomputing, it changes your brain a little bit. Like when you're taking a picture that's going to a physical piece of film and then you're developing that film, you think more about the picture. It's an intentional picture. It's not just, you know, Daddy, can you take a picture of me? Yes, I'll take like seven pictures and then now they'll be in my phone and in 20 years they'll be in the group of another million pictures that we took in the past year. You know, it's like, it's totally a different thing. A hundred left. Yes. So once we

get to a million, by the way, I bought this and I have no idea if this is going to be a good idea or a horrible idea. I have drop ceiling here and I don't think this is like high velocity explosives It said that it was air or something like that, compressed air. So I don't think that we're going to have a problem, but that could be fun either way. And I'm not going to change my shirt to a red shirt for that part.

I think it's strategies to be the one million sub. The problem is I'm sure that there's a few people that are waiting, and then all of them will click it and so you won't know. But yeah, I could also, it was DNS. It seems like this shirt is doing a lot more bad in the world right now than red shirt, Jeff.

but yes redshirt jeff will be returning here and there the the trouble is that he has been in the studio it's not uh it's not the same as being in my basement so you have to be a little more careful with what redshirt jeff does yeah so that's that um the uh let's see the other thing is i have a few videos that like i know that these videos probably won't get a lot of views but I try to mix in like I know I have to play to the allegorism a little bit so I try to do some videos that I know will do well and keep my channel not angry with YouTube or whatever but I try to mix in some videos that I either I don't know if they'll do anything well or I know they're not going to do well but it's something that I've wanted to work on and turn into a video and turning it into a video makes it easier to justify working on it too. One of them is building a GPS clock like this with a Raspberry Pi Pico. This one is using custom code on an STM32. But I have the parts for it, I just haven't done it. Another one is a video about all the things you don't know about time and GPS. And another one is maybe setting up a net boot or PXE boot on

the CM5 blade cluster, which is somewhere over there. Oh yeah, it's down here. But let me know

yeah yeah here's that guy the cm5 blade switches it takes out the back quite a bit but i have this set up still because i want to i want to do that at some point but of those three video ideas i'm not even looking right now so you're if you're posting a comment about it i don't know which one you're selecting but which which one uh which one are you thinking

pxw what is pxw

steam cache drive on a pi that's actually something i have thought about doing mostly because with the steam cache like i every time that i set up a new pi or one of the ampere workstations and i do some testing with steam it's like okay i will download a game for the next six hours eight hours. It's like, holy cow, back when I was a kid, you didn't have to download games like that. You just buy a CD. Looks like a lot of people are talking. Oh, PXE boot. Okay. Yes. So yeah, it's,

it seems I've had a lot of people ask about that. And the GPS clock is going to be fun. Buy a cake when you're at the store. Oh, did you see that on here? Is that something else to do too?

I don't know what my wife mentioned on here. She said pie pumpkin, not a pumpkin pie. So apparently there's, yeah, I remember there's like a little pumpkin for pumpkin pies. So that and some bananas. And how are we doing on the subscribers?

70, 73 more it looks like. Oh, 70 more. Wait, why am I seeing a more delayed thing on the stream? So I'm seeing 15, 35, 16.

Wow, my, so this is weird. let me show you what I'm seeing because this is kind of crazy. So I should definitely not be looking at this camera or this screen here because it's way off. Let me go into here and I'll pop open my OBS NDI stream thing here. iPhone, there we go.

So look at this. This says saying, I don't know how this is going to work on the stream, but 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 2, 3, 4, 5. And look at that. That's, that's like way off. That's like 25 seconds off. So don't look here at all. I don't know why this stream is so far off. So you

guys are actually seeing ahead of what I'm seeing on here. So what I really should do is look at my preview over here. And there's 1,800 people watching. Hello, everybody. Thanks for watching.

Thanks for coming to celebrate. Oh gosh, sorry about that. I just put you in vertical mode. Yeah, there's my notes. So we've gotten through that stuff.

We can put this away.

I should probably take a drink of water too.

Which water or Diet Coke? I don't know which one. I should get one of these companies to sponsor me and then I could get free soda for life.

I should probably switch cameras so I can set down my phone too. There we go.

How's the petabyte pie holding up? So the funny story about that.

And ProtoWeb is here too. Hey ProtoWeb. Yeah, I found out about ProtoWeb at VCF Midwest too. That was a great experience. I got to hold a boxed copy of Netscape Navigator 2.0.

But in terms of the petabyte Pi, I was going to redo it with Ceph and four Raspberry Pi 5s. I have not gotten around to that yet. I was close to getting it done a few months ago and then had to go back on it again. The problem is that every time I start working on that, you have a server that's this big, takes up this entire desk or more than one of my other workbench. you get everything out and then you're like you're dedicated to it and then if you have any problems that are going to take like a part in the mail now you're waiting another week or two weeks or if it's something weird sometimes three or four weeks and then it's like now that workbench is that now so i've had to put that on pause again and every time i do it there's another thing like that so we'll get there i i think that we'll get another petabyte version but this one will be like an actual like this could actually kind of work if you like squint at it sideways the old one it barely limped along and the nasa is still in the ampere yes someone asked about that

a starlink base station i don't have starlink anymore uh for for over a year or two years now i've thought about it for backup internet here hey kevin how you doing you guys everybody should go so something fun everybody kevin macleer over in chat if somebody wants to post a link to one of his videos go watch one of his videos really quick let's get let's get him a few hundred extra views on one of those just open in a second tab or something

but uh i'm kind of surprised at the rate that it was going this morning it wasn't going to hit a million until like midnight tonight so that's i started the stream even thinking like maybe I could get a few people to subscribe maybe we'll see a petabyte with NVMe you know how expensive that is you have to have a sponsor for that yeah I don't need a petabyte of storage that's the thing I I was like I don't know why 45 drives sponsored me but it was so awesome to work with them and I have a good relationship now with them and but they they were like yeah we want to help you make this happen and I'm like what do you want me to do with all the drives so i actually i i have a few drives out on loan to a couple other creators to help them but i i saved most of them in boxes right now i don't want to run them because it's like 700 watts just to have them spinning so i have it all sitting there ready for the next version of the petabyte pi server it's just like i said i have not gotten to that they have the new beast version too which of the hl15 that i think would probably make more sense for me for what i do with my NAS. But yeah, yeah. So we're getting close to a million. One other thing I was going to do was work on upgrading this. I actually have Framework and DC Roma or Deep Computing have been working with me on this video for months now. I've been, it's been in the works

and we're finally almost there. I'll hopefully have this video up in a week or two, probably two or three weeks or who knows, I shouldn't make promises because sometimes I'm like, yeah I'm working on that this week and it's like two months later finally get it out but but yeah I guess yeah what 1542 you're saying on here 41 I don't know we'll see we got 20 more left

the frigate video yes I'm why am I not on Unify there was a good thread on on X or Twitter about that there's no particular reason other than every time everyone that I know that gets on to Unify ends up spending 10, 20, 30 thousand dollars or you buy one thing you have to buy five or six it's I don't know what it is there's something about Unify and I'm just avoiding that as long as I can but I know I'm gonna succumb to one of their devices at some point. Upstream DNS right now I use name.com I do not like name.com I did a long time ago I would sing if my throat was feeling better but No, I'm not going to sing.

What is your favorite number? Well, a million today, of course. Petabyte on IDE. Yeah, I saw Action Retro actually posted a picture of a bunch of zip drives in stacks. That would be fun to do a petabyte of zip drives.

You have to have like every existing zip drive that still works to do that. This is not low latency. I think this is medium latency or something. but uh we're getting close so i should probably prepare one of these this this will be interesting i'd that's going to be messy probably or it'll be a dud that'd be really fun i actually bought two because uh i think last year two years ago we bought a few of these and one of them just didn't go so i figured that the chances are pretty good that we'd get at least oh a million there we go okay let's let's try this out okay i'll shoot it over at the sign there and i'm hoping that nothing Something over here is in the destruction zone, but let's see. Woo!

Okay, that was more than I expected. And it's going to take a lot of cleanup. I'll show you. Might as well do both because we're here. And my ears are also hurting a little bit, so let's see.

Okay. Well, thank you for everybody who's subscribed. the 77 people that just subscribed at the end of the stream let me show you the carnage here and i think that uh at home my daughter actually exploded one of these things one time and we had to clean it up for i don't know how long we still find bits of confetti around but uh here we go

so here's the carnage it's uh you know i probably should actually remove those from the network switch because this does get pretty hot i don't want to have uh i don't want to have a fire that would be a not good thing to have happen today million subscribers and the studio burns down so yeah that's the that's the hot zone there and uh that's funny these are all still together so not the highest quality but yeah thank you and you are the 999 991th subscriber is that is that how you say it 991th yes so awesome ah yes so i don't even know how i'm going to clean this up i'm still

that was uh an idea that i had that was probably not the best thought out idea but it's that's not the worst thing in the world i guess it's kind of fun

and i didn't have any plans for what to do after that so that's uh what's the okay so what's the orange 3d print this is uh this is part of this project i found this this is a modified version of framework's actual like mainboard 3d printable case so i didn't want to i didn't want to wait for the one i think there's cooler master somebody makes one so i 3d printed this this is asa I printed it on the bamboo, which I found out that if you print ASA on a bamboo with the plate, it's I forget what what build plate or print plate that was, but the little paint marks on it come off for ASA temperatures. I think it's like 100 degrees bed temperature. So tip: don't use beds with paint on them because it'll come off at this temperature, but not at the 60 degree temperatures. The UOAA, so no i don't think i'll ever have a billion subscribers but the oa which is up here no it's up here on desktop and on mobile it's probably down here if you would like to donate to them they have helped me with my uh chrome my i had crohn's disease which led to me getting an ostomy and they help people who have ostomies or continent diversions or there's probably somebody in your life that you know that has one of these or had one and in the u.s the oa helps so much with those patients. So if you find it in your heart to generously donate to them, that would be awesome.

Am I still using the framework PC cluster? It's part of it is right here. I've been doing a little bit of experimenting. This guy is here. I've been tinkering with PCIe and looking at the progress with Lemonade and the NPU support because that should help a bit. But in Linux, it has not been

as nice as in Windows, unfortunately, yet. Oh yeah, I saw that Joseph Prusa got a medal from the Czech president. I think that was today or yesterday or something. So that was interesting. Yeah, I guess it's good to have companies in your country that are building things like that.

So we're close to 2 million. No, we're not close to 2 million. It's funny, like I never thought like I want to have a million subscribers or whatever. I never thought I have the 100,000 subscriber plaque too. Like when I started this channel, it was just I want to share things and I still want to do that today.

And I don't want 2 million. I just want to have a community of people who learn things from each other, build things that make the world a better place, that help them. Like one of the best things would be if people watching this channel can learn how to have skills to support themselves and to make things better for their community, that would be like the ultimate goal. And I hope that I've helped some of you with that. And I'm sure that I've helped a few people with it.

But, you know, on the flip side, I get so many comments and I read as many comments as I can, but it's kind of like a stream sometimes now. So I don't get to read everything. I try to read everything and I've gotten a lot of ideas for videos and projects and I've gotten a lot of contacts from people who who see a video and they say have you ever talked to this person about this or whatever but anyway yeah the problem with live streams JC is that I in college I took a test of like I forget what the test was called but it's like public speaking how comfortable they are and my comfort level was like through the roof in the wrong way so i said that one of my goals was to be able to do anything public speech wise and i got to that point but live streams are still that way for me i i get i get a little bit sweaty a little bit nervous and all that kind of stuff and uh yeah so live streams well just me has to go to bed and i it's a 350 here or very precisely it's 15:48:36 here and so I actually do need to wrap up for the day because tomorrow I am going to the Enterprise Center here in St. Louis and doing a pretty cool shoot with the St. Louis Blues we're gonna which I have here which is upside down sorry about that if you're a Blues fan it's not because I don't like it it's because I stick these in random places and I think that one was one where I had it on the ground at some point but anyway I'm gonna go there and we're going to look inside of a broadcast truck with my dad so that'll be fun and yes I do enjoy making the YouTube videos I don't think I could make over 500 of them if I didn't enjoy that 3d printed tenant tracks are awesome and I haven't done one yet surprisingly I mean the thing is I have Deskpy when they're building their new versions they actually send me one like a pre-production unit and I help them out I build it and I tell them like here's the good things here's a couple things I didn't like about it and so I have like eight of those pre-production versions which all of them have like little quirks but they're not bad quirks it's just like the instruction guide was missing a step or whatever so now I have like eight of those and it's like do I I don't need one but it is cool to print those but uh oh cool so if you refresh my page I guess it shows one million or one m the sad thing is now now I won't see if you go to my page it'll say like one million or 1.01 or something so now it's like incrementing in 10 thousands and you know what i didn't even have

a thing recording i have i have the stream recording but i didn't have uh this is nope that's not the right one that's not the right one there it is i didn't have anything recording that alone that's actually running on a raspberry pi and i for the main thing i have like when i when you look up here right there that's actually clipped off of this feed from the raspberry pi and i was meaning to set up screen recording through the pi i just didn't so so now i have the stream at least i have that part um but yeah so thank you for watching today and i will see you next time until next time i'm jeff geerling which now i need to find out where where's a button to stop this thing oh here we go until next time i'm jeff geerling

uh okay well until next time i'm jeff geerling let's try this again

-