---
video_title: "I tried learning CNC in a week to save a 20-year-old Apple Xserve"
video_id: DJ6dWOVZh2k
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJ6dWOVZh2k
video_date: 2026-07-17T16:00:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Makera thinks their new desktop CNC is able to be useful for noobs like me. Is it?
  
  And can I fix my Apple Xserve mounting issue by the end of the video? How about a trip to Canada? All that and more in this video.
  
  Thank you to Makera for providing a Z1 Ultimate Kickstarter Bundle for my use and review in this video. They have not paid for the video in any other way, nor do they have any say in the content of the video. See my sponsorship policies here: 
  
  Some of the things I mentioned in this video:
  
    - Makera Z1: https://www.makera.com/pages/makera-z1
    - CNC Machining Conversation with Sean Hodgins: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cz3-YUBSBhU
    - Sean's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@SeanHodgins
    - Husky 27" Tool Storage Cabinet: https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-Tool-Storage-27-in-W-x-18-in-D-5-Drawer-Gloss-Black-Rolling-Tool-Cabinet-H27TR5BLK/319376602
    - Husky 26" Hardwood Tool Cabinet Top: https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-26-in-Hardwood-Tool-Cabinet-Top-for-Rolling-Cabinet-HOCN260001/203949843
    - Xserve Mounting Bracket: https://www.printables.com/model/1713195-intel-xserve-rackmount-spacer-bracket-805-7385
    - 3D Printed numbered tool holder: https://www.printables.com/model/1186525-18-cnc-bit-holder-with-collar-bits-carvera-air
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - Is CNC harder than 3DP
  01:23 - Beginner CNC with Sean Hodgins and a Tormach
  07:18 - Setting up a desktop CNC
  09:06 - Firmware update and too tight a cable
  10:21 - Inside the machine
  11:08 - Power consumption at idle
  11:22 - Workholding
  11:43 - Top Clamp Tutorial
  12:49 - Measuring sound and power in use
  13:10 - Air cleaning and vacuum performance
  13:37 - 4-in-1 tool is not great
  14:10 - CAM and Makera Studio
  15:14 - Setting up toolpaths
  16:44 - Setting up the job
  17:50 - Making chips
  19:56 - E-STOP
  20:19 - Not great, not terrible
  20:26 - 2nd time's a charm
  21:42 - Count your fingers, it's finishing time
  22:02 - Installing the Xserve rackmount
  22:46 - Lessons learned
---
When I'm 3D printing, I make a lot of mistakes, but that's how I learn. Between designing physical parts and learning about slicers and filaments, it's hard at first. I mean, it still is in some ways, but at least I'm breaking stuff less frequently. But that's additive manufacturing, where you build up layers of plastic to make a part. Machining kind of flips that on its head, and I've never done it before.

I mean unless you count cutting holes in a game gear on a drill press. I've avoided learning CNC machining because it seems harder than 3D printing and probably a little more dangerous, but Makara said their Z1 is made for people new to CNC who might want to work with materials other than plastic, like me. You see, I got a problem. My goal by the end of this video is to make this out of metal. Now, this is a little spacer I built to mount Intel Xers in my rack.

You see, I only had one set of these, but I needed two. Without these, the whole load of the server goes into the screw heads and that's not great. The spacers distribute the load better and line up the rack rails when you're installing the server. Is this a weird design? Yes, that's Apple for you.

But I designed and printed these using ASA with 100% infill, which means they're solid plastic. And they're pretty strong as far as 3D prints go. but crank down a screw with a hundred pounds of torque, and this weak part up top just kinda rips. I've wanted to make these out of metal, and before I take you on my journey learning cam, breaking apart, and ultimately machining this thing myself I figured I'd visit someone with a lot more experience up in Canada. Uh I'm Sean Hodgins, that's my channel.

And I've got a crazy shop. We just filmed a cool thing upstairs. I need to uh Open the folder. Well I even have a folder on here. Yeah.

Like you can actually see the tool paths. Mm-hmm. Um and you can position like the tool. where it needs to go and you actually see the tool on the screen that's what you uh Get our safety glasses on now that we've done some work. So right now we're setting this and we're actually gonna cut the material out of this top piece

It's just gonna home the all the tool in.

So once we start this, the machine's just gonna do its thing. It's gonna run through the G code, which tells the machine where to go, what tools to fetch, do all that stuff.

So basically in any procedure you you you need to take off like the rough material Mm-hmm. And that'll just give you a really, really accurate. Nice and flat. Yeah, you'll get a good reference because you know where the machine's the bottom of the tool actually is. Yeah.

This is just drilling a spot drill Which is like a more rigid regular drill. And that lets you start the hole before you put the actual drill into it So you don't have to mess up your more precise bit. Because the other drill's long, so once you touch into the tool, it could walk millimeters even and then you're off. It's not too bad. Frilling is a pretty quick way to like remove material and then you can you know if you have a hole and you need to mill it out it's nicer on your end mill to not have material in the very middle.

Yeah. Because the very middle of an end mill is barely spinning. Mm-hmm. Right? So it's almost not moving at all the closer you look at.

This is uh a two-flute end mill, which is good for aluminum. You'll probably do a lot of reading about beads and speeds, but maybe Makara has like things for their tooling already that they know. Yeah. Cause there's so many different things like how deep of a cut how fast you spin the tool and how quickly you move that tool into the material. But this should totally be doable on the Makeera.

So those were just roughing passes and then I do a quick uh you heard it speed up a little, now it's doing like a bit of a finishing pass. And also the first time you start machining, you're gonna be hovering over the E stop button or the stop button just like I I I look more relaxed than if I was doing something I hadn't done before So we're doing another tool change.

This time it's another smaller end mill. This is for the little holes that we drilled. Yeah. It's just gonna open them up like maybe half a millimeter because of the design. So I drilled a 4mm, and these are just slightly bigger.

So the smaller the you know the bit, the more careful you have to be with each pass. That's it. That's one side. We'll dry it off. You can have a seat part in there.

It's one half of the finished part So now we're gonna flip it over this way and we're gonna take the rest of this material off. Are you holding the doors because they fly open sometimes and shoot stuff out at you? No, but I like how this says replace windows every two years. I don't think that's been done. And there's no date, so it'd be funny if after I make this video some Apple guy is like, yeah, we actually CNC'd all those by hand because we only made like twelve thousand of them and one last chamber.

Well there's some things I'd still change on it, but apart and the little nub. Yeah. That makes 3D printing really difficult. So I have a few questions. Do you think that the first time I try making one of these, I will uh accomplish that task, or do you think I'll have a little failure first.

I think if you follow like the steps and you're careful I th and you use their feeds and things like that, I you could probably do one first try if you know what you're doing. But there's a really good chance you won't Yeah. What do you think is the most important thing for somebody that's new to machining anything? Definitely like I said, being really conservative on the speeds and like feeds and things like that. Um I guess accepting that you're gonna break bits and you have a lot.

The funny thing with machining is any machine you buy, it's like Oh yeah, I bought the machine. Now you have to pay the same amount for all the tools you need. So like you have to keep that in mind anytime you you're looking to get something, but obviously that's not like a hard and set rule But uh something like this you're gonna end up spending money on the tools and you have to be willing to break them. I think that's pretty good advice, especially the whole you're gonna spend more on the tools and stuff than the machine itself. Probably even more so with CNC than like 3D printers.

Now I'm posting the full interview with Sean over on my second channel, and we even get into how he milled his more tokens, so go check that out. And subscribe to Sean too. I can't recommend his channel enough. Before I get into making my own version of the X Serv Spacer, I figured I'd start with one of Makara's tutorials, but before that, I need to set this thing up. I unboxed it and put everything in this rolling cart.

The Z1 fits almost perfectly, though, if I'm being honest, I wish I had a little more space on the desktop. Apparently McCara sent over their Kickstarter Ultimate Bundle, like their top end setup that costs like 2,000 bucks. But you can get into a Z1 for closer to half that if you don't need things like the fourth axis, laser, vacuum bed, 3D probe vise, and everything else they sent here. Once I plugged the Z1 into the wall, I checked idle power draw. Using my smart outlets and home assistant, I measured about 36 watts for the Z1 and 2.

4 watts for the Cyclone. This is a vacuum the Z1 can control to clean up chips during cutting. You can also use it to suck up debris after a job. I was gonna use my shop vac, but I'm glad I don't have to. This thing is a little quieter, but more importantly, it's built for this machine.

Using G-code, the Z1 can turn it on and off during a job. The idle power draw on the Z1 is a bit high for my liking, so I'm glad I put these things on smart outlets. That way I can switch them off when a job's done without having to touch the machines and not be wasting extra power while they're doing nothing. Now that it's on though, I opened up Makara Studio on my framework and a Apparently this puts together what used to be two apps so I can set up toolpaths and control the Z1 in one app. The best thing is I was expecting to have to tie my predator some cloud service, but that's not the case.

Unlike Bamboo, the Z1 only works locally. I can either connect to its built-in Wi-Fi or plug in through USB and control the printer. I think Bluetooth might even work too, but the good news is you don't have to send your parts through Macara Cloud or anything like that. I guess the bad news is it's insane I even have to mention that. That should be the default for everything.

And it is on here, so good on Makara for that. And they even let you use it with any control software too. Like I could use Fusion instead of Macara Studio if I want. Anyway, I saw there was a firmware update, so I ran that, which took a few minutes, and then the printer was just kind of sitting there locked up. So I had to hard cut power to get it to reboot, which was a little odd, but that's okay.

And I was gonna start the tutorial, but I noticed the cable bundle up here was really tight, like there was no slack at all. And I know from my 3D printer building, you can get some interesting failure modes when you stretch cable bundles too much. So I asked McCara about this and they told me how to remove the back panel to get some more slack. While I'm back here, I'll give you a closer look inside. It looks like there's a power supply, a spindle motor control board, and an MCU that runs everything, along with a few stepper motor controllers.

And since I'm into microcontrollers, I took a closer look at the MCU on here. It's the NXP LPC 1768 FBD100. And that's a mouthful, but it's an ARM Cortex M3 MCU, and it works in tandem with an ESP32 that's buried on the side for wireless access. On the back side of the rear panel is a fan that's not super quiet, but it does keep things cool. Anyway, I push some extra cable into the cable chain and now there's a little slack.

While I was doing that, I noticed the cover behind the spindle came cracked, probably because the cables were tugging on it so hard. So again I emailed McCara, and they sent this replacement cowling. But hopefully this was just an isolated thing. I hope this doesn't happen to any of you if you buy this thing. Anyway, since we're inside, let's take a quick look at everything else in here.

There's a big spindle with a blower on top that filters the air and clears out chips while you're cutting. The bed comes with this thing called a spoil board, which is like a sacrificial bed for cutting into and holding workpieces. In the back corner of the bed is this little post the machine uses to check tool height in the Z-ax. All the rails had some grease on them and even some protection like this dust cover to help prevent chips from getting everywhere. There's a camera in here, which is actually decent for spot checking things, but I didn't find myself using it much, because like Sean said I was hovering over the EStop button for my first jobs.

There's a little GPIO connector or something back in the back near this chip blowing hose thing, and that's kind of the basics of the inside. Oh, and when you open up the cover it makes this cute little ping sound. Here, I'll I'll let you hear what that sounds like. Before I ran my first job, I wanted to see how much power the vacuum would use full tilt, so I manually ramped it up to 100%. That used about 140 watts.

So if you're running the whole setup, I'd budget for between 40 and 300 or 400 watts total. Looking at other videos on desktop CNCs, I know one of the most important things is to secure your workpiece. And for Makara's first tutorial, the material they recommend is 6061 aluminum. They ship a 5mm chunk of it, and you can mill out an extra top clamp. Top clamps are these things.

You screw them into the bed to clamp down your material. And more is usually better. You don't want your workpiece moving around. On McCarables, that's Macara's printables-like site, but for CNC's. .

. They even give you a picture of how everything should look, which is very helpful for a CNC noob like me. Anyway, after a little confusion over how to set up the job in Makara Studio, I finally got the job started. I set it up to turn on the blower, turn on the vacuum, and even try to blow the bed clean at the end of the job. The Z1 includes a little laser probe which does two helpful things.

First, it'll trace the outline of your job so you can make sure you're in the right ballpark and not gonna dig right into one of the screws. Second, it can probe the height of the material you're machining. And like 3D print bed leveling, that's helpful to keep everything aligned in your job. Unlike 3D printing though, where you probe the bed height and work up from there. It seems like with most CNC you probe the top of the material and then work down.

Anyway, this job should be simple. It only requires the laser probe and the standard 3. 175mm nmill bit that comes with every Z1. But I came prepared for harder jobs too. I found this 3D print on printables that lets me put all the tools for a given job in order.

The Z1 doesn't have an automated tool changer like Sean's Tormax, so keeping things organized should help me on longer jobs, at least hopefully. But the job started and while it was going, I started measuring. I pulled out my decibel meter and found the machine wasn't actually too bad, around 65 to 70 dBA while everything was running. And power wise, the spindle power draw goes up and down a little while it's cutting, but it averaged around 70 watts while the vacuum is pulling around 100 So not too bad. I I could even run small jobs off battery power if I really need to.

And not having to run a pump and coolant means the machine can be a lot smaller, but the air didn't do quite as much as I thought it would initially. The air cleaning at the end just kind of moves around chips, so I I think I'll just leave that off in the future. I popped open the cover, sucked out as much as I could with the hose from the vacuum, and pulled out the chunk of aluminum. It was a little unnerving having a tool cut right into the spoil board, but I guess that's what it's there for. To get the clamp out of here, there are a few tabs that are left, and I needed to saw those things off.

McCara supplies a 4 in 1 tool, and it's not ideal. Kinda the poster child for Jack of All Trades, Master of None. But my goal was to do everything by the book, and it does work, it's just one of the most frustrating little jabsaws I've ever used. The file was a little better because it actually locks in, unlike the floppy hacksaw blade, and in the end I had this basic but serviceable extra top clamp. I tested the top clamp on the aluminum and it works well, keeping things nice and tight.

For that tutorial, McCara gives you an NC file. That has the G code that tells the printer every little move and thing to do But for real jobs, like with my own design for this rack mount spacer, I was gonna have to learn CAM. That's computer-aided manufacturing. And it's how you translate a design, the 3D printer spacer that I made in Fusion. into G-code so the CNC knows what to do and when to change tools.

And I wanted to do this on my main workstation, so I installed Macara Studio on my Mac. When I opened it, I saw this Intel warning, so hopefully they'll update it soon, otherwise it won't run on future Macs But I also noticed this little registration pop-up. I don't love that you have to register just to use the software, but we'll see how that goes. The nice thing is I already modeled stuff in Fusion, and apparently I could run the CNC through there too if I wanted to skip Macara's software entirely. Not that Fusion is any more open or anything, but at least the machine's not tied down to one piece of software.

But over in Fusion, I exported my design as a step file. That way the CAM software can see all the surfaces. Then I got to work, and I quickly realized this is a lot more involved than like 3D printer slicing. With modern slicers like Orca Slicer, slicing is nearly automatic, especially since I'm usually just printing one filament with one extruder. With CAM, at least with accurate milling like I'm doing, I have to set up every single tool and toolpath.

And that means knowing your model, knowing what kind of features you're generating, and thinking about the order of operations and the way it's being cut. Because you can't just plunge a mill all the way down to your part. You have to remove material to get there. This was honestly a little daunting, and in the process I figured out that even the way I designed in CAD has to change if I'm gonna mill something versus 3D print it. Because like I had these chamfers in fusion, and that's fine when you're doing a 3D model, but chamfering is actually an entire separate bit and toolpath in chim.

So I actually went back into Fusion and slightly redesigned my model. After I took out all the chamfers and fixed a couple other flaws, I put the step file back in McGara Studio and got to work. Especially since this was my first time ever setting up a CNC job. The process was basically me thinking through every step of the process, picking a tool, picking an operation. tweaking some parameters, using the three D View to make sure the tool was doing what I expected, and then rinse and repeat.

And for the most part, Macara Studio didn't fight me, but it was a slight bit buggy, with the whole thing even crashing one time when I was trying to modify one of the tool parameters. Luckily, I've learned many a time to save early and often, so it was just a little hiccup. The one thing that I didn't really have a good plan for was the bottom side. This thing has a bump on the bottom and an opening for a magnet, so I'll have to flip the part and mill both sides. McCara Studio has a top and bottom for these types of jobs where you can define a second set of operations.

And I did that, but I was just crossing my fingers and hoping the positioning on the bed would just work out for me. But at this point I had my job ready to go and I had a set of three tools picked out. I slid them into my 3D printed tool holder and double checked to make sure I labeled them as tool 1, 2, and 3 in the job, which I did, and now it was time, except I realized one of the bits didn't come with a bitcolor, so I had to squish one on with Makara's bitcolor installer. Anyway, with that sorted, I mounted the 10mm aluminum blockara Kara Scent with the printer, and I'm actually glad I have that extra top clamp now. It felt better having two clamps holding down the long side instead of just one.

I was about to hit run, but noticed there was a second firmware update available. I went ahead and ran that and it seemed to work, but again I had to reboot the Z1 a couple times, and then I even had to unplug the USB cable from my laptop, otherwise it kept getting stuck. Once I did that, the firmware update did complete and the printer re-homed itself and then I fired off the job. Now I'm gonna speed up a lot of this footage, otherwise this video would be like two hours long. but I watched it as it traced an outline of the job, probed the surface, and let me swap in the first tool.

This is something I like about this. When it's time for a tool change, the light bar on the front of the spindle shows what number it is, which is useful if you're running this without a laptop nearby But I put in the flat end mill and hit the button on the front of the Z1 to start the job. The first thing it does for every tool change is measures the Z height for the tool by tapping it on the little sensor. Then, well it goes to town.

The first cut was a pocket cut where it was just cutting down to the top of the part and making the top surface of the part flat After that, I cut another pocket to the next top surface. I was a little worried about chip buildup, that maybe that'd be a problem, but every time the mill went around it would clear out another layer of chips and the air blast seemed to be doing a pretty good job. But it was fascinating watching the display, the G-code, and the machine all running together. Though I was a little jealous of Sean's Tormac, how it could show the position of the bit in real time instead of just jumping from G code to G-code. The next pass got down to almost the bottom of the spacer and I got nervous about chips again so I blew some of them out using my own little air duster.

That probably wasn't the smartest thing because the nozzle popped off and got stuck inside the machine. Anyway, once all the facing was done there were a couple holes to cut, and I plunged right in with the endmill. Like Sean said, it's probably better to drill out the middle first, but Besides that drawing sound every time the mill plunges down a millimeter, it wasn't really an issue here. The final face milling started at the top and was just cutting air for a while, so I made a mental note to change that for the next time. That bit was finally done now, and it was time for a little detail cut.

I blew out some of the chips using my air duster, which in hindsight I should probably just use the vacuum for that, or just wait until the end. It's not like they were in the way of anything here But the part was looking pretty good, so I put in this tiny little end mill to cut a small arrow in the top of the thing.

The final thing was a chamfering pass, and holy cow, I did not realize the default settings would cut so deep. So another mental note, make the chamfer a little less aggressive next time. Anyway, my first custom CNC machined part was done, at least the top side. It wasn't looking nearly as good as Sean's, but I flipped over the aluminum, hit the start button, and crossed my fingers the alignment would just be right. It looked right, just eyeballing things off the laser line, so I let the machine go and I noticed the sound was getting a little funky the deeper it went.

My dad was at the studio watching with me, and I realized at this point I had forgotten to add little tabs to hold the spacer while I was cutting the backside, so it At some point it would probably just fly out, and it did pretty spectacularly.

I had my dad hit the E stop and it was game over for this part Now all in all, this wasn't too bad. I mean, I didn't even break a tool yet, but I made some notes and got to reworking everything for the next job. I tweaked the starting height of one of the cuts to speed things up, I reduced the chamfer depth. and I hopefully set the tabs in the right place so the part won't go flying at the end. And I was confident enough I actually let this job run without watching it the whole time.

I mean I was just one room away so I could hear everything. If if something sounded off I could run in and hit the E stop really quick But with the new settings, everything was looking really good on the top side. Even the chamfer looks nice this time. Keeping it a little shallower meant the bit wasn't chattering along the whole edge and making those little scrapes And this time I put the part on the bed right in the middle of the aluminum, hoping it would make alignment easier on the flip, but it was definitely still off a little. It's like there's a 1 or 1.

5mm offset between the front and the back That's something I'll have to figure out and dial in for future jobs. But this time you can see these four tabs holding things together, and that meant this part didn't go flying at the end. But I realized I didn't set up a pass over this raised part over here. That needs to be faced off so the hole from the top side goes all the way through. Luckily I could just stop the job at that point and add in that facing operation.

I I wish it were actually easier to stop a job and reset without having to turn off the whole machine and turn it back on. Anyway, I got that facing done and I had one last operation, the chamfer on the cage nut bump. Now, is this thing perfect? No. I still have a lot of learning to do, but hopefully it's at least functional.

I cut out the spacer and this time I used my little Timu belt sander This thing is honestly kind of scary. It gets the job done, but make sure you count your fingers after you use one of these things. Lining it up with my 3D print and with Sean Spacer, it's Obvious which thing is which, but honestly, for something this small the Z1 is perfectly adequate, even for a first-timer like me. But now it comes to it. I took out the middle Xer so I could swap out the plastic spacers, and I found that actually the misalignment on my own spacer saved me from my own bad design.

I remembered now that I had made the cage nut bump a little too big, and that actually made the plastic problems worse because it put more stress on the top of the spacers. So when I installed my spacer over on the left, it fit in perfectly flush with the rail. But Sean's spacer, since he machined my file more accurately, they actually catch the edge a little bit. But since they're metal instead of plastic, that doesn't really cause any issue, it just adds a little extra pressure. So I went ahead and replaced all four spacers, the two in the front and the two in the back, and then I reinstalled the X-Serve.

Now all three XServes have solid mounting hardware, and even though the plastic could have worked long term, I'm glad it's all metal now. I learned two lessons through this project. First, there are probably 10 million things people do in this world, like machining, that are way more complex than they look in YouTube videos. Every time I try something new, I gain a new appreciation from masters of the craft. But second, desktop CNC is a thing now, and there will be more makers, tinkers, and inventors who have access to it thanks to this machine.

Is it perfect? Definitely not. But honestly, most of the frustrating parts were in the CAM process where I was setting up the job, and software can get better without having to buy new hardware. And before I close out this video, I want to give a special thanks to whoever this Jason guy is at Makara. He has a bunch of videos up that explain almost every aspect of Beginner CNC, and they're all quick and to the point.

Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.