---
video_title: "Pretty Fly for a Spy Pi"
video_id: 2LayXUxMjPU
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LayXUxMjPU
video_date: 2026-02-27T15:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  I more than doubled the performance of my NVR with a new CM5 board. And it has PoE+ built in!
  
  Some of the resources I referenced in this video (some links are affiliate links):
  
    - Exaviz Cruiser: https://exa-pedia.com/docs/cruiser/
    - Frigate: https://frigate.video
    - Seagate IronWolf NAS 4TB HDD: https://amzn.to/46vIPyx
    - Hard Drive sleds (Dell R720-compatible): https://www.ebay.com/itm/404293056771
    - DeskPi 2U mini rack mount: https://deskpi.com/products/deskpi-2u-mini-rack-mount-case-pre-order-for-the-exaviz-cruiser-carrier-board
    - My 1U Interceptor NVR build from 2024: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7wkVGcdI2vk
    - Blog post configuring Hailo and Frigate on Pi CM5: https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2026/frigate-with-hailo-for-object-detection-on-a-raspberry-pi/
  
  Exaviz sent me a prototype version of the Cruiser for testing, and DeskPi sent an early prototype of their mini rack case for the Cruiser. Neither company paid for this video or had any input in its production, but I still mark my videos as 'sponsored' if any equipment was provided by vendors in the making of the video. See my sponsorship policies here: https://github.com/geerlingguy/youtube#sponsorships
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - Upgrading from the Interceptor
  00:38 - Exaviz Cruiser CM5 board
  01:57 - Adding another camera
  02:46 - Google abandoned the Coral TPU
  04:27 - Cruiser's USB-heavy architecture
  06:08 - Building the mini-rack server
  07:43 - Tada! And some hot-swap drive sleds
  09:02 - Setting up RAID, Hailo, and Frigate
  10:53 - Power consumption, PoE, and a 4K camera
  12:17 - Future Home Assistant plans
---
A couple years ago, I set up Frigate, an open source network video recorder, for my security cameras. I put a Raspberry Pi inside this 1U rack mount server, and I used a Google Coral TPU to help it detect people and cars outside the studio. My goal is to always run stuff like this 100% local. Unlike Ring, I don't want my security cameras to be part of a global surveillance network for like, Palantir. The 1U server's been running great, but today I'm testing this.

This is an upgraded mini rack version. Almost everything's better. Well, except for one thing. Since AI is driving up the price of hard drives, I'm actually putting in 4TB drives here instead of the 8TB drives in my old one. But this little box is built around this. This is the Exaviz Cruiser, a board powered by

a Raspberry Pi Compute Module 5. The board has SATA ports to plug in hard drives. It has 8 power over ethernet ports so I can plug my cameras straight into this board without needing a separate PoE switch. It has an NVMe slot where I can install an AI accelerator. it has a faster 2.5GB network port, and even a built-in ESP32 that gives it Zigbee for

like smart home integration. This is a much more powerful board than the one in my 1U build. And Exaviz, who used to be called Axzez, sent it to me to test. It's enclosed inside this prototype 2U mini rack mount from DeskPi. Now I mention it's a prototype because I've been talking to both Exaviz and DeskPi about this build for over a year.

The final version of the rack mount will probably be a little better, but it's already functional with a nice quiet fan on top and two hot-swap drive bays. Well, kinda hot-swap, because currently the cabling in the back is a little bit of a mess. They're working on that. But the whole thing uses around 20 to 24 watts of power, with 8 terabytes of storage and a Hailo 8 AI accelerator. Everything is running locally here, 24/7, and I can integrate it with Home Assistant or any software I want.

I don't have to send my footage over the internet to Amazon or Google or anyone. And all in, this This setup should cost around $500, depending on what hardware you pick. Now before I get to building this, I should go back to when I installed my front security camera. I mentioned when I moved into the studio, the place already came with a 4 camera Hikvision setup, but the cameras were positioned for the previous business. I wanted to make sure I at least cover the two entrances, so I had to reroute the existing ethernet cable they used for their old front camera.

I got on my ladder and reran it through the ceiling tiles, making sure to pass it through some beam clamps. Then at the wall in my little lobby space, since the top of it is metal, I used a step drill bit to make a hole. Then in the wall I drilled out a hole for the PoE cable to pass through, mounted the camera's wall plate, and positioned the camera while looking through the feed on my phone. And now I have two cameras permanently mounted here at the studio. I'll probably put one or two more inside so I can check on things when I'm away, but two 1080p cameras is a pretty basic setup for a lot of places, and that old server's been managing those fine for two years.

So why upgrade? The Coral handles the two feeds, and the Compute Module 4 doesn't have any major issues. The three main reasons I want to upgrade are space, using better supported hardware, and speed. The Compute Module 4 runs fine, but sometimes it can be a little sluggish. The Compute Module 5 is over twice as fast, and at least in my initial testing, even with three camera feeds, it's a lot more snappy.

And regarding support, the Interceptor and CM4 are fine, but Google's basically abandoned the Coral. Google hasn't really updated anything for like 5 years, and I don't like running abandonware on my network. So for this build, I'm switching over to the Hailo 8, which I got in a Raspberry Pi AI kit a couple years ago. The Hailo isn't perfect, but it's faster, and it also has up-to-date software support. And finally, the 1U chassis for the interceptor I was using is pretty big.

Not everyone has space for a 19-inch rack, and while I do right now, I'm also trying to downsize my gear. There are plenty of alternatives for running Frigate. Like if you have an Intel Mini PC or a newer Rockchip SBC, you can get object detection using built-in hardware with no Hailo required. But there are two things I'm getting out of the Cruiser that I'm not getting there: a built-in managed PoE switch, which would normally cost around $50 to $80, and two SATA drive bays. If you want redundant storage and you can't afford big SSDs, other solutions result in a cabling mess.

That's not to say there aren't creative solutions like 3D printed hard drive trays, but this is nice because it's an all-in-one metal enclosure. There are also other all-in-one boxes, like the Ubiquiti NVR for $299, but still, you'd need a separate managed PoE switch with that, and their software is an open source. It's nice to have a self-contained box that I have total control of. Now, looking at the cruiser board, the architecture on here is a little different. Since the Pi is bandwidth-constrained, it's actually using USB 3.0 for some of the heavy lifting. Like

In my testing, it's been running fine, and they even have hardware RAID support if you want it. But, I chose to run my 4TB hard drives in a software RAID 1 array, so if one drive dies, I'll still have all my footage. For drive power, the board has a Molex power port with enough juice for two drives using this little adapter cable. Next, there's the upstream WAN port that's 2.5 gigabits. It's a Realtek RTL8156BG chip that goes from USB 3 to 2.5 gig ethernet. And it works fine,

though there's a tiny bit of overhead loss through USB. The M.2 NVMe slot is connected directly to the Pi's PCI Express bus. And then there's these two network switch chips that connect through the Pi's built-in 1 gigabit ethernet. PoE cameras tend not to use much bandwidth. In fact, all my cameras

are 100 megabits, so that's not going to be a bottleneck, at least until we have like 12 or 16K security cameras. The board also requires 48V power input, and that's one thing that's a little bit of a downside. You basically need a flex ATX-sized power brick to get 280 watts, so you can power the Pi, two hard drives, and up to eight PoE+ devices. Exaviz recommends this particular power supply, but a 48V 6A power supply is in general going to run you at least like $50. The board also has an ESP32 built-in with wireless capabilities, so you could use it for a Zigbee connection in Home Assistant, or even for some WiFi or Bluetooth features that you could program in yourself. There's also these two quick connectors for IoT sensors,

so this thing isn't just made for Frigate. You could run this as a full Homelab server, or a NAS for home automation, too. There are a few other features I won't get into, but the first thing I did was assemble the cruiser into this prototype 10-inch rack mount case from DeskPi. The prototype version of the case has a fan integrated into the top and back section, and it's held on with some screws. One thing I noticed is there's a lot of vents around the case.

That lets the air come from all around the board, but it also means the hottest part of the board, where the Pi is, might not get as much airflow as it needs. Later on when I get to performance, we'll take a look at the thermals. That's one thing I think I'll give Despi some feedback about. But here's the board closer up, and you can see there's a front panel header where I plugged in the power switch. Then there are two SATA ports for the hard drives. And these face up, so if you have these stiffer cables like I do, you'll have to

bend them a little bit to fit them under the top cover. Otherwise, you could get some thinner, more flexible blue cables if you want. But those plugs in the Molex get power and data to the drives. The extra slack can kind of be tucked away in the back, which we'll see in a minute. There are also a few fan plugs for more case fans, besides the 4-pin Pi 5-style fan plug next to the CM5. I put a thin heatsink over the CM5, but I think the best option would be to use a fan-heatsink

combo, like this one from Editech. I had to scrounge around for a few M3 and M.2 screws for the prototype build, but DeskPi or Exaviz will probably supply the right screws in the final version of these things. I installed the Hailo in the M.2 slot, and then I put in the hard drives.

Now, initially I didn't have the sleds, I had to order a couple on eBay, which I'll get to soon, so for now I just slid the hard drives right in the openings and plugged them in the back. When I was putting the top cover on, I plugged the fan into the board, and then I tucked the cables in the back. Like I said, I've been giving Despi some suggestions, so I think the final version of this thing should look a little bit better. But yeah, there's the whole build, and then there's the power supply up top. There's no getting around the fact that this thing's huge. You'll have to find a place to tuck it,

maybe underneath or strapped onto the rack somewhere. But all in all, it looks great put together. I think one more suggestion I'd have is like an I/O shield, maybe even a 3D printable faceplate that I could stick in there to make the front look even more polished, but I'll wait to see the final version from DeskPi. And one last thing is that power button doesn't have an LED for power status, so I suggested they switch to a power button that also has a power LED ring, so it's easier to see if it's powered on from the front. Now, the next day, I got in two drive sleds I ordered off eBay, and these are basically Dell R720 sleds with light pipes for status, but right now there aren't any LEDs behind the drive, so those lights are just off.

The drive sleds slot in a little tight in terms of getting the latch on both sides, but in the end, it looks pretty good and the drives don't slide out unless you unlatch them. That also makes Hotswap easier, and I confirmed with Exaviz the J Micron chip they're using supports hot swap, so you don't have to shut down if you want to replace a hard drive. And before I get to software and RAID setup, there is a little dip switch you can use to turn on hardware RAID, but I usually recommend software RAID either with MDAdmin or ZFS. Exaviz actually has some benchmarks showing that you can use either mode, and the main advantage to hardware RAID is really that it just uses a tiny bit less CPU when it's writing files. Anyway, with everything put together and PyOS installed on the Pi, I got to setting it up as a network video recorder.

The first step was to get my storage going. I have a guide on my website for setting up software raid on Linux, so I won't get too deep. But the main thing is, after you create the array, you have to make sure to save the settings or it won't get mounted automatically after a reboot. Once that was set up, I wanted to do some simple thermal tests. I ran S2E to stress out the system and let it go for a while. I pulled out my thermal camera and, yeah, things are getting pretty toasty.

The CM5 actually throttled under load, and I think the main reason is that fan pulling in air from all over the place, it's not really directing enough of that over the Pi. There are a few ways we could fix that, like putting in a duct for the fan or using a fan heatsink on the Pi, but that's something I think DeskPi can fix in their final design. But next up, I set up the Hailo 8. I wrote up the full process on my blog, but basically, Frigate maintains a little setup script you run, and once that's done, you reboot and make sure the Hailo device is working on the Pi's PCI Express bus. Since mine was, I went ahead and ran my PyNVR Ansible playbook that automatically configures everything for Frigate, like Docker, MQTT, and all the configuration files. That playbook's actually pretty similar to how it was

two years ago when I made my 1U server, so if you're interested in automating your Frigate setup, go check it out. I'll put a link in the description. I did run into some errors with the Hailo processor, but I got those fixed using the commands that I also put in that blog post. Now that Frigate was running, I could see the two existing camera feeds in my dashboard, and almost right away it started detecting people around my studio. I quickly ran outside and tested that it would detect me, and what do you know, it did.

To make sure the Hailo was being used, I hopped over to the system metrics dashboard, and sure enough, it was using the Hailo, and detections were on average around 10 to 11 milliseconds. The CPU load is pretty low, and that's the main thing with a frigate setup. You really don't want to rely on CPU object detection unless you like burning up tons of power. Looking at my Home Assistant power monitor, the full system was using around 22 to 24 watts of which is honestly not bad at all. That's with two spinning hard drives riding two camera feeds.

What if I add another one? And what if it's a 4K camera instead of 1080p like my other two? Up to this point, I was using my cameras plugged into my network with a PoE switch in the rackroom. I wanted to see if I could use the built-in PoE switch on here to plug in a camera and get it straight into Frigate. I plugged in this Anki 4K camera and it powered up right away.

And Exaviz actually maintains a little GUI for their switch, and after you open it, you can monitor port status and power usage. It looks like my camera was using about 2.5 watts of PoE power. After the camera booted up, I ran Nmap on the cruiser to scan the internal network for new devices. It found the camera at 10.100.7.187, so I added a configuration for the Anki to frig it and

restarted it. Now I have three cameras in the dashboard, and to test it, I walked over to the camera and waved. After a few seconds, back at the computer, I saw the Hailo detected a person waving, and I could just click on that and watch back that footage. The last thing I tested was resetting one of the PoE ports on the cruiser using their little PoE tool. I just selected the port, clicked reset, and after a few seconds, it ran through a power cycle and rebooted the camera.

Hopefully they can brush up the UI a little bit more, but it's functional, and being able to remotely reset PoE port power is probably the main reason I love using managed switches for powered devices. At some point, I'll probably connect this frigate install to Home Assistant. That way I could automate sending a picture when someone walks up to my door. But the Cruiser goes a step further. ExoViz built an integration for Home Assistant that puts PoE controls directly inside your dashboard. That's pretty cool, and something I'd love

to see more of from other network vendors. On the whole, I'm impressed with everything you get, especially the quality of the documentation ExoViz already has pre-launch. I think if DeskPi can iron out a few of the enclosure quirks I mentioned, this is going to be a killer setup for network video recording, or even a generic storage server for mini racks. The Cruiser board will go on sale for between $99 and $149, and you can find everything I mentioned linked below. Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.