---
video_title: "The Framework 12 is dead. Apple killed it."
video_id: aPVAnwuSjfk
channel_name: "Jeff Geerling"
channel_id: UCR-DXc1voovS8nhAvccRZhg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aPVAnwuSjfk
video_date: 2026-05-29T14:00:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Why would someone consider a Framework 12 anyway?
  
  Some of the resources I mentioned in this video:
  
    - MacBook Neo: https://www.apple.com/macbook-neo/
    - Framework 12: https://frame.work/laptop12
    - Macbook Neo test results: https://github.com/geerlingguy/sbc-reviews/issues/102
    - Framework 12 test results: https://github.com/geerlingguy/sbc-reviews/issues/107
    - Brad Colbow's video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STzF3xm-E_I
  
  Support me on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/geerlingguy
  Sponsor me on GitHub: https://github.com/sponsors/geerlingguy
  Merch: https://www.redshirtjeff.com
  2nd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@GeerlingEngineering
  3rd Channel: https://www.youtube.com/@Level2Jeff
  
  Contents:
  
  00:00 - A $250 price premium
  01:20 - Many things are bad
  02:22 - Slower performance
  03:22 - Some things are good
  04:31 - What about artists?
  05:02 - What would a graduate choose?
  10:17 - A bad value, not a bad laptop
---
My nephew just graduated and needs a laptop. I'm going to give him one of these, either a MacBook Neo or a Framework 12. Framework's known for being upgrade-friendly, and this thing can boot Linux or Windows. The MacBook's stuck on macOS, since Asahi Linux doesn't support it yet. The low-end Neo costs $4.99 for students,

but I paid $5.99. To try to get the Framework as close as possible to that price, I bought used RAM, a used SSD, and I ordered the DIY version that I had to finish putting together myself. That's like the complete opposite of the Apple philosophy. But some people like putting things together, and honestly it took like 5 minutes, and I got to see how everything inside here works.

But let's take a look at what we get. For a grand total of $749, I have a 6-core Intel CPU, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage, and a 12-inch touchscreen. Over on the MacBook Neo, I have a 6-core Apple CPU, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage, and a 13-inch without it being a touchscreen. So, assuming you're a student, you're going to pay a $250 premium to get the cheapest possible framework that, on paper, matches the Neo. And that's with used parts.

All new, tack on another $50. Does the fancy hinge and touchscreen on here justify paying 40% more than the Neo? I'm going to be honest, no, not at all. I'll get to some bright spots, and honestly, I wish there were more because I love Framework's mission. But I have to start with the bad. First, build quality.

It's good, but it's not great. You can't open it with one finger, at least not without some effort. The whole thing is plastic, and there's some keyboard flex, but it's not too bad. It's thicker than the Neo and a tiny bit heavier, too. But this stuff would all be forgivable if it was good when you started using it, but it actually gets worse.

The first thing I noticed was that the speakers are a lot worse on here.

The second thing I noticed was how washed out and desaturated the screen looked, even just watching YouTube videos. I actually thought I had a bad display, but other reviewers said the same thing: it's just a bad screen. I do like the physical privacy switches for the camera and mic, and those work okay, but display and speakers rule this thing out for watching videos, scrolling photos, or pretty much anything besides reading text. And all that stuff could be forgiven if it's like twice as fast or gets tons more battery life. But it doesn't. It's actually like 30% slower than the Neo,

at least on the CPU. What about the GPU? Well, Apple's A18 absolutely demolishes the framework there, at least for anything that would run on macOS. And efficiency-wise, the Mac is exactly twice as good. It could actually be better, but this is where I found one win for the framework: sustained performance.

This HPL benchmark hammers the CPU constantly for like half an hour, and while both systems do throttle after a minute or so, the framework can go a little faster over a longer period of time. That is, of course, with the fan spinning at 100%, so it's a bit of a pyrrhic victory if you favor your silence. If the prices were swapped on these, all these things would make sense, but they're not. You're paying 20-40% more to get 20-40% slower performance. And the the framework has overall worse build quality.

The bigger Framework 13 feels like it's more level, but the Framework 12 is just… I don't see it in this thing. There are some things I like. The rubberized corners and full range hinge are nice. It's not a real tablet like an iPad or a Surface, but it does work in a pinch. And upgradability is a strong point. That's par for the course with Framework.

It's just that RAM and storage prices are outrageous, so I don't imagine many college students putting down a grand just to get 32GB of RAM right now. But assuming the PC market ever recovers, it is possible to make this thing better. You can't do that on the Mac. Port selection is also way better, though it feels like you're getting nickel and dimed if you want anything besides USB-C. I added on full-size HDMI and USB Type-A, and the ports on here are a huge improvement over the Neo.

Over in Apple land, you just get two USB-C, and one of those isn't even USB-3. Both laptops have a headphone jack, and the The framework adds a Kensington lock. And while I don't like the screen, it's at least bright. I also like the taller 16:10 aspect ratio. It's just, man, the colors on here are rough.

Finally, the ability to run either Linux or Windows can be useful. I really wish I could install Linux on a Mac, if for no other reason than the freedom to keep the hardware going after Apple discontinues support for it in macOS. The one niche where this could really shine, though, was highlighted by the artist Brad Colbo, or Cowbo, I'm not sure how you pronounce that, sorry. But he'd be the perfect target audience for the tablet and stylus functionality, but apparently the setup framework chose is pretty laggy, way behind what you'd get on like an iPad Pro and an Apple Pencil. I just don't see any reason to buy the framework unless you really, really want that upgradability and that hinge, or if you just want to support framework's mission.

It's not a bad laptop, it's just a bad value, unless you have sticks of RAM burning holes in your pocket. Now, I'm having my nephew come to the studio here and I'm gonna offer him a deal. All right so congratulations first of all on your graduation. Oh thank you. And as your godfather and uncle I have an offer for you. These are two

laptops. Do you know what that one is? Um it looks like based on the box over here. Is it the MacBook Neo? Yep and then do you know what this one is?

I recognize the logo from one of your past videos but not really, no. Well, here's my offer. I bought both of these laptops and one of them is yours. You have to choose which one you want. So why don't you open them both up and see what you think.

Okay, let's start with the Neo. Wow, okay. Okay, nice. You see this? Okay, and then- Yeah, try this one.

Let's try this one, okay.

What are your first impressions just on the hardware? Pick them both up and check them out. Well, MacBook Neo is definitely a light computer. Actually, let's see this one here. Also a very light computer.

Boop, boop. Let me do a little type on them.

This.

You figured out it's a framework at least. It's a framework laptop. Yeah. Yes. Any thoughts from typing on both of them?

The Mac is just like a classic Mac feel, you know? It just has the, you know, you know what I'm talking about? It feels good. It feels good. It feels very, it feels smooth.

It feels high quality. I'll just put it that way. And then this one, this one has the classic PC feel to it. It's like the, I actually like the way these buttons feel to type on. It's like the finish.

Yeah, the finish is nice. It's very smooth. It's matte. I like matte finishes. It's interesting.

I'm looking at the user interface. It's a, it looks like it's running on, it looks like Ubuntu. Is that what it is? Yeah. Good.

Which is, which is, I haven't played too much with this, but, oh, wait. The touchpad, the touchpad is actually really smooth on this. They're both actual clicks. They both click? They both actually click.

Should I test anything out with them? Or anything else? This one has a trick. So try pushing the screen back further on both of them. See what happens.

Does this have a yoga feel to it? Ooh. It goes all the way. Wait, does it go further? Does it go?

How far would that go? Oh my goodness.

Whoa. It's kind of hard to use it that way. That's true. But it does do tablet mode. Although, if you hold it as a tablet, your arms will get tired pretty quickly.

That's true. Imagine typing like that. Oh, and if you try to do that...

Here, let me put this back. Like this. And let me try to...

You have to break the hinge, though. Yeah, it's not going further than that. So I heard that you were going to get a laptop at some point. What are you planning on using a laptop for? Well, mainly for schoolwork, because I'm taking classes this summer.

So schoolwork and then engineering work, radio engineering work. This is just interesting, though, because I've never seen these before. But any more special things about either of them? Or particularly this one, because I know nothing about this. This one also is the repairable laptop where you can...

Oh, you can actually take it apart. You can pop these little... Well, sometimes they come out easy.

You can pop these little modules out and change your ports. And you can take it apart and put things back together. But I did a lot of testing of both of them. This one is actually slower than that one. And it's funny, this one actually costs more than that one, too.

Oh, really? So if you were paying for one of these laptops, Would the repairability and the ability to use it flipped over like a yoga, would that affect your decision much? Or would you pay what's cheaper? I would pay what's cheaper.

Especially with car insurance and school tuition and insurance for contracting. It's a lot cheaper. The fact that you have to have responsibilities and pay for things. That's true. Responsibilities, they do cost a lot usually.

Yeah. But with everything said, the Neo looks like a better offer. Which one do you want to take home today? As, my goodness, as much as this intrigues me, it really does intrigue me. Oh, I can even see you in the reflection.

Hello.

As much as this intrigues me, this, MacBook Neo. Well, congratulations. You're now a MacBook Neo owner. I need to clear my stuff off at first, but then you'll be a MacBook Neo owner. Perfect.

Thank you. I wrote a conclusion for this video, and I predicted that my nephew would have chosen the MacBook Neo. And, you know, looking at them both side by side, I think that choice is not too hard to make because of just using a laptop as a laptop. It has a lot of the things that matter as a laptop. This one has that nice party trick of the screen can fold over.

But now that my Neo has been gone and I've been using that around the studio a lot for little utility projects, monitoring something where I need a laptop sitting somewhere. Now I kind of miss it sometimes because I thought that this would be great in tablet mode, you know, using it like this. But I've noticed that it gets very heavy, very fast compared to raw tablets. Like I have an iPad that is a lot easier to hold for a while like this or even in horizontal mode. And the other thing I don't like about that is your hands are all over the keyboard and trackpad and stuff.

And when you set it down, it gets dirty in that area. I don't know. This just seems like a weird compromise. I don't know if I would want to use a laptop in tablet mode like this. The other thing I noticed, too, is this could just be me problems.

I don't know anybody that uses a yoga laptop or whatever. Let me know if I'm way off on all this. But the other thing is these rubber bumpers, they catch dirt, especially if you're in a place that's not pristinely clean, like if I'm working on a project over there and some dirt gets on the table, that rubs the dirt into the display back here along where these feet are. So that's not very fun either. Anyway, I don't know.

I think in conclusion for this video, this is not a bad laptop. I like a lot of things about it, but I do think it's a bad value. And even without the Neo, it's not the best value you're going to get for, you know, in the $500 to $1,000 price range. If I had paid $500 or $600 for this, I think I'd be pretty happy. But that's not the case.

And so I hope that if Framework can give this another go and a new design revision, they can make it more worth that $750. I think also it would change my mind if I could afford a lot more RAM right now and the little 2230 NVMe drives, more storage. But we're not in that climate right now this year, and they launched this thing at a not great time for all this. So, yeah, hopefully they can do another one of these and do it better, but hopefully also the climate of PC building changes for the better. We'll see.

Until next time, I'm Jeff Geerling.