---
video_title: "Paulo Figueiredo Show - Ep. 253 - Globo pede prisão domiciliar de Bolsonaro"
video_id: EqU6xyA7LYQ
channel_name: "Paulo Figueiredo Show"
channel_id: UCgwcuts-Mx4nOKb1d1vY39w
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqU6xyA7LYQ
video_date: 2026-03-18T19:49:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Torne-se meu apoiador: -
  https://paulofigueiredoshow.com/apoie/
  
  USE O CUPOM 20%: PFIGUEIREDOSHOW
  
  Baixe o App Truth Social e crie sua conta!
  https://truthsocial.com/
  
  O melhor site de notícias e artigos de política: -
  https://www.paulofigueiredoshow.com
  
  Quer imigrar para os EUA legalmente? 
  Https://www.queroumplanob.com
  
  Siga meu novo perfil no X: -
  https://x.com/realpfigueiredo
  
  Siga meu novo perfil no Instagram: -
  @realpfigueiredo08  
  
  Faça o download do Proton VPN e fuja da censura: -
  https://go.getproton.me/SHtJ
  
  Assine e apoie o Fio Diário: -
  https://fiodiario.com/
  
  🎙️ New to streaming or looking to level up? Check out StreamYard and get $10 discount! 😍 https://streamyard.com/pal/d/46309460...
  
  🎙️ New to streaming or looking to level up? Check out StreamYard and get $10 discount! 😍 https://streamyard.com/pal/d/4630946024521728
---
Equivalent Entrance fick planets fick fick matter Figuero Figuero... Figuero Figuero Figuero Figuero... Hello, welcome to Paulo Figueiredo Show. Bolsonaro needs to be there to help us. We have said this a few months ago, but it seems that the global situation has finally come. The Supreme General, the Federal, has come to the situation and we will talk about this in the program today. But let's have a deeper note about what will be the Brazilian perception about this scandal involving the Supreme General Federal. How will it be that credibility of the institution and will it be that all that attempt to protect the institutions from the attacks? Is it right? Let's talk about this today. Let's talk about the persecution of journalists. Not only the persecution of journalists like Paulo Figueiredo, but also the persecution of small journalists and any one who criticized the Supreme General Federal. And yes, I will enter the deputado, Philippe Santos Silva, also known as Eric Rilton and the madness of the hydrogen ideology and the shock that it is causing in Brazil. All this and much more in the program today, but we have a memory of our last months of audience, but audience always depends on you that I have. It's true. For each click you give to the like, five people receive the recommendation of our video on YouTube. So for each person who leaves it, click the like that you are leaving our video appear for at least five people there in general in the algorithm of YouTube. So, if you click the like, it is very important. When you send the program to your groups, not only share your help, but also this is an important signalling of Paulo Figueiredo show on YouTube. So if you can be a agent, take the program and just click there on the way and send there on your group of families, family, send your friends on the group of faculty and send them also to the enemies. In the end, this is Paulo Figueiredo Show. The future appeared normal for you, for me, did not appear, but I think it can be probably the string art too. It's as important as you are, there are some subscribers also on the channel. I always call attention to this, in the last programs we see there, we return to have many subscribers on the channel, I think people do not realize that many times are not subscribed. Many people ask, Paulo Figueiredo, what is happening? I do not receive, do not see, but your program is because you need to be subscribed to the channel, Paulo Figueiredo Show. If you have subscribed to the other channels, this will not work. You will be without watching the program at least the program at the live. So if you want to be always inside, watch the channel, subscribe to the Paulo Figueiredo Show and subscribe and activate the notification bell. Another important thing you do, I always say that is to have a VPN, we have talked a lot about censorship this year of reading and the number of people who have VPN in Brazil influenced the effectiveness of the censorship of the federal Supreme Court. We talked about it yesterday, about how the PT is already asking censorship for posts of the Flavio Bolsonaro, certainly will ask censorship for others, posts and profiles. So the alternative for this is VPN. If everyone has VPN, this censorship is not absolutely nothing and you can continue accessing the content normally. I recommend the VPN, we have here a link in the description of the VPN, for you to download, also what is the code here on top of you to scan. This is the VPN I use, is the VPN I always recommend, many of you will come back to the channel's trainer. Let's talk about what we are talking about yesterday, quickly, which is about the situation of the Bolsonaro president. And yesterday I said that this critical situation of health has caused a lot of concern not only in Brazil, but also in the outside. I am frequently asked here in the United States about the health state of the president and the negative of the Alexandre, the prison of the Bolsonaro's domicilear, is also always the object of questioning. People are interested in many of these matters and it is not at least, in the end, it is the largest political leader in Brazil and the health of it comes deteriorating quickly in the direct consequences of the attack of the militants of the left in 2018. But also in direct consequences of the decisions of the other militants of the left of the Alexandre de Morais. And this is the second time in a few months since the president was hospitalized. But this time, when I say that the health of his comes to record, I am not in fact using here any hyperbole. The health of the president certainly is not the same, even if you compare with a few months ago when he was still in prison, for example. This time, this interference was really much worse than the first one. This time, really, the president almost died. I say this without exaggeration, I talked to people from the family and people close, so there were information, they talked with the doctors and they were with the president. And I'm not going to be doing exaggeration here, I would not say that the situation is so serious if it wasn't done. So I confess that the risk of death by which the president was supposed to be, was even a surprise for me. Even having news about his health, I was impressed by how this time the situation was very, very serious. So if the thing continues on this path, they will effectively kill the president Bolsonaro. And will this be good? Perhaps the media star, who was the great responsible for the prison of Bolsonaro and the propitiator of his prison and the incentivator of his prison, changed drastically the positions in the last days. And today, for example, two of the greatest jordan of Brazil, they published editorials asking the prison to domicile the president of Bolsonaro. Among them, the globe, which wrote this, would be a gesture of without satéis and humanity, well, the right-wing violator of the human, difficult to have humanity. But would be a gesture of without satéis and humanity of the federal Supreme Court, the transfer of the president of Bolsonaro's president to the regime domiciliar of prison. Motives of health do not lack for transfer. Bolsonaro had already been hospitalized in December to treat an injury in bilateral guineas. In January, we passed for the prison after a break. In addition to the sequel of several civilized crimes after the attempt to suffer in 2018, almost 70 years old, he suffers from problems of cardiac and respiratory problems. Until now, however, all the defes' requests for the domiciliar prison were denied. Continue the editorial. Look, I wanted to have what we will put in the title here of the editorial, right? The new international continues the text, imposes the work of the STF. In the past year, Morais was the president of the colonel, the beneficiary of the domiciliar prison in Carata in the humanitarian. When in 2023 to 8 years and 10 months in the regime closed, the corruption was evicted by the criminal law in the scheme of the distributors, the color of the present age was advanced, 75 years old, and as a way of writing, as Parkinson's. In fact, the main part of the initial stage, if you know about Parkinson's diagnosis, it's not a diagnosis you need, I don't know if I had it or not, I had to take it, but I had the sound pinnacle. The editorial of the global continues. Bolsonaro suffers from malice, which makes it more urgent. The global is saying this is not the right thing. It is, in addition to the right, which receives the same treatment. The State also published an editorial saying the following. The serious state of the two presidents of Bolsonaro has put before the Brazilian institutions a BVR, a natural reality, a natural reality. I need the editorial of the editorial, please. Before the institutions, let's see, the serious state of the two presidents of Bolsonaro put before the Brazilian institutions a duty of maturity to combine juridical rigor with serenity. I want the person who writes the next one. Look at that, it's a real story. But it's an editorial of the State. It's a state. Interested in intensive therapy, with Bromco Pneumonia and the reporter of a history with extensive cirurgies in international institutions, Bolsonaro faces a clinical condition that exists in a extreme cell. And above all, the requer we accept the obvious. The moment came to convert his prison in the Brazilian regime. It is true for militants more impeder-nosed or analises, contaminated by the state's philosophy of polarization. The State is always very clean. It is never contaminated by polarized analises. It is always very absent. There is enough food to justify, and the state's special treatment is the president. It is discontent and agritate of opportunities that pretend to capitalize literally the state of the president of Bolsonaro or use it to attack the federal Supreme Court. Look at the theme of the right-hand person. Now use it. Attack the federal Supreme Court. The political expulsion is hard to sustain the permanence of the regime. Of course, in the end of the day, we are making a global statement of the state. If you look at the whole editorial, you will see that they are in the same state of the coup. They say Bolsonaro is arrested for this, that has a reason for Bolsonaro's prison. But what matters here in the program of today is not that. What matters is that the two... No, the two are not the two biggest journalists in Brazil. The state is practically an external in circulation. But the two most traditional journalists in Brazil changed their editorial position on the situation that can lead to death in the president of Bolsonaro. This is significant. Now, Joel Pinheiro da Fonseca, my ex-compainter of young Pan, his debate campaign, which thanks to his positions was rewarded with a position there in the group. No one can accuse a person of right-hand person, except for himself, except for the right-hand person, but it was also very open about this topic today, in the Globony of School, against the President, please Gabriel, from the video of... From the health of the president of Bolsonaro, it must be the same treatment. Not doing this to this culture starts to appear much more than a revenge than a really penal execution, in the most strict modes of justice. Well, and how we sit in the program of yesterday, the defense of Bolsonaro's president was more committed to the most unpedited. If I'm not mistaken, the sixth of the change of regime for the Brazilian domicileist domicileist. It is not only committed to the use of the right and politically risky. My friend Flávio Bolsonaro, who today integrates the team of the president of the party, was with the chief lawyer, from the juridical group of the president, Paulo Cunha Bueno, to dispass personally the question with Alexandre Morais. Then Flávio gave an interview, with a collective of press, which is a joke, which I want to watch with you at least three here. The objective is to excuse our concerns, our foundations, to reiterate the question of the defense, to make sure that you have the intention to make the human race. How was the decision of him? How was the objective, with the lawyers, and asking for the audience to be in the position of the cause? So it was a very calm, more objective, where we put our reasons there, and he was in the moment, he was already worried, this will ask for the audience. He was not worried about the decision? No, when the decision was made, he had the time to think about the necessary, the cause, but it was very simplified, we would prefer to come here, and to ask for a formal explanation, we already do, the question is already published in the public, I will ask for a few more days, but I will ask questions of the transparency, to come here and talk to the press, that you are here covering the training session of the President Bolsonaro, and I think the relevant information that we have here, for ourselves, is that there is a situation in relation to this, it was simply a professional, already lawyers, a law of the President Bolsonaro, the audience is already worried. So, the question is, the point of this time, is that the minister of this perception, this point that Flávio has just mentioned, is important. It was very certain, his idea, did not let the rumors be controlled by the press, of the Bolsonaro Flávio, he re-unit with the President of the Morage, even though he was saying that Flávio was a color, so Flávio was there, if he had just passed out, he just passed out with any rumor, and he was simply, he was here, even though he was not the Morage. I ask how it was, and what he said was the reflection of what Flávio said publicly. The climate of the conversation with Alexandre Fuxeriano was calm, he could hear the arguments and I think that the arguments were very strong, it was very serious, and we will watch the evaluation of it. Thank you. I asked how it was, and what he said was the reflection of what Flávio said publicly. The climate of the conversation with Alexandre Fuxeriano was calm, Alexandre heard the arguments, he took as if it were a judge, and I heard a very objective conversation. Even as it was, there was a political risk in Flávio to resolve this meeting with Alexandre Morage in the campaign's campaign. So he had a lot of courage, certainly motivated even by the compassion of a son who was seeing his father running the risk of death, right? And there is also a perspective of Alexandre's. This time, it is considered the prison of the Misciliar, right? At least this perspective is the feeling of the climate, it is to be considered as a prison of the Misciliar. Not because of the quality of the arguments that already had been given, the arguments already were very strong. You had the official law, the day of the contract, the federal police law, the period of the federal police law, and still, Alexandre Morage has been kept, has been maintained, the conventional, the Bolsonaro. But the current expectation, and this is good news, is that there is a climate, there is a feeling that Alexandre would consider the prison of the Misciliar at this moment. We don't have to say how to be sure, we know that Alexandre is a psychopath, so, a legitimate, a clinical diagnosis, so the idea that he is already sensed by the Dora Léa is, for the definition, impossible. The psychopath is in the ability to say that. However, it is not impossible that the interests of the own Alexandre become inclined to consider the prison of the Misciliar of the Bolsonaro. Alexandre is very pressing. He doesn't have the strength he had before, and there is a consensus within the established menu today, of the Bolsonaro need to be sent to the prison. And when I say here, established, I want to say the Globo, the stadium, which we remember here, the reportage, I want to say, the contract, the editorial, I want to say here, the contract, from the financial system, which is the Faria Lima, I want to say, that within the own federal criminal Supreme Court, a member of people with a low, dempatia, but there is already a majority who believes that the Bolsonaro should go to the Misciliar prison even if they don't say this publicly with Alexandre. And you can not believe in Paulo Figueroid and everything is fine, there is no problem at all, but maybe you think there is a number of supporters of the system, which is the Globo News, and Andrea Saddi, published about this today in the G1, by writing this kind of words again from Andrés Adi. The Federal Supreme Minister defend the defenders the possession of the domicile prison to the President Bolsonaro since the new problems of health after prison. Pay attention to this third. The evaluation, according to the report from Andrés Adi, is that if the situation is recorded, it can amplify the disgust of the court. Repar when I say that the Piscopate is a clinical diagnosis. Andrés Adi is saying that the Piscopates of the Federal Supreme are not concerned with the health of this man of 71 years of age and innocent honestness. They are concerned with what will happen to them, with the court, with the image of the court, in case Bolsonaro dies. They are not concerned with the image of the court, they are not concerned with Bolsonaro. They want Bolsonaro to die. But at this moment, when they are under a crash of criticism, of various matrices in Brazil, they do not want more of this pain of head. This is the pain of the mental illness. It is a spiritual illness that the country is suffering from the Brazilian race. But in this way, if Bolsonaro was to be home, even if not because of the most virtuous reasons by the Alexandre's party of the Federal Supreme Court, it is still a victory. It is still a victory. I think it is close to us. Flav Bolsonaro made a vigil. And maybe the vigil has been working for God, using evil to do good. God is capable of everything. He is capable of enduring the heart of the psychopaths as Alexandre, even though not by the correct motivations. The Bible is full of stories of this type where God transforms evil into good. Maybe God should have done this in his life, transform evil into good. So God is perfectly capable to retire Bolsonaro president of prison, not through the good heart of those people who have to give him Brazil, but through their own interests. That is why it is so important to generate money for the Federal Supreme Court. We will talk about this money in the Federal Supreme Court. We will talk about numbers. I want to discuss with you the numbers that show the size of the strike of the image of the Federal Supreme Court at this moment. But before I want to give you a quick recap. Let's talk about the mistake. There is no free content. If you are comfortable with a lie, you always have someone paying the bill. The only question is who pays. What do people exchange? When you watch Globius and Globius, here is a independent journalism. Here is a business that has been tried by big contracts by the public, by the public market, and by the company's patrocindians with the agenda. Then the common city enters the end of the chain, consuming the narrative and thinking that it is receiving information. Now, Paulo Figueira do show is not free. He is only financed by a new model. The opposite, the journalism for the signature is when the public chooses who continues to speak, not being with, not being announced, not being an interest group, if you are, if you are in the middle of a manipulation, you have an objective to react. You will see the supporter with the description costs around $5 per month. It is less than a month of McDonald's. And you go to access your exclusive channels, content that I do not put in the open, and mainly helps to sustain a channel that does not ask permission to exist. To sign up, the camera point, the QR code here on the screen, or the link here in the description. If the public does not finance the independent journalism, it will only exist a journalism funded by the system. And then there is no advertising of Globius. You will be condemned to consume what they decide. The link is here in the description. Now you need to act. For seven years, seven years since the opening of the Vikmyos inquiry, we have heard this term that the State used, now little bit, in the previous stage, the term attacks institutions. Our critics, the Federal Supreme Minister, the current ones, all the critics, the public officials, they represented, were rebranded, were called attacks, the credibility of institutions. And second, these inquiries, second, this narrative, which was created, second, this framing, which was imposed for Brazilian society, on the right. They worked on the camera. I am seeing me working. Is it normal for you? I am seeing me working. Now, yes. So it was... There is a problem here. What an impressive thing. But now it's okay? Hmm. Well, we are back. Now it wasn't the camera that was on the internet. Let's go. But I was saying it's the following. For seven years, since they opened the opening of the Vikmyos inquiry, we have heard the term attack institutions. This term that I... We have been revolted when people on the right use this term, reclaimed when Nicolas Zuzo, the people of the West, and then the term attack. All of our critics, to the Supreme Court of Federal Security, were converted into attacks. All of our critics, not the Supreme Court, but the ministers, the Supreme Court, who are public officials, all of them were called an attack, the credibility of institutions. And we were the real responsible ones, according to this narrative, by the revolt of the population in relation to the Supreme Court of Federal Security. All of these critics, for example, the Attribute to Me, generated a revolt that culminated, for example, in the 8th of January of Brazil. And that was repeated, as if people were completely retarded, the cats, like they call them, in a deshumanization process, to see facts. People do not have eyes, ears, to listen to what was dictated and made by the Supreme Court. Finally, what is what we have dictated during those 7 years? What we have dictated that the Supreme Court of Federal Security was transformed into a political tribunal and that pursues its oppositors while, through a corruption of a financial, financial, gigantic corruption. This has been said, these critics have been repeated, for a very small group of people. We have talked about this, almost only the ones I say today, journalists and communicators who use this expression, we are crazy, because most of us suffer very serious consequences for these critics. For example, as you know, I've been doing this for almost three years and I can share with you, my bank accounts continue to freeze in Brazil, my networks, completely blocked and dead to the algorithm. Even this transmission you are watching on a channel that was not the main channel, I respond to two alleged indiciations and denounced the Supreme Court of Federal Security. So, in the occurrence of this persecution, I and several others came out of the young plan, where I, for example, participated in the Journalist Program of the most assisted opinion of Brazilian television. Other people also suffered a consequence, but I repeat, a smaller group, because most ended up being suffering from minor consequences, because there was a need to be there, there was need to be there. Especially people who were inside Brazil. I always sit here, for example, in the Guilherme-Fiusa, a subject that is balanced, intelligent, cult, was my colleague at the young broad, had a bank, several times in the PINFs in the ZIS, and the PINFs had no option. He was in Brazil, he had to be there. And I remember the Guilherme-Fiusa in the PINFs in the ZIS, saying that the STF, for example, was not a ideology but a way of money. Now, we see that he was also correct. It's not only that, there is ideology, but certainly the interests of the Guilherme-Fiusa would be there. And today they are proven. In this middle of the time, while he and I and others were doing these critical times for reals to the federal Supreme, and the members of the federal Supreme, or the best saying, the Middle Ages exalted as the Salvatore of democracy. Our persecutors were exalted by the Middle Ages as the Salvatore of democracy. It's life that has these things. Sometimes we have to suffer the consequences. Sometimes we have to be solidary, deserter, praying, and even so, as much as we say, more consequences, we suffer, but it is necessary, mainly when other people are forbidden to speak. Sometimes we have to pray, deserter, and this type, because it's true. It's a very important thing. And I say, you see that this is the program Paulo Figueiredo Show of number 253. It was 253 Paulo Figueiredo Show until now. If you take the first Paulo Figueiredo Show, you will see that I said very clearly that I had a plan. Now I'm a little little. So if you take Paulo Figueiredo Show, you will see that I said that I had a plan for Brazil. And this plan was through the need of national and international concentration in Brazil. And the reason for this is very simple. Consentation is the first step because you can't solve a problem. If you want to know that the problem exists, without knowing the problem, you don't have to go towards a definition or a solution. For over 200 episodes, and so on, most close to 300, I would say that it is unnegative, the success of this plan. For example, with international concentration, we say, audience of the public in Congress, we see the card of Donald Trump, the card of European Parliamentals, the positional international of Israel, the recognition of the Asian political asylum by Argentina, Spain, recusing the interpol, negating inclusion and vermelha inclusion, obviously a licentious, sanctioned as a international violator in the human rights. Even Tarifa, we didn't want Brazil to receive the hope of its political situation. And this was widely repeated by the most honest people in the world, where I said that I was talking with a American journalist about the problems in Brazil, a great American journalist, and in the latter, you already know that Brazil lived a regime not a traditional democracy. I was also in the US in the sixth century, talking about Brazil in the US television. So, this became common. I remember at that time, when we started the Paulo Figueira do Chou, where any card that came out is a manifestation, like, damn, people are, at first, on the dictatorship in Brazil, we win this. We win this. We create an international consensus and an international understanding about the situation in the country. In the national front, however, I would say that the consolidation of this understanding was less clear. One part of this had to do with censorship. Now, as I said, how could you know the size that would have Paulo Figueira do Chou today, then, between 1.5 million and 1 million people for the education of the program. When I was in the PINGOS, we had sometimes 3 million people in the West. It was absolutely incredible. The size of the field was very large. So, good part of the difficulty of the concentration of this problem in Brazil, the TV with the silence of the media and with censorship, including many people and with the effect of the silence, many people who had to start talking. Including the camera of the deputies, against deputies and senators, in Paulo's saying that we can't talk, we're afraid. The persecution worked in a certain way during a certain time, to prevent that there was full concentration of the Brazilian people, the problem that our constitutional court had been made. But, it seems that the moment came that this mission of the concentration of the people has been understood. And I say that in a way. I pressed the attention in the last research, for example, of the idea that I showed a lot of things, we had to talk about it, showing the growth of the Bolso-Tinian Flavio but this, for me, after I passed the research in detail, it went to be not the most interesting part, but once we know, Flavio has been very excited to see all the research. And I'm remembering that this is a research institute of the leftist, always important, because, as I showed, the tendency of these researches is to favor the left and to reduce the potential related to the right. So, interpret these data with that in mind. And what gives the authority of the Revening Data of the leftist, as a public opinion. For example, the first data that we have in the research, is to know the case of the Banco Master. 48% of the people responded with confidence that they know each other in the case. 30% of them may not have the certainty or those people who don't press a lot of attention that's happening, those people live in data. Almost as subhuman people live in data. They're sad. People live in data, they're sad. And 22% of them say that they don't have knowledge of the Banco Master. But, they see the power of the media and social networks. Only 22 people, only 22% of the people say they don't have knowledge about the Master's case. And, as much as half the firm knows. I think the high, this number, which 30% of the people don't have the certainty that they know is a matter of the entire TV, but, in any way, the point. The point I want to highlight here is who the people who respond to a yes, who know the Banco Master's case, who they associate with the Banco scandal. Because, this number is very, very interesting, according to my idea. The people who know the Master's case, the majority, 35% associate with the Supreme Federal Government. In the second place, 21.3% the Federal Government and 17.9% in the Congress in general. There is still another group representing 25.8% who associate with the scandal with the three at the same time. And I think this group is correct. Although the Supreme Federal Government is the focus, you have people giving the Congress, we are seeing people in the center involved. I see the president of the houses, the president of the houses involved, so the Congress has a very important money. And of course, the government also is involved. We, including, have the news of the Jacks Wagner now showing his right-wing relationship with the Master. And this is two things. First, if you need to choose a guilty for the social case, Master, there is a tendency of the people to guilty, above all, the Supreme Federal Government. And the second, if you are more people who associate the case, only to the STF, with the people who associate the STF, also to other options, you have 60.8% responding to a form of another. They associate the Supreme with a large corruption scandal in Brazil. And this number for the government, I am the one who responded to the Federal Government and all the previous ones, represents 41, 47.1% and for the Congress 43. Then, what is very interesting is that, second, this institute, which is said, much more in the middle of the population, the STF, by the Master's Bank of the House. And when you have almost 61% of the population associating one of the largest corruption scandal of the history, traffic of influence, at the main institution of the power of theiciar, it seems to me that the authority and respect of the population for this institution will be the reason. To be more precise, of new numbers, almost 70% of the people who responded to the Master's Bank, said that the Supreme Federal Supreme credibility comes out of the ballot. You have 17.1% of fanatics who say the image is preserved and 13.1% lost and the people who say they don't know. But, you see, almost 70% of the people considered that the image of the Supreme Federal Security Council is valid. Four years, when the people denounced the legacies of the STF, they were arrested, because what they were doing was attacking institutions. And the image of the Supreme Federal Security Council was the reason that the government had to be preserved. In fact, the fake news was opened with supposedly this proposal. But, what I have said a long time ago is that there is nothing more in the image of the Supreme Federal Security Council than people like the moral liars, like the STF, or like Flavio Dino, about whom we will talk more. There is nothing that we can do. Nothing that these commentaries can do, which is more giving the image of the STF institution than we see in a situation where you have, for example, a man knowingly, pro-bonestic and innocent, arrested, in a man's play, knowingly, pro-disbonnest and guilty of receiving the property, in the case of the arrest of the moral liars, the population sees a piece of this and it is obvious that this is the return. There is nothing that I can do. There is no criticism. There is no impact in the institution greater than this. There is no criticism that there is a greater impact than they call, for example, as people call, and not to respond the doubts that the Brazilian had about our electoral system or better to respond, or to respond in a way that did not lose or to blame. There is no criticism that I do, or that any other political comment or right-wing comment can have a great impact to spend the image of the Supreme as people see in the families of these men who are invoking the STF and making millions that know billions of reais. What comment could I do? I had an impact on the contract of Viviane. There is nothing that I can do to make it more impact than people see in the women with a weak button and others with a Bible, having been played in prison with events and events. As this STF has been prohibited from the traffic police in Rio, free traffic and road traffic and has its parents invoking in causes with multibillionaire benefits. So the biggest attack is institutions, who generated this attack did not make the political comment victims after the Inquerda's fake news. Who generated this attack was people as they are leaving behind people as the STF people as the Flavio Dino people as the Gilmars Menes is much more proven that the loss of credibility of the Supreme Federal Supreme is not the product of the critics who didn't the legalities by the contrary, people as the Sun, as the Ardo, any group has criticized the SBF's abuse of the last years, they are just people who sought to preserve the institution. Who criticized the members who do not judge the attack that they are wearing was persecuted and the STF followed doing exactly what they wanted. And even a few years ago, about the applause of the great media and silence of those who say moderated. And the result is there 70% of the people saying that the Supreme Supreme is attacked by the scandal of the STF about which we know we know very little. We know very little about the STF. And these are numbers that were a bubble. It is not only the right that thinks that the STF lost its credibility. The people of the center were on top of the wall until then from the recent times they started to see the STF with the other votes. And the impact that this has is gigantic. Because a lot of people are starting to think about the work that the STF did until then. See for example, the response to the following question. According to the research. Bolsonaro tried to give a coup to this leftist institute. Today, 54% of the Brazilians responded that they did not and 39% said that yes. That is, more than half of the Brazilian population today, according to the idea, they did not believe in the narrative of the Supreme Supreme of the Globo, of the Lula government, of the state, of the Folha, of Bolsonaro to the Jungal Plan, of the State in 2022. The reason, for which he is today being tortured, by the bandit, corrupt, propaneer, Alistair de Morales, with serious risk of death. That is, more than half of the Brazilians think that the Supreme who died of the country put in prison a innocent man. When you compare this result with some ancient researches, you see that what happened seems to have been, in fact, a change. A change, maybe gradual in favor of Bolsonaro and the Supreme Supreme. I did not think of the same institute, but see that in the Paranapes of the Janeers in 2025, you see, a little more than a year ago, 45.6% of the people who responded to Bolsonaro had tried to give a coup, while 44.4% said that they were not. That is, was a little a little here in the margin of the statistic, saying that Bolsonaro was guilty of trying to give a coup of the State. The Quest, another left institute, of Augusto last year, said that 52% the majority of the people who were in the city of Bolsonaro were in 36, Niseros 36, said that he did not plan the game for some. Augusto, the middle of the youth, with all that campaign of the globe. I compare with the numbers now. The thing has become 54% of the people after all this media campaign gigantic to digast Bolsonaro. 54% of the people believe that Bolsonaro is innocent. Imagine the amount of hours, the amount of that the address of the Gellinani Cantanede, the July of the Libyan and other people spent there with their comments, with the Valdu Cruz, with all of them. They say that Bolsonaro was guilty of the amount of hours spent for today the majority of the population. Look and say like that. No, you know. Bolsonaro was innocent. Instead and Bolsonaro's son led the research to the president. While this is the image of the Supreme of the federal, it is so bad that when these people ask about the chances of voting, and a senator who supports the impeachment of the USTF, the results are this. 44% say that his increase the vote's chances and 33% that did not have the chance. And 15% say that this position is a defense of the impeachment of the USTF, it is not the probability of voting in the candidate. So for all the effects, think about that. So for all the Supreme Federal Supreme not only is it a dissolution with less than the Secretary of Brazil, but almost half of the people will support candidates who actively impede the impeachment of their ministers. Look at the change. That is, the guys created an inquiry to protect the Tribunal, and that is, the credibility. They committed a Bolsonaro to prevent attacks, institutions, etc., etc. and tried to destroy the reputation of the Bolsonaro, and ended with the majority of the population considering the innocent Bolsonaro, the president's office leading the parties, the credibility of the Supreme Federal Supreme in the field, and the impeachment of the ministers, as the main of the Senate campaign in 2006. Parabéns. These are photons. These are photons. I can't imagine a more lamppost than this. I can't do that. I can look at the United States and see the same as the Democratic Party that brought Trump to the United States with the double of the support with a slight with a majority in the House and most of the Senate, and with a few more aggressive than in the first government. It's the only plan so slow as the Supreme Federal Supreme and the Globo that I can imagine. And the thing is so ugly, but so ugly that they see it. The governor talking about the STF, look at the video of the governor. Parabéns. It was a disaster for the United States to protect the government. Let's go to the new government. Let's go to the new government. It's a function of the United States. Parabéns. It was a disaster for the United States to protect the government or the government that is a function of the government. But the Supreme Federal Supreme and the Globo that I am would have had more of a problem with the Supreme Federal Supreme. I think it's a culture of the Supreme Federal Supreme. Paulo Figueroen, you are I never expected to say that an institution should end. It will never be. Will it be considered the attack of institutions Fernando Gadeira in Globo News saying that the Opieu that I am looking for has received the proof to defend the lawyer is the saying not Paulo Figueroen Fernando Gadeira in Globo News. And he said that the Supreme Federal Supreme had to be shut down. It's closed. I don't know Gadeira, how do you think you do this? With a cable and a soldier? How do you do this? Who would say that? You are already honest. I want you to respond to me. You imagined that in March of 2016 we would be hearing a Globo News commenter saying that the moralist is a functional Daniel Vorkaro and that the Supreme Federal Supreme has to end. So my friends, I say that you are good to the involved. We saw, we heard, and now any credibility of the Supreme Federal Supreme was directed by Ralo. The plan, all this money, all these resources really made exactly, I can't go back to my own Brazil. In Bolsonaro, other 30 people, almost arrested, in which there are more and more than two generations who have been able to destroy the young Pan. They did a lot of work, but in the end of things, who suffered the greatest struggle? You did not get to win the Brazilian people. It's that phrase, right? Many people attribute to the British, but it's an age of popular, almost. The story that you can win some people all the time, or you can win all the people for some time. But you can't win all the people all the time. And I said that it seems that the Supreme's time came. The Brazilian is, Brazil and the world are aware of the problem that the Supreme Federal Supreme has become. The doubt is, there is still some capacity of reaction that does not involve the USS Gerald Ford in the Paranoia logo. There is still some capacity of additional response. The Supreme said that the Supreme has to end. Now, what institution who could defend us, Chapolin Colorado? The president of the Senate was chosen by the President of Morais. It's that in school if he opens or not, the process is not only that, it is probably possibly involved in the same scandal of the Banco Masta. The President of the House also involved in the Banco Masta case and the death of me is favored by the President of Morais. The general prosecutor of the Republic is chosen and friends and a functional capacity of the Morais. So, what is the question of the White House to end the Supreme Federal Supreme? It is not even to say that with a soldier's head why today the armed forces are ended. There are no more Brazilian armed forces, just 2022. The decision of the armed forces of the USS Gerald was to end with the three armed forces of the Brazilian government. And today the Supreme Court is in a situation that is perhaps so corrupt, as the Supreme Federal Supreme Supreme and the people will open this press box. So, the solution behind the soldier's head is already what is the solution today? Do you think the right worker will bring me a man historically left-wing to be a militant debater of left-wing terrorist and today the commentator of the Globo News a person with political passage was almost prefaced by the former Federal Supreme Court and was the man from the green but a figure of left-wing history was afraid to talk about the Supreme Federal Supreme. And why is he afraid to talk about the Supreme Federal Supreme? We will talk about this right after the break. Let me explain in simple and simple way because I know that many people are stupid. There are two levels of signature. Two ways you can say it. The first is common. With the description it costs around five dollars per month of the month of the month of the McDonald's or simple-distance you deliver access to a large amount of analysis and exclusive content. It is a level of those who want to sustain a new model, a journalism funded by the public and not by the system. But there is a second level which is the Gold Patron. It includes all the support but it adheres to what really changes the game. You have proximity and participation in a exclusive group in the WhatsApp with me and other Patronians. You have my personal personal to suggest and the parties participate in a monthly meeting with me and while I was in the middle of the fashion market for this. 49 dollars per month or 499 dollars per year. And why did you stop? Because there is no free content. If the public does not pay, someone pays. When someone pays, this is someone who is a non-environmental owner. What I am building is the opposite. A sustainable space for multiple common citizens. This is a better way to control the system. To be honest, it is easy. It is a fixed screen or a link in the description. You choose the level. The Gold Patron, or the Poedor. But it is constantly choices. And you can simply just watch the system work. It is exactly what they want. And you can change this now. Leave it for later. I do not leave it for later. I do not leave it for later. I do not leave it for later. In the end of the accounts, the repercussion is greater than many people thought it would be. In the end of the accounts, what I do not know. One of the things we said about the supreme realm, and the exceptional powers in the field, is that the Persians do not end up in a legal junealist. The whole thing is well there, guys. Let's see. But once again. Gabira was talking about the perception of the United Journalist. He is afraid of speaking in the Global News. Who would say that? It is an impressive thing. Who would say that Gabira and the Middle School can not give me a problem? Glenn Green, who published a series of reports about the Toga database, he said at the moment that he never had as much of his life. When he revealed the secret of the CIA and the National Security Agency in the United States, the most feared guy is more dangerous to deal with the moral field, as long as he does not continue publishing the series of reports, than publishing what he gives with the CIA. And we say, if there is one thing that we say about Gabira, it was that the journalist's perception was not just the right journalist. The whom they called from bloggers. When the United Kingdom was open, he went to treat the fake news any news that would be unpleasant and a federal criminal. But the Alps were, as I said now, the bloggers were good-looking. And so, everything is good. They started with the Skrock's Valle, which is the company. But even until the rights of him have the rights of the press. The journalist went to the Alain Dussant, then, someone complained that Alain is a crazy person, I don't know who is so good. Then, he went to the constant redress. Then, he went to the Paulo Figueiredo. But they also stayed quiet. Then, he went to the Guilherme Fiusa, which I have now a little. Then, Joven Pan started publishing the editorial. Until Monarch who was taken away and everything happened, Gabira. About the plows and the direct support of the emissory of which you do part. This emissory of which you do part is responsible by the state of things. Then, Alianne Kantanede, which the Globony had been demitted in the past year, called me from the articulator and the writer of the right-wing stream. It means that I was the right-wing from Trump, not to stop the attacks against Brazil. I looked there on YouTube. Alianne Kantanede was going to live to talk about Paulo Figueiredo. He was a crazy person. I played you very much, and you saw me on YouTube. They asked my prison to comment on the metropolis. They asked my prison. As, for example, the energymer. The state made reports against me. The G1 reported against me. The whole time asked my prison. So, it's not only that these people were the relevant, we applauded and incited and participated in this persecution. Now, are you afraid of talking? Of course, I have, and I think the G1 is also, an intellectual form, a little superior from a T-shirt. And that's why we know that the T-shirts regime uses its powers without a share with its opposition. The idea is that the power is absolutely corrupt and absolutely. And it is not common that the supporters come and begin to disagree on the regime and they are going to be persecuted. That's why I said many times, even in my interview to the metropolis. I am doing what I am doing, in order to free my protection. I am not doing it for my protection. I live in the outside. I am already persecuted in all forms. So, what am I working on? I am working on all possible words. Even if the G1 is not afraid of talking what he has to say. That the Amdres Amatai who was interviewing me and criticizing me, had the opportunity to talk. And curiously, see, the Amdres Amatai who is a left journalist and at that moment he has a huge paper in the exhibition of the Mazda case. I said to her that one day I would say that she would say about the issues that are going to be to be free in the regime. And then it can be that she suffers, even with the persecutions that I am suffering. Sometimes the Amdres Amatai is not coming. But how many rumors you have not heard that the Amaluga-Spar has been threatened by the moral liege. How many stories I have not heard from very close sources of the obelisk who was not threatened by the moral liege. The regime has been influenced by his persecution. See, for example, in the past week, he had been escondled, in the news that he had been escondled, in the biggest Brazilian journalists, sometimes in the indignation. With a editorial in the newspaper of the journalist called Luis Pablo. But then you always ask, Paulo, who is Luis Pablo? Now, Luis Pablo is a journalist, who reports to local people. And for the case, for the case. He decided to play in the Gordola, because in one of these materials he showed that the Flavio Dino would be using the official car of the Tribunal of the Justice of the Maranhão, accused by the official of the security of the Maranão, even not being the Gordola, the US-Jewish, in the report. He was using the car to the right because the Flavio Dino was using the car to the right. He even says the resolution of the National Justice Council and that the officers were exclusively to the public service of the Orgum, to the left. In other words, the people are not the Maranhão's juiz to the official of the Tribunal of the Justice to be able to be with the family. And if he does, he is robbing the public because this is public, not for him and he is using the Flavio Dino is using the public because this is public. And this was discovered by the public service. Because he did what the whole journalist had to do. Invest in the information and run through the history. And he managed to show that even the car's plate of the Dino was used, was exchanged to prevent it from getting this rotten rotten rotten corruption. In a normal country, if Brazil was like this, minimally normal, what would happen? The Ministry of the United States is using a very public to the right to benefit his family. He would be investigated and he would have taken the car. The United States was not a normal country. And then, what happens? Dino is not the Dino is coming. At the end, who is this public in his blog, but he was called journalist. I don't understand why I never had a blog called blogger. But this blogger, journalist, who thinks he is to invest in regularity with the public committed to a federal Supreme Court. And then, we already know the standard. The inquiry was open. Or, I left the hand of the Zanin. I don't understand that the case of this journalist makes a connection with the party. Although the inquiry was related to the Alexandre. And Zanin, come and say, Alexandre, you are using the journalist? Take this redistribution here. And then, some days the Alexandre ordered a search for the residence of the public, privating a journalist of his own work. I am the plaintiff of the one he had committed crime in the press. A act of a journalist in the Ministry of Supreme Court is now crime of perception. I said grab it, that it was not stopped by the bloggers of Bolsonaro. And the West African said, the following, he made a mistake, he made a mistake, he made a note informing that this case did not have the case with the fake news, which is a part of the case. And in the decision of the search the Alexandre did not have the statement of the fake news, and the reason for redistributing the case with the Alexandre. And then the staff says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The case has nothing to do with the fake news. So, the act is null, because the redistribution was evoked. It's the income of the fake news of Schrödinger. He makes part, but it's not quantic, We understand why it's not in physical context. He does part, he does not do part at the same time, he doesn't want fake news, depending on his position in space at the time. If you have questions for Sergeão, he will explain to you, people who like science, this question. For example, our team found a official manual in the Supreme website, but the Supreme website was outside the air, we couldn't find any place. It's a mess, because the guys used to do a good job. They needed a justification to pursue a journalist to have done the material, and they were running the first thing they saw in front of them. The rest was a set of concerts, and the media, our show, and you were interviewed by other journalists who are very used to this. Now you are here. There are none of them considered journalists. The Alun dos Santos is not a journalist, but has made a move, including the political communication of Brazil, the time of this independent communication. You didn't consider a scandal from the journalists, you didn't consider Rodrigo Constantino, who wrote dozens of published books, and wrote in all the newspapers of Brazil, even in the globe. You didn't consider journalists, you didn't consider me as a journalist. I called him blogger, although I've never had a blog. I've had a lot of influence, although I still don't have a blogger, I've always had a blogger. You've been called to represent yourself, and you've never had a show in my life before Paulo Figueired, the show. You didn't consider the use of the music, like a journalist, the guy who wrote all the newspapers, the pre-renewed, the first one, it's all for not calling us journalists. And what are the journalists' concerns? It's the first time you're being a journalist, it's the Alunos Pablo. Why? Because everyone is a local reporter, it's not someone who defends the right hand. If you defends the right hand, then you're not a journalist, because the perception is justified, it's the past six common people. It's a psychological discovery mechanism, it's a psychological mechanism used against Judeu, used against the black people, and it's a lie. And then you're going. The first thing you see is a characteristic. The deshumanization and the descharacterization. So you get the impression that you're treated with disseminators of bloggers, representatives of the media, the threat of democracy, because journalists can't even have these people. And then you come to see the construction of a narrative of the measures needed, are essential to protection, institutions, the images of the institutions, the desinformation, we need to fight fake news to democracy be protected by the Westf. Did you hear that? Then you start to the second stage, the legalization of inequality. As journalists, they pass 100 square meters in several inquiries, with the authorization of seeking the press, the content removal of content, the adecuado network, there's no counteract, there's no notification, everything we need to protect the democratic state and the law. And even the law is still infringed all the names that the government has. You also notice a cultural normality. The term's repetition that I worry when I see the law using it. We have like the hatred, attacks, fake news. I already said several times that this cultural war is linked to the fundamental power in the construction of the duality. And what is the objective? The removal of your moral barrier. As not fully legitimate, you have a facilitation of restriction and restriction in opposition without even the journalist sitting occupied. Without anyone sitting occupied. No, no. The left is a extremist, like the right, as Ilha said, he is a seminator, I don't know what it is. So it's just that he's already shut up. What matters to me? If a father couldn't see the son married by the persecution of the STF. In the end, these people are not the right. I don't have to worry. In the end, this was a completely free control. We had warned about this. There are suspenders for fundamental protections, like the font, the freedom of expression. The state, the politician Paulo, the revista-visit, the CNN, the metropolis, and so many others. Who is considered the right to be attacked? Who is it? Who is it? The right to be attacked. Who has this right? What is the reason? What do you have to do? I'm a member of the International Journalist Association. I'm a member of the professional journalists' society. I'm a journalist, with a lot of vehicles. I'm an international journalist, who is almost none of you in Brazil. I speak American television. I'm hired by the 4th National Journal of the United States. But I'm not a journalist. With the grace of the United States, I call journalists. The white house of the United States, I call journalists. But for Brazil, I'm not a journalist. Why? I've said many times. I would prefer to have the title of, I don't know, the constitution of the journalist. But the fact is that you, I want to know what the reason is. What reason is that you have the right to be attacked? The process of dishumanization is that. So what I say is that we are the women. I'm alive here. I live with more than I deserve. But tomorrow, you will be. Thank God I have my supporters. Thank God. Another crazy fight that was already perceived. It's the fight of identity in the genre. Let's talk about the deputado, Felipe Santos Silva, Eric Rilton. But we want to make a quick break to drink the wine. At least a minute. There is no free content. This is a comfortable illusion. There is always someone who is paying. The only question is who pays. And what does it exist? In the globe, in the globe. The ones who pay are the big contracts, the public, the companies, the people themselves. That's different. That's the public who chooses who continues to speak. If you are not a journalist, the system is financed by you. The signature of the supporter costs less than a month in McDonald's for months. And gives access to exclusive content. What is the record on the screen and the link is in the description. I have not commented yet about this subject. I always comment about the deputado, Felipe Santos Silva, that I have already tried to access it. Good luck. But the break is very important to talk about. It's very important to get into the break. I had to do the break in the show and the second of the sixth to comment everything. We sometimes have a break in the meeting. We keep doing this. You can't go in there. I have everything to comment. But in the meantime, I'm looking for a good show in SES. Only with three programs in a week. In a few weeks like this. This one, we only have two programs. It has been impossible. But I don't want to let it be treated. Our friend, the great and known of the deputado program, Felipe Santos Silva, the deputado, Felipe, has been in the news for a long time. When he was elected president of the right commission of women in the deputado's camera. With a gigantic lobby of the B.T. and the government of Lula, of course. And it's very interesting that in the time the feminists say they have been given so many rights and victories for the first time in history. We have a man in the president of the right commission of the camera. Disbanking with the support of feminists. A true woman. And as was the first act of the deputado, Felipe, Santos Silva, in front of you can know about Erick Orhilton's coin. As was the first act of the first act of Erick Orhilton in front of the commission of women. The first act was the deputado's after the christian. He asked the word to discuss the deputado, Felipe, Santos Silva, and he decided to abandon the exception. Because if not, he has to hear a woman talking. It seems crazy. But see a video with me. I want to have a leader. Please. I want to have a leader president. I have a leader to do a salience. I want to have a leader to do a salience. Thank you very much. How can some of you have a leader that will not take the opportunity to take the opportunity to take the opportunity? He is the president of the table. He has the president. Excuse me, president. He is talking. Excuse me, president. Excuse me, president. He is talking about the deputado's after the christian. Please, we are in the same leader here. The president who just assumed has already abandoned the chair and went there to make a noise. The deputado is expressing his tolerance and does not be asked to respect this environment so that the deputado can exercise the words of her. The right to speak. Please, come back to silence. This is a matter of malucon. We are a man who is the president of the commission of women with the support of the government that is feminist. who has the vote of the majority of women. And the first act of this man in the commission of women is that he did not hear a woman who asked the right to speak. And who is the acclaim? Or the point is the truth. Whether he is a man or a woman. The deputado's after the christian will go there and process it. I said to myself. I am falling a kilo right. The deputado Felipe Santos has already brought the case of a feminist ex-girlfriend who called the deputado Felipe Santos Silva and was persecuted and had to be isolated from Brazil because of the possibility of being arrested. A woman had to be isolated from her own country because she could be arrested because she said that a man is a man. And even if she was a woman, she would be a woman. And to turn things into more symbolic and invasive and anti-rosal movement the opposition is the president of the commission of women. Some, however, this left-wing guy who gives me the engagement in the chat can do. I am not going to say that I am not going to say that in the chat, can please do this. Say that I am radical and that is why I am not saying that I am saying these things but I am not just saying these things. I will bring the third participation of the Globo News in Paulo Figueira today. Another commentator. Dimethro Mayoli is a very efficient electoral and well-known extreme, involuntary but extremely efficient. Several women, including women who are present as feminists, genealogists used a phrase that Eric built a biologically and a man. This is a fake. Biologically and a man. It is a process. In other words, when she saw it, she did not debate but she also used this phrase. It is extremely authoritarian of this point of view. And it is a fundamental point of view. And this is a fundamental point of view. And this is a campaign to make a good scenario. It is not a phenomenon only in Brazil, in the whole world political and identitaries even more when the extremists take the left vote from the progressive parties, from the left center, etc. And they offer votes and they are a phenomenon that happens in Europe, in the United States, in Latin America. They are a result of the left center and the left center. They offer votes and therefore the government will not support Eric Hamilton during the campaign and will not be able to align with his manifestations and especially with the most exaggerated. It is not because of the fact that the PT did not present anything much more Eric said. It is better to talk about Bolsonaro. Well, it is true. Before I continue, I have a comment on Demetri. But I noticed that we are 12,000 cut on YouTube and now there are more than 14,000 people in the same channel watching the show. We have the work of the United you can not click on the like. Go there a second. Take our cut But I will be showing the video here of the Global News. The Global News will be a 9-minute walk with the conservative of Brazil with the additional votes. The guys are getting the President of Bolsonaro hitting the federal criminal and saying that the Supreme has to end that the Alexandre is receiving the vote and they still say that Eric Hamilton is an authoritarian leader and the Global News still has no right to show. So I will be grateful. But Demetri, don't go too far from the traffic and you will not come with this story that PT did not support Eric who wrote the PT that is so much that the Deputy Felipe Santos Silva in the end the PT published a report of support to him Demetri, go there don't get the virus it seems that it doesn't get it. Go there on the website of PT because you will see the report of the PT from Eric Hamilton not only that he is there, the producer is there not only that but the PT also has negotiated the House of Representatives to fill out the the San Diego Felipe Santos Silva to the right party taking him from the person the thing that the company has done is that the company that does not have father and the Deputy Felipe he is very ugly so what are the faces of the media they will do to take the role of him they will not be able to do it they will try to do it but everything is good for this that exists Paulo Figueiredo show to dismantle it it is necessary that it is done now we can not think that the only people Eric Carriute will give votes because then that the PT defends Emmit Notta, which is in the party because this is not a truly electoral idea the idea of the left is to unlock and think with the concept that is inconceivable Professor Lavrovsky he is very good at the affliction of the words when he speaks of the stimulation the stimulation of the contrast is what is the stimulation of the contrast to the one who does not know is the process of you for a person there are signs or messages that are totally incoherent and say, and then the person is completely disorganized and confused and it can be a bit of a theoretical but it is not it is reflected, for example, how many times you say, what is transsexual what is a psychiatric problem and not a biological truth you do not say things like, man of trance to Eric Carriute a man who turned the woman is common that we encourage to be like vocabulary that's why I say so much about the importance of words I did a program that I said about more than half an hour you saw the very first morning talking about the biological man not Eric Carriute it is a biological man but now what is a man if not a biological concept man is a biological concept so when we incorporate vocabulary that the Philippe St. Silva, Eric Rilton what we use we say no, it is a biological man and then we lost because when we affect our vocabulary eventually our behavior is also affected there is no story that Eric Rilton is a biological man he is a man and only man, the definition of man is to be human sex but dark it is a matter of gamete so it is not disgusting man is a biological human being sex but dark so obviously the man is a biological man there is no biological woman no biological woman only exists woman and man and not even being indiscutive then the society is to discuss and even say make the concept and say that Eric Rilton is a biological man he is to be a controversial and possible criminal process see how many things we have not been to get to this point the fact that we have this point is that society is actually a crazy person at least part of the society unfortunately I think this world movement is in a against the worst Brazil is very behind but I think in the world there is for example the victory of Trump with the change of the United States that exists in 2 sex that does not exist in the background if you had the decision of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom a big change did not have the audience on this topic you have a documentary The Orisa Woman which was one of the most assistive of the story wonderful what is a woman a documentary of Deluar in Brazil it seems that there is still not so much but I think it is inevitable that it comes until there our militant judiciary continues to find this thing there so people will continue being persecuted processed by a man as the deputy Felipe Santos Silva to say truth to say it is just the truth but thanks Donald Trump Felipe Santos Silva here in the name of the poor so you can tell me to not let this lie take the pass baton good program for today tomorrow we will not have Paulo Figueira the show for the motivation of Paulo Figueira so there is still not how to do Paulo Figueira the show with the avatar AI but one day we will do Paulo Figueira the show is a offering of 2000 supporters and it happens thanks to João Gabriel who makes the edition friends this package that makes the editorial and the Fernando Figueira of the video I leave you there with the request of the support to me and with a request from Emigrex until the third year that comes three hours later from the news of Brazil from the news of America I will tell you something that many people do not like to hear indignation without action is a smart way to continue all the world says that it is tired of the globo of the fog of manipulation of destruction ok you do that because as you are a slave the system continues with the same advantage money, structure, alcance, influence and ability to make reality of them the only way of practice against this is to change the financial and that is that the journalism for the signature is not the content of the package it is the choice of the paid if the public does not pay someone pays and when someone pays the signature of the public is the basic well-made for $5 more or less that is to use the description of the less funders you access exclusive analysis and help to keep this alive independent it is not a symbolic gesture it is a financial decision that has a political and cultural consequence now there is a layer of people that can do even more if you have a good and live with good luck but for the prosperity there are people who have the ability to make a higher additional money to make a necessary for the country not to be permanent of the system and for this I created the script with the right universal WhatsApp group is the commitment level of those who just watched you can watch any of the two models or patron using the link of QR code on the screen or by the link in the description. This is a year of this zivo to be on the other now is to choose the system and I am sure that you are watching the program is not on the system this is it you, Alexandre I know you are watching Paulo Fingera 2021 has already started a year already entered and I want to ask you another year just thinking ah, I wanted to live in the United States and I wanted to live in Europe or if you will give the first step with strategy and migrating is not an impulsive decision it is planning planning begins with correct information the emigrex my company built with the green light offers options free for qualified professionals always a application we technically analyze your profile and if you have a complete one hour without cost and there are several channels people think there is no more you have to have two professionals with qualified professionals you have a high-performance eb3 and qualified technical professionals you have seen two for investors that in a big continent but they are learning in the United States we have seen for the medical medical professionals engineers specialists technology companies executive and a tablet with structured career each case is an important case there is no a magic formula there is a correct judgment and here it is important migrating the subject involves your family, your heritage then it is a matter of easy it is a matter of making things with a legal serious people in the emigrex I ask you our owners are very low in the middle of the market or if we are a migrating cheap compared to the market we offer a partnership because it is also a financial plan and if you want to transform in the year start for the first time take your application by QR code on the screen and ah, our communication is done by WhatsApp so be attentive the messages after applying to give what you have to do thinking a better life make things legal make a deal make a deal make a migrating what is code and the link on the screen and I am sure you won't be disappointed