---
video_title: "I Replaced Nginx With Caddy… And I’m Never Going Back"
video_id: YfK9QmJoaWs
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YfK9QmJoaWs
video_date: 2026-07-16T10:17:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still manually configuring your Nginx reverse proxy and fighting with Certbot for SSL/HTTPS certificates? Discover why Caddy, the modern web server written in Go (Golang), is quietly replacing Nginx for modern software engineering and self-hosting architectures. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of the Caddy web server vs Nginx. We explore the painful 28-line Nginx config versus the 7-line Caddyfile, and how Caddy's automatic HTTPS (Let's Encrypt / ZeroSSL) is saving developers thousands of hours of downtime. 
  
  We also dive deep into the 2026 benchmark results: why Caddy is 22% faster at serving small files over HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 (QUIC), but why Nginx still crushes Caddy when it comes to memory usage, large media streaming, and raw cold starts. Finally, we look at why tech giants like Stripe, Cloudflare, and Wikipedia choose the servers they do, and give you an honest verdict on which one you should use for your next project.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The 28-Line Nginx Config vs 7-Line Caddyfile
  0:54 - Why Nginx Was Built (The C10K Problem)
  2:40 - The Killer Feature: Automatic HTTPS (No Certbot)
  4:00 - On-Demand TLS & Cloudflare DNS Challenges
  4:44 - Benchmarks: HTTP/2 & HTTP/3 Performance
  6:14 - The Catch: Why Caddy Uses 4x More Memory
  7:09 - Streaming Big Files (Nginx Zero-Copy)
  7:30 - The Security Threat: Memory Bugs in C vs Go
  8:06 - The Final Verdict: Nginx vs Caddy
  
  #caddy #nginx #webserver #systemdesign #softwareengineering #backend #cloudcodes #golang #https #webdevelopment
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  caddy vs nginx performance
  how to use caddy reverse proxy
  caddyfile tutorial for beginners
  automatic https lets encrypt caddy
  nginx configuration tutorial
  stop using nginx use caddy
  caddy vs nginx memory usage
  system design web servers reverse proxy
  caddy vs traefik vs nginx proxy manager
  how cloudflare replaced nginx
---
Here are two config files, same website, same job. One is seven lines, the other is 28. The short one is Cadi, the long one is NGNX, and NGNX is old. NGNX turned 20 in 2024. It still runs about a third of the entire web, but 20 years leaves a mark. NGNX makes you configure everything by hand, including HTTPS. On NGNX, getting a certificate is a whole separate job. On Cadi, you write your domain name. HTTPS just happens automatically. And on small files, Cadi is about 22% faster. Same hardware. Cadi is written in Go. NGNX is written in C, and that C dates back to 2004. That trade has a real cost, and NGNX still wins part of it. Stay for that one. This isn't a hit piece. It's just what two decades of defaults look like. Config, certificates, speed, memory, and who actually wins. Let's go. First, why NGNX exists at all? Rewind to 2004. A Russian engineer named Igor Seisov had one brutal problem to solve. 10,000 connections on a single box all at once. They called it the C10K problem, and Apache's one process per connection model just collapsed under it. Seisov's answer was an event loop written in C. It was so much faster at holding thousands of slow connections that it quietly took over the internet, and it became a real business. In 2019, F5 bought the company for $670 million, and still sells a supported build called NGNX Plus on top of the free core. This is not a dying tool. 20 years later, that same C engine is still in there. Blazing fast, memory stingy, and configured entirely by hand. One directive at a time. That last part is the whole story. So here's the demo that started this video. The exact same site. A reverse proxy in front of a node app with HTTPS, compression, and security headers. Written both ways. This is NGNX 28 lines, two server blocks. You point at certificate files, you had to get yourself, you spell out the cipher suites, and you set four proxy headers by hand. And this is Cadi. Seven lines, your domain, compress, reverse proxy, done. The HTTPS, the redirect to it, and modern ciphers are already handled. Four times shorter, with nothing left to forget. That difference isn't cosmetic. Every one of those NGNX lines is a place to make a mistake at 2am Cadi's validator, refuses to even start on a typo that NGNX would silently ignore. Reloading is different too. NGNX reloads on a unique signal. Cadi runs a JSON API on port 2019. You post a new config, it validates, and swaps it automatically, with zero downtime. Now the feature that actually moved people over, automatic HTTPS. This is where 20 years of NGNX really shows its age. On NGNX, the certificate is not NGNX's job. You bolt on a separate tool, usually certbought from the EFF, and then you own a small pipeline forever. You run the Acme client, you add a Cron timer to renew before it expires, you wire up a challenge route so the authority can verify you, and you reload NGNX every time the certificate changes. Cadi folds all of that into the server. On the very first request to your domain, it talks to Let's Encrypt, proves you own the name over the Acme protocol, and installs the certificate itself. No client, no Cron, then it just keeps it alive. It renews 60 days before expires, staples OCSP, forces every visitor onto HTTPS, and turns on HSTS. You configured exactly none of that. It isn't even locked to one authority. If Let's Encrypt is having a bad day, Cadi quietly falls back to 0SSL, so your certificates keep renewing no matter what. Cadi was the first web server to make HTTPS the default instead of a decision. It has since served trillions of encrypted requests. That is not a small footnote. As one developer put it, Cadi makes HTTPS the default, not a config choice, and that alone will save you a 3am page or alert someday. Anyone who's had a cert expire in production felt that, and there's a trick NGNX genuinely struggles to match, on Demand TLS. A brand new customer hits their own subdomain, and Cadi provisions a certificate for it in under two seconds live on that first request. And if you sit behind Cloudflare, or on a private network, Cadi can prove ownership through your DNS provider instead, using one of 70 plus built-in DNS plugins, same certificate, zero exposed ports. That family of features is YStripe, HashieCorp, and TailScale put Cadi in front of their services. At Stripe, certificate rotation went from a quarterly emergency to a non-event nobody thinks about, and it's spreading. Cloudflare's own data pegged Cadi at roughly 4% of all new certificate issuance last year, more than double the year before. Okay, it's convenient, but is the speed claim real or just a benchmark trick? Three independent test tweets this year say it's real. Serving 1 kilobyte files over HTTP-slash2 on a 16-core box, Cadi pushed 142,000 requests a second, and Jenex topped out at 117,000, a 22% lead, but flipped the workload around and it evens out. As a pure reverse proxy in front of an app, Jenex was about 9% faster because most of the time goes into talking to your back end, not the server itself. The gap gets wider on HTTP-slash3, the new protocol built on quick. Cadi switches it on the moment TLS is configured. Jenex makes you compile it in and turn it on by hand, same small file test. HTTP-slash3 on, Cadi hit 118,000 a second, Jenex 96,000, 23% again to Cadi. Its integration with the quick library is just tighter. TLS handshakes finished quicker too. 18 milliseconds to Jenex is 21, because Go's crypto library reaches for hardware acceleration Jenex only gets when it's built against the newest open SSL. Extending it is easier as well. A tool called XCadi compiles the plugins you want straight into one binary in about 30 seconds. No recompiling Jenex from source with a flag for every module. But Jenex is not standing still here. Its module ecosystem is the largest in the world, and with open RESTY you can script the entire request path in Lua. For heavy custom edge logic, that depth still wins, so Cadi just wins across the board? No. Here's where the 20-year-old bites back, and it bites hard. 10,000 idle connections. Jenex sat at 89 megabytes of RAM. Cadi used 340. Four times heavier, just standing still. That's the price of Go's garbage collector and its Go routines. Jenex's C binary is under a megabyte, and it counts every bite. On a 32-gig server, nobody notices. On a Raspberry Pi running your home reverse proxy, that gap is the difference between smooth and swapping. Even the Docker images tell the story. The Jenex image is about 23 megabytes. Cadi's is closer to 47, because Go statically links its whole runtime, collector, and TLS stack inside the binary. On big files, Jenex pulls ahead on speed two. 17% faster streaming a gigabyte. Using 38% less memory, because it never copies the file into user space. Its zero-copy path is unbeaten, and Jenex starts cold in about 45 milliseconds. Cadi needs 180 to parse config and warm up. If you autoscale hard under sudden spikes, that four times gap can genuinely matter. This is exactly why Netflix streamed from a custom engine X build, and Wikipedia serves 21 billion page views a month through it. At that scale, every megabyte is real money. But now the fact that should genuinely give you pause. Since 2020, engine X has shipped 47 security advisories. Cadi has shipped four, four, against 47. Most of engine X's were memory bugs, buffer overflows, and heap corruption, the exact class of things C practically invites. In a memory-safe language like Go, whole categories of them simply can't happen. And here's the twist that says the quiet part out loud. Even Cloudflare walked away from engine X. By 2025, it had replaced its entire engine X edge with its own server written in Rust, and cut CPU usage by 70%. So which should you run? If you're starting something new, building a SaaS with customer domains, or you simply want HTTPS to work, pick Cadi. The operator hours you save compound all year. If you stream huge media, run at CDN hyperscale, or live inside tiny memory budgets, engine X has earned its keep and isn't going anywhere. You can even run both, side by side, on the same box, and moving over isn't scary. Cadi ships an adapter that reads your existing engine X config and hands you a starter Cadi file covering about 80% of it. You clean up the rest and shadow test before you cut over. Then the money. Cadi is free under an open license, every feature included. Engine X's supported commercial tier starts around $2,500 a year, per instance, for things Cadi just hands you. So no, ancient doesn't mean broken. Engine X is 20 years of choices you now have to make yourself. Cadi quietly made the smart ones for you and hid them. That's the whole difference. Engine X built the modern web, and it isn't done. Cadi is just rewriting how we run it. If this was useful, subscribe, and I'll see you in the next one.