---
video_title: "I Replaced Vercel With Coolify and My Hosting Bill Dropped From $400 to $5"
video_id: QYWZBIj9NQo
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QYWZBIj9NQo
video_date: 2026-06-27T16:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you tired of expensive, unpredictable Vercel bills punishing your app for going viral? Meet Coolify, the open-source, self-hostable Vercel alternative that gives you push-to-deploy superpowers on your own server for a flat fee.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the hidden trap of Vercel's usage-based pricing model—where bandwidth overages, serverless functions, and per-seat team licenses can cost growing startups thousands of dollars a month. We then explore the system architecture of Coolify, built by Andras Bacsai, and show you how to connect a GitHub repo, automate HTTPS certificates, spin up preview deployments, and deploy databases like Postgres and Redis with a single click. Finally, we cover the real economics of self-hosting on a cheap Hetzner VPS versus the Vercel Pro plan, and the honest caveats of owning your own infrastructure.
  
  If you want to escape cloud lock-in and master system design, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters (Crucial for Google Search Rich Snippets):
  0:00 - The $1,800 Vercel Surprise Bill
  1:10 - How Coolify Actually Works (Push to Deploy)
  2:11 - The Hidden Trap of Vercel Pricing (Bandwidth & Seats)
  3:59 - Coolify Features: PR Previews, SSL & 280+ Services
  6:07 - The Real Economics: Hetzner VPS vs Vercel Pro Plan
  7:04 - The Honest Catch: Why You Still Need Cloudflare
  7:50 - The Final Verdict: Coolify vs Vercel
  
  🔗 Concepts & Sources Covered:
  Coolify (Open Source / Apache 2.0)
  Vercel Pro Pricing & Serverless Functions
  Hetzner VPS & DigitalOcean
  Self-Hosting & System Administration
  
  #Coolify #Vercel #WebDevelopment #SelfHosting #SoftwareEngineering #CloudCodes
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries :
  vercel vs coolify
  best vercel alternative 2026
  how to install coolify on a vps
  why vercel is so expensive
  coolify tutorial for beginners
  how to self host nextjs apps
  vercel bandwidth limits explained
  hetzner vps vs vercel pro
  coolify postgres database setup
  cloud codes web development
---
Picture this. You built a little app over a weekend and you shipped it on Versel because Versel is genuinely magic. You push to GitHub and it is live. Then it caught on. And a week later, this landed in your inbox. The bill that started at $20 now says $1,800. Here's how that happens. You start on the free plan and it really is free until you read the fine print. No commercial use. The moment your project earns a single dollar, you are on pro. $20 a month per person and per person is the trap. One developer $20. Add a teammate 40. A five person team pays $100 a month before a single visitor ever shows up. But the real surprise is bandwidth. Every visit downloads your site and Versel meters every gigabyte. Go past your limit and it is $40 for each extra 100. The catch you do not decide when you go viral. One good day on Reddit and the meter just runs. So let us talk about the other way. This is coolify. Same idea. You push code. It goes live. Except it runs on a server you own. Open source and free forever. Self hosting with superpowers. Watch what it actually does. You connect a Git repo, push to main and coolify builds it, ships it and flips it live with a real HTTPS certificate automatically. If you have ever used Versel, your fingers already know this. But here is the part that changes everything. That same app. That same traffic on Versel this month. $400 on your own server. Five. Not 500. Five. And it does not just replace Versel. One clean dashboard does the job of Versel, Netlify, Heroku and Railway. All at once. All in one place on hardware you control. Need a database. A cache. A whole app. Coolify ships over 281 click services. Postgres, Redis, Macyekl, Mongo, Click and it is running sitting right next to your code. And this is no abandoned side project. 57,000 stars on GitHub. Nearly half a million self hosted instances out in the wild. Right now it is one of the most love tools in open source. Now to be completely fair, Versel is brilliant. It is a fully managed cloud. You bring code. They handle the servers, the scaling and a global edge network that makes your site fast everywhere. You do zero operations. That convenience is real. And for plenty of people it is worth paying for. The problem is not the product. It is the meter. Almost everything on Versel is usage based. Bandwidth, function time, build minutes, image optimization and a seat for every teammate. Every one of those is a dial that spins only one direction up. Bandwidth is the big one. A typical page is a few megabytes. So one terabyte covers maybe a few hundred thousand views sounds like plenty until a launch or a viral post. Then you pay $40 for every extra hundred gigabytes and one spike can add hundreds to your bill overnight. Then there are functions. Every API route, every server rendered page runs on Versel serverless, built by memory times time. A handful of busy endpoints, a few million calls and that quietly becomes another line on the invoice. And remember the seats, $20 per person every month. Ten developers is $200 before you have served one bite of traffic. The bigger your team, the bigger the base, no matter what you actually use. Stack it all up and here is the reality. A solo dev pays about 30 a month, totally fine, but a 5% team with real traffic, 400, a growing startup, over $2000 a month, nearly $28,000 a year. And that is the thing to really sit with. Versel's pricing rewards you when nobody is using your app and punishes you the moment it works. Your costs do not track your servers. They track your success. So here's the alternative, properly. Coolify is an open source, self-hostable platform built by a developer named Andros Baxi. He started it back in 2021. It is licensed Apache 2.0 and it is completely free, the whole thing forever. You install it with a single command, one line in your terminal, and a couple of minutes later you have a full dashboard running on your server, a control panel for everything you deploy. It runs on Docker so it stays out of your way and it runs anywhere there is an SSH connection. A cheap VPS, a Raspberry Pi in your closet, an EC2 box, Hetzner, digital ocean, Coolify does not care. You point it at a server and that server becomes your platform. The core loop is the one you already know. Connect GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, or Gitia. Push a commit, Coolify pulls it, builds the image and deploys it automatically every single time. Push to deploy on your own metal. Custom domains and HTTBS are handled for you. Point your domain and Coolify fetches a free-letting crypt certificate and renews it on its own. No config, no cron job, no expired certificate panic at two in the morning. It even copies Versailles' best trick. Open a pull request and Coolify spins up a separate preview deployment just for it. It's own URL so you can review the change live before it ever touches production. Need infrastructure? One click. Postgres, Redis, mescl, MongoDB, over 280 services deployed and wired up next to your app. And because the database lives on the same box, there is no extra managed database bill and no network hop. It is a real control room. A terminal right in your browser, live monitoring of CPU, memory and disk, automatic database backups to any s3 bucket and alerts to discord, telegram or email the moment something needs you. And there is no lock-in. Every setting lives on your server, not theirs. If you walked away from Coolify tomorrow, your apps would simply keep running. Try cancelling a cloud platform and keeping your infrastructure you cannot. So what does the hardware actually cost? A capable box from Hetzner runs about $5 a month, two cores, four gigs of RAM, and 20 terabytes of bandwidth included. That is 20 times Versels Pro allowance for a fraction of the price. And that is the real difference in one picture. Versels cost is a curve that climbs with every visitor. Your server is a flat line. The viral day that costs Versels hundreds cost your box exactly the same as a quiet one, $5. Run the numbers and they are not subtle. That 5% team saves around $4,000 a year. The growing startup saves over 25,000. Same app, same traffic, just a different owner of the box. And if you do not even want to manage Coolify itself, there is Coolify Cloud. $5 a month and they run the dashboard for you. You still bring your own servers. Same open source code, nothing locked behind a paywall, a paid option without the paywall. Now the honest part, because this is not free magic, when you own the server, you own the server. Operating system updates, security patches, uptime backups. That is your job now, not someone else's. Coolify makes it easy. It does not make it disappear. And out of the box, you get one server in one location, not Versels Global Edge Network. The fix is easy. Put Cloudflare in front for free. But one box is also a single point of failure until you add a second one. So Versels still wins sometimes. For a tiny hobby site, it is genuinely free. For a solo dev who never wants to touch a server, that convenience is worth 20 bucks. And if you live on the bleeding edge of next JS, Versels ships those features first. But the moment you have a team, real traffic, a few projects, or anything that needs to run longer than a few seconds, background jobs, web sockets, your own database, the math swings hard toward owning the box. So here is the honest verdict. Coolify is not magic and Versels is not a scam. You are choosing who holds the keys. With Versels, you rent convenience by the gigabyte. With Coolify, you own the platform for a flat fee and past a certain size, you are just paying rent on a house you could have bought. That is the whole story, the same push to deploy workflow. Running on a server you own. For a fixed price that does not punish you for growing, no lock in, just a little more responsibility. The dashboard replacing the expensive bill. If this made you rethink your hosting bill, subscribe. Cloud Codes takes apart one tool like this every single week. Build, solve, deploy, and I'll see you in the next