---
video_title: "LangChain Open-Sourced Claude Code (Works With ANY Model)"
video_id: OwT2HU2AVw4
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwT2HU2AVw4
video_date: 2026-07-05T19:30:05+00:00
video_description: |
  What is the actual secret behind viral AI agents like Claude Code, Manus, and OpenAI Deep Research? Discover how LangChain reverse-engineered the ultimate agentic harness to create "Deep Agents"—an open-source framework that lets you run a Claude Code-style coding agent using ANY language model (OpenAI, Gemini, DeepSeek, or local LLMs via Ollama).
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of LangChain's Agent 2.0 architecture. We explore why traditional "shallow agents" get stuck in infinite loops, and how Harrison Chase and the LangChain team solved it using 4 simple ingredients: Detailed Prompts, Sub-Agents, a Virtual File System, and a Planning Tool. 
  
  We reveal the shocking truth about Context Engineering (why the agent's Planning Tool is actually a "No-Op"), how the durable LangGraph runtime prevents crashes during multi-hour tasks, and how to use the `create_deep_agent` function to build your own production-grade agent. Finally, we give an honest verdict on whether this open-source stack can truly kill Anthropic's tightly integrated Claude Code.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 - The magic isn't the model, it's the "harness"
  00:43 - LangChain clones Claude Code (deepagents)
  01:05 - The 4 secret ingredients of a "deep agent"
  04:10 - Ingredient 1: The system prompt
  04:26 - Ingredient 2: The planning tool
  04:40 - Ingredient 3: Isolated sub-agents
  04:53 - Ingredient 4: The file system (external memory)
  07:30 - Why the planning tool is actually a "no-op"
  08:10 - LangGraph: The durable runtime underneath
  08:40 - The killer feature: Swapping to any model
  09:03 - How to build it in one line of code
  11:30 - The open-source terminal agent alternative
  13:42 - The harness is the real product, not the model
  
  #langchain #claude #claudecode #aiagents #systemdesign #softwareengineering #machinelearning #cloudcodes #langgraph #opensource
  
  🔗 LangChain Deep Agents (Python)
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagents
  
  🔗 LangChain Deep Agents (JavaScript)
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagentsjs
  
  🔗 Deep Agents From Scratch
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/deep-agents-from-scratch
  
  🔗 Deep Agents UI
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/deep-agents-ui
  
  🔗 Official Deep Agents Documentation
  https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/deepagents/overview
  
  🔗 Deep Agents Quickstart
  https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/deepagents/quickstart
  
  🔗 Deep Agents Code (Claude Code Alternative)
  https://docs.langchain.com/oss/python/deepagents/code/overview
  
  🔗 LangGraph
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph
  
  🔗 LangChain
  https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries: 
  langchain deep agents tutorial
  how to build an ai coding agent
  claude code open source alternative
  openai deep research clone tutorial
  langgraph agentic workflow system design
  context engineering vs prompt engineering
  how to run claude code with local models
  what is a deep agent ai
  langchain agent 2.0 release
  model context protocol mcp langchain
---
Claude code feels like actual magic. You hand it a goal, walk away to grab a coffee, and come back to a finished pull request that genuinely works. It reads your repo, writes a plan, edits the files, runs the tests, and even fixes its own mistakes, all on its own. But here is the part almost nobody says out loud. The real magic is not the model. It is the harness wrapped around the model, the invisible scaffolding that turns a plane chatbot into something that can actually plan and finish a long messy job. Want proof? Take that exact same model, strip the harness away, and watch what happens. You get a shallow agent that loops in circles, forgets what it was doing, and quietly gives up somewhere in the middle. Same brain, completely different outcome. So Langchain did something genuinely bold. They sat down, studied what actually makes Claude code special, reverse engineered it piece by piece, and then rebuilt the whole thing out in the open as free software for anyone to use. And what they found is almost funny. The whole trick, the same trick, hide behind Claude code, behind open AI deep research, behind the viral agent manus, comes down to just four simple ingredients, a detailed prompt, a planning tool, sub agents, and a file system. Four plain pieces you already understand. Put them together in the right way, and that honestly is the entire secret sauce. Wrap those four things around any ordinary model loop, and something just clicks into place. A shallow agent quietly becomes a deep one, suddenly able to work for hours on a hard problem, instead of falling over in seconds. And Langchain packaged the whole recipe as one small open source library. You literally just type pip install deep agents, write a couple of lines, and you are already running your very own Claude code clone on your own machine. But here is the punchline that Claude code structurally cannot match. Deep agents work with any model you want, not just Claude. Open AI, Google, Meta, even a tiny open model on your laptop. Any brain you choose, Claude code, except you get to pick the brain inside it. So over the next few minutes, let me show you exactly how Langchain pulled this off, ingredient by ingredient, and why it quietly changes what you are able to build. Start with what almost every AI agent on Earth actually is underneath all the marketing. It is a single model running in a loop calling tools. The model thinks, picks a tool, sees the result, thinks again, and just keeps going around like that. For a small, contained job, that simple loop is genuinely beautiful, and you should not over complicate it. Ask one question, call one tool, read the answer, and stop. Nothing fancy is needed, and nothing fancy should be forced in. But hand that exact same loop a real project, like researching an entire market, or refactoring a sprawling messy code base, and it slowly, painfully falls apart. The cracks start showing up almost right away, and they only get wider. With no plan, it wanders in circles, and repeats work it already did. With no memory, it forgets step one by the time it reaches step 10. And its context window quietly fills with clutter until the whole run collapses under its own weight. Langchain has a blunt name for this failure mode. They call it a shallow agent. And if we are being honest with each other for a second, almost every agent you and I have built so far is exactly one of them. Mine certainly were. So now turn and look at the small handful of agents that somehow do not fall apart. On Claude code, open AID, deep research, manious. These are the rare ones that can actually go the distance on a genuinely hard, multi-step task without collapsing. And here is the strange, almost suspicious part. They run the exact same core loop as everyone else. Often the very same underlying models you already have access to. So what on earth do they have that your homemade agent simply does not? And this is really not some niche experiment. Every major lab now ships a deep research agent and an async coding agent. Startups are cloning the exact same shape for law, for medicine, for finance. It has quietly become the dominant blueprint for serious agents. The answer, Langchain says, is four things. Founder Harrison Chase pulled them apart one at a time over a single weekend of hacking. And this right here is the complete recipe, quietly hiding behind every one of those impressive agents. Ingredient one is a long detailed system prompt. Not one clever sentence, but pages and pages of careful instructions and worked examples that patiently teach the model how to behave, tool by tool, edge case by edge case. Prompting still matters a lot. Ingredient two is a planning tool. Before it touches anything real, the agent writes itself a to-do list, marks each item as pending in progress or done, and then works its way calmly, and steadily down that list instead of flailing around. Ingredient three is sub agents. The main agent can spin up focused helpers on demand. Each one handed a single narrow slice of the larger job, so that no single context window ever has to try and juggle absolutely everything at once. And ingredient four is a file system. Somewhere the agent can write notes to itself, save intermediate results, and read them all back later, at exactly the moment it needs them again. A real workspace to think in, not just a chat log to scroll, and that is genuinely all of it. Four plain, almost boring ingredients are the entire difference between a shallow loop that quits on you, and a deep agent that keeps calmly working until the job is actually truly finished. Now let me show you the one ingredient that quietly breaks people the very first time they look closely at how it actually works. That innocent, completely harmless looking little planning tool from a moment ago. You would very naturally assume that to-do list runs a real scheduler somewhere, that it tracks dependencies between tasks, reorders the work intelligently, does something genuinely clever and complicated under the hood. It really feels like it must. It does absolutely nothing. It is a real honest no-op. The agent calls the tool, and the tool simply writes the very same list straight back out again, completely unchanged. There is no hidden logic buried in there at all. None whatsoever. So why on earth would you ship a tool that does nothing? Because the simple act of writing the plan down forces the model to stop and actually think before it acts. And once that list is sitting there in the context, the agent keeps glancing back at its own plan and stays on track. This is the whole idea of people called context engineering. You are not adding clever logic to the agent at all. You are carefully shaping what it pays attention to at each step. And that, it turns out, is most of the entire battle right there. Anthropic learned this very same lesson the hard way. Their own guidance now argues that your single biggest lever is not reaching for a bigger, more expensive model. It is carefully engineering the context you feed the one you already have. That very same idea, quietly managing what the model pays attention to, is the thread running straight through the other three ingredients as well. Once you actually see it, I promise you simply cannot unsee it anywhere. Think about it for just a second. A long sprawling task generates far more context than any window could ever possibly hold. So the file system quietly becomes the agent external memory, a place to safely park everything that will not fit inside. It writes the important things down to disk right now, then reads them back later, but only when they actually matter again. The live context window stays small and cheap, while the real memory sitting on disk just keeps growing and growing. Manus, the agent that went completely viral last year, runs almost entirely on this one single trick. It treats files as a living scratch pad that it is constantly writing to, editing and rereading as the long task slowly unfolds in front of it. Subagents then attack that very same problem, but from the exact opposite direction, isolation. You hand a messy sprawling subtask to a completely fresh agent that gets its own brand new perfectly clean context window to work inside. It does all the heavy, noisy, confusing work far out of sight, then hands back just one single, tidy summary. The main agent never has to touch the mess at all. Planet, offload it, isolate it. That in three words is the whole deep agent playbook. And the harness quietly handles all of this for you automatically. It summarizes the old conversation, offloads enormous tool results out to files, and quarantines the heavy work inside subagents, so the model simply never drowns in its own context. Underneath every bit of this sits Langgraph, Langching Durable Run Time for Agents. It is the boring, unglamorous engine that lets a deep agent stream its thinking out live, checkpoint its progress along the way, and reliably pick up right where it left off. That Durable Core is the real reason these agents can safely run for hours at a stretch. When a tool called Quietly Times Out or the Machine Reboots, the agent does not lose its plan, its files, or its place in the middle of a long delicate job. Okay, now the true headline feature. The one single thing that Claude code structurally cannot ever copy, no matter how polished, how fast, or how genuinely powerful and the way it is. Claude code only ever runs on Claude. Full stop by design. Deep agents on the other hand simply do not care in the slightest which model happens to be sitting there in the middle doing all of the actual thinking. And here's the real kicker that honestly surprised me. Creating one of these agents is almost embarrassingly short. When you strip away all the ceremony and boilerplate, it really is just a single function call named Create Deep Agent. You pass in a model, a small handful of your own tools, and a system prompt. And that alone is already a fully working deep agent with the planning tool and the entire virtual file system quietly included for you, completely for free. Want a completely different brain powering the whole thing? You change one string. Gemini, GPT, Lama, GLM, Quinn, Deepseek. They all swap in and out with a single keystroke. The rest of your carefully written code does not move an inch. Run a giant frontier model up in the cloud when you genuinely need raw power or a small private open model right there on your own laptop through Alama when you need privacy or offline access. Same exact harness entirely your own choice of mind. And because every model speaks its own slightly different dialect, the harness quietly adapts to each one. It switches on prompt caching for Claude, reshapes the tool format per provider, and papers over the differences so your single agent just works everywhere. Langchain proved the whole point with their own open deep research agent built entirely on top of deep agents, a serious multi-step researcher that plans, searches the web, and writes a full report in a surprisingly small amount of actual code. And what started life as a scrappy little weekend hack by Harrison Chase has since quietly grown into something a whole lot more serious and complete. This is honestly not just a clever weekend demo anymore. Langchain now calls this whole shape agent 2.0, a proper batteries included agent harness. And over the past year it has quietly picked up some genuinely serious firepower stacked right on top of the core 4 ingredients. There are skills. These are drop-in folders of package expert know-how that the agent loads only at the precise moment a task actually needs them, which keeps its startup context lean and fast instead of hopelessly bloated with everything at once. There is memory. A plain agents.md file the agent quietly reads at the very start of every single session. So your coding style, your conventions, and your preferences just stick around instead of being painstakingly re-explained every time. It speaks the model context protocol, so any MCP tool server plugs straight in with zero glue code. It can run real code inside a lockdown sandbox, and it can pause and patiently wait for your explicit approval before doing anything destructive. It even ships its own full terminal coding agent, called deep agents code, aimed squarely as a direct rival to cloud code and cursor. Plus a complete TypeScript version, so that JavaScript and web teams get the exact same powerful toolkit, and it plugs straight into your real editor too. Deep agents speak the open agent client protocol, so the very same agent brain can drive a terminal, a web app, or your IDE directly, without you having to rewrite a single line of it. Crucially, it does not just trust the model blindly. Declareative permission rules fence off exactly which files it is allowed to touch. The sandbox safely contains any code it runs, and you stay firmly in the loop on every genuinely dangerous step. So the obvious, honest question you are probably already asking, is this an outright cloud code killer? Honestly, not quite, and it is genuinely worth being clear-eyed and fair about exactly why that is still the case. Anthropic tunes, cloud code, incredibly tightly around one single model that it controls from end to end. That deep, almost obsessive coupling still wins today on raw polish, on speed, and on plain boring day-to-day reliability. Deep agents deliberately trade a little of that shine for something arguably much bigger. Total freedom of model, and a genuinely open MIT license core that you can actually read, fork, audit, and reshape into whatever you happen to need. But the real gift on offer here is the underlying pattern itself. You can now build a deep, capable, long-running agent for your own narrow vertical, entirely on your own terms, without ever asking anyone at all for permission first. So who is this whole thing actually for? Honestly, anyone who needs an agent that runs longer than a single prompt, a tireless researcher, a patient coding teammate, a support agent that never once loses the thread of a hard, tangled case. You bring the tools and the deep domain knowledge that only you actually have. The harness brings the planning, the memory, and all the hard-won discipline. Together, that is a serious, production-grade agent for your own corner of the world. So please hold on tightly to the shape of this, a detailed prompt, a planning tool, a swarm of focused sub-agents, and a file system for memory, all wrapped neatly around a model of your very own free choosing. And the lesson sitting quietly underneath every single piece of it is genuinely beautifully simple. The model was never really the product. The harness built around it always was. And now, thanks to Longchain, that harness is finally yours. So if this finally made the whole thing click into place for you, the way it did for me, subscribe for more deep dives exactly like this one. And I will see you again very soon in the very next video.