---
video_title: "Docker Is \"Dead\": So Why Do 92% of Developers Use It?"
video_id: yt6bTeapos8
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yt6bTeapos8
video_date: 2026-07-05T05:26:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Is Docker actually dead, or did it just become the most dominant software standard on Earth? For years, developers have repeated the headline that "Kubernetes killed Docker," but in 2025, Docker adoption hit a staggering 92% among professional teams. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the "Docker Paradox" and explains the system architecture behind the modern container ecosystem. We explore why Kubernetes actually deprecated the Docker Daemon (dockershim) in v1.24, and why that was never a threat to Docker images. 
  
  We dive deep into the Open Container Initiative (OCI), explaining why runtimes like Containerd, Podman, and Buildah are actually running Docker's exact code (`runc`) under the hood. Finally, we look at Docker's brilliant pivot into AI architecture—shipping local LLMs with Docker Model Runner and sandboxing AI Agents using the Model Context Protocol (MCP).
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Docker Paradox (92% Adoption)
  1:51 - Why Kubernetes "Killed" Docker (The dockershim)
  3:30 - What Actually Won: The OCI Container Standard
  5:03 - Docker vs Podman vs Containerd
  6:10 - Why Docker Adoption Exploded (Microservices & AI)
  7:54 - Docker's Pivot into AI (Model Runner & MCP)
  9:06 - The Catch: Do you still need Docker Desktop?
  9:33 - Summary: The Truth Behind the Headlines
  
  #docker #kubernetes #devops #softwareengineering #systemdesign #podman #artificialintelligence #cloudcodes #machinelearning
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries :
  is docker dead 2026
  why did kubernetes deprecate docker
  docker vs podman vs containerd
  open container initiative oci explained
  docker model runner local ai
  how containers work system design
  why use docker for microservices
  docker desktop vs orbstack
  what is dockershim kubernetes
  how ai agents use docker mcp
---
Open any developer feed this year and you hit the same headline on repeat. Docker is dead, Docker is dying. Kubernetes killed it. It is everywhere. Then this lands in the 2025 stack overflow survey 49,000 developers, Docker usage inside professional teams just hit 92%. That is not a dying tool. That is oxygen and it is climbing hard. Docker jumped 17 points in a single year. The single biggest one year leap of any technology in the survey's entire history. Nothing else was close. So both headlines are true at once and that paradox is the whole video. Because yes, Kubernetes really did drop Docker. In version 1.24 it tore out the piece that let it talk to the Docker engine. But watch what actually happens. The image you built with Docker builds still runs on the new runtime, untouched, bite for bite identical. Whatever they removed, it was never the container itself. That is the reframe. Docker did not die. Docker split apart into an open standard the entire world now runs in a background Damon that almost nobody actually needed to see it split the word Docker into four layers. Build the image, the image format, run the container, orchestrate the fleet. Docker was all four. Now it owns the two you touch every day and the rivals everyone waves around. Podman, container, build up, never replace the container. Every one of them runs the exact same Docker built image, same format, different engine. Meanwhile, while the internet wrote the obituary, Docker quietly walked up to stack straight into AI, local models, agent tools, hardened images, it had already left the runtime fight. So here's the map. What actually died? What actually won? And why in 2025 adoption went vertical. Three chapters, no filler and a verdict that makes both headlines finally fit together. One, the death that started the whole rumor. Back in 2020, Kubernetes announced it was deprecating Docker in 2022 version 1.24 finished the job and deleted the shim for good. And the internet completely lost its mind because almost nobody read the second paragraph. So what was that shim? Kubernetes talks to every container runtime through one clean standard socket called the CRI, the container runtime interface. Docker's engine never spoke CRI. So Kubernetes had to keep a little translator, the Docker shim, alive just a babysit Docker specifically. And that engine was the actual weak point. One giant background Damon running as root, doing everything at once, build, run, network, storage, if it crashed, every container on the box went down with it on a thousand node cluster. That is a fat single point of failure and a security surface, no platform team ever wanted to defend. So Kubernetes cut out the middle man and talk straight to container. The lean runtime sitting right underneath and here is the punchline nobody tweeted. Container is Docker's own runtime. Docker built it, then donated it to the community. Kubernetes kept Docker's engine and dropped only the wrapper. But the headline just said Kubernetes is deprecating Docker and a million people read it as your images are worthless now. They were not. Kubernetes said it in plain text. Every image you built keeps working exactly the same on every compliant runtime and that points straight at the real future. The root Damon is the part that is quietly dying. Rootless, Damonless containers are winning simply because they are safer. Losing the Damon was never a wound. For most clusters, it was the entire point, which brings us to chapter two, the part that actually won years ago. Docker took its image format and its runtime spec and gave them away to an open standard called the OCI, the open container initiative. The container stopped being a Docker product and became a law of physics. And an image is beautifully boring underneath. It is just a stack of read-only layers plus a small manifest that describes them. Change one line of code and only the top layer rebuilds. Everything below is cached and shared. Push it to any registry, Docker hub, GitHub, your own cloud, and anything that speaks OCI can pull it and run it. No questions asked. That is why one image just runs everywhere. Build it once with Docker and it drops into podmin, into container, into CRIO, into every cloud on earth. No edits, no repackaging, no translation. The box is genuinely universal. Go one level deeper and you find RUNK, the tiny program that actually spawns the container from that spec. Docker wrote RUNK and donated it to. Docker even admitted the open spec is barely 5% of their code. The crown jewels were the exact part they gave away, so the container format did not lose. It won so completely that it vanished into the background. The question stopped being should we use containers. Now it is only which runtime should run them. That is a total victory dressed up as a funeral and that splits the world cleanly. Docker owns build and local development where you live all day long, containered and run on the runtime. Kubernetes owns the fleet. Nobody killed anybody. They simply stacked into layers. Chapter 3 of the death myth, the challengers. Podmin is the loud one. Same commands you already know, but with no always on daemon and no root user. For security teams, that is exactly the upgrade they had spent years begging for. And behind podmin, it's a whole toolbox. Build a just builds images, containered and CRIO just run them. Nerd CTL and orb stack hand you back the desktop feel. Each one does a single clean slice of what Docker used to do entirely alone. Here is the kicker. Most of them are drop in. People literally aliased Docker to podmin and never change a single command because underneath they are all reading and writing the same OCI standard. Swapping engines is a one line change. Even WebAssembly, the supposed next Docker killer is not really a killer. It is smaller and faster for a slice of workloads, but it plugs into the same registries and the same tooling. It extends the container world. It does not bury it. So Docker versus podmin was never a death match. It is a menu. Same container, pick your engine. Final competition on the runtime, while Docker's actual product had already quietly moved somewhere else entirely. Now the real question, if the Damon lost, why did adoption explode? Start with AI. Every model is a swamp of versions. Kuda, PyTorch, the one NumPy released that silently breaks everything. A container freezes that swamp so the model runs identically on every machine every single time. Then microservices went fully mainstream. 68% of IT organizations now ship them, versus just 31% everywhere else. When one product is 40 tiny services, containers stop being a nice option and become the only same way to ship anything at all. Then the money started talking. Forester measured Docker inside real enterprises, 66% lower infrastructure cost, 43% higher developer productivity, three months faster to market, containers pack more work onto the same hardware and kill the works on my machine bug. That is not a preference anymore. That is a budget mandate written in bold. Then the analyst piled on. Gartner expects over 95% of new digital workloads to run cloud native by the end of 2025, up from just 30% back in 2021. Containerized is not a trend anymore. It is simply the default now. And this is not theory. Tesla runs containerized models for autonomous driving. Netflix wraps its personalization in them. The BBC containerized its processing pipelines. The E appliances hit far higher density than plain virtual machines. The software you use every day rides on this, and that 92% hides the best part. Inside tech, Docker is basically everyone. Across all industries combined, it is still only around 30%. Every bank, hospital and factory still modernizing is a new container shop waiting to happen. That gap is not weakness, it is the runway, and this surge is nowhere near finished, which is exactly why Docker stopped fighting for the runtime and climbed instead. Its new home is the single messiest problem in software right now, getting AI to actually run reliably and locally on your own machine. Meet Docker model runner. One line, Docker model run, and a full local language model is pulled, served, and answering your code through a normal endpoint. The exact same muscle memory that shipped web apps, now ships models. When Docker grabbed MCP, the protocol that lets AI agents call real tools. Its MCP catalog packages each tool server as a container, so an agent gets sandboxed, one commands superpowers instead of a pile of sketchy scripts and wide open ports. The same isolation that made deploy safe now makes agents safe. And remember the security gripe about that root daemon? Docker's answer is hardened images. Strip down, minimal base images with almost nothing left inside to attack. The old criticism, met head on at the exact layer that actually matters, so the new Docker is not your cluster's runtime, and it stopped pretending to be. It is where you build, where you test locally, and now where you run AI. It gave away the plumbing on purpose and kept the entire workflow. Now the honest part, because this channel does not sell hype, do you even need Docker desktop? Often, no. Podmin and Orbstack are lighter and faster, and Docker's 2021 licensing change pushed plenty of big teams to go shopping for exactly those. And if you are one developer shipping one static binary to one small server, a container is pure overhead. The you don't need Docker crowd is not wrong. They are just describing a corner of the world that keeps getting smaller every year. So here is the verdict. Docker is dying is a category error. The daemon, the root engine acting as your cluster runtime, genuinely lost, and honestly it should have. But the container Docker created once so hard it became the ground that everything else now stands on. Rewind the whole thing in one breath. What died? The Docker demon as the runtime replaced by container, its own child. What won? The OCI container now completely universal. What surged? AI, microservices, and cold economics straight up to 92%. Docker is dead makes a great headline. Docker quietly became the standard and walked into AI makes a better one, and it has the advantage of being true. If this finally made the paradox click, subscribe. This is CloudCodes.