---
video_title: "Polars vs Pandas: Process 14GB of Data 11x Faster"
video_id: bW6aClmB-v4
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bW6aClmB-v4
video_date: 2026-07-23T08:13:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still crashing your Python scripts with Pandas "Out of Memory" errors on large datasets? Discover why data scientists and engineers are abandoning Pandas in favor of Polars—a blazing-fast dataframe library written in Rust that processes heavy data up to 11x faster on a single laptop.
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design differences between Pandas and Polars. We explore why Python's Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) limits Pandas to a single CPU core, while Polars uses Apache Arrow and SIMD to process vectorized data across every core on your machine. We also dive into Polars' "Lazy Evaluation" mode, which uses a query optimizer to push down filters and avoid loading massive CSV and Parquet files into RAM.
  
  Finally, we give an honest review of the new Pandas 3.0 update (Copy-on-Write and PyArrow strings), when you should actually stick with Pandas for scikit-learn ecosystems, and the exact difference between Polars (Dataframe) and DuckDB (SQL). 
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The 90-Minute vs 11-Minute Pandas Benchmark
  1:07 - Why Pandas Fails at Scale (The Python GIL & Memory Wall)
  2:43 - Why Polars is 10x Faster (Rust, Apache Arrow & SIMD)
  4:32 - The Shift: Expressions vs Slow Lambdas
  6:33 - Pandas 3.0 Fights Back (Copy-on-Write)
  7:49 - Decision Matrix: When to actually stay on Pandas
  8:38 - The Streaming Engine (Querying Data Bigger Than RAM)
  9:41 - Polars vs DuckDB (The Honest Difference)
  10:15 - Summary: Polars for the Heavy Lifting
  
  #polars #pandas #python #dataengineering #systemdesign #softwareengineering #machinelearning #cloudcodes #rust #apachearrow #datascience
  
  User Queries: 
  polars vs pandas performance benchmark 2026
  how to migrate from pandas to polars
  polars tutorial python dataframe
  why is polars so fast rust
  pandas out of memory error fix large dataset
  pandas 3.0 copy on write explained
  duckdb vs polars vs pandas
  what is lazy evaluation in polars
  how apache arrow works python
  data engineering trends 2026
---
Here's a job that took 90 minutes on pandas. Same code, same data on Polars, 11 minutes. That is the whole story of 2026. Pandas users are switching, and the gap is not close. Polars is a data famed library, just like pandas, same tables, same rows and columns. But under the hood, it is a different animal. On real work, it runs about 10 times faster. Filters, joins, group buys, sorts, 10, 11 times quicker on the exact same laptop. Why? Pandas is Python on one core. Polars is rust, using all of them at once. Download, say it out loud. Polars just crossed 2.8 million a week, up 250% in a year. And pandas did not sit still. In January, pandas 3.0 landed swinging. So this is not pandas is dead. It is a real fight, and you should know where each one wins. Your code barely changes, by the way. A data fam is still a data fam. New pipeline, more than a gigabyte of data, teams are just defaulting to Polars now. I will show you why it is faster. What actually changes in your code and when to stay on pandas? Start with the thing intro courses skip. Pandas is a Python library, and plain Python runs one line at a time on a single core because of a lock called the GIL. So you buy a shiny 16 core machine, and pandas uses just one of them while the other 15 sit there doing nothing. Polars is written in rust, a language with no GIL. It spreads your query across every core you own. 8.16.32. All chewing on the same job in parallel. That one fact is most of the 10 times gap before Polars plays a single clever trick. The second difference is how the data actually sits in memory. Pandas leans on numpy blocks and Python objects scattered around the heap. Polars uses a patchy arrow, a columnar layout where every column is packed together. So the processor reads it in long straight lines instead of chasing pointers all over the place. And that packed layout enables SIM dead, a single instruction acting on many values at the same time. Some a million numbers and the CPU grabs them in tidy batches instead of one lonely value per step. Cash friendly, vectorized, exactly what a modern chip was built to do and what row by row Python fights against. Then there is the trick pandas simply does not have lazy mode. Instead of running each line the instant you type it, Polars lets you describe the whole query first, scan, filter, join, group, all of it, and only then plans the entire thing before it touches a single row of data. And that plan tunes itself. Polars pushes your filters down so a file is never fully read, grabs only the columns you actually ask for and re-orders the steps to do the least possible work. You write none of that optimization, the query engine just does it for you on every run. Let us talk receipts because faster is cheap to say. An independent 2026 benchmark ran the same operations on both engines 240 million rows about 14 gigabytes on one laptop. Polars in lazy mode against pandas 2.2 no side was favored going in filtering rows 11 times faster a group by with four aggregates 10 times not 10 percent quicker 10 times over 18 seconds of staring at a progress bar collapsed into under two that is the difference between a coffee break and no break at all an inner join of five million rows against 240 million dropped from 23 seconds to roughly two sorting on two columns about 11 times faster window functions 10 times it is not one lucky operation the whole benchmark leans the same way then park a the file format data engineers genuinely live in reading it was almost five times faster writing nearly four csv the format most people start on about five times faster to read when your day is mostly loading and saving big files that is most of your day handed back to you so where does it actually get close heavy string matching only about 1.3 times I will be straight with you on text heavy work pandas is genuinely competitive and hold on to that fact because it comes back to bite this comparison later but here's where raw speed turns into real money one production job dropped from a 90 minute run on 128 gigabyte server to 11 minutes on a box a quarter the size same output roughly 75 percent off the cloud bill and the pipeline finishes before your stand up does memory tells the same story arrow columns are compact and Polars is not constantly copying data behind your back so the same data found that swells pandas pasture ram often fits with room to spare in Polars less billing fewer out of memory crashes at two am so how different is the code really the core shift is expressions in pandas when a built-in does not cover you you reach for apply and a python lambda that crawls the data fam one row at a time and that lambda is usually where a fast pipeline turns slow in Polars you write an expression instead pill dot co all dot mean dot over a group and the engine runs it natively across every core in rust there is no python function sitting in the hot loop anymore the lambda that used to be your escape hatch mostly just disappears the real superpower is that expressions compose you build one small expression then reuse it stack it into a group by drop it inside a window the same building block everywhere your logic reads like a sentence instead of 10 lines of throw away intermediate data frames Polars also throws out the index entirely no more reset underscore index no surprise label alignment resuffling your rows behind your back a row is just its position in the table which makes queries predictable and a lot easier to read six months later and a small thing that has burned most pandas users and integer column with a single missing value turns into floats and suddenly your ideas have decimal points Polars keeps it in integer with a real null value the types you declared stay the types you get the lazy pipeline reads clean to scan the file filter group aggregate then call collect one chain the optimizer can see from end to end and nothing actually executes until you ask for the answer at the very last line you describe the what Polars figures out the how is there a learning curve yes and I am not going to pretend there is not one thinking in declarative expressions instead of poking at a data farm in place takes a week maybe two to really click in your head after that going back to pandas feels like typing with mittens on one honest warning though do not just import Polars and keep writing pandas out of muscle memory if your Polars looks exactly like your old pandas it will run but you left most of the speed sitting on the table and you will wonder what everyone was so excited about now the part most Polars videos conveniently skip right over on January 21st 2026 pandas 3.0 shipped and it is the biggest release the project has done in years pandas did not roll over it came to this fight swinging copy on right is the default now and the only mode in plain English pandas stopped making nervous defensive copies of your data every single time you touched a column a whole category of quiet overhead and a pile of confusing warnings just vanished overnight and strings pandas worst area for a solid decade are now backed by pie arrow by default that is five to ten times faster on text operations and roughly half the memory for text columns remember that 1.3 times gap on string work this release is pandas walking right up and closing it so give the pandas team real credit here 3.0 is genuinely faster and leaner than the pandas you remember fighting with but and it is a load bearing but it is still eager and single core by default no lazy optimizer no free multi threading no query planner which means the heavyweight wins the giant joins the huge group eyes the multi gigabyte scans still land squarely with Polars pandas got dramatically better at being pandas what it did not do is turn itself into a parallel query engine overnight so when should you actually stay on pandas small interactive data a few hundred thousand rows in a notebook that you are poking at live pandas is instant you already know every shortcut and Polars would genuinely save you nothing do not switch to feel modern and the ecosystem which is the big one the second your data hands off to psychic learn or matplop or stats models every one of them expects a pandas data found 15 years of tutorials courses and stack overflow answers all speak pandas that gravity is enormous and leaning on it is completely fine but you are not even forced to choose because they interoperate Polars hands a frame to pandas through arrow with basically zero copying do your heavy lifting in Polars pass the result to psychic learn get it back no slow conversion tax no rewriting your model code now here is Polars big 2026 move the one that genuinely changes the math the new streaming engine it processes your data in small chunks and spills to disc when it has to so you can crunch a file bigger than your entire ram without the machine tipping over and dying think about what that kills larger than memory data used to be the exact moment you got forced on to spark or a giant cloud server or a whole data engineering team now a laptop with a decent SSD just grinds through it in the background that is a genuinely big deal this is why the switch is happening where it actually counts in production get hub quant desks running risk numbers against a hard deadline internal data platforms at real companies new greenfield pipelines default to Polars now and old pandas code gets migrated the moment the savings are obvious and you are not betting on a fragile weekend hobby project either Polars has a real company behind it backed by bane capital shipping releases constantly since version 1.0 landed back in 2024 while the core engine stays MIT open source and completely free you are not locked into anyone quick word on duck DB since someone always asks it is a different tool not a rival duck DB is sequel first an actual embedded database Polars is a data fam you drive straight from python plenty of teams happily use both the point is that the slow single core default finally has fast alternatives so should you switch if you are starting something new or anything you run regularly is over a gigabyte my answer is a clear yes learn Polars now while it is still a resume line and not yet the assumed default everyone is expected to know it pays for itself in about a week but you do not have to rewrite your whole repo this weekend keep pandas for the small interactive ecosystem glued work that is genuinely what it is best at the next heavy job though reach for Polars and actually watch the clock that one number will change your mind faster than I can Polars for the heavy lifting pandas for the last mile if this saved you a slow afternoon you know what to do