---
video_title: "SQLite + AI: The Database Revolution Nobody is Talking About (No Pinecone)"
video_id: psSL3Fi5zJE
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=psSL3Fi5zJE
video_date: 2026-07-12T16:30:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you still paying for expensive vector databases like Pinecone, Weaviate, or ChromaDB to run your RAG applications? Discover why backend developers and AI engineers are abandoning complex SaaS databases and moving to Local-First AI using SQLite. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the quiet database revolution happening right now. We explore `sqlite-vec` (created by Alex Garcia), a zero-dependency C extension that drops full Vector Search (KNN, Cosine Distance) directly into a single, portable SQLite file. We explain why running embeddings and database queries in the same process completely eliminates network latency and protects user privacy.
  
  We also dive into the massive paradigm shift in AI Agents: why agents need millions of micro-databases instead of one giant cluster. We look at how companies like Cloudflare (with D1) and Turso are rewriting SQLite in Rust to add concurrent writes, change data capture, and serverless edge deployments—scaling the world's oldest database to run billions of AI agents. 
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Vector Database Trap (Pinecone vs SQLite)
  1:09 - The Hidden Cost of the RAG Pipeline
  2:15 - What is sqlite-vec? (Vector Search in 1 File)
  3:35 - Hybrid Search & Distance Metrics Explained
  4:10 - WebAssembly: Running RAG in the Browser
  4:37 - The Catch: Brute Force KNN vs ANN
  5:33 - Cloudflare D1 & The Edge Database
  6:02 - The AI Agent Problem (Millions of Databases)
  6:25 - Turso: Rewriting SQLite in Rust (libSQL)
  7:57 - The Honest Verdict: When to actually use Postgres
  8:20 - Summary: The SQLite AI Revolution
  
  #sqlite #vectordatabase #rag #artificialintelligence #systemdesign #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #machinelearning #rust #database
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:
  how to use sqlite for vector search
  sqlite vec vs pgvector
  pinecone vs sqlite vector database
  local first rag tutorial
  cloudflare d1 sqlite explained
  turso libsql rust rewrite
  system design ai agent database
  how to build rag without vector db
  sqlite vector embeddings python
  stop using pinecone vector database
---
Open any developer form this week and you'll find the same fight. Pinecon, VVA, PG Vector, or Chroma, which Vector database should I use? I've got some bad news for everyone in that thread. You are all arguing about the wrong database. Because the one quietly winning the AI race isn't new at all. It's 25 years old and it's already on your machine. It's East Coolite. East Coolite isn't just old. It's the most deployed database on Earth. The best estimate is over one trillion of them running right now. It's inside every Android phone, every iPhone, every Mac, and every browser tab you have ever opened. You are surrounded by it. And here's what changed. In the last two years, this ancient little database quietly learned how to do AI. The project is called East Coolite-Vec. It takes Vector search, the engine underneath every rag app, and drops it straight into SQLite. Which means your whole Vector database collapses into one file, a single file. You could literally email it to yourself. No pine cone account, no server to rent, no $60 a month bill. Just a file and the SQL you already know. That is the revolution nobody is talking about. And it runs deeper than one clever extension. Let me show you. First, let's be honest about the thing everybody copied. A normal rag setup calls an embedding model, then ships your vectors off to a hosted vector database over the network, then waits, then re-ranks, then hopes a good answer comes back. That is four or five moving parts just to find some similar text. Every box in that diagram is a service you provision, a bill you keep paying, and one more thing that can page you at three in the morning. Pine Cones paid tiers start around $70 a month for a huge number of apps that is wildly over-engineered. And every single query leaves your computer. Your user's private data takes a round trip to somebody else's cloud, just to find three paragraphs that rhyme with the question. That should bother you a little more than it does. Now the sharp teams already sense this. They move to PG Vector, bolting vectors onto Postgres so they could stop running a separate service. Good instinct. East Coolite just takes that same instinct one giant step further. No server at all, because East Coolite is already inside your app. Same process, same memory, zero network hops. No connection string, no API key, no cold start. It is just sitting there waiting to be used. So what does East Coolite veck actually look like? You create a virtual table and tell it your embeddings are, say, 768 numbers wide. One statement and you have a working vector store. Then you insert those embeddings right next to your normal columns. Same table, same file, one plane insert. Your text and its meaning finally live in the exact same place. And to search, you write a select. Match against a query vector, order by distance, limit 20. That is a full nearest neighbor search. The exact thing you are renting a whole platform for, and it is just SQL. Sit with that for a second. No new query language, no SDK to learn, no proprietary vector dialect. If you can write a select statement, you already know how to do retrieval. And because it is a real database, you can filter by metadata in the same query, user ID, date, a tag, and then rank by similarity. Try doing that cleanly in a bolt-on vector service, and you'll be there a while. Here's the part one genuinely love. The old version, sicklight-vsus, was a nightmare to compile. Alex Garcia threw it out and rewrote everything as one C file with zero dependencies. You copy it in, and it just runs. There's a companion piece too. With a sister extension, you can run the embedding model itself inside sicklight. Raw text goes in, vectors come out. The entire pipeline living in a single process, worried about size, it can store each vector as compact bytes, or even single bits, with a matching distance function. That is millions of vectors packed into a file small enough to sink over a phone connection. You pick the distance that fits the job, straight line for raw closeness, cosine for direction, or hamming for those bit vectors. The knobs a real vector database hands you right inside a select. And the same file, byte for byte runs on a laptop, a server, a $5 Raspberry Pi, and the phone in your pocket. You write it once, and it goes wherever SQLite already is, which is, again, everywhere. My favorite trick of all, compile it to WebAssembly and it runs inside the browser. The whole retrieval step happens in the tab. Nothing, and I mean nothing, ever leaves the user's device. Now the honest catch. Cisco dies, vex checks every vector one by one. Pure brute force, no fancy index yet. On a normal laptop that is still tens of milliseconds into the hundreds of thousands, even a few million rows. Push past that, and you'll want a dedicated engine. And that is completely okay. It's not a Python only toy either. Alex shipped bindings for JavaScript, Go, Rust, and Ruby. Basically every language you'd actually reach for on a real project. But keep coming back to that one file idea, because it is genuinely wild. Your data, your embeddings, and your search index all live in a single file you can copy, drop into Git, back up, or ship inside your apps binary. It also pairs with SQLite's built-in full-text search. Keyword matching and vector similarity blended together in one query, the hybrid search that dedicated platforms will happily sell you a subscription for. Add all of this up and you get local first AI, a private assistant that works on a plane, a search box that costs you exactly zero to run. Retrieval with no cloud anywhere in the picture, and you're not trapped offline either. The lib SQL crowd added embedded replicas, read locally at memory speed, then quietly sync the same file up to the cloud in the background. You get both at once. Cloudflare saw this coming years ago. Their database D1 is just SQLite running across hundreds of cities on the edge, generally available since 2024. Millions of little databases spread across the planet. Each one a plain SQLite file you already know how to query. So your database can now live a few milliseconds from every user alive, and it is still just a SQLite file underneath. Take a second and let that sink in, and then AI agents showed up and broke the math completely. An agent doesn't want one giant shared database, it wants its own. A private memory for every user, every session, every single task, thousands of tiny databases spun up in a millisecond and thrown away seconds later. One company looked at that and had a genuinely contrarian thought. The old question was, how big can a single database get? The new question is, how many can you create and how fast? That company is Terso, and they had been circling this for years. First they forked SQLite into LibSQL, the open version its authors never allowed, and then they went a lot further. Their next move is a little bit insane. They are rewriting East Colite from scratch, in Rust, fully in the open, built from day one for the age of agents, and they went straight at East Colite's biggest weakness. For 25 years, only one thing could write to it at a time. Terso shipped true concurrent rights up to four times faster, the feature people begged for and never got. That is not the only thing. One year in, they have also shipped native vector search, changed data capture, full text search, live encryption, materialized views, and a build that runs right in the browser. This is a serious database now, not a weekend science project. And how do you trust a from scratch database with your data? You test it the way the aerospace and foundation DB people do, simulating millions of chaotic failures, deterministically, before it ever ships. That is the bar, and the number they're building toward is not a typo. Not thousands of databases, not millions, billions, roughly one per agent, per user, per whatever comes next. Over 200 people are contributing, and half the core team is from outside the company. After 25 years of a famously closed code base, East Colite is finally being rebuilt in the open, and this is not some fringe experiment. It's how Simon Willison's tools log every model call, how mobile apps ship a searchable database inside the download, how on device AI is quietly being built right now today. So am I telling you to delete Postgres? No. At real scale, with heavy filtering and billions of vectors, a dedicated database still wins. EskiWal plus AI does not replace everything, and it doesn't need to. But that was never the point. The revolution isn't some shiny new database. It's the oldest, most boring one. The one already on 4 billion devices, quietly learning how to think. EskiWalite plus AI. Keep an eye on this one, because almost nobody else is. I'll see you in the next one.