---
video_title: "TSMC COUPE: Revolutionizing AI Data Centers With Optical Interconnects"
video_id: hpwhdW9zv9Q
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hpwhdW9zv9Q
video_date: 2026-07-17T19:30:15+00:00
video_description: |
  Are we reaching the physical limits of copper wiring in AI data centers? Discover how TSMC just bypassed the PCIe and Ethernet bottleneck by mass-producing COUPE (Compact Universal Photonic Engine)—a 3D-stacked Silicon Photonics platform that allows chips to communicate using pulses of light instead of electricity. 
  
  🔔 Subscribe: 
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of TSMC's COUPE and how it uses SoIC-X 3D stacking to fuse electronic dies directly onto photonic dies. We explore the terrifying power constraints of modern AI clusters (where moving data across copper burns 30% of total power), and how optical interconnects are 5 to 10 times more power-efficient. 
  
  We also dive into the real-world products already using this breakthrough: Broadcom's 102 Tbps Tomahawk 6 switch, Nvidia's Quantum-X Photonics switch, and next-gen chiplets from Ayar Labs and Lightmatter. Finally, we give an honest verdict on what this actually means: light isn't replacing computation (transistors still use electrons), but it has officially replaced communication.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The End of Copper Wiring
  1:13 - How TSMC COUPE Actually Works (SoIC-X Stacking)
  2:01 - The Photonic Transceiver Loop Explained
  2:44 - The Roadmap: Pluggables vs. Co-Packaged Optics
  4:58 - Broadcom Tomahawk 6 & The Meta Uptime Test
  6:00 - Nvidia Quantum-X & 3D Hybrid Bonding
  6:26 - Ayar Labs & Lightmatter (Photonic Interposers)
  7:34 - The Samsung 2029 Delay
  7:53 - The Honest Catch: Communicate vs. Compute
  8:32 - Summary: The New Speed of Light
  
  #tsmc #siliconphotonics #hardware #systemdesign #softwareengineering #broadcom #nvidia #cloudcodes #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #semiconductors
  
  
  User Queries: 
  tsmc coupe silicon photonics explained
  what is co packaged optics cpo
  broadcom tomahawk 6 switch architecture
  how silicon photonics works optical computing
  nvidia quantum x photonics switch
  ayar labs teraphy lightmatter passage
  tsmc soic-x 3d stacking packaging
  why copper cables are dead data center
  ai power bottleneck explained
  samsung vs tsmc advanced packaging 2026
---
In April 2026, TSMC started mass producing a chip that sends its data as pulses of light instead of electricity. This isn't a lab demo, it's a foundry platform you can order today. The name is Coup. For 20 years, the idea that light beats copper has been the most agreed on belief in chip design. And for 20 years, it was always about 18 months away from actually shipping. In April that finally broke, Coup went into real, high volume production, start with the problem it fixes. The copper wire between chips is running out of room. At 1.6 terabits per second, a passive copper cable can barely reach 1 meter, and shuttling data between chips already burns about 30% of an AI cluster's power. A single 800 gigabit port draws 16 to 17 watts just to shove electrons down a wire. That's heat you pay for, and bandwidth you can't buy past a point. Light carries far more data per watt, and distance mostly stops being a problem. The whole industry agreed on this. Agreeing was the easy part. The hard part was building it in a factory, at volume, at a same price. That's the wall TSMC cleared. Coup stands for compact universal photonic engine. Picture a tiny optical modem baked into the chip package itself. So how do you actually make light manufacturable? For years, people bolted optics onto a chip as a fragile add-on, and the yields fell apart. TSMC did something more stubborn. It took the electronic die and stacked it right on top of the photonic die. Face to face, electronics up top, light underneath, fused into one part. The two dies basically touch, so the signal barely has to travel at all. And here's the clever bit that makes it real. TSMC didn't invent a brand new process for this. It reused SOIICX, the exact 3D stacking it already runs in high volume for ordinary chiplets. So the photonic engine rides through the same factory, the same bonding tools, the same supply chain TSMC has spent years perfecting. That's the difference between a science project and a product you can order by the thousand. Stacking the electronic die straight onto the photonic die does something a cable can't. The gap between them collapses to almost nothing, so the electrical resistance at that junction drops to the floor. Lower resistance means less wasted energy and a cleaner signal. Right where the electrical world hands off to the optical one. TSMC calls it the lowest impedance interface it can build. Now step back and see what that unlocks. An optical engine stops being an exotic thing only a hyperscaler can afford to hand build. It becomes a standard block on the menu, sitting next to the logic and the memory. Any chip designer using TSMC can drop light speed connectivity into their package, the same way they add a chiplet. That's the moment Optic stops being special and simply becomes ordinary plumbing. And the payoff isn't small. By TSMC's own numbers, moving data through Coupe instead of the electrical path is 5 to 10 times more power efficient and latency drops by 10 to 20 times. Read those together. For every watt you use to spend just talking between chips, you now move several times the data and it arrives far sooner. At data center scale, that's a 9-figure electricity bill bending downward. Here's the whole trick in one motion. Electrons come in from the logic chip. Down at the photonic layer, a modulator flips a laser on and off billions of times a second, stamping those bits onto a beam of light. The light shoots out of the package down a fiber and at the far end, another engine reads it straight back into electrons. The bulky transceiver that used to sit at the board edge is simply gone. So what's actually rolling off the line right now? Generation 1 of Coupe is an optical engine that drops into a standard plugable, running at 1.6 terabits per second. For perspective, the fastest copper ethernet you can buy tops out around 800 gigabits. This first coupe doubles it in the same slot on a fraction of the power. And this is the conservative version, the easy one to ship first, that doubling matters more than it sounds. Networking gear scales in lockstep with the fabric that connects it. So when that link between switches doubles overnight, entire cluster designs get room to breathe. Racks that were choking on copper can suddenly move twice the traffic without cooking themselves. And because it's a plugable, operators can adopt it without rebuilding the whole machine. Generation 2 is where it gets aggressive. Instead of a plugable at the edge of the board, the optical engine moves right up next to the switch chip, sharing the same substrate that's co-packaged optics. The light source sits millimeters from the silicon that needs it, so the electrical path shrinks to almost nothing. TSMC targets 6.4 terabits per engine here, at even lower latency than Generation 1. Generation 3 pushes further still onto the inner poser the processor sits on. At that point, light is threaded in beside the compute die itself, at up to 12.8 terabits per second. That version is still in the pathfinding stage, with no shipping date yet, but the direction is unmistakable. Each generation drags the optics closer to the transistors, until copper is left carrying almost nothing. Now, roadmaps are cheap. Any company can draw a slide with big numbers on it. The real test is who's already building products on top of COOP with their own money on the line. And in 2026, that list got serious fast. Start with Broadcom. Its Tomahawk 6 switch, codenamed Davison, is the first Ethernet switch to hit 102 terabits per second on a single chip, double the previous generation. The optical engine underneath it is built on TSMC COOP. Broadcom measured a 70% cut in interconnect power versus the old pluggable approach. This isn't a concept board. Its shipping silicon, a hyperscaler, can rack today. And reliability was the old objection, so here's the receipt. The previous Broadcom generation, deployed at Meta, logged over 1 million cumulative port hours of co-packaged optics running at 400 gigabits, with zero link failures in the field. That's the kind of boring, brutal uptime data a data center operator actually needs before betting a fleet on light. Once a number like that exists, the buyers stop asking whether it works and start asking how many they can rack. Nvidia is in two, from the other side of the rack. Its Quantum X photonics switch packs 144 optical ports for 115 terabits of total throughput. And it's liquid cooled because dense optics run hot. It uses TSMC 3D hybrid bonding, making it one of the first 3D stacked silicon photonics switches in production. Nvidia claims 3.5 times better power efficiency than pluggable optics at that scale. Then there's the money signal. IR Labs makes an optical chiplet called TeraFe that snaps onto an accelerator package at 8 terabits per engine. In March 2026, the company raised $500 million in one round. At a $3.75 billion valuation, the largest funding round in the history of photonic interconnects. Investors don't write checks that size for a technology they still think is risky. Light matter takes a different angle entirely. Instead of sitting beside the chips, its passage engine slides underneath them as a photonic interposer the whole package rests on. Traffic between chiplets travels as light through that floor, rather than as electricity through the substrate. Light matter claims more than 200 terabits of connectivity per package, and up to 8 times faster AI training against a copper-wired equivalent. You could feel the mood shift at OFC, the big optical networking conference, in Los Angeles this March. For a decade, those sessions argued about whether co-packaged optics could ever really work. This year, the conversation was supply chains, standards, and how fast everyone can ramp. That shift, from if to how fast, is the tell that a technology has genuinely arrived. And TSMC's lead here is measured in years, not months. Its nearest rival Samsung isn't expected to reach a comparable co-packaged optic service until 2029. In a market where a whole generation of AI hardware turns over in about 18 months, a three-year head start on the packaging is close to owning the on-ramp for the entire buildout. Okay, now the important caveat, because the headline oversells it a little. Your laptop isn't suddenly thinking in light. Coop doesn't make transistors compute optically, and it doesn't touch the math inside the chip at all. Every logicate is still pushing electrons, exactly like last year. The word doing the heavy lifting in the title is communicate, not compute. What changed is how chips talk to each other. This is the wiring between the chips, not the brains inside them, and light replaces copper only on that link. It sounds like a smaller claim, and it is a smaller claim. But it happens to land on the single worst bottleneck in modern computing. So this smaller claim is the one that actually moves the needle, because that link is exactly what was strangling AI. A giant training cluster is thousands of chips constantly swapping data, and we saw the copper tax, a third of the power, a hard wall on distance, and heat you have to fight everywhere. Fix the talking, and the whole machine runs faster and cooler at once, without touching a single transistor. That's why the interconnect, not the processor is where the next decade of gains hides. So that's why April 2026 is the real tipping point, not just another press release. The idea was never the milestone manufacturing was. The moment of foundry can print optical engines by the wafer, at yield for anyone, light stops being the future of chips, and becomes a part number. Copper carried computing for 50 years. It just got handed a light speed exit ramp for the data. And the next wall is already in view, making light do the computing, not just the talking. That's a whole different fight, and a whole different video.