---
video_title: "WebAssembly Is Quietly Killing Docker (Millisecond Startup)"
video_id: U8yzw0rc-RI
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U8yzw0rc-RI
video_date: 2026-07-13T12:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Is Docker actually dying, or is WebAssembly (WASM) just quietly taking over the Edge? As developers struggle with bloated 500MB container images and 2-second serverless cold starts, a new system architecture is taking over: WASM modules running on WASI that cold-start in under 1 millisecond. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design battle between WebAssembly and Docker containers. We explore how Wasm's "deny-by-default" security sandbox prevents container escapes, and how WASI 0.2 and the "Component Model" allow you to snap Rust, Go, and Python code together like Lego bricks without any glue code.
  
  We also dive into the massive enterprise adoption of WASM—from Cloudflare Workers running 10M+ executions per second, to Akamai acquiring Fermyon. Finally, we look at the honest limitations of WebAssembly (no threading, painful debugging), why Docker Desktop actually deprecated its Wasm integration, and why the future of software engineering isn't a replacement, but a Hybrid Stack.
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - Docker vs WebAssembly (The 1ms Cold Start)
  1:02 - System Design: Why Docker Containers are Bloated
  1:58 - WASM Cold Starts & "Deny by Default" Security 
  2:57 - WebAssembly 3.0 & WASI 0.2 Explained 
  3:53 - The Component Model (Polyglot Programming) 
  4:59 - The Money: Akamai Acquires Fermyon 
  5:33 - Cloudflare Workers & The Edge Revolution 
  6:36 - Why Docker Desktop Deprecated WASM 
  7:11 - The Catch: No Threading & Slow Debugging 
  8:14 - The Verdict: The Hybrid Container Stack 
  
  #webassembly #wasm #docker #devops #systemdesign #softwareengineering #kubernetes #serverless #cloudcodes #rust #wasi
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:
  webassembly vs docker containers
  what is wasm webassembly explained
  how wasi 0.2 component model works
  webassembly serverless cold start 1ms
  fermyon spin tutorial webassembly
  docker desktop webassembly deprecated
  system design serverless architecture
  rust webassembly backend tutorial
  cloudflare workers webassembly
  why developers are leaving docker
---
Two servers, the same job. One takes a few seconds to wake up, the other is ready in under a millisecond. The slow one is a docker container. The fast one is a web assembly module, and the person who saw this coming was docker's own co-founder Solomon Hikes. Back in 2019, he said, if WAS and WAS had existed in 2008, we would never have needed to build docker. That future is arriving right now, quietly, one workload at a time. Start with size. A container image drags a whole operating system along, hundreds of megabytes. The WAS module doing the exact same job, often under two. That's 10 to 50 times less memory to serve the very same traffic. A box that used to hold 50 containers can now pack in thousands of modules. And each one is sealed in a sandbox that can't touch anything you didn't explicitly allow. You've almost certainly run WASM today, in Figma, in Photoshop's web app, behind Cloudflare. So no, docker isn't dying tomorrow, but its territory is shrinking fast. Let me show you exactly where. So what actually is a WASM module? It's a small binary of portable bytecode. You compile your code once, and the very same file runs on an x86 server, an ARM laptop, or a risk-5 chip, no rebuild, no separate images, no works on my machine. It's the deploy artifact developers have quietly wanted for a decade. Here's why a container weighs so much. It shares the host's Linux kernel, but around your app, it still wraps a whole user land, namespaces, a file stem, shared libraries, an init system, a package manager. You're not shipping a program. You're shipping a tiny machine, and you rebuild that machine every single deploy. A WASM module throws all of that out. There is no operating system inside it at all. It runs in a compact virtual machine that executes validated bytecode over one flat block of linear memory, and every single access is boundstacked. Just your logic, the overhead is measured in kilobytes, not hundreds of megabytes, and that is the entire cold start story. A container has to spin up kernel namespaces and mount a file stem before your code even breathes, 200 milliseconds to a couple of full seconds. A native WASM runtime just hands the bytes to the CPU, 10 milliseconds compiled, and under one when it's cached. For serverless, that gap is the whole game. Security flips the same way. A container can reach the kernel's 300 plus system calls the moment it starts. A WASM module starts with absolutely zero. It can't read a file, open a socket, or even check the clock until you hand it that one specific capability. Deny by default, which is the exact opposite of how a container behaves. And that gap is not academic. Container escapes are a whole family of bugs, one flaw in the shared runtime, like the 2019 RunSea hole, or the container it escaped the year after, and hostile code climbs out onto your host. WASM's wall is enforced by the bytecode itself, checked mathematically, before a single instruction ever runs. None of this is a lab demo anymore. In September 2025, WebAssembly 3.0 became an official W3C standard, the largest update in the language's entire history. Garbage collection, exception handling, 64 bit memory, and wide signed, all standardized in one release. That garbage collection piece is quietly huge. It means Java, Kotlin, Dart, and Scala can finally compile to WASM without bundling an entire runtime next to your code, which used to be the single most awkward hack in the whole ecosystem. Smaller modules and a lot more of the industry can suddenly play. The piece that put WASM on the server is WSI, the system interface. Preview 2 gave modules real networking, sockets, and HTTP that things aback and simply can't live without. Preview 3, with proper Async I.O. built-in, started shipping in fermion spin late in 2025. A full 1.0 is still ahead. Then there's the part one genuinely love, the component model. You write one piece in Rust, another in Go, a third in JavaScript, describe each one in a tiny interface file, and they snap together like Lego bricks, no glue code, no paying a serialization tax at every language boundary, and almost every language you'd actually reach for can target it now. Rust and C++ went first, and the Rust tooling is genuinely polished. Go Compiles through Tiny Go, Python and C-Sharp have real support, and even JavaScript itself gets packaged down into the same little WASM binary. It also drops straight into the tools you already run. A project called SpinCube joined the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, so Kubernetes now schedules WAS modules right beside your containers as a container chim, same cupous TL, same Helm charts, same cluster, one line of config, underneath a small fleet of runtimes does the lifting. WASM time is the standard reference with a two-year support window from the bytecode alliance, WASM edge, and WASM er Chase the Edge, and WASM er shrinks under 100 kilobytes small enough to live on a microcontroller. Here's the moment the money noticed. In December 2025, a comma, one of the largest content delivering networks on earth, bought Fermion, the serverless WASM company outright, the Spin project, the SpinCube team, the founders, all of it. You do not acquire a company over a technology you think is a toy. And Fermion came with receipts. Their Edge platform serves 75 million requests every second, and they've demoed cold starts under half a millisecond against the hundreds of milliseconds a normal serverless function needs just to wake back up. At the Edge, that difference is the product. You've almost certainly hit this without ever noticing. Cloud Flair workers run more than 10 million of these executions a second, spinning up and well under a millisecond at the Edge node physically closest to you. No cold start tax, no idle server sitting there costing money, and they are not alone. Fastly's Edge platform has more than 10,000 developers building on it. American Express runs an internal functions platform on WASM. Shopify has sandboxed untrusted merchant plugins this way since 2020. These aren't proofs of concept, they're in production at real scale. On the browser side, the curve keeps climbing too. WASM now touches around 5.5% of all chrome page loads, up a full point in a single year, with adoption growing nearly 30%. Figma, Photoshop, Google Meet, Office Online, all quietly running on it, even Docker itself leaned in. They shipped Docker Plus WASM, built on a shared SHIM project called RunWazzy, so you could run a module with the exact same command you use for a container. Same CLI, same registry, a WASM runtime quietly swapped in underneath. But here's the twist nobody scripted. In 2026, Docker quietly marked that same WASM feature deprecated, slated for removal from Docker desktop, not because WASM flopped, because the real action had already moved to Kubernetes and the Edge, not the laptop. The SHIMPATH lives on, the desktop toy got retired. And I have to be straight with you, because this channel isn't a hype machine. Server side WASM has been almost ready for three years running. Analysts literally call it an identity crisis. One name trying to be a browser runtime, a container replacement, a plug-in sandbox, and an AI layer all at once. The wall is real. WASM on the server still has no proper threading, which quietly rules out databases and heavy parallel compute. The tooling is smooth and rust, and rough almost everywhere else. Debugging is genuinely painful, and the spec keeps shifting under teams that already shipped on it. There's even a benchmark that stings. Run WASM inside Docker's own integration, and it can actually be slower than a plain container 65 to 300 milliseconds slower on startup. The sub millisecond magic only shows up in a native runtime, never in the hybrid path, so please don't go ripping out your databases. Anything stateful, anything doing heavy disk or network work, anything that needs a GPU or forks processes that stays in a container. WASM is not trying to run your Postgres or your ML training job, and honestly it shouldn't. There's a fresh reason it matters though. AI agents need to run untrusted tool code somewhere safe and portable, and WASM denied by default sandbox is a near perfect fit, so a growing wave of MCP tool servers is quietly adopting it as the execution format right now, so the honest split is clean. Docker owns the stateful, long running, full Linux world, the databases, the queues, the GPU jobs. WASM owns the stateless edge, serverless functions, plug-in sandboxes, multi-tenant code that has to start instantly and cost almost nothing, which means the winning setup in 2026 isn't one or the other. It's both. Docker runs your databases and queues in the region. WASM runs the fast functions at the edge sitting in front of them. Forecasters see containers still dominant by 2027, with WASM the fastest growing slice beside them. And that is what quietly killing Docker really means, not a funeral, a slow handover. Every cold start sensitive, security sensitive, high-density workload that walks out of a container and simply never comes back is a piece of Docker's old territory gone for good. So here's your move this week. Find one stateless service in your stack, an HTTP handler, a webhook, a little transform, and try compiling it to WASM with spin or WASM time. That's the whole future in miniature, and it genuinely fits inside an afternoon. Docker isn't dead. It just has company now, and that company boots in a millisecond. See you in the next one.