---
video_title: "SSE Explained: The \"Dumb\" HTTP Trick Powering Every AI App"
video_id: GpOTaKdxamY
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GpOTaKdxamY
video_date: 2026-08-08T09:00:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Press F12 on ChatGPT, Claude, or Gemini when generating text. You won't find a WebSocket—you'll find a single hanging HTTP request with header text/event-stream. Meet Server-Sent Events (SSE), the 2004 web protocol powering modern AI token streaming.
  
  
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  
  
  
  In this deep dive, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design, HTTP mechanics, and network architecture behind Server-Sent Events (SSE). We examine how Ian Hickson created SSE for WHATWG in 2004 (5 years before WebSockets), why a 14-line Go server requires zero socket upgrade handshakes, and how HTTP/2 multiplexing solved the historic 6-connection per domain limit that blocked older browsers.
  
  Furthermore, we dissect why OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google use Fetch ReadableStreams to bypass EventSource GET limitations, analyze the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Streamable HTTP specification, explore how Datastar and htmx 4 use SSE for live DOM patching, and audit production gotchas like Nginx X-Accel-Buffering and WebRTC voice fallbacks.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture, system design, and how to build faster software, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Mentioned:
  • WHATWG Server-Sent Events Standard: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/server-sent-events.html
  • MDN EventSource Documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventSource
  • Vercel AI SDK Data Stream Protocol: https://github.com/vercel/ai
  • Model Context Protocol Specification: https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol
  • Datastar Framework Engine: https://github.com/star-federation/datastar
  
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - Press F12 on ChatGPT: Not a WebSocket!
  0:32 - The 2004 Protocol (Older Than WebSockets)
  0:53 - 14 Lines of Go: Standard Library SSE
  1:14 - HTTP/1.1 6-Connection Limit & The HTTP/2 Fix
  2:33 - Why AI Token Streaming Revived SSE
  3:51 - The EventSource GET Trap & SDK Fetch Workarounds
  4:25 - MCP & Streamable HTTP Protocol Convergence
  5:09 - Datastar & htmx 4: Backend DOM Patching via SSE
  6:29 - Production Gotchas: Nginx Buffering & WebRTC Voice
  7:41 - Final Verdict: When to Use SSE vs WebSockets
  
  #sse #websockets #chatgpt #golang #backend #webdevelopment #systemdesign #cloudcodes #http #ai
  
  
  
  
  
  
  User Queries:
  sse server sent events vs websockets ai token streaming
  how chatgpt streams tokens text event stream header
  server sent events golang 14 lines standard library
  http2 multiplexing sse 6 connection limit fix
  eventsource get restriction fetch readable stream post
  mcp model context protocol streamable http sse
  datastar htmx 4 server sent events dom patching
  nginx x accel buffering no sse proxy streaming fix
  vercel ai sdk stream protocol sse
  cloud codes sse vs websockets breakdown
---
Open chat GPT and press F12 before you send anything. Hit enter. One request appears in the network tab, not a websocket, not a socket at all. One ordinary HTTP response that simply refuses to finish. It's content type is text/event-stream.

That header is a whole trick behind the typing effect. The body is plain text. The word data, a colon, a chunk of JSON, two new lines, then it does that again. No handshake, no upgrade, no binary frames. It is a text file the server keeps writing while you watch. The

format has a name. Server-sent events, written into the WHATWG spec by Ian Hickson back in 2004. Opera shipped it in September 2006. The websocket RFC would not land for another 5 years and 3 months. So, the protocol carrying every token you have ever watched an AI produce is older than the protocol it beat.

And this is the entire server. A header, a loop, an f printf, a flush, 14 lines of go. Standard library only. No broker, no sticky sessions, no upgrade to negotiate through your proxy. The load balancer you already run carries it, which leaves an uncomfortable question hanging.

If it was this good in 2006, what were the last 15 years about? WebSockets won that argument on capability and fairly. Two directions, binary frames, a couple of bytes of overhead per message. On a whiteboard, it takes every column. And for 15 years, the whiteboard is where the decision got made. Server-sent

events also carried a real defect, not a rumor. Over HTTP 1.1, a browser allows six connections per domain, and an event source occupies one of those six for as long as it lives. Six lanes for your entire origin. A dashboard with four live widgets takes four lanes. Open a

fifth tab of your own app, and the request does not fail, it hangs with no error you can catch until something else closes. Firefox closed that bug as won't fix in 2013. Chrome closed its own as by design. And the engineer who closed it named the fix in the same breath. Use SPDY or HTTP/2, which multiplex streams down one connection. That shipped. Chromium now

carries around 100 streams over a single connection and the six connection wall stops existing. That was 2013. The comparison was never rerun. The W3C finished its back in February 2015 and retired the document in 2021 when the text moved into the HTML living standard and browser support settled at 96%. Tools get reconsidered when a workload forces it, not when they improve.

The workload arrived in late 2022 and it had an unusually specific shape. The server talks for 30 straight seconds. The client, halfway through the answer, has nothing at all to add. One direction, plain text, started by a request the client already made. For server-sent events, that is not a compromise. That is the design brief,

written down before anyone had heard of a language model. It even shipped the boring parts you would otherwise build. A retry field for backoff and a colon prefixed comment line to hold the connection open. Read the vendor docs and it is sitting in the open. Anthropic, set stream to true and the reply arrives as server-sent events with named events for message start, content block delta, content block stop, and message stop, plus ping events scattered through to keep the socket warm. OpenAI compresses

it to one line, HTTP streaming over server-sent events, and terminates a chat completion with the literal string data: done. Google wants alt = SSE in the query string and without it Gemini hands you the finished answer in one lump. Three labs, three unrelated stacks, one wire format from 2006. There was no announcement and no standards fight. It showed up in the quick starts, which is where the decisions that actually stick get made. So, why does

almost nobody use the browser API built for exactly this? Because event source can only issue a get, no request body, no authorization header. That restriction has been argued about in the HTML spec tracker for years, and it rules out every AI endpoint on the market because a prompt is a post carrying a key. So, each SDK reaches for fetch and parses the stream by hand. Vercel documents it plainly. The data stream

protocol uses server-sent events format for keep-alive, reconnect, and caching. The format survived. Automatic reconnection and last event ID, which live in event source rather than in the format, did not. Watch what the vendors did rather than what they wrote. The Model Context Protocol shipped an HTTP plus SSE transport in November 2024 and deprecated in the next revision inside 5 months. Read the headlines and SSE lost,

then read the replacement. Streamable HTTP answers a post with content type text/event-stream. It honors the retry field. It resumes from last event ID. It tells servers to send an empty event with an ID immediately, purely to prime the client to reconnect. So, SSE was not

removed. The separate SSE endpoint was removed and the stream moved inside the post, which is the exact shape the AI SDKs had already hand-rolled. The spec did not replace the protocol. It standardized the workaround. The same convergence was running on the other side of the industry among people not thinking about tokens at all.

Data Star reached 1.0 in April 2026, 2 and 1/2 years after its first commit. 11.76 kibibytes broadly compressed, MIT licensed, no build step, no NPM install. Its whole idea is that the backend patches the DOM directly, and the thing carrying those patches is an SSE stream.

Two event names do the work, patch elements and patch signals. A response of plain HTML updates the page once, an event stream keeps updating it for as long as you hold the connection. 15 backend SDKs exist for it in languages down to Haskell and Zig, and an SDK's job is mostly emitting those two events correctly. That is the tell. A transport a weekend project can implement in an afternoon is a transport that spreads faster than the one with a specification committee. And HTMX, which pulled SSE

out of core back in version two, is putting it back in version four. Carson Gross wrote the reasoning last November. SSE is just a specialized version of a streaming response, so adding streaming meant getting it back almost free. Before you rewrite anything, answer one question honestly. While your stream is open, does the client need to send anything back? That single answer

decides your next three months of infrastructure, and most teams get it wrong by assuming they might want it later. There is also a gotcha that will eat an afternoon. Engine X buffers proxied responses by default, so a stream that is perfectly smooth on localhost arrives in production as one batch at the end. Proxy buffering off or the X-Accel-Buffering header set to no. Nothing about that is discoverable.

And it carries UTF-8 text, nothing else. So binary costs you a base 64 tax. Audio is where that becomes fatal. OpenAI routes browsers to WebRTC and servers to WebSockets for its real-time API because voice needs both directions plus jitter handling and echo cancellation. The deeper failure is durability.

Electric's team said it plainly last December. Both SSE and WebSockets are ephemeral, and when a connection drops, in-flight data is lost. For a chat reply that is an annoyance, for a 5-minute agent run that dies at minute four, you rerun the tools and pay for the same compute twice. The patch is identical everywhere. Buffer each token into Redis, hand back a stream ID, replay on reconnect. Vercel shipped that

as a package. An April write-up called it what it is, a database write per token for a failure that mostly does not happen, and Electric is now designing a durable stream primitive to replace the pattern outright. So here is the call. For the shape of data most of you are actually moving, server-sent events wins, and it is not close. One direction, text started by a request, chat, logs, build output, pre-gress, dashboards, deploy output. I would take

it over a socket even if the socket were free to operate. The 5% that should not take it are specific. Anything carrying audio, anything where the client writes while the stream is open, and long agent runs where losing minute for cost real money. The villain is not WebSockets. It is protocol maximalism. Picking the most

capable transport instead of the one shaped like your data, then paying that gap forever in sticky sessions and reconnect code. One bet you can grade me on. By the end of 2027, a major provider documents resumption, an offset, and a replay inside its streaming API. Because a long agent run is not a stream, it is a resumable log. So, does that get a new protocol, or does someone bolt an offset onto SSE and call it finished?