---
video_title: "Stop Using Basic RAG: Hybrid Search, Chunking, & Re-ranking Explained"
video_id: 33rgqrJccZY
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33rgqrJccZY
video_date: 2026-06-21T21:30:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Language models have frozen parametric memory—they cannot naturally recall anything after their training cutoff date. RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) resolves this constraint by adding a non-parametric external knowledge base, giving the model a secure search engine to query your proprietary data in real time. 
  
  In this video, we go under the hood of the RAG architecture, exploring the four primary steps: ingestion, retrieval, augmentation, and generation. 
  
  We break down production-grade systems design: why standard vector search fails on precise terms, how hybrid retrieval combines semantic embeddings with sparse BM25 indexing, why cross-encoders are utilized for two-stage re-ranking, and the impact of chunking strategies (parent-child, semantic) on query accuracy.
  
  📌 Timestamps:
  0:00 - Introduction: The Hallucination Problem & LLM Cutoff Dates
  0:26 - The Origin of RAG: Non-Parametric External Memory
  0:52 - Parametric vs. Non-Parametric Memory Explained
  1:30 - Step 1: Ingestion (Token Chunking, Size Limits & Vector Embeddings)
  2:28 - Vector Databases (HNSW Indexing & pgvector on PostgreSQL)
  2:29 - Step 2: Retrieval (Query Vectors, Angles & Cosine Similarity)
  3:03 - Hybrid Retrieval: Semantic Vector Search vs. Sparse BM25
  3:31 - Steps 3 & 4: Augmentation, Grounding, & Citation Generation
  4:05 - The Retrieval Mismatch Problem: Why Basic RAG Fails
  4:45 - Two-Stage Retrieval: Fast Vector Search + Cross-Encoder Re-ranking
  5:10 - Query Transformations (HyDE & Multi-Query Decomposition)
  5:42 - Chunking Strategies (Fixed-Size vs. Semantic vs. Parent-Child)
  6:15 - The Vector DB Landscape (Weaviate, Pinecone, Milvus, Chroma)
  6:37 - Advanced RAG Architectures (Microsoft GraphRAG, Self-RAG, CRAG)
  7:36 - Production Failure Modes: Stale Indexes & Embedding Mismatch
  8:45 - The Mental Model: A Brilliant Reader with Amnesia
  9:17 - Summary & Outro (Cloud Codes)
  
  🔗 Resources & References:
  - Patrick Lewis et al. (2020) - "Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks"
  - Microsoft Research - "GraphRAG: Unlocking LLM Discovery on Private Data"
  
  If you found this database and AI architecture comparison useful, subscribe to Cloud Codes. We take apart one systems design, network protocol, or backend framework like this every week. Build, solve, deploy.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  User Queries :
  how rag works under the hood
  retrieval augmented generation architecture
  cosine similarity vs bm25 search
  hnsw algorithm vector database
  cohere reranker cross encoder
  hyde hypothetical document embeddings
  parent child chunking strategy
  microsoft graphrag explained
  llm vector search benchmark
  production failures of rag systems
---
You ask a language model a question, it gives you an answer. Sometimes that answer is right, sometimes it's wrong, and sometimes it's completely made up, stated with absolute confidence. That's the hallucination problem. The model doesn't know what it doesn't know. Rag fixes this. Retrieval augmented generation. Instead of relying on what the model memorized during training, you let it look things up. You give it a search engine for your own data. Here's how it actually works. The idea isn't new. In 2020, Patrick Lewis and a team at Facebook AI Research published the original Rag paper. Their insight was simple. Language models have parametric memory. The weights they learned during training, but that memory is frozen. It can't update. It can't be verified. Rag adds non-parametric memory. An external knowledge base, the model can search at inference time. The model doesn't just generate. It retrieves, then generates. The problem Rag solves is fundamental. A model like GPT-4 or CLAWD is trained on a snapshot of the internet. That snapshot has a cut-off date. It doesn't know your company's internal docs. It doesn't know today's news. It doesn't know the specific details of your product. You could fine-tune it, but fine-tuning is expensive, slow, and retraining every time a document changes is absurd. Rag lets you update knowledge by changing the index, not the model. So how does it work? Four steps. Ingestion, retrieval, augmentation, generation. Let's walk through each one. Step one, ingestion. You start with your documents, PDFs, code, wiki pages, manuals, anything. You split them into chunks. A chunk is typically 500 to 1000 tokens, roughly a few paragraphs. The chunk size matters. Too small, and you lose context. Too large, and the embedding dilutes the meaning. You then pass each chunk through an embedding model, which converts the text into a vector, a list of numbers. OpenAI's text embedding three small produces 1,536 dimensions. Hugging faces all mini-LML 6V2 produces 384. Each dimension captures some semantic feature of the text. These vectors get stored in a vector database, pinecon, wv8, milvus, qdrant, chroma, even Postgres with PG vector. The database indexes them using an algorithm called HNSW, higher-archical navigable small-world graphs, which lets you search millions of vectors in milliseconds. Step two, retrieval. A user asks a question. You embed their question using the same embedding model. Now you have a query vector. You send it to the vector database, which computes cosine similarity between the query vector and every stored chunk vector. Cosine similarity measures the angle between two vectors, small angle, high similarity. The database returns the top k chunks, typically 3 to 5, that are most semantically similar to the query. This is the search step, and it's fast. HNSW search across millions of vectors takes under 10 milliseconds, but pure dense retrieval has a weakness. It's semantic, not lexical. If you search for a specific product code or a person's name, dense retrieval might miss it because it's looking for meaning not exact matches. That's why production systems use hybrid retrieval, combining dense vector search with sparse keyword search like BM25. BM25 is the algorithm that powered search engines for two decades. It finds exact keyword matches, dense find semantic matches, together they catch what either would miss. Step three, augmentation. You take the retrieved chunks and combine them with the user's original question into a single prompt. This is where the magic happens. The prompts now contains both the question and the relevant context. The model doesn't have to guess. It can read. Step four, generation. The LLM receives the augmented prompt and generates an answer. But now the answer is grounded. The model can cite its sources. If the retrieved context doesn't contain the answer, the model can say so instead of hallucinating. This is the core value of rag, not better generation, better grounding. The numbers back this up. Rag reduces hallucinations significantly. IBM research found that grounding models with retrieved context lets you cross-reference answers with original content, making claims verifiable. A study by Stanford found that rag can reduce factual errors by over 50% on knowledge-intensive tasks. The model isn't smarter. It just has a cheat sheet, but rag isn't a silver bullet. The retrieval step is where most rag systems fail. If you retrieve the wrong chunks, the model generates a confident answer from irrelevant context. Garbage in, garbage out. This is called the retrieval mismatch problem. The fix is re-ranking. After you retrieve the top-cade chunks, you pass them through a cross-encoder model that scores each chunks relevance to the query more carefully. Cohere re-rank and BGE re-rank are popular choices. The cross-encoder is slower than vector search, but it's much more accurate. So you retrieve 20 chunks with fast vector search, then re-rank them down to the top five with the cross-encoder. Two-stage retrieval, fast first, accurate second. Another fix is query transformation. Users don't ask perfect questions. They ask vague, incomplete, multi-part questions. Query transformation re-writes the query before retrieval. Hide hypothetical document embeddings generates a fake answer to the query, then uses that fake answer as the search vector. It sounds crazy, but it works. The fake answer is closer in embedding space to the real answer than the question itself. Multi-query decomposition breaks a complex question into sub-questions retrieves for each and merges the results. Chunking strategy also matters enormously. Fix-sized chunking at 500 tokens is the baseline, but semantic chunking, which splits at sentence and paragraph boundaries, preserves meaning better. Parent-child chunking embeds small chunks for precise retrieval, but returns the larger parent chunk for context. This gives the model both precision and context. The chunk size you pick directly affects retrieval quality. Too small, and the embedding lacks context. Too large, and the similarity signal gets diluted. The vector database landscape has exploded. Pinecon is the managed default. WeAVA offers hybrid search out of the box. Milvice scales to billions of vectors. Q-drant is built in rust and is blazing fast. Chroma is the lightweight option for prototyping, and PG-Vector lets you add vector search to Postgres with a single extension. F-A-I-S Meta's library is the engine underneath many of these. It supports IVF, H-N-S-W, and product quantization for compressing vectors to fit in memory. The embedding model you choose determines the quality of your retrieval. Open AI's models are convenient but proprietary. The BGE family from BAAI is open source and competitive. Cohears embed V3 supports multilingual search. Hugging Vases sentence transformers offer hundreds of free models. The trade-off is always dimensionality versus accuracy. Higher dimensions mean better discrimination but more memory and slower search. Advanced RAAG techniques take this further. Microsoft's Graph RAAG builds a knowledge graph from your documents and uses Graph Traversal for retrieval, catching relationships that flat vector search misses. Self-RAAG trains the model to decide when to retrieve and when to answer from memory. Corrective RAAG or CRAG adds a retrieval evaluator that can reject bad retrievals and fall back to web search. These are the frontier. Let's talk about where RAAG breaks in production. The number one failure mode is STAIL indexes. Your documents change but the vector database doesn't get updated. The model retrieves outdated information and presents it as current. The fix is a pipeline that re-indexes on document change not a cron job that runs once a day. The second failure mode is chunk boundary problems. A chunk that splits a table in half or cuts off a code block mid function produces garbage embeddings. The embedding model sees half a table and has no idea what it's looking at. Semantic chunking and structure aware splitting fix this. The third is embedding mismatch. If you index documents with one embedding model and query with another, the vectors live in different spaces. Cosine similarity between them is meaningless. This happens more than you think, especially when teams switch embedding models mid project without re-indexing. The fourth is the top K-trap. Most teams set K to 5 and never change it. But the right K depends on the query. A simple factual lookup might need one chunk. A complex comparison might need 10. Adaptive retrieval where the system adjusts K based on query complexity is a simple upgrade that most teams skip. So here's the mental model. An LLM is a brilliant reader with Amnesia. It can process text better than any system ever built but it can't remember anything that happened after its training cut off. RAD gives it a library card. The library is your data. The card is the embedding. The librarian is the vector database and the model reads what the librarian brings. RAD isn't about making the model smarter. It's about making it honest. When the answer comes from retrieved context, you can verify it. When it doesn't, the model says so. That's the difference between a chatbot and a tool you can trust. That's how RAD actually works. Four steps. Ingestion, retrieval, augmentation, generation. The model doesn't know everything. It just knows where to look. If the machine just clicked for you, subscribe. Cloud codes takes apart one system like this every week. Build, solve, deploy. See you in the next one.