---
video_title: "How China is \"Stealing\" America's Best AI (Distillation Explained)"
video_id: ZYihJRatii4
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYihJRatii4
video_date: 2026-06-28T17:30:39+00:00
video_description: |
  How did Chinese AI labs like DeepSeek and Alibaba build frontier-level AI models for under $6 million, when OpenAI and Anthropic spent hundreds of millions? The secret is a controversial technique called AI Distillation—and it is tearing the artificial intelligence industry apart in 2026.
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the mechanics of AI Distillation, explaining how "Student" models extract the hidden probabilities (dark knowledge) from massive "Teacher" models. We dive into the massive 2026 scandal where Anthropic accused Alibaba of using 25,000 fake accounts and 28.8 million queries to quietly clone Claude's reasoning capabilities to build their Qwen models. 
  
  We also explore the geopolitical fallout, why the US government delayed GPT-5.6, and the ultimate irony of the AI wars: American labs are fiercely trying to protect their models from being copied, right after paying billion-dollar settlements for scraping the internet's copyrighted data to build them in the first place. 
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The $100M vs $5M AI Secret
  1:05 - Anthropic Accuses Alibaba of Stealing Claude
  2:34 - How AI Distillation Actually Works (Dark Knowledge)
  3:23 - The Staggering API Cost Gap ($5 vs $0.14)
  3:39 - DeepSeek R1 & The Chinese AI Escalation
  4:57 - Terms of Service & The Political Pushback
  6:51 - The Hypocrisy: Robbing the Robbers
  8:09 - The Final Verdict on AI Distillation
  
  #aidistillation #deepseek #anthropic #openai #alibaba #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #cloudcodes #tech
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  Your Queries: 
  what is ai distillation
  how to distil a model 
  anthropic vs alibaba 
  claude mythos 
  gpt 5.6 got delayed
  teacher student ai model explained
  anthropic alibaba lawsuit 2026
  openai vs deepseek distillation
  how chinese ai models are so cheap
  anthropic copyright settlement 1.5 billion
  ai model stealing outputs
  knowledge distillation neural networks
  why was gpt 5.6 delayed
---
Here is a question quietly reshaping the entire AI industry. What if you could build a frontier grade model, one that took hundreds of millions of dollars to create for just a few million? No giant data center, no army of researchers, just one clever trick. That trick is called distillation. You take a big expensive teacher model, ask it millions of questions and capture its answers. Then you train a small student model to copy those answers. The student never sees the original training data. It just learns to imitate the master. And here is the thing. This is completely normal. Every major lab distills its own models. The fast, cheap versions you use every day, Claude Haikou, GPT-40 Mini, Gemini Flash, are distilled from their giant siblings, the same brain at a fraction of the size. So distillation on its own is a good thing. It makes AI cheaper, faster and available to everyone. But there is a darker version of the exact same trick. What happens when you point it? Not at your own model, but at someone else's. This is what Anthropic says just happened. Nearly 25,000 fake accounts, 28.8 million messages sent to Claude. All between April and June of 2026, the largest distillation campaign anyone has ever seen. An Anthropic Blames operators linked to Ali Baba. And the questions were not random. They were laser focused on Claude's most valuable skills, software engineering and agentic reasoning. The exact abilities that took years and billions of dollars to build harvested one query at a time. Why go to all that trouble? Because the math is staggering. Training a frontier model from scratch can cost well over a hundred million dollars, distilling arrivals capabilities, a few million, the same destination for a tiny fraction of the price. And this is not new. Back in January 2025, open AI accused the Chinese startup DeepSeek of doing the same thing, distilling its models to build R1 for under $6 million, then moonshot, then minimax, a pattern was forming. But before we call this theft, remember how the American models were built in the first place. Anthropic trained Claude on the whole internet, including 7 million pirated books. It just paid 1.5 billion dollars to settle that very lawsuit. Which leaves us with one deeply uncomfortable question. When a company that scraped the entire world to build its AI, accuses someone of copying it, is that justice or is it the thief, afraid of getting robbed? Let us slow down and look at how distillation actually works. When a big model answers, it does not just pick one word. It produces a full map of probabilities, how likely every possible next word is. That hidden map is the real treasure. Researchers call it dark knowledge. The student does not just copy the final answer, it learns the teacher's confidence, its hesitation, the shape of its reasoning. To extract it, you ask thousands of carefully designed questions across coding, math, logic, and safety, and record exactly how the teacher responds. When a lab does this to its own model, it is a gift to users. A giant model is squeezed into something small enough to run on your phone, fast enough to answer instantly, cheap enough to feel almost free. This is distillation at its best, and the savings are enormous. A frontier model can cost $5 per million tokens to use, a distilled Chinese model around $0.14. That is not a discount, that is the entire business model of an industry being undercut overnight. Deepseek lit the fuse. In early 2025, it released R1, a reasoning model rivaling the very best from the West, trained acclaimed for just $5.6 million. OpenAI said it found evidence its own outputs had been distilled, routed through sophisticated, hard to trace accounts. Then the scale became clear. And Thropic traced over 150,000 exchanges back to Deepseek, 3.4 million from moonshot, 13 million from Minimax, thousands of fake accounts all quietly mining the same well. But Ali Baba's campaign dwarfed them all. 28.8 million interactions, more than every previous campaign combined, allegedly to sharpen its own Quinn models, a frontier competitor built in part on the answers of the very rival it competes against, and it is working. Chinese open models are now snapping at the heels of the best closed ones. Deepseek, Quinn, Kimmy, some with a trillion parameters score within a few points of the frontier while costing a fraction to run. The gap is almost gone. If this feels familiar, it should. Back in 2023, openAI suspended bite dance for using GPT outputs to train its own model. The playbook has not changed at all, only the scale and the stakes have grown. Now, is any of this actually illegal? Both openAI and Anthropic explicitly banned using their outputs to build a competing model. It is written right into the terms of service. Break it and you have breached a contract. But a contract is only as strong as your ability to enforce it. So the labs are fighting back with technology, detection systems that flag suspicious query patterns, fingerprints hidden inside responses, and an unusual alliance. OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google now quietly share intelligence on who they think is distilling them. It went political fast. Anthropic took its evidence straight to Senators and the White House, pointing to an April 2026 memo that had already flagged distillation as a national security threat. The message, a foreign rival is defying US policy in plain sight. The pressure is reshaping releases. GPT 5.6, openAI's next flagship, was quietly delayed, held back for a government requested security review before it ships. The frontier is no longer just a product decision. It has become a matter of state, but the government's trust cuts both ways. When Washington feared a China-linked firm had accessed Anthropics' most advanced model, it slapped export controls on it. Officials blamed Anthropics' own recklessness. The company pulled the model rather than lock it to America alone. And underneath it all are the chips. Since 2022, the US has blocked its most powerful processors from reaching China. Ironically, that scarcity is exactly what forced Chinese labs to get ruthlessly efficient, and distillation is the sharpest tool in that kit. Here is the trap. You cannot really sue a Chinese company in a US court over your terms of service. The contract is unenforceable across the border. So the labs are left with only two levers. Block the chips and detect the theft. Law suits will not save them, which brings us back to the uncomfortable mirror. How did Claude and GPT and Gemini learn to be brilliant in the first place? They read the internet. Billions of web pages, books, articles, and lines of code, much of it copyrighted, most of it without ever asking, and the bills are coming due. The New York Times is suing OpenAI for training on its articles. An Anthropic just paid one and a half billion dollars, the largest copyright settlement in US history for downloading seven million pirated books to build Claude. One headline captured it perfectly. OpenAI. It's curious that DeepSeek might have stolen the data that OpenAI itself had stolen first. The internet had a simpler way of putting it. They robbed the robbers. Now to be fair, there is a real difference. Scraping polls raw human work. Books, art, code, straight into a model. Distillation only queries a finished product through its front door. One copies the world's creators, the other copies the company. Whether that is better or worse is genuinely up for debate. Or the American labs afraid? Their actions say yes. The lobbying, the letters, the alliances, the chip bans, all to protect a lead that is narrowing by the month. They spent billions building the frontier, and now they watch rivals reach it for a few million. So is distillation good or bad. Honestly, it is both. It is a technology democratizing AI and putting it in your pocket. And it is the technology letting one company quietly harvest another's life work. The trick is identical. Only the target changes. Remember the four numbers. 25,000 fake accounts. 28 million queries. A one and a half billion dollar settlement. And a cost gap of more than 20 to one. That is the real story of the AI race in 2026. And it is only getting stranger. If this finally made the distillation fight click, subscribe. Cloud codes breaks down one story like this every single week. Build, solve, deploy. And I will see you in the next.