---
video_title: "The 30-Year-Old Algorithm Beating OpenAI's Embeddings"
video_id: 33fgMst4INY
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33fgMst4INY
video_date: 2026-08-07T12:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Why is a 32-year-old keyword counting formula from 1994 outperforming OpenAI’s 3,072-dimension text-embedding-3-large model on financial documents and exact part numbers? Meet Okapi BM25 and the mathematical geometry limits of pure vector databases.
  
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  
  
  In this deep dive, Cloud Codes breaks down the technical mechanics, benchmarks, and vector geometry limits comparing neural embeddings against Okapi BM25. We examine Google DeepMind's mathematical proof showing why single-vector embeddings round off crucial 1-character distinctions (like part numbers and SKUs), review T-squared RAGBench financial document audits where BM25 beat OpenAI's flagship embedding across Recall, MRR, and NDCG, and analyze DeepMind's LIMIT benchmark where BM25 achieved 85.7% Recall@2 vs 1.6% for Gemini Embedding.
  
  Furthermore, we dissect the synonym gap (where vector embeddings win), explain why OpenAI File Search and Anthropic Contextual Retrieval use Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) rather than pure vector search, and demonstrate how to implement 15-line zero-GPU hybrid retrieval using the high-speed Python bm25s package.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture, system design, and how to build faster software, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Mentioned:
  • BM25S Fast Python Implementation: https://github.com/xhluca/bm25s
  • DeepMind Embedding Theoretical Limitations Paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.21038
  • Anthropic Contextual Retrieval Cookbook: https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-cookbook
  • OpenAI Embeddings Documentation: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings
  • Qdrant Hybrid Search & RRF Guide: https://qdrant.tech/documentation/concepts/hybrid-search/
  
  
  
  
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - The Vector Database Part Number Failure
  0:46 - What is BM25? (The 1994 Algorithm)
  1:10 - The Math Geometry Proof: Vector Dimension Limits
  3:05 - Financial Benchmark: BM25 vs OpenAI text-embedding-3-large
  4:53 - DeepMind LIMIT Dataset: 85.7% vs 1.6% Recall
  5:55 - The Synonym Trap: Where BM25 Fails
  6:59 - Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF): How to Have Both
  8:06 - Why OpenAI & Anthropic Don't Use Pure Embeddings
  9:19 - 15 Lines of Code: Adding bm25s to Your Vector Store
  9:43 - The 4-Question Verdict: When Hybrid Is Mandatory
  
  #rag #vector-database #openai #bm25 #machinelearning #systemdesign #cloudcodes #python
  
  
  
  
  
  User Queries:
  bm25 vs openai text embedding 3 large performance benchmark
  why vector embeddings round off part numbers skus
  deepmind on theoretical limitations of embedding based retrieval
  reciprocal rank fusion rrf python bm25s vector database
  anthropic contextual embeddings bm25 hybrid search
  t squared ragbench financial documents retrieval evaluation
  hyde hypothetical document embeddings failure mode
  qdrant weaviate pinecone hybrid search rrf setup
  bm25s python package numpy numba fast keyword search
  cloud codes bm25 vs embeddings breakdown
---
Type a part number into a vector database. Prod skew 7842X. The top result that comes back is prod skew 7842Y. Not an error, not a blank, a confident top result ranked first, off by one character at the end. The user reads a spec sheet for a part that is not the part. Nothing in the

stack knows anything went wrong. That is the failure mode nobody screenshots. A wrong answer with a high score looks exactly like a right one. So, researchers ran the obvious test. Best commercial embedding model, real documents, measure what comes back, and something much older won. On almost

every metric they measured, on documents that decide real money, not a new model, a ranking formula published in 1994 at a government conference in Gaithersburg, Maryland. It is called BM25, best match 25. It counts words in documents. There is no neural network in it. 32 years on, it beats a 3,000-dimension embedding on the queries you care most about. So, the

question is how? How does a formula that counts words beat built to understand meaning? And then the harder one underneath it, because the same research that hands BM25 the win also records its worst failure. Start with what an embedding actually does. It takes your text and squeezes it into a fixed list of numbers, 3,072 of them for the model in this benchmark. Those numbers are

directions in a space where similar meanings sit close together, and that is a very good trick. Ask it for documents about employee turnover, and you get attrition, staff churn, people leaving. No shared words required. But squeezing is lossy by definition, and every distinction the model might ever need to make has to fit inside that fixed budget of directions. Meaning gets the space.

Spelling does not. Feed it prod skew not see a part number. It sees fragments, prod and skew, and 78 and 42 averaged into one vector. That vector lands in the neighborhood of every other string shaped like a part number. So, 7842X and 7842Y become neighbors and not because the model is broken. It is doing precisely

what it was trained to do. The one character carrying all the meaning is the one character it rounds off. For years, the industry treated this as a training problem. Better data, bigger model, more dimensions, and the exact match gap closes on its own. Then a paper out of Google DeepMind and Johns Hopkins argued it is not a training problem at all. Orian Weller and three

colleagues published on the theoretical limitations of embedding base retrieval revised this March. Their argument is a counting argument. The number of different top K document sets a single vector model can ever return is capped by the dimension of that vector. Not capped by training, capped by geometry. It also explains why BM25 walks away from the trap. BM25 is a vector, too,

but with one dimension per word in your vocabulary, tens of thousands of them, nearly all zero. All that room is what lets it express combinations a 3,000 dimension model cannot, which raises the question you should be asking. If it cannot tell 7842X from 7842Y, what else in your corpus is it rounding off? Theory is cheap, so here is the measurement, and it is 4 months old. Mefting Akarsu, Recep Can Karamahman, and Christopher Meerback benchmarked 10 retrieval strategies and published in April. Their corpus was T-squared Rag

Bench. 23,088 questions over 7,318 real financial documents, earnings reports, filings, tables packed with numbers. That benchmark exists because the old ones had a problem. It came out of the University of Hamburg, built by rewriting FinQA, ConFinQA, and TATDQA, so every question stands on its own. In the originals, fewer than one question in 10 could be answered without handing over the right document first. After the rewrite, more

than eight in 10 could. So, the comparison is clean. They ran dense retrieval with OpenAI's text embedding three large 3,072 dimensions against plain BM25. BM25 won recall at one, at three, at five, at 10, mean reciprocal rank, normalized discounted cumulative gain. In the author's words, on every metric except recall at 20. And

that exception deserves a close look because dense retrieval takes it not 0.798 to not 0.797, 1/1000 of a point. That is the entire territory the embedding holds. Their explanation is not mysterious. Financial documents are

stuffed with company names, ticker symbols, and standardized metric labels. Terms that appear word-for-word in the question and in the document. The exact string is the signal and averaging it into a direction is how you lose it. The same paper buried a second warning. Hide, where you have a model write a hypothetical answer and embed that instead, came in below plain dense retrieval. On financial questions, the

model invents plausible figures, so you end up searching for a number that appears in no filing. The DeepMind paper has a harsher version of the same result. They built a data set called limit, 50,000 documents and a thousand queries with deliberately simple relationships, and pointed the strongest embedding models available at it. Recall at two, Gemini embedding scored 1.6.

Qwen 3 embedding scored not 0.8, E5 Mistral 1.3, BM25 scored 85.7. Give the models 100 chances instead of two, and the best single vector row reaches 18.9

against 93.6. Those results come from a paper revised in March, and the field has moved since. Gemini embedding two went generally available this year, Voyage 4 landed in January, Cohere shipped embed V4, but the bound is on the dimension of a single vector, not the vintage of the model, and each of those still compresses a part number into a direction. So, if you have been paying an embedding bill by the token for 2 years, here is the uncomfortable audit.

How many of your users' queries were the exact match kind, and would your dashboard have told you? Now the reversal, and it comes from the same paper. The limit authors also ran a version of the task where the query words were swapped for synonyms. Same meaning, different vocabulary. Every model got worse. BM25 got worse

than any of them. It dropped by close to 90% and finished below most of the single vector models it had just beaten by 50 times. That is the entire weakness in one line. BM25 sees automobile and car as two unrelated strings. It has no concept of meaning, so it cannot rescue a query that used a different word than the document did. And that gap is not an

edge case. George Furnas and three colleagues measured it in Communications of the ACM in 1987. Pick an object, ask two people to name it, and they agree less than 20% of the time. 39 years old, and still the reason keyword search feels broken. Your users do not type your document's words. Closing that gap

is exactly what embeddings were built for, and they do it well. So the scoreboard sits level. Lexical takes the exact string. Dense takes the paraphrase. Anyone selling you one of them as the answer is selling you half a retriever. Therefore, the interesting

question was not which one wins. It is how cheaply you can have both, and that answer is older than most of your stack, too. Reciprocal rank fusion. Cormack, Clarke, and Buettcher, SIGIR 2009. Run both searches, score every document as 1 over 60 plus its rank in each list, and add. That is the whole method. No

training, no tuning, no score calibration, which matters more than it sounds because a BM25 score and a cosine similarity are not on the same scale and will not be. RRF only reads positions, so the scales are free to disagree. On the financial benchmark, fusing them took recall at 10 from not .703 for dense and not .735 for BM25 up to 0.801.

Put a re-ranker behind it and it lands at 0.861. Anthropic published the same shape from their own retrieval work back in September of 2024. Contextual embeddings plus contextual BM25 cut the top 20 retrieval failure rate from 5.7% to 2.9,

a 49% reduction. Add re-ranking and it is 67. And here's the part that settles the argument. Open OpenAI's own retrieval documentation. Their managed file search runs keyword and semantic search together and fuses them with reciprocal rank fusion.

There are two published parameters, embedding weight and text weight, and at least one has to be above zero. The company selling you the embeddings does not run embeddings alone inside its own product. Neither does Anthropic. Qdrant, Weaviate, Pinecone, and Elasticsearch all ship RRF as a first-class query, and Qdrant built its own neural retrievers on top of the BM25 formula. Watch what vendors build, not what the launch post claims. There is a cost argument sitting

underneath all of this, too. Change your embedding model and you re-embed the whole corpus. Teams running this in production budget two to three full re-indexes in the first year at list price for the privilege. A BM25 index is your own text. It does not go stale and it does not bill you. And a result from

May suggests a lexical signal was in there the whole time. Benjamin Clavi and three co-authors showed you can pull a sparse BM25 ready vocabulary straight out of a frozen dense retriever with a sparse autoencoder and then score better on limit than that model's own similarity function manages. Adding this to a stack you already own is a small change. Index your corpus with the BM25S package, NumPy and Numba, no GPU and no API key. Retrieve K documents from BM25, K from your vector store, fuse with a one-line reciprocal rank sum, pass the top 10 to the model. 15 lines,

single-digit milliseconds a query on the published benchmarks, and nothing gets embedded twice. So, the verdict, hybrid wins, and it is not close for the 95% of you whose documents contain identifiers, part numbers, error codes, tickers, function names, invoice references, drug names, case numbers. The 5% where it is the wrong call, corpora of pure free prose where searchers and authors share no vocabulary anyway, and the lexical arm adds latency for nothing. If that is you, stay dense and tune your re-ranker. Everyone else is leaving 10 points of recall on the table for one afternoon of work. The villain here was

not a company, it was an idea that semantic search had replaced keyword search. A tidy story, convenient for a business model that bills per token embedded and re-indexes twice a year, and the benchmark most teams quote was not built to test the queries that break it. So, a bet on the record. By the end of 2027, mainstream retrieval frameworks ship hybrid as the default and pure vector as a flag you opt into. Mark it down, and if it turns out wrong, that is a video, too. And the question

worth leaving open, retrieval is now the layer your agents reason on top of, which means a rounding error down here becomes a confident sentence up there. So, when the answer comes back wrong, how far down the stack do you actually look?