---
video_title: "PocketBase: A Full Backend in One File (Firebase Without the Bill)"
video_id: Xidt-ggkWoU
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xidt-ggkWoU
video_date: 2026-07-18T16:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  PocketBase: A Full Backend in One File (Firebase Without the Bill) or PocketBase: The One-File Backend That Can't Send You a $121K Bill
  
  
  Are you tired of unpredictable Firebase bills punishing your app for going viral? Meet PocketBase, the open-source, 1-file backend that replaces Firebase by embedding a database, authentication, and a real-time REST API into a single executable binary.
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design of PocketBase and why it is the ultimate backend for modern software developers. We explore how PocketBase relies on an embedded SQLite database to deliver sub-millisecond reads without network hops, and how you can self-host the entire platform on a cheap $5 VPS instead of paying Google's usage-based Firestore meter. You will learn how to write custom Go and JavaScript hooks, how PocketBase automatically generates your REST API from your schema, and the honest architecture limits (single-node scaling) you need to consider before deploying.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture and open-source infrastructure, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new system design breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - The $121,000 Firebase Surprise Bill
  1:06 - What is PocketBase? (The 1-File Backend)
  3:49 - The Trap of Firebase Pricing (Usage-Based Meters)
  5:48 - Extending PocketBase (Go & JS Event Hooks)
  7:20 - The Honest Catch: Single-Node Scaling & Operations
  9:09 - Final Verdict: PocketBase vs Firebase
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Covered:
  • PocketBase GitHub Repo (Open Source / MIT): https://github.com/pocketbase/pocketbase
  • PocketBase Official Documentation: https://pocketbase.io/
  • SQLite Database Architecture: https://www.sqlite.org/
  
  #pocketBase #firebase #webdevelopment #backend #softwareengineering #CloudCodes
  
  User Queries:
  pocketbase vs firebase
  what is pocketbase
  best firebase alternative open source
  how to use pocketbase tutorial
  why is firebase so expensive
  self hosting pocketbase on vps
  pocketbase sqlite database
  building a backend in one file
  pocketbase javascript hooks
  cloud codes system design backend
---
One developer's Firebase Bill jumped from about $50 a month to $121,000 in two days. There's a backend that structurally can't do that to you. It's open source, it fits in one file, and it's called PocketBase, one file. You download a single executable, you run it, and you have a working backend. No install wizard, no services to provision first. Inside that one file, a database, user accounts, real-time sync, file storage, and a full admin dashboard, five products, one download. The database is eSchoolite, embedded right in the binary. Your whole app's data lives in a single file on disk. Firebase meters every read, PocketBase meters nothing. You pay for the server it runs on, and that is the whole bill. And that server can be a $4 box holding 10,000 live real-time connections at once. It sits at about 60,000 GitHub stars, it's MIT licensed, and it's built mostly by one person. Every table you create gets a full-rest API and real-time updates with zero backend code from you. So let's go through the whole thing. What's in the file, what it really costs, and where it falls apart. Start with the install, except there barely is one. PocketBase ships as a single executable, around 15 to 20 megabytes, with no run time to set up, no dependencies to resolve, and no Docker container to babysit. You download the zip for your platform, unzip it, and the setup is genuinely over. Then you run one command, PocketBase serve. And well under a second, it's live on port 8090. And it doesn't only start an API, it also opens a full admin dashboard in your browser. The same way Firebase gives you a console, except this one is running on your own machine. That dashboard is where you actually build. You create what PocketBase calls collections, which are really just database tables, and you add fields to them by clicking, text, number, relation, file, whatever the record needs. No writing SQL by hand, no migration files to wire up before you can store a single row. And here's the payoff for doing that. The instant you save a collection, PocketBase generates a complete rest API for it. List, view, create, update, and delete endpoints all live immediately. You didn't write a controller, a route, or a serializer. The schema is the API. You talk to that API with the official SDKs, one for JavaScript, and one for Dart. Fetching a page of records is a single line. Filtering and sorting are just strings you pass in. Creating a record is one call with a plain object, the same shape you'd send to Firebase. Now the real-time part, which is genuinely built in, not bolted on. You subscribe to a collection with one line, and from then on, the server pushes every insert, update, and delete straight to the client over a live connection. You write no WebSocket server, no polling loop, no message queue. It streams. Authentication lives in the same binary too. You get email and password out of the box, plus one click sign in with Google, GitHub, Apple, and a dozen other providers. On Firebase, that's a separate product you configure. Here, it's a toggle in the dashboard, and no extra service is billing you per active user. File storage is handled as well. You attach an image or a PDF to a record, and PocketBase saves the file on local disk by default, or in any S3 bucket if you flip a setting, and it can generate thumbnails on the way in, so you're not shipping full-size photos to a phone. Securing all of this is refreshingly small. Each collection has access rules that are just filter expressions, a short line like the record's owner equals the currently logged in user. That one rule locks the table down. No separate rules language, no cloud function required only to guard a read. So, tally it up. One download gave you a database, an auto-generated API, real-time, full authentication, and file uploads. That is, in plain terms, the entire back-end, the large majority of apps will ever actually need. Okay, the money, because it's right there in the title. Firebase's whole model is that you rent Google's cloud. Your data lives in a hosted database called Firestore. You never touch a server yourself, and in exchange, Google puts a meter on everything your app does, and that meter is per operation. Force-tower bills, reads, writes, and deletes separately. Reads run about $0.6 per 100,000 documents, and those charges accrue every single day. When your app is small, it's basically free. The trouble is what happens the day it stops being small. Because that pricing is beautiful right up until one of two things happens. Your app hits the front page and traffic explodes, or a developer ships a bug that accidentally puts a database read inside a loop. Both of those turn the meter into a fire hose, and the meter does not care which one it was. That second one is exactly how a real developer's $50 a month firebase bill became $121,000 over a single weekend back in 2023. A function looped, the reads stacked up, and nothing in the system paused to ask whether that was intentional. PocketBase has no meter at all, none. The software itself is free and open source. A read costs you nothing extra. A million reads cost you nothing extra. There is simply no line item on any invoice that scales with how popular your app got last night. Your only bill is the box it runs on. A small vps is four or five dollars a month, and that number is flat. Ten users or ten thousand, a quiet Tuesday or a launch day on the front page, the invoice at the end of the month reads the same either way. And the data underneath it is genuinely yours. It's a SQLite file sitting on a disk you control. You can copy it, drop it into a backup, or move your whole application to a different host by transferring literally one file. Good luck doing that with a hosted cloud database. It's MIT licensed on top of that, which is about as permissive as software gets. The documentation flat out says you're free to take pocket base, build on it, and even offer it to other people as your own paid service. No strings, no cut sent back to the author. Now a thing people underrate about it. PocketBase is not only a finished app you run. Under the hood, it's a go library you import directly into your own program, which means you're not boxed in by whatever the dashboard happens to let you click. You can extend it with real code. The way you do that is event hooks. You register a function to run before a record is created, or after a user signs up, or whenever a specific request comes in, and your logic runs inside the backend itself, right next to the data, instead of in some separate cloud function across the network. And you don't even need to know go for that. A full JavaScript engine ships inside the binary, so you can drop a plain JS file into a folder, write your hook there, and it runs. No build step, no recompile, no deploy pipeline. You save the file and the behavior changes. It will even serve your front end. You build your React, view, or sveled app down to static files, drop them in a folder called PB underscore public, and that same single binary serves your entire website alongside the API. One process is your database, your backend, and your web server. People assume something this simple must fall over under load. The official benchmark says otherwise. 10,000 plus persistent real-time connections on a $4 Hetzner server. For context, that is more concurrent live users than the vast majority of apps we'll ever see at one time. A big reason it stays quick is that SQLite is embedded. There's no separate database server sitting across a network. Your query and your data live in the same process on the same machine, so you cut out the network roundtrip that most stacks pay on every single read. All right, the honest catches. Because I'm not here to sell you a flawless thing. The first is maturity. As of July 2026, PocketBase is on version 0.39. It has not shipped a 1.0 release yet, and it says exactly that on its own home page. Practically, being pre 1.0 means the maintainer still reserves the right to change an API between versions. It's stable enough that people run real businesses on it, but you read the change log before you upgrade, and you don't blind update a production server on a Friday afternoon. The bigger architectural catch is the flip side of SQLite. It runs on a single node. You scale it up by moving to a beefier server, not out by adding a cluster of them, and there is no built-in horizontal sharding. For most apps, that ceiling is very high, but it is still a ceiling. And because you're self-hosting, you own the operations. There's no managed multi-region, no automatic failover, no support engineer on the other end of a ticket. The uptime, the backups, and the occasional restart at two in the morning are all yours. That is the real price of skipping the meter. There's also the human factor. PocketBase is largely one maintainer, Gany Georgiev. That's a genuine risk you should weigh. But it's MIT licensed, and the full source is right there. And that same single vision is a big part of why the whole thing feels so unusually coherent. So let's be concrete about who it's for. MVP's, side projects, internal tools, and a real share of production sass. If your data comfortably fits on one good server, which covers far more apps than founders like to admit, PocketBase is a serious option, not a toy. Who is it not for? An app that genuinely needs to scale out across regions from day one, or a team whose compliance people demand a managed database with a signed contract behind it. If that's you, reach for the heavier stack. If it isn't, you're paying for a problem you don't have. So step back and look at the whole board. One file gave you a real relational database, authentication, real-time subscriptions, file storage, and an admin panel for the price of a coffee a month with no meter running underneath any of it. The trade ends up clean. Firebase sells you effortless scale and hands you a meter that can surprise you. PocketBase hands you the keys, your data, and a flat bill, and asks you to own the server. For most projects, that second deal is the better one, and the barrier to trying it is almost nothing. Download one file, run one command, open the dashboard, and you'll have a working back end before this video would have finished rebuffering on a bad connection. The whole back end in a single file that you actually own. That's the pitch, and once you've built something on it, it's a hard one to argue with. PocketBase, one file, the back end you own.