---
video_title: "Browsers Are Being Rebuilt for AI Agents (Chromium Is the Casualty)"
video_id: j4Ef__g5FBc
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4Ef__g5FBc
video_date: 2026-08-10T09:00:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Cloudflare launched Kitesurf a serverless browser written in Rust/WASM with no tabs, no address bar, and no UI. Why are Cloudflare, Vercel, and Microsoft rebuilding the web browser from scratch for AI agents while Chromium's 30-million-line codebase becomes obsolete?
  
  
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/4kJqEBMMf
  
  
  
  
  In this deep dive, Cloud Codes breaks down the system design, memory benchmarks, and protocol mechanics of Cloudflare Kitesurf and agent-native browser automation. We analyze how assembling a headless engine out of Blitz, Firefox's Stylo CSS cascade, and the Boa JS engine slashes RAM consumption by 7x (39 MiB vs 274 MiB in Chromium) and cuts CPU processing time by 4x, while speaking the native Chrome DevTools Protocol (CDP) for seamless Playwright and Puppeteer integration.
  
  Furthermore, we explore how Vercel and Mozilla use Accessibility Tree snapshots to cut LLM page-context token consumption from 5,000 tokens down to 200, examine Microsoft's WebMCP W3C standard for rendering-free API browsing, analyze why bot traffic passed human web requests at 57.5%, and discuss OpenAI's decision to shut down Atlas.
  
  If this helped you understand backend architecture, system design, and how to build faster software, subscribe to Cloud Codes for a new infrastructure breakdown every single week! Build, solve, deploy.
  
  
  
  🔗 Repositories & Sources Mentioned:
  • Cloudflare Kitesurf Architecture Blog: https://blog.cloudflare.com/kitesurf
  • Chrome DevTools Protocol (CDP) Documentation: https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/
  • Microsoft Playwright MCP Server: https://github.com/microsoft/playwright-mcp
  • Playwright Browser Automation Framework: https://github.com/microsoft/playwright
  • Firefox Stylo Parallel CSS Engine: https://github.com/servo/servo
  
  
  
  ⏱️ Video Chapters:
  0:00 - Cloudflare Kitesurf: A Browser Without Tabs or Windows
  1:12 - The 30 Million Line Problem: Why Chromium Is Too Heavy for AI
  1:49 - How Kitesurf Was Built in 12 Weeks (Blitz, Stylo, Boa)
  2:20 - Benchmark Breakdown: 7x Less Memory & 4x Less CPU
  3:24 - The 57.5% Metric: Machine Traffic Surpasses Humans
  4:41 - Deleting Selectors: Accessibility Trees & Token Savings
  6:50 - WebMCP: The W3C Standard for Rendering-Free Browsing
  7:56 - Chrome DevTools Protocol (CDP) & The OpenAI Atlas Shutdown
  9:03 - Final Verdict: Is Chromium Really Dying?
  
  #cloudflare #chromium #kitesurf #rust #systemdesign #cloudcodes #aiagents #playwright #softwareengineering
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  User Queries:
  cloudflare kitesurf rust browser ai agents
  kitesurf vs chromium memory cpu benchmark
  chrome devtools protocol cdp playwright kitesurf
  vercel browser tool accessibility tree token savings
  webmcp w3c proposal microsoft chrome
  stylo boa blitz rust browser engine kitesurf
  why 57 percent of web traffic is bots cloudflare radar
  openai atlas browser shutdown august 2026
  headless browser automation playwright puppeteer cdp
  cloud codes cloudflare kitesurf breakdown
---
On the 6th of August, Cloudflare the web browser with no tabs, no address bar, and no window. None of it is meant for a person to look at because the only thing that will ever open it has no eyes. It is called KiteSurf and it does not run Chromium. Not a fork of it and not a stripped-down build of it either. Written from scratch in Rust, compiled to WebAssembly, running inside Cloudflare's serverless workers. In the

same week and from the other end of the problem, a repository out of Vercel Labs crossed 40,000 stars. It is a browser automation tool for agents and its entire pitch is that you stop writing CSS selectors. Two teams, two ends of the same stack, one week. Cloudflare deleted the engine. Vercel deleted the map. Underneath both of them, the same

assumption got deleted. That a browser is a thing a person is watching. And that assumption is now a metered cost charged to you by the browser hour for work no person will ever see. Because the traffic arriving at the web changed shape completely and the software answering it did not. Chromium is still doing enormous, careful, expensive work every second for an audience that stopped showing up. So,

this is a story about deleting things. What got deleted, why it took until now, and what is left standing. Chromium is north of 30 million lines of code and almost none of them exist for a machine. They exist because a person might open 50 tabs, scroll with a thumb, install an extension, sync a bookmark, and expect text to be anti-aliased at the sub-pixel level. All of that is real engineering and all of it is aimed at eyes. An agent

does roughly two things to a page. It takes a screenshot or it pulls the text out. That is the workload. And until this month, every one of those calls paid Chromium's full bill anyway because there was nothing else to call. So, Celso Martinho, Cloudflare's vice president of engineering and three colleagues started over. They did not

write a browser from nothing. They assembled one out of parts that already existed. Blitz for layout, Stylo, which is Firefox's CSS engine for the cascade, Boa, a JavaScript engine written in Rust for the occasional piece of script that has to run, Parley for shaping text into glyphs. The whole thing runs inside V8 isolates on Cloudflare's edge. The same sandboxes that run everyone else's serverless functions. First commit in May, shipped

in the first week of August. 12 weeks start to finish for a rendering engine. Then they published the benchmarks and this is the part worth slowing down for. Taking a screenshot cost 380 milliseconds of processor time. Chromium takes 1,173.

Pulling the HTML out cost 229 against 877. Call it three to four times less compute for identical output. Memory is where it stops being incremental. A screenshot cost Kitesurf about 58 mebibytes where Chromium wants 271. An HTML extraction cost 39 against 274.

That is seven times less memory to read a page. And then, in the same table, the row a launch post is allowed to leave out, wall clock time. Kitesurf takes 1,148 milliseconds where Chromium takes 637. It is slower, not marginally. Close to twice as slow on both tasks, printed directly beside the win, which reads like a losing trade right up until you ask who is waiting. Nobody is waiting.

There is no person on the other end of that page load, watching a spinner, deciding whether this site is worth the wait. In June, Cloudflare's own radar dashboard crossed a line the company had said publicly it did not expect to cross until 2027. Automated requests passed human ones. 57 and a half percent of the page requests it handles now come from machines. That is roughly 18 months ahead of its own chief executive's public prediction. That number is

Cloudflare's slice of the web, around a fifth of all sites, not a census of the internet. But it is the largest single view anybody publishes and the direction of travel is not ambiguous. Agent traffic also has a distinctive shape. It is bursty. It arrives as thousands of short-lived page loads that live for a second and then die.

It does not sit on one session for an afternoon the way a person does. For that shape, the time one page takes barely matters, and the number of pages you can hold at once matters enormously. Seven times less memory is seven times as many pages on the same box. The gain there is capacity rather than speed. And capacity is what the bill is made of.

Cloudflare already sells a browser hour for 9 cents. BrowserStack charges 10 to 12. The per hour price has been squeezed roughly as far as it goes, so the next order of magnitude has to come out of the engine. And that raises the uncomfortable question sitting under all of this. If nobody is ever going to see the pixels, what exactly are you rendering them for?

Fixing the engine handles the cost of opening the page. It does nothing about the second half of the problem, which is that once the page is open, the agent still has to find the button. For 20-odd years, the answer to that was a selector. A hash and an identifier. A dot and a class name. An XPath crawling

down the tree. A selector is a map of a page written by a human describing how that page was built. So, it breaks on a redesign. It breaks on a rename. It breaks the moment a framework starts generating class names at build time, which is most of them now. Anyone who

has maintained a test suite for longer than a year knows exactly what that morning sounds like. For an agent, it is worse than brittle because to guess selector at all, the model has to be shown the page. And a full document object model runs into the thousands of tokens on every single step every time the page changes. Which is what Versal Labs inverted. Their tool takes a snapshot of the page's accessibility tree first, then hands the model back a compact list of what is actually on it.

Button, submit, text box, email address, link, pricing, each one tagged with a short reference, AEE1, AEE2. The model does not guess a selector at all. It points at something it was just shown by name. The project puts the cost of describing a page that way at 2 to 400 tokens against 3 to 5,000 for the raw document. That figure is theirs, so weigh it accordingly, but independent measurements land in the same territory.

One benchmark in March ran the same 10-step login through Playwright twice. Through its command line, about 27,000 tokens. Through the same tool wrapped as a server, about 114,000. 13,700 of those were tool definitions resent on every request. Mozilla shipped a browser automation API in July built on the same idea and reports 60 to 80% fewer tokens than sending screenshots.

Three separate groups, three different measurements, one direction. And the tree they are all reading was built for screen readers. It is a semantic description of a page published by the page itself and it survives a redesign because it describes meaning rather than markup. Accessibility work nobody was paying for turned out to be the machine readable web. Follow that one step further and the tree starts to look like a workaround, too. If a page is going to

describe itself to a machine anyway, why describe a layout at all? Microsoft took that question to the W3C in the back half of 2025 and the proposal is called Web MCP. A site publishes a list of the things it can do with the parameters each one takes. No pixels, no tree, no clicking. The agent reads the menu and calls the function the way it would call any other tool. Chrome shipped an early preview in

February and has had a public origin trial open since. A year on from the proposal, deployment on real sites is close to zero and not one mainstream agent calls the tools. One write-up in July put it about as plainly as it can be put, a standard with everything except users. It is stuck in the oldest trap on the web. Sites will not publish tools until agents read them and agents will not read them until sites publish.

That same write-up noted both keys are held by one company, which is why the two projects that ship this month matter more than the standard does. They work on the web that exists today without asking a single site owner for anything. So, is Chromium the casualty? Partly, and less cleanly than the headline wants. And the evidence is sitting in the middle of KiteSurf's own announcement. To use it, you point your

existing Playwright or Puppeteer client at Cloudflare and add one parameter to the URL. It speaks the Chrome DevTools protocol. Chromium's protocol on a browser with no Chromium anywhere inside it. The engine got replaced. The interface Chromium defined got inherited whole. That same week, Playwright pulled

just under 80 million downloads off the package registry. Puppeteer pulled 11 and 1/2 million. Both of them drive Chromium by default. And between them, they are how most production browser automation actually reaches a page. And the browsers built specifically to put agents in front of people went the other way entirely. Perplexity's Comet is a

Chromium fork. Open AI's Atlas was a Chromium fork. And Atlas shut down on the 9th of August, less than 10 months after launch, with its features folded into a desktop app and a Chrome extension. Chrome is still about 2/3 of browser sessions. Chromium is not dying.

It is losing exactly one workload, and that workload happens to be the one growing fastest. Here is where I land. For the work agents do all day, opening pages, pulling text, taking a shot of a screen that goes straight into a context window, the agent-native stack has already won, and the receipt is Cloudflare's own table. Seven times less memory to read a page, three to four times less processor. And a page description that costs hundreds of tokens where the old one cost thousands. I would take that trade

at twice the price, because on this workload, the thing you are optimizing is the bill, not the weight. The concession is real, and it is printed beside the win. KiteSurf is close to twice as slow per page. It does no video, no WebGL. It fails bot challenges that fingerprint your connection, and it cannot hold a long logged-in session. It

is not open source yet, either. So, anything interactive, anything behind a real login, anything that has to look like a person's browser, stays on Chromium and stays there for years. That is a small share of the requests and a serious share of the hard problems. The thing worth arguing with is not Google, and it is not Chromium, which is a remarkable piece of engineering pointed at a user who left. It is the assumption. Browser stopped

meaning the thing a person looks at, and the industry kept billing for the looking. 30 million lines of rendering so a machine could read a paragraph of text, which leaves the part I cannot answer yet. When a site can simply hand the agent a list of what it is able to do, and rendering stops happening at all, what is the browser still