---
video_title: "WebSockets vs. SSE vs. Webhooks: Choosing the Right Real-Time Pattern"
video_id: ZTgaVrZaWww
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZTgaVrZaWww
video_date: 2026-06-14T16:11:15+00:00
video_description: |
  Many engineering teams default to WebSockets when a simpler, cheaper pattern would do the job better. In this video, we break down the four primary patterns that power the real-time web: Webhooks, WebSockets, Server-Sent Events (SSE), and Long Polling. 
  
  Instead of choosing by habit, we analyze how each pattern works under the hood, their scaling costs, failure modes, and how they behave under different traffic shapes. By the end, you'll have a clear decision map to choose the right architecture for your system.
  
  📌 Timestamps:
  0:00 - The Real-Time Dilemma & The Core Question
  1:16 - What is Polling? (And why it’s expensive)
  2:12 - Long Polling: The unkillable fallback
  3:24 - Server-Sent Events (SSE): The simple, self-healing stream
  5:02 - WebSockets: High-frequency, bidirectional pipelines
  6:45 - Webhooks: Server-to-server event delivery
  8:10 - The Decision Matrix: How to choose by physics
  9:35 - How real systems layer these patterns
  
  Code, protocols, and architectural trade-offs discussed are updated to reflect modern web standards (HTTP/2 multiplexing, HTTP/3, and modern LLM token streaming practices as of 2026).
  
  Subscribe to Our Channel: 
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  If you found this breakdown useful, consider subscribing for weekly deep-dives into software architecture, systems engineering, and web development.
  
  User Queries:-
  when to use websockets vs sse
  difference between webhook and websocket
  how does server sent events work
  is long polling still used
  websockets vs webhooks system design
  why do ai APIs use server sent events
  real time web communication protocols
  websocket scaling challenges load balancing
  webhook security best practices hmac
---
Right now, somewhere, an engineer is maintaining a WebSocket cluster for a feature a web hook would have handled for free. Four patterns make the web feel real-time. Most teams pick by habit. Today we pick by physics. Here's the whole video in one question who needs to start the conversation and how often. Answer that and the choice between web hooks, web sockets, server-sent events, and long polling makes itself. By the end you'll have the decision map on one screen. Four patterns, four familiar products. The payment confirmation that pings your slack, a web hook. The AI answer typing itself out, server-sent events. The cursor's swarming a Figma canvas, a web socket. The chat that somehow works on airport Wi-Fi, long polling. Same internet, four different conversations. Start with the problem. HTTP has a contract. The client asks the server answers the connection closes. That's it. The server cannot speak first. Your server might know the payment cleared, the build failed, the message arrived, and it has no way to tell anyone. Everything in this video is a workaround for that one sentence. The naive fix is asking again and again. Anything new? No. Anything new? No. That's polling. A toddler in the backseat asking, are we there yet? Every three seconds, forever. It's worse than annoying. It's expensive in both directions. 10,000 clients polling every two seconds is 5,000 requests a second. Almost all of them returning nothing. You pay for headers, handshakes, and empty answers. Miss the window and your real-time update is two seconds late anyway. To be fair, plain polling isn't evil. For a dashboard refreshing every minute, it's perfect. Cacheable, stateless, dumb in the best way. The crime isn't polling. It's polling every second for something that changes twice a day. Long polling is the first clever trick. Same request, but the server doesn't answer. It holds the question open. 30 seconds? 60 seconds. Until news actually arrives. Then it responds, the client instantly asks again, and the loop continues. It feels like push. It's secretly still poll. This hack has history. It's been a bit weird. 2006, it got a name, comment, and it powered the first generation of web chat, including early Gmail chat. Before fancier protocols existed, held open requests were real-time on the web. On the wire, it looks strange. A request that just sits there. Pending. Then the moment your order ships, the response fires, and a new request takes its place within milliseconds. There's always exactly one question waiting at the counter. The cost. Every waiting client is an open connection, your server babysits. Old thread per request stacks fell over here. Proxies love killing idle connections mid-weight. And between answer and re-ask, there's a tiny gap where events can pile up. It works everywhere. HTTP works. That's its superpower. But it's a fragile kind of everywhere. Where you'll still meet it today, SDKs that must survive any network, fallbacks inside real-time libraries, and chat OP, is that promise to work behind the worst corporate proxy on Earth. It's the cockroach of real-time, unkillable, slightly ugly. Server-sent events fix the loop with something almost embarrassingly simple. One HTTP response that never finishes. The server just keeps writing lines into it. Data. New message. Data. Build past. The browser has a built-in client for this, event source, and the whole thing is still plain, boring HTTP. The format is text you can read with your eyes, a data, prefix, your payload, a blank line. That's a complete event. No frames, no binary protocol, no handshake beyond the request you already made, and SSEShips superpowers nobody advertises. The browser reconnects automatically when the connection drops. And sends the last event ID back so the server can resume where you left off. Proxies, CDNs, corporate firewalls, they all see ordinary HTTP and let it through. Server code, you can write it in 20 lines, and here's the receipt that settles it. When an AI chat answers you token by token, that stream is usually server-sent events. The biggest LLMAP is shipped their streaming over SSE. The hottest interface in software runs on the most boring transport. The traps, it's one way, server-declient only. It's text only, binary needs encoding, and the classic footgun, on HTTP slash 1.1, browsers allow about six connections per domain. In six tabs of your app, each holding an SSE stream, and the seventh tab just stars. HTTP slash 2 multiplexing made that problem largely disappear. Quick head to head because this is the one people actually agonize over. If the browser only listens, notifications feeds, dashboards, AI tokens, SSE wins on simplicity and self-healing. The moment the browser must talk back constantly, you've outgrown it. Now the heavyweight. Websockets start life as a normal HTTP request, then ask for an upgrade. The server replies 101 switching protocols, and from that moment the connection is not HTTP anymore. It's a raw, persistent, two-way pipe. Either side can send anything, anytime. The handshake is the whole ceremony. One request with upgrade, WebSocket, 1.1.01 response done. After that, no headers, no requests, no responses. Just frames. Tiny, cheap in both directions. That's what makes the chatter economical. A WebSocket frame can be a few bytes. Cursor moved. KeyPressed. Price ticked. Things HTTP would wrap in half a kilobyte of headers travel almost naked. At 60 messages a second, that difference is the product. So WebSockets earn their keep where both sides talk constantly. Player games, collaborative cursors, live trading books, presents in chat apps, high frequency, both directions. Now the bill. A WebSocket is state. A million users means a million open sockets living in your server's memory. Load balancers need sticky routing. Scaling out means a pub sub backbone. And when the connection drops, reconnect, resume, replay, all you're supposed to build. Two words you'll meet on day one of WebSocket operations. Ping and pong. The options die silently, so both sides heartbeat. Miss a few pongs, kill the socket, reconnect. Every serious WebSocket service is also a heartbeat monitoring service. It can be done, famously well. What SAP once ran millions of connections on a single server? The point isn't that WebSockets don't scale. It's that you scale them. Nothing is automatic. Now flip the entire picture. Everything so far keeps a browser fed. Apps aren't for browsers at all. They're server to server. You don't open a connection and wait. You register a URL and hang up. When the event finally happens, their server makes an HTTP request to yours. Don't call us. We'll call you. Which quietly reverses your role, you're the server now. A public HTTPS endpoint. A post arrives. Payments succeeded. Push event, build finished. You verify it, return 200 fast and do the real work asynchronously. Security is not optional here and anyone can post Jason at you. So providers sign every delivery with an HMAC signature in a header and your first line of code checks it. Skip that and you've built an unauthenticated API for your own money. The superpower, silence is free, no open sockets, no polling loops, no idle anything. An event that happens twice a month costs exactly two requests a month. This is also why SaaS companies beg you to use web hooks instead of polling. 10,000 integrations polling every minute melts rate limiters. One web hook per event costs almost nothing. The pain, you must be reachable. Public URL, TLS, local tunnels. Deliveries fail so providers retry. Retries mean duplicates. Duplicates mean idempotency keys. Retroving isn't guaranteed. Debugging is half forensics. The ecosystem built tooling for exactly this pain. Signature libraries, replay dashboards, local tunnels and web hook gateways. If your provider offers an event log with re-delivery, use it. It's the black box recorder. Put all four on one screen in the fog lifts. Who initiates? Which direction? What transport? Browser native or not? Binary or text? Who pays for reconnection? Adoling costs. Four patterns, no mystery left. Notice what's not on that table. Speed. Which one is fastest? Is the wrong question. Once connected, all four deliver in milliseconds. The real differences are direction and connection economics. One more modern wrinkle. HTTP slash two and HTTP slash three change the economics underneath everyone. Multiplexing made SSE cheaper. Faster handshakes made, reconnects gentler. The patterns stayed the same, the penalties shrank. Here's the access that matters. How often events happen versus how long connections sit idle? Hold sockets open for rare events and you're paying rent on silence. Pull repeatedly for constant chatter and you're paying per question. The traffic shape, not the technology, decides what's wasteful. And because nothing's real until it breaks at two in the morning, long polling fails as a thundering herd when everyone reconnects. SSE fails behind buffering proxies. Web sockets fail at the load balancer. Web hooks fail quietest of all. Nothing arrives and nothing tells you. Know your patterns fail your smell. So the decision map is simple. Server talking to server about events. Web hooks browser needs a live feed in one direction. SSE. Genuinely two way and chatty. Web sockets, trap behind hostile networks, long polling, and real systems stack them. A stripe web hook hits your back end. Your back end pushes SSE to the dashboard. The support chat writes a web socket. Three patterns, one product, their layers, not rivals. If this comes up in an interview, the winning answer is the question itself, who initiates, which direction, how often? Say that sentence first and you sound like you've operated all four. Same law as always. Get the most boring thing that matches your traffic shape and upgrade only when the shape changes, not when the conference talk does. That's the real difference. Subscribe for one deep dive like this every week and drop your stacks pattern in the comments.