---
video_title: "MoE Explained: The Routing Trick Powering Modern LLMs"
video_id: v8ckm0GnAO4
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v8ckm0GnAO4
video_date: 2026-06-19T12:26:31+00:00
video_description: |
  The biggest AI models on Earth—DeepSeek-V4, kimi k2.6, Qwen 3.6, Mistral, Grok, etc—all share a trick: most of their parameters are asleep. In this video, we go under the hood of Mixture of Experts (MoE) to explain how models scale to hundreds of billions of parameters while only using a fraction of them per token.
  
  We break down the engineering reality behind MoE, from the mechanics of routing networks and top-k gates to the hardware challenges of expert parallelism and all-to-all communication bottlenecks.
  
  If you want to understand how modern, frontier-class LLMs achieve high-performance inference at a fraction of the compute cost, this deep-dive is for you.
  
  🔗 Resources & Papers Mentioned:
  - Jacobs et al. (1991) - "Adaptive Mixtures of Local Experts"
  - Shazeer et al. (2017) - "Outrageously Large Neural Networks"
  - Fedus et al. (2021) - "Switch Transformers"
  - Jiang et al. (2024) - "Mixtral of Experts"
  - DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report (2024)
  
  If you found this technical breakdown useful, subscribe to Cloud Codes for deep-dives into complex systems and architectures every week. Build, solve, deploy.
  
  👇 SUBSCRIBE & WATCH NEXT
  Subscribe for a new systems deep-dive every week: https://youtube.com/@Aura_Labs_1?si=1oBl0iHr50yB1tXo
  Watch Next: https://youtu.be/v_wvXLq6OS8
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH US
  Twitter/X:  x.com/cloud_codes
  Join our developer community: discord.gg/HVnH9SY48 
  
  Your Queries :- 
  how does mixture of experts work
  what is moe in machine learning
  deepseek v3 architecture explained
  how does a routing network work in llm
  what is expert parallelism
  mixtral 8x7b parameters active vs total
  difference between dense and sparse neural networks
  how switch transformer works
  all-to-all communication gpu bottlenecks
  why do mixture of experts models overfit
  
  #moe #mixtureofexperts #aiagents #ai #technology #computerscience #softwareengineering #
---
The biggest AI models on Earth share a secret. DeepSeq V3 has 671 billion parameters, but for any single word, it only uses 37 billion, 18 times more parameters than compute. How? Most of the model is asleep, and a tiny router decides what wakes up. In a normal dense model, every parameter fires on every token. Double the parameters, you double the compute. It's a straight line to get smarter, you pay proportionally more. That line is why training a frontier model costs hundreds of millions of dollars. The fix isn't new, 1991. Jacobs and Jordan at MIT proposed adaptive mixtures of local experts. Multiple networks, each specializing in a different part of the problem, combined by a gating network. The idea don't make one giant brain do everything. Make specialists and route to them. The idea sat around for decades because nobody could make it scale. Then in 2017, Noam Shazir and team at Google published out ragiously large neural networks. They added one ingredient, sparsity. Instead of querying every expert, a gate picks just the top few. The result? A model with 137 billion parameters that ran like a much smaller one. They called it conditional computation. Parts of the network are active on a per token basis. A thousand experts could exist, but for any given token, only a handful fire. Model capacity and compute cost finally decoupled. You could have your cake and only pay for the slice you eat. Here's where it plugs into modern AI. In a transformer, each block has two parts, attention and a feed forward network, or FFN. The FFN is where most parameters live. In Palm 540b, 90% of all parameters are in the FFN layers. That's the part MI-OE replaces. Instead of one FFN, you create several, called them experts. 816, sometimes thousands, same architecture, different weights. Then you add a tiny router network, a gate, that looks at each token and decides which experts should process it. The rest stay dark. The gate outputs a score for every expert, then keeps only the top K. Typical values, K equals one or two. Everything else gets set to negative infinity before the softmax, so its weight is zero. The tokens output becomes a weighted sum of just those one or two expert outputs. Simple, fast, sparse. In 2021, Google Switch transformer took this to its extreme, route to exactly one expert, K equals one. They scaled to 1.6 trillion parameters across 2048 experts and got a four time speedup over the equivalent dense model, one expert per token. That was enough. Then Mixed-Roll made it open. 8 experts, top two routing, 46.7 billion total parameters, but only 13 billion active per token. It matched or beat Lama 270B, a model more than three times its active size, on math, code, and reasoning, released under Apache 2.0. The open source may eArea started right there, and deep-seek V3 pushed the scale. 671 billion total, 37 billion active, 256 routed experts per layer, plus one shared expert that always fires. Trained on 14.8 trillion tokens for 2.788 million, H 800 GPU hours, roughly 5.5 million dollars. A model that rivals GPT-4 trained for pocket change. Here's what breaks. Left alone, the router collapses. A few experts get good early, so the gate sends them more tokens, so they get better, so the gate sends more. A feedback loop, popular experts drown, the rest starve and learn nothing. The model wastes most of its capacity. The standard fix is an auxiliary loss, a penalty added during training that rewards the router for distributing tokens evenly across experts. Think of it as a tax on popularity. The switch transformer simplified this to one clean loss term. It helps, but it fights the model's own gradient signal. Then there's the capacity factor. Each expert has a queue limit, the batch size divided by the number of experts times a buffer. If an expert's queue fills up, incoming tokens get dropped. They pass through via the residual connection unchanged. Not ideal, but not fatal. The ST-MAU report found a capacity factor between 1.25 and 2.0 works well, lower, and you drop too many tokens. Higher, and you waste compute and memory on empty slots. It's a dial you tune, and it changes the communication cost across your entire GPU cluster. Deepseek saw a deeper problem. If you force all experts to be equally used, they all end up learning the same core things. English grammar, common syntax, redundant, so deepseek added shared experts. One expert that always fires and absorbs the common knowledge. The routed experts are then free to specialize. They also killed the auxiliary loss entirely. Instead, each expert carries a learned bias term. If an expert is being neglected, its bias creeps up, making the router more likely to pick it. No extra loss, no gradient conflict, load balancing by quiet adjustment, not by penalty. Now the hardware problem. 671 billion parameters don't fit on one GPU. A single H100 has 80 gigabytes. Deepseek V3 needs over a terabyte just to hold its weights. So you split the model across many GPUs and may e gives you a natural way to do it. It's called expert parallelism. Each GPU holds a different set of experts. The attention layers and shared parts are replicated or split using other strategies. But the experts, the biggest chunk of parameters, get distributed one per GPU or a few per GPU across the cluster. Here's what happens on every single forward pass. Every token on every GPU runs the router and figures out which expert it needs. But that expert might live on a different GPU. So every GPU simultaneously sends its tokens to every other GPU and receives tokens back. This is called an all-to-all communication. It's the most expensive part of MeEE training. In a dense model, the bottleneck is matrix multiplication, pure compute. In an MeEE, the bottleneck is the network. Tokens flying between GPUs on NVLink and infinite band. The GPU spend a meaningful fraction of their time not computing, just waiting for tokens to arrive. Communication, not compute sets the speed limit. Picture the cycle. Dispatch, each GPU ships tokens to the GPUs that hold their target experts. Compute, each GPU runs its local experts on the tokens it just received. Gather, results ship back to the original GPUs, which recombine them into the output. Dispatch, compute, gather, every layer, every token, every step. Expert parallelism sits alongside the other strategies. Data parallelism splits the batch. Tensor parallelism splits individual matrices. Pipeline parallelism splits the layers. Expert parallelism splits the experts. In practice, Big MeEE training combines all four. And the all-to-all from expert parallelism is the one that makes network engineers lose sleep. The catch nobody mentions. All parameters must live in memory, even the asleep ones. Mictral 8X7B has 47 billion parameters loaded in VRAM, but only computes with 13 billion. You pay the memory cost of a 47B model to get the inference speed of a 13B1. That's the trade. Capacity for efficiency. Fine-tuning is harder too. Sparse models overfit more easily than dense ones, especially on small data sets. The switch transformer authors found that Moez excel at knowledge heavy tasks, but underperform on reasoning heavy ones after fine-tuning. Instruction tuning helps a lot. More than it helps dense models. So when does Mayo we win? When you have the compute budget to pre-train Big, the memory to hold all experts and the throughput to keep many GPUs busy. For low throughput single GPU scenarios, a dense model is simpler and often better. Mayo E is a scale play. The bigger you go, the more it pays off. Here's the mental model. An MAO is not one giant brain. It's a dispatch system. A router that reads each token and sends it to a small team of specialists. The specialists do the work. The router combines the results. And the rest of the model stays dark. Conditional computation, capacity without the cost. That's mixture of experts from the router to the GPU cluster. If the machine just clicks for you, subscribe. Cloud Codes takes apart one system like this every week. Build, solve, deploy. See you in the next one.