---
video_title: "Do This Before Fable 5 Goes API Only (Extract Its Intelligence to Opus 4.8)"
video_id: 9JBZzZSO3hA
channel_name: "Cloud Codes"
channel_id: UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JBZzZSO3hA
video_date: 2026-07-07T08:51:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Anthropic's Claude Fable 5 is moving to pay-per-token API pricing, which means your flat-rate access to the frontier model is ending. But before you lose it, you can use "Model Extraction" to clone Fable 5's reasoning and transplant it into cheaper models like Opus 4.8 forever. 
  
  In this video, Cloud Codes breaks down the 5-step playbook for harvesting a frontier AI model before it gets paywalled. We explain why generating "demo apps" is a massive waste of your remaining tokens, and how you should be generating permanent assets instead. 
  
  We dive deep into Context Engineering: how to write a CLAUDE.md operating manual that forces cheaper models to think like Fable, how to build an Obsidian Second Brain using Deep Research, and how to use Claude Code's `/goal` workflows to automate your backlog. Finally, we show you the exact "Trap Question" prompt to prove that your cheaper Opus model successfully absorbed Fable's intelligence. 
  
  Reference Sources X Articles:  
  1. The Extraction Playbook (by @EXM7777)
  https://x.com/i/status/2074158459545854232 
  2. How to Transfer Fable 5’s Thinking to Opus (by @alex_prompter)
  https://x.com/i/status/2074198124898181121
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS:
  00:00 - Fable 5's pricing change
  01:54 - Strategy: Assets vs. Throughput
  03:17 - Move 1: Write an operating manual
  04:32 - Move 2: Run a business audit
  05:54 - Move 3: Build a research vault
  07:08 - Move 4: Run unattended task loops
  09:13 - Move 5: Record problem-solving reports
  10:53 - Transplant the manual to a cheaper model
  14:33 - Best order to run the 5 moves
  
  #claudecode #fable5 #anthropic #systemdesign #promptengineering #softwareengineering #cloudcodes #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #aiagents
  
  
  🔔 Subscribe: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w?sub_confirmation=1
  
  💙 Become a Member: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0DZj1PNa_Fp0MU6uPSKv5w/join
  
  🐦 Twitter/X:
   https://x.com/cloud_codes
  
  💬 Discord: 
  https://discord.gg/HVnH9SY48
  
  User Queries:  
  how to use claude fable 5 before api only
  claude fable 5 vs opus 4.8 comparison
  what is model extraction ai
  how to write a claude.md system prompt
  claude code goal command tutorial
  how to use deep research with obsidian vault
  anthropic api pricing fable 5
  how to clone an ai model's reasoning
  best use cases for frontier ai models
  how to reduce claude api token costs
---
Right now, sitting inside your Claude plan is the single smartest model money can rent. Tomorrow, it walks out the door. Fable 5 goes paper token, and if you are on a normal plan, that is the same word as gone. So here is the move almost nobody is going to make today. You cannot keep the model. You can keep the way it thinks. A way of thinking can be written down, pulled out, and run on a cheaper model that is not going anywhere. That right there is the whole video. Look at the list going around. Build a website, ship a few demo apps, generate a month of content. Every one of those is a way to burn your last frontier hours, and every one of them flunks the only test that should rank your day. One question sorts everything you could do today. Can a cheaper model redo this tomorrow? If the answer is yes, skip it. Opus, the everyday Claude that stays in your plan, rebuilds a demo app next week for nothing. Run your own list through it right now. A landing page, a cheaper model builds that next Tuesday. Skip, a batch of social posts, same answer, skip. But a standard that encodes how your business makes decisions, no cheaper model can author that. That one you keep. The filter is that blunt, and that useful. Spending the final hours of a frontier model on work a mid-tier model handles is like hiring a surgeon to take your blood pressure. It gets done. Nothing is wrong with the result. It is just a spectacular waste of the one thing you are about to lose for good. What a cheaper model cannot redo tomorrow is the good stuff. A standard written down. A road map already reasoned through. A vault of knowledge already distilled. A skill that fires on its own. Those keep their full value long after the model behind them is gone. Five moves do the extraction, and I am handing you every prompt ready to paste. If you remember one thing, remember the order. Move five first because it runs itself. Start with why today. Specifically is different. Here is the arithmetic, straight off, and the tropics own rate card. Fable runs about $10 per million tokens in 50 out. Opus 4.8. The model that stays in your plan is half of that. Near five and 25. Saunet is cheaper still on intro pricing near two and ten through the end of August. Today inside your plan, Fable is flat rate. Tomorrow every single call it makes has a meter running on it. And that meter is unkind to Fable. It eats your weekly limit, roughly twice as fast as Opus, and only half of that weekly limit applies to it in the first place. So you do not get ten swings at this today. You get two, maybe three. Spend them on the jobs with the most value locked up inside. This is the part people miss while they argue about whether the model is worth keeping. The argument is beside the point. Opus 4.8 is not going anywhere. It is genuinely great. And starting tomorrow it is what you actually run on. Fable is only here to leave it instructions. So sort everything you do into two piles. Anything you will still be using in a month, a system prompt, a skill, a big irreversible decision is an asset. Pay Fable wants to make it. Anything you throw away by Friday is throughput. Run that on the cheap model without a second thought. The people who win the next repricing are not the ones mourning the model. They are the ones harvesting it. So let us harvest five moves. Every prompt included. Here is the first. Move one. Plant Fable's judgment right into your workspace. The highest value thing a frontier model leaves behind is not an answer. It is a standard. Your claw.md, your skills, your memory files. That is the layer every future model reads before it touches a line of your work. An answer helps you once. A standard upgrades every answer that comes after it. And today, Fable can write that layer at a level opus can follow perfectly, but could never have authored on its own. That gap is exactly the thing you are banking. So run this in every project you care about. Read this entire project and how I work in it. Then rewrite my cloud file as the operating manual, a less capable model would need to work here at my level. Name the conventions I follow. Name the mistakes a weaker model will make in this code base. Each one with the rule that prevents it. Then the line that carries the whole thing. Write the quality bar for each deliverable as checkable criteria. Not adjectives. A cheaper model cannot invent a quality bar out of thin air. But hand it a written one and it applies that bar just fine every time. Close the prompt by asking Fable for the three skills that would save you the most hours written out in full. You are not asking for advice about skills. You are asking it to build them right now while the meter still says free. Move to the consultant audit. Fable's real edge shows up on hard messy problems. The kind with no clean answer waiting at the back of the book. On the hardest tier of the coding benchmarks, it roughly doubles the next model. And the gap only widens as the problems get uglier. So give it the ugliest problem you actually own. Your business. Open a session with your projects, your numbers, whatever context you can feed it. And say, act as the consultant I cannot afford. Audit everything. Offers, pricing, workflows, where my hours go. Then hand me a roadmap I can execute with a weaker model. Ranked. Highest return first. The deliverable rule is the whole point. For every move, Fable writes down the why. The exact steps, what done actually looks like, and what a weaker model needs told to execute it. Today, while the model that can reason it out is still flat rate. Opus does not need to be brilliant next week. It just needs to follow a brilliant document and make it name the three things you should stop doing with the reasoning spelled out in full. A cheaper model will happily keep you busy. It takes frontier judgment to tell you with receipts which of your work is quietly worthless. Quick aside, because I know someone will ask. If you want the full training on turning this kind of output into actual income, there is a real time AI ops community built for exactly that over at weekly AI ops.com. That is the only plug in this video. Back to the moves. Move three. Build a second brain. If judgment is Fable's edge, deep research is where that edge runs deepest. Long, multi-step synthesis is its single widest measured lead over every other model out there. So today, you spend a real slice of your hours on sheer volume. Run deep research on your niche. Your competitors, the problems your customers keep hitting, the methods you have been meaning to study for a year, then mine every run into an obsidian vault, the free notes app where each note links to the notes around it, one insight per note, and whatever you do, do not let it hand you a 40 page report. A report gets read once and buried. A hundred small linked notes get retrieved and reused for years, so atomize everything. The vault quietly becomes the context that every future session reads before it answers you. Here's why this works, and it is honestly my favorite story in all of AI. Back in the Lama era, the most copied training set of them all was built by pulling 52,000 answers out of a frontier model for under $500 and training a tiny open one on them. That frontier model, text DaVinci 0-0-3, was shut down in January 2024. The teacher is dead. Everything at TOT still runs. That is the entire strategy for today. Extraction, not conversation, move four, fire off the goals, the first three moves, bank what Fabel knows. This one spends the thing you actually lose tomorrow, unattended hours. Fabel's signature trick is holding a single job for hours without once losing the plot. That endurance is the exact thing that stops being free tomorrow. So today, you point it at your backlog and you walk away from the desk. Two commands do this inside Cloud Code. The terminal app, the model runs in. Slash goal sets a finish line instead of a prompt. You describe what done looks like, and the model works turn after turn. While a second smaller model checks the condition after every turn and only stops the run when it is genuinely met. Dynamic workflows are the scale layer on top. Fabel writes an orchestration script for your task, and that script fans out dozens of sub agents in the background in parallel, cross checking each other's findings, while your own session stays completely free. A goal holds the finish line. The workflow does the fan out. A real one reads like this. Slash goal. Every module in this repo has a test file. The full suite passes with the complete green run pasted here in the chat, and a migration note documents every change or stop after 25 turns and pace me the failures. Two rules keep this safe instead of terrifying. First, demand pasted proof in the finish line. The judge model only reads the conversation. It cannot run your test or open your files. So the condition asks for the green run pasted. Never promised. Second, cap every run. Turns or wall clock. Written right in. One uncapped loop quietly builds someone $6,000 by morning. So do not fire off 10 loops in a panic. Pick the two or three goals with the most value locked up inside them and let Fabel grind those all the way to done while you are asleep. If you want a running start, this pattern already has a library. Whole collections of ready-made loops and workflows, each one paired with a prompt and the exact tool it plugs into built the same way Carpathy talks about. The model writes the plan then executes it. Steal the loops that fit your backlog and point them at your own repo tonight. Move five, and if you only have one hour left today, do this one first. Every time Fabel cracks a genuinely hard problem, its approach evaporates the second the session ends. You keep the answer and you lose the thinking. This move installs a recorder so you never lose it again. Create a single file.clodskills.extractapproachskill.md that captures how a problem was actually solved, not just the fix. Then wire it into your clawed file with one line of learning law. After every non-trivial solve, run the extract approach skill before moving on. From now on, a solution without its learning's note is unfinished work. So go work Fabel hard on your real backlog, the gnarly bug, the architecture call you keep circling, and every single solve drops a note behind it as it goes. And these notes are not summaries. A good one reads like a field report. Here was the trap. Here is why the obvious fix was wrong. Here is the approach that actually held, and here is the check that proves it. That is the reasoning a weaker model can never generate, sitting in plain text where it can simply read it. Those notes are the distalite. Fabel's reasoning, sitting in your own repo, readable by every model that comes after it. That is why this one compounds, and why it goes in first. It turns all your remaining Fabel time into permanent assets automatically in the background. Step back and look at what those five moves actually leave behind. A standard in your workspace, a ranked roadmap, an atomized vault, a shelf of unattended loops, a recorder that documents every solve, five artifacts, and not one of them cares which model you are running next month. That is the system. Now let me make the transplant completely literal. This is the sharpest version of the whole idea. 10 minutes today, and you walk away owning the reasoning instead of renting the model. There is even a short script at the end that does the entire thing over the API, and saves the result to a file you keep. Start from the uncomfortable truth. The model was never the asset. Attaching your workflow to one specific model is building on rented land. It always gets deprecated, reprised, or replaced. What survives every single time is the thinking system you can describe in plain words, and fables edge really is describable. Reading what a request is actually asking for, breaking a hard problem into pieces you can each check on their own, verifying its own work instead of trusting what merely sounds right, refusing to guess when it does not know, all of that is just language, which means all of it is portable. Step 1. Extract the manual, not a summary. Most people ask fable to explain how it thinks and get back a page of pleasant fluff. You do not want a description of the thinking. You want the procedures. Check your work is a vibe. For any percentage, find both endpoints yourself and divide, because that is where flipped signs hide. That is a procedure a model can actually run, so the prompt is exact. You are the most capable model on my account, and access to you narrows tomorrow. Write the operating manual your replacement will run on, opus 4.8, strong, but a step below you. Write it as a senior operator handing their craft to a sharp junior, how to read intent, how to verify by read deriving, how to attack your own conclusion before you ever hand it over. Step 2. Transplant it. A manual does nothing sitting in a chat window. Open a project in Claude, paste that manual into the project instructions, and set the model to opus. Now every conversation inside that project inherits fables way of working before it reads a single word of your actual task. Step 3. Is the one everybody skips, and it is the one that proves the whole thing. Give both versions the same trap. A report says revenue grew from 4 million to 4.2 million, and calls it a 20% gain. Ship it, plain opus often waves it through, because the sentence reads smoothly. Opus running fables manual stops, rederives the number, catches that it is 5% not 20, and refuses to ship. If it catches the error, the transplant took. You just wash reasoning move from one model into another with your own eyes, and if it does not catch it, then your manual was too vague on verification, and that is useful information, not a failure. You go straight back to Fable, and tell it to make the verification section procedural. Exact steps, not encouragement. You are debugging a document, and you can do that all day while the model is still free. The money makes the whole thing obvious. A full extraction, run today inside your plan, cost you nothing. Run the very same extraction after the switch, and it is a few dollars of credits. That is the tell for every decision from here. Pay the frontier model once, to mint an asset, then let the cheap model spend it a thousand times over. One bonus while you are still in there. For each thing you do every week, tell Fable, interview me about this workflow, one question at a time, until you understand it cold, then write it up as a complete skill my future assistance will follow. Answer honestly, and you walk out with your own judgment frozen into a file that runs on any model for free forever. After tomorrow, this exact situation just repeats, a frontier model appears, gets reprised, gets pulled. One was even yanked with no notice, brought back after the backlash, then retired anyway six months later. Outputs you did not save while you had access, cannot be reconstructed once it is gone. Every teacher leaves. What you extracted is what you keep, so keep this playbook. The test can a cheaper model redo it tomorrow. If yes, skip it. One, rewrite your clawed file and skills as checkable standards. Two, the consultant audit and its roadmap. Three, deep research mined into an atomized vault. Four, goals and workflows on your highest value backlog with pasted proof and hard caps. Five, the recorder skill wired in to fire on its own. The panic is optional. The manual is forever. Remember the order if you are short on time. Five first, then four, because it runs alone, then one, two, three. And the next time a frontier window swings open, you will not spend it on demo apps. I will see you in the next one. Cloud codes, extract everything worth keep.