---
video_title: "The 7 ChatGPT Work Skills I Use Every Day (Copy Them)"
video_id: Dkdgut6i2xY
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dkdgut6i2xY
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Try Design.com: https://go.design.com/nb50qxb
  🔗 This video is sponsored by Design.com
  
  Get all seven ChatGPT Work skills from this video: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Iux4ywIbsm_pZdiv48X3mDXqG3YCLrVpdUhmVOPK8Cg/edit?usp=sharing
  
  These are the ChatGPT Work skills I use to create visualizations, hand work between AI tools, research live topics, automate multi-step workflows, and make motion graphics.
  
  0:00 Intro
  1:56 Visualize
  3:30 LMK
  7:31 Handoff
  9:05 Ask Grok
  11:15 Grill Me
  12:34 Sponsor Review
  14:32 Hatch Pet
  15:40 Remotion
---
If you ask chatbt work to summarize your work for you, it might give you something like this. Use a skill though and it can create something like this. That is the power of using skills in chat GBT work. If you use the right skills, you will get better, more consistent outputs every time you use them. In this video, I'm going to share with you seven chat GBT work skills that I use almost every single day. These

help me create interactive visualizations, research ideas more effectively, and even create motion graphics for my videos. I'm also going to give you these skills absolutely for free so you can use them yourself. Skills basically unlock the hidden superpowers inside of Chat GBT. It's kind of like that scene in the Matrix where with one simple upload, Neo was suddenly a kung fu master. Without skills, you have to reexplain your workflows to chat GBT every time you use it. And that costs you time and gives

you inconsistent results. But since skills are repeatable instructions that tell chat GPT work exactly how you want a task done, you'll never have to repeat yourself ever again. And you can unlock some of the most incredible capabilities that are hidden inside of Chat GPT work. To get started with skills, come into the Chat GPT desktop app and click on the left here where it says plugins. Then at the top here, click on skills.

And you'll see here all of the skills that you already have installed. There are some that come pre-installed and then there are personal ones that you add. Now, there are a few different ways you can add skills. You can click [snorts] up here on the top right where it says add. However, the best way to create and add skills is simply to click on a new chat. Make sure you're in chat

GBT work and then describe what skill it is that you want chat GBT to create for you. and it'll save it as one of those skills that you can then use again in the future. Now that you understand how to create a skill, let me show you some of the skills that I use almost every single day. This first skill is one of my favorites and you've probably never seen it even though it's hiding right in plain sight and it comes preloaded into Chat GBT. It's called visualize and it turns ChatGBT's responses from this into this. To use this, come over to a new

task and type forward slash. Forward slash is the command that you use to find any skills that you already have loaded into chatbt. All you have to do is start typing the name of it. This one is called visualize. And you should see it right here. By selecting this, that

will then turn any response chat GPD gives you into a more visual response. Here, for example, I gave it access to a folder on my computer that contains all of my family's budgeting, savings, and spending plans. And I'm going to ask it to visualize all of that data. Now, I've already asked ChatGpt this same question without the visualiz. And this is the response that it gave me. But check out

what it looks like when you use the visualized skill. This is so much easier to understand. Up here, we see the core spending, the savings, the total planned cash out. We see where all of our expenses and all of our budgeting goes. This is interactive as well. So, right

now we have it on monthly. We can switch it over to annual. And we have all the known costs down here in this table. So, if like me, you're more of a visual person, then definitely try out the visualize skill. It's one of my favorite hidden gems inside of chat GBT work. And

the more I play around with it, the more I discover cool things you can do with it. This next skill solves a really annoying problem I have with chat GBT work. Have you ever given ChatGBT a task, stepped away from your computer, expecting it to notify you through the app on your phone when it was done, only to never get that notification? I don't know about you, but this happens to me all the time. Well, this skill fixes that. It's called LMK, short for let me

know. Anytime I give Chat GBT a task with the intent of walking away from my computer while it's working, I will also tell it to let me know when it's done. Then when the task is complete, I get a push notification on my phone through a third-party app letting me know that Chat GBT is done. The app I use for this is called Pushover. It's free to try out and then it's just a onetime payment of $5. After you download the app and log

in on the web, you'll get a user key. You will need to give Chat GBT your user key. And then if you scroll down to the bottom, you can create a new application. And you also need to give this a name. So, we just name this one chat. You don't need to fill in anything

here that's optional or upload an image. Check off the box and click on create application. You'll then get an API token and you also need to give that API token to Chat GBT. To make this really easy for you, there's a link in the description down below to a page that includes all of the skills I'm covering in this video. Just copy down any of those prompts and send them to Chat GPT and it will set up the skill for you.

You don't even need to enter in your email to access those skills. All I ask is that if you find any of them helpful, consider giving this video a thumbs up and then watch all the way to the end because that's the best way to support all the free content I make here on YouTube. So, if you copy down that LMK prompt, you can come over to Chat GBT and paste it in, send it along, and it will literally walk you through how to set this up. It will tell you where on the website to click and what you need to copy and send over to it so that you can set up this skill for yourself. Then of course you can invoke the skill at any time by typing forward slashlmk.

I also like to use this in a lot of my automations. So for instance, right here is one of my automations that's running on my Mac Mini where it's researching different trending topics on Twitter for me or X for me. And if it finds that there's anything that might need my attention that I may want to make a video about, it will push a notification to my phone. That way I don't have to be monitoring X 247 trying to keep up with the news. ChatGBT does it for me and then just lets me know about the really important stuff. Before we move on,

let's take a quick moment to hear from the sponsor of today's video, design.com. Design.com is an all-in-one AI design platform that helps you create logos, business cards, social media graphics, websites, and other branded designs for your business. I can start with a business name and use this AI powered logo generator to quickly get a bunch of different ideas. Then I can

take the one I like and edit it using simple AI prompts or fine-tune the fonts, colors, and layout until it feels right. Design.com then automatically carries that logo and its colors into other designs, including business cards, social media posts, flyers, websites, linkin bio pages, and digital business cards. So I don't have to rebuild the same branding from scratch every time I need a new asset. For example, after I finish a logo, I can jump into the business card maker and the logo and colors are already there. Then I can use

those same brand elements to make Instagram posts, Facebook graphics, flyers, posters, or even a website. Each tool gives me templates I can customize, but everything still looks like it came from the same business. And if you already have a logo, you can upload it and use that same system to create matching designs around your existing brand. To try outdesign.com, use the link in the description down below. When

you get started, you can browse and edit logos for free before committing to one of their plans. And thanks to design.com for sponsoring this part of the video. All right, on to the next skill. If you're anything like me, you're not just using Chat GBT. You may also be using

Claude or Gemini, maybe Grock. And sometimes you'll start a task in one AI tool and then want to switch to another to compare the results or because you want to take advantage of the strengths of that model or that tool. That's where a handoff skill comes in. A handoff skill tells Chachibbt to take everything that matters from the task you're working on and to package it into a smaller set of instructions for another AI. The handoff will include the goal of the project, what's already been done, the decisions you've made, any files or links that it needs, and exactly what should happen next. You can then take

that handoff and paste it into another tool like Claude, and keep going without explaining everything again. So, for example, here's a project I've been working on for a while. It's an app that I'm building for my iPhone, and it's been going pretty well. However, we ran into a couple of difficulties that we just kind of weren't able to get past with chatgbt. So, I ran the handoff skill and I got my handoff document and then I pasted that into claw and it was able to pick up where chat GBT left off.

It fixed the issue and then it created another handoff that I then brought back over to chat GBT. So, it's basically a very structured way to create a summary of the task you're working on so you can bring it to another AI. Sometimes though, instead of handing off an entire project to another AI, you just want to ask another AI for a little bit of help. For those situations, you wouldn't want to use handoff. Instead, you want to use a skill I built called Ask. Ask is a

skill I created specifically for chatbt works browser use and it instructs chatbt to open up its browser and to ask a different AI for some help in the browser. For example, I have a scheduled task running on my other computer where I have chat GBT look for trending AI news topics for me a few times. I think like three or four times per day. But the problem is chat GBT doesn't have real time access to X which is where a lot of trending news breaks. So as part of this schedule task it will open up the browser come over to grock.com and

ask Grock if there are any topics that might be interesting that could be incorporated into that research. Or let's say for instance you have to create images as part of your work but you don't like the images that are created by Chad GPT. Let's say you like the images that are created by Gemini better. Well, you can have chat GBT open up Gemini on the browser and ask it to create the images so that you get images created by Gemini instead of by Chat GBT. And all of this can be done other ways, but I like using browser use for this because it takes advantage of the subscriptions I'm already paying for.

You could also do this yourself, but setting up a skill means that these can be incorporated into your automations. So you can spend less time doing the work and bouncing between all these different tools. You can just have chat GBT as the central delegator who's then sending the work off to the other tools and then bring it all back together in one place. So to give you an example of how I might use this, I might tell Chat GBT that I had a company reach out to me about promoting their new product called Grockbot. I'll ask it to do some research into what people are saying about Grockbot. Also, forward slaskgro.

That will then instruct it that in addition to doing its own research, it also should open up the browser, go to grock.com and ask it the same question so that we can get sort of the sentiment that people are sharing on X about what they think of Grockbot and that will then be incorporated into this research. Next is a skill that fixes another annoying thing about chat GPD work. Sometimes you ask chat GBD work a simple question and then it will just take off and start building things for you or get to work without fully understanding what it is that you wanted done. That is where the grill me skill comes in. When

you use grill me force chat GBT to interview you first before taking action. The goal is for chat GBT to uncover the assumptions it's making, the different decisions that you want, and the missing details you haven't thought through yet. Then it doesn't begin building anything until both you and the AI are on the same page and understand exactly what you're trying to do. The original GrillMe skill was developed by Matt PCO, and I'll have a link to that in the resources below. However, his version can be quite intense. So, I've

created this version of it for myself that's a lot more scaled down so you can move through it quicker. So, if you want my version, I will also have that in the resource below. But when you use it, it's going to ask you questions like this where it's just following up, trying to make sure that it understands what the task is before it gets to work. And it specifically has instructions so that it won't start working until you both agree that it's ready to go. This next skill category I'm calling a multi-step skill because skills are really useful for pairing together multiple steps in a sequence that you never have to repeat the chatbt ever again. And you can see an example of

that right here. So I have a skill called sponsor video review. The way this works is after I've recorded a video that I have to send to a sponsor so they can just check it over and make sure there's nothing factually incorrect in it. All I do is call up that skill and then provide a link to that video page in Obsidian where I organize all the outlines for the video and all the notes for it. And with that alone, ChatgBT works knows exactly what to do for this skill sponsor video review. It

will first go over to vimeo.com where I upload those videos. It will then find the video, grab the link for it, draft an email to the brand, and include the link to it. It will update the schedule inside of Obsidian for me. It'll change the status of it, and then it will let me know so I can then go into Gmail, check over the draft real quick, and then send it off to the sponsor. Now,

obviously, this isn't a skill that you're going to be using. However, I want you to think about how you can find any of these multi-step skills that or multi-step workflows that you repeat very often and can you outsource that to chat GBT with a simple skill. This one in particular takes advantage of so many different things. It takes advantage of browser use because it's opening up its browser to check Vimeo and to grab the link. It then takes advantage of the plugin with Gmail and then it takes advantage of local file access when it's accessing the files in Obsidian to update them. So if you have any of these

wrote tedious multi-step workflows that can be outsourced to chat GPT definitely create a skill for it. Before we get to the last skill, I have one bonus one for you. Have you ever played around with pets inside of the chat GBT desktop app yet? You can invoke these by typing forward slashpet, clicking enter, and then on the bottom right hand corner, your pet will then pop up. And in addition to being really cute and adorable, these pets will remain at the top of your screen even when you switch to another app and will let you know when a task needs your attention or when the task is finished. But did you know

that there is a skill to hatch your own pets? It's called hatch. So, if you type forward slash and type in hatch, you'll see it right here. You can select that, send it along, and then it'll ask you what you want the pet to look like. You can just describe it. You can upload

reference images, and then it will create a pet like this. So, I created one myself. Here it is right here. It's called PIP. It looks like this paperclip. And you can find all the ones

you've created by coming into the settings and clicking on the left here where it says pets. So, this is the one that I created. It's just a little paper clip, but you can create one literally in any style that you want using Hatch. The last skill I want to show you is actually a package of skills for a plug-in called Remotion. Remotion allows chatbt to create motion graphics just like this one. So, if you come over to

the plugins up here on the top left and search for Remotion, you'll see that plugin right here and you can click on install. And what I want to highlight for you is that with Remotion and with a lot of other plugins, when you install them, they come prepackaged with skills. The Remotion one comes with 12 different skills. And this allows Chat GBT to use the plugins better. So, this one includes a skill for best practices, creating captions, creating docs, creating maps. And what's great about

this is you don't need to know what all these skills are because as you are using the remote plugin and you just say something like using remotion create a motion graphic and then describe what the motion graphic will look like chat GBT will automatically use the skills it needs to produce you the best results and you'll see that with a lot of the plugins you don't need to know what they are by name chat GBT is just going to use them and will automatically install them as soon as you install the plug-in. So, I use Remotion and all the skills it comes with in a lot of my YouTube videos, but it's not the only skill I use with my videos. In fact, I create a skill that also edits my YouTube videos for me. If you want to check that out and see what it's all about, click on this video right here. It details how I've set up Chat GBT work to edit videos and includes the exact skill that I use for that. So, make sure to click on this

video to see what that's all about and I'll see you over there in one second. Bye for now.