---
video_title: "This ChatGPT + Shutterstock Workflow Is Incredible"
video_id: EocWrqXXq_8
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EocWrqXXq_8
video_date: 2026-08-03T13:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Try @shutterstock today: https://www.shutterstock.com/unlimited
   #ad #Shutterstock #NeverStartFromScratch
  
  Watch me turn one rough idea into a complete, launch-ready marketing campaign using the Shutterstock app inside ChatGPT, Shutterstock's AI Editor, AI Video Generator, and Unlimited downloads subscription.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored by @shutterstock
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:45 Build the Campaign in ChatGPT
  1:14 Shutterstock App in ChatGPT
  2:01 Customize With the AI Editor
  3:17 Create a Video From the Image
---
Everything you're looking at right now, the images and the video, all of it started as one sentence typed into ChatGPT. No designer, no blank canvas, and no digging through stock photo sites in another tab. It just required one plugin and a very simple workflow that anyone can follow. Here's what I've noticed about creating marketing projects in ChatGPT. The ideas are the easy part. ChatGPT can help you write

copy and plan a campaign in minutes. The hard part is always the visuals. You spend a lot of time staring at a blank canvas or searching through stock sites trying to find the perfect image that matches what's in your head. That's the exact gap that Shutterstock closes, and it all happens inside of ChatGPT. Let me start by giving ChatGPT an idea. I'm

going to play the role of a small local coffee shop. We'll call it Ridgeline Coffee. And they're launching a new cold brew. That's all I'm starting with. So, here inside ChatGPT, I'll write that rough idea as one prompt and send it along. So, now I have a full campaign

plan with a shopping list of all the visuals. Normally, this is where the project stalls because I'd have to go out and find all of these assets and visuals. Instead, this is where the sponsor of today's video, Shutterstock, comes in. Shutterstock now has an app directly inside ChatGPT. So, without leaving this conversation, I can ask it to pull licensed visuals that match my campaign plan. Look at that. The assets

came to me inside the same chat where my campaign lives. No new tab or manual searching. I just tell ChatGPT to use Shutterstock and I pick the ones that I like. Once you've selected your assets, you can head over to Shutterstock to complete the licensing. And what's great about Shutterstock is their unlimited download subscription. Because for a

project like this, you're never grabbing just one image. You're pulling a whole set. And you can experiment without counting downloads. Now, here's the part that turns a stock photo into my photo. Over here on Shutterstock, I can use the AI editor to edit this image. A licensed

photo gets me 80% of the way there, but it doesn't know my brand. So, in the AI editor, I'm going to tell it what changes I want to make to this image to make it on brand. Here, I will tell it to place this cold brew in a cozy mountain-inspired Ridgeline coffee shop. Add a softly blurred craft coffee bag in the background with a minimalist mountain logo on it above the words Ridgeline coffee. Preserve the hands, the pouring action, the rustic wood, and the composition. Add warm window light

and amber highlights, richer coffee tones, crisp details in the stream, and softly glowing cafe background. And of course, then you click right here where it says apply AI edit. That will open it up in the AI editor where you can compare the original to the one with the AI edits. Same starting asset, but now it's original, on brand, and ready to use commercially. This is what never start from scratch actually means.

You're not settling for a stock photo, and you're not staring at a blank canvas. You start from something real and shape it into yours. One more step because a modern campaign needs motion. I'll take this finished hero image and run it through Shutterstock's AI video generator. I click up here where it says generate, then click on the left here where it says video, and under image reference, you want to select the first frame reference. That will use the image

that you generated as the first frame. So, selecting that, you can click on the top here where it says image generations to see all of the images that you generated, and this is the one that I want to turn into a video. So, I will select this one and click on continue. Now, we have that first frame reference. Under aspect ratio, you want to select an aspect ratio that best matches the image that you're using, which in this case will be 16 by 9, and we'll leave it on a short duration. Now, up here we can

describe exactly what we want it to do in this video. Starting from this frame, continue the pour smoothly. The coffee level rises precisely with the stream. Ice shifts naturally and reflections move realistically. The barista gradually tips the container upright.

The stream thins and stops, and the finished drink rests full on the counter. Keep the camera, hands, background, and composition steady. Now, with all of that, we can click on generate. After a few moments, the video is finished. So, let's watch it together.

That's perfect for what I need. So, now the exact same visual that anchors my static ads is also a short video I can run alongside them. The whole kit matches because it all came from the same starting asset. Let's zoom out for a second. One sentence in the ChatGPT becomes an entire campaign plan. The

visuals then come through the Shutterstock app, and from that we can edit any of the images inside the AI editor on Shutterstock, and even turn it into a video. That's a launch-ready marketing kit, and the visuals, the part that always used to be the bottleneck, was the fastest part. And guess what? Since I recorded this video, Shutterstock has also launched a connector in Claude, so you can try them out there if that's your preferred AI tool. So, that's the workflow. Three

simple steps. Build your campaign in ChatGPT, customize your visuals with Shutterstock's AI editor and turn your creative into motion with the AI video generator. If you want to run this on your own, try Shutterstock today. The link is in the description down below. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.