---
video_title: "AI News: NotebookLM Folders; New Models (Kimi, Gemini, Grok); Rogue AI Models + More"
video_id: HhF8A1MUc4c
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HhF8A1MUc4c
video_date: 2026-07-24T13:00:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Build and publish full-stack apps and websites by chatting with AppLLM by Abacus AI for $10 a month: https://appllm.abacus.ai/kjy
  
  This week's AI news covers Kimi K3, Grok 4.5, the new Gemini Flash models, OpenAI's escaped-model security test, Gemini Notebook Collections, ChatGPT desktop updates, and Claude's record-a-Skill feature.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored by AppLLM by Abacus AI.
  
  0:00 Intro
  1:05 Kimi K3, Grok 4.5, and Gemini Flash
  5:22 AppLLM by Abacus AI
  6:52 Opus 5 and Gemini 4 Rumors
  9:45 OpenAI's Escaped-Model Security Test
  10:49 Gemini Notebook Collections and Google Updates
  15:14 ChatGPT Desktop, Voice, and Health
  19:02 Claude Skills and Voice Updates
  21:15 Netflix Uses AI in 300 Productions
---
We got a lot of AI news to cover this week. First, we'll run through the flood of brand new models that just dropped because Kimmy K3, Grock 4.5, and two Gemini Flash models all landed within days of each other. But then we need to talk about OpenAI because they have a model that they were testing internally. It broke out of its container, got onto the internet, and hacked another company. That sounds terrifying, but

there's important context to the story that most people are leaving out. Today, I'll break down all of that, plus a bunch of updates beyond the models. Gemini notebook finally has a folder system. Live voice is coming to the Chat JBD desktop app. And you can now teach Claude skills by recording your screen.

My name is Paul Jay Lipsky. Every week, I release an AI news recap just like this one where I talk about the news that non-technical people actually care about. So, if that interests you, make sure you subscribed. And now, let's get to the news. Let's start by talking about all the models that have come out over the past week or so and some of the rumors about new models that are coming out because there's a lot happening here. I think it's worth spending a few

minutes talking about it. So, first let's talk about Kimmy K3. This is an openweight model from a Chinese company called Moonshot AI. And there are two things that really make this stand out. First, it is a very good model. It is

frontier level. And on many of the benchmarks, it beats or is very close to an Opus level model. In practice, it's not quite as polished as maybe something like Opus or GPT 5.6. It kind of has a little bit more of rough edges and it isn't quite as intelligent as those models, but it's still very, very good.

And more importantly, it is very cheap, a lot cheaper than the US-based models. Moonshot AI also has something called Kimmy work which is very similar to Claude Co-work and Chat GBT work. It is really designed for knowledge work and you can see right here on this dashboard this really looks similar to Claude Co-work very similar to it. So, this is the reason a lot of people have switched over to Kimmy K3 because of just how cheap it is and how their subscriptions go a lot further than they do with OpenAI's plans or Anthropics plans. In fact, it's gotten so popular that you can't even sign up for Kimmy right now.

You have to get on a wait list because the demand is so high. Now, with that said, personally, I tend to shy away from Chinese-based models that are hosted by Chinese companies, particularly for sensitive work. Really, that's everything because I want to be working in with US companies that have servers here in the United States with very clear data protections or maybe European companies. Now, obviously, nothing is 100%, but I feel at least more comfortable working with USbased models than I do with these models that are based in China. But if you are looking for the absolute cheapest models that are still incredibly good, this may be a good option for you. Next, let's

look real quickly at Gro 4.5 by Space XAI. This is Grock's latest model. So, this is already available to everyone. When you come to grock.com or grock onx,

you'll see it right here. Grock 4.5. So, if you use Grock already and you're happy with it, you're definitely going to see a nice improvement here. However, this, in my experience, isn't as good as what is being offered by chat GBT or Claude. So, I don't think it's worth

switching to Grock just because of this new model. Google has also released some new models. We have Gemini 3.6 Flash and 3.5 Flash Light. And so inside of Google

Gemini, you can see those right here. Both flash and flashlight are available. I've been testing these out, particularly 3.6 Flash, as 3.5 Flash was my go-to default model for Gemini for the past couple of months, and I've definitely noticed a nice improvement when it comes to knowledge work with 3.6

Flash. It's better at any sort of multimodal tasks. So things like parsing documents, data analysis, and report drafting, you will notice a nice improvement for all of those. So if you're using 3.6 for knowledge work, I think you're going to be happy with this update. The next update we have is to

Claude. Claude now has Fable 5 as part of the subscription permanently. This was something that they were going back and forth on anthropic for a while. They said Fable 5 would only be part of your subscription until a certain date. They kept extending that deadline and now it is permanently part of your subscription as long as you are paying at least $100 a month. On the cheaper $20 plan, it's

not included with your subscription. And obviously for the free plan, it's not included either. Now, when you come into your Clawude settings and you click on usage on the left, you will see a separate meter here for Fable. And that's because you can only use 50% of your weekly limit on Fable. So just be aware of that. You don't want to use it

for every single task or you're going to burn through it quite quickly. Only use it for the most important tasks. Otherwise, you can stick with Opus or Sonnet. So far, we've talked about a lot of different models from a lot of different companies. So, this is the perfect time to talk about the sponsor of today's video, App LLM by Abacus AI.

Because with this tool, you get access to all of those models in one place. App LLM is an AI app builder that lets you create and publish full stack websites and apps just by describing what you want. For instance, I wanted a better way to keep track of all the AI news that I cover. So, I asked App LLM to build a simple AI news tracker. I described what I wanted in plain English and it created the app without me writing any code. This isn't just a

mockup either. App LLM can build and publish full stack websites and apps with things like a database, user accounts, roles, and permissions already built in. You can even add Stripe payments if you're building something you want to sell. And when you want to change something, you can just keep chatting with it. Here, I asked it to add filters and a daily summary, and it updated the app for me. It can also help

test the app, fix bugs, and build schedule workflows or multi-step agents. And the $10 plan includes more than just AppLM by Abacus AI. It also includes Chat LLM and Abacus AI agent along with access to leading AI models and tools for generating images and video. So even if you're not building an app every day, there's a lot more included in the same subscription. App LLM by Abacus AI costs $10 a month. If you have an app idea

you've been sitting on, check it out with the link in the description and see what you can build. And now back to the news. All right, moving on. Let's talk about some of the rumored models that aren't out yet, but should be very soon. First, Opus 5. This was supposed to be

released, according to the rumors, on July 23rd. I'm recording this on July 23rd in the afternoon. It's not out yet. Hopefully, it will be out tomorrow on July 24th. So, by the time you're watching this, you will hopefully see Opus 5 in here. But what does that mean

for you? Because now Claude has four different models. And Opus was supposed to be their best in the past, but now Fable is better, and the new Opus 5 will not be better than Fable 5. So, where and when do you use all four of these models? Well, if you're on the $20 Claude plan, I would suggest you basically keep it on Sonnet the entire time. If you use Opus, you're just going

to burn through your your usage too quickly, and you don't have access to Fable unless you pay extra. If you're on the $100 plan, I would still use Sonnet at first as your default. Go up to Opus for the more complex tasks and five for your toughest challenges. But if you're not hitting your limits using that strategy, then you can switch to using Opus as your default model and then switch up to Fable for more complex task where you want something with a ton of intelligence. That's the way I use it. I

only use Claude for knowledge work and I think a lot of the advice out there from people talking about how expensive these tools are are using them for coding which burns through usage a lot faster than knowledge work usually does. So as a knowledge worker I have found that opus is a fantastic default model to use and I use Fable again for the more complex things or where I need something incredibly intelligent. But if you want my full breakdown on Opus 5 once it becomes available, make sure to subscribe to the channel because I will definitely talk about it in the next weekly AI news recap after it comes out. Now, let's talk about what Google has been up to with their Pro model. 3.5 Pro

was supposed to come out last month. It never came out. Rumors have it that Google is unhappy with the quality of it, so they keep delaying its release. What makes this a little bit more interesting is that they have said that they have already begun pre-training for Gemini 4. Now, that means that it could still take a long time before Gemini 4 comes out, but kind of the big question is, are they going to skip 3.5 entirely

just because they're so unsatisfied with the way that it's that it's working? The concern here is that other companies like Anthropic and OpenAI have been releasing really powerful models all the time and Google hasn't released the Pro model for months now. Their flash models are improving and those ones are quite good, but I think we need to see a pro model from them pretty soon. Now, let's talk about OpenAI. They haven't released a new model, but they are testing one internally. The big headline is that

this model broke out of a contained environment, accessed the internet, and hacked another AI company called Hugging Face. So that is the news headline. It's going viral. A lot of articles about this and a lot of fear that's being spread around. But what most people aren't talking about is that this happened during an intentional hacking test. OpenAI actually turned down the

model's normal safety protections and placed it in a controlled environment to see what it was capable of. The model was trying to complete the test, not just randomly deciding to attack a company. Still, the fact that it found a way outside of that environment and reached a real company's system, that is significant, that is scary, but that's not what the model is going to be like when it is actually released to us. All right, let's stop talking about models now and we'll talk about some new updates to the tools that we love and some new tools. And we'll start with Gemini Notebook. If you don't know this

already, Notebook LM has been renamed to Gemini Notebook. That happened last week, but what just came out this week are collections. Collections are basically the folders that we've been asking for forever with Notebook LM Gemini Notebook. So, the way that these work is you come over to Gemini Notebook up here at the top. Click on collections and we'll start a new one here. I'll

just call this one collection one. And you can select which notebooks you want in that collection. So, I'll just select three of them here and click on create. Now, why I think these are better than folders is because if we create a new collection here, I'll call this one collection 2. You'll notice that I can add this same notebooks to this new collection. So, a notebook can exist in

multiple collections, which I think is a really smart idea because there is always overlap between them. Opening up any of these, you can see all the notebooks in here and you can remove it from the collection. You can add it to a new collection. You can, of course, change the name of the collection by clicking right here where it says edit. So, yeah, this is what we've been asking for. I'm very happy with it. And this is

currently rolled out now for all users. So, if you come over to Gemini Notebook, you should see this on the web. It's not out for the uh smartphones yet, though. There's also been an update to Gemini Spark. Spark is Gemini's always on assistant. I've made some videos about

it in the past, and there's nothing really new in terms of features, but it is currently rolling out for all pro users in the United States. Previously, it was only available to ultra users. So, now it's available for pro users and it's coming worldwide to all prousers in the near future. So, if you guys want a full update on everything you can do with Spark, let me know that in the comments section down below. I think it is due for an update, like a new video on Spark because there's a ton of cool capabilities that you can do with that and I'd be happy to make that video for you guys if you want. There's also been

an update in the Gemini app. Now, if you click on this plus icon, there's been this option for a while to add your avatar right here. But this only worked with videos and now it works with images. If you're not familiar with these avatars, the first time you set it up, you should set it up on your phone and you will actually scan your face and talk to it. It will then create a digital avatar of you that works in videos and now images. So over here, I

told it to use my avatar to make a photo or an image of me sitting at a computer in an ice cave wearing a winter coat and typing on a retro computer. And there we go. So, I no longer have to upload an image of myself every time I wanted to generate an image of me. I do have to update my avatar, though, because I no longer have a nose ring, but I think I can do that in the app. So, that's pretty nice. I use the avatar a lot for

videos is quite fun. So having it now for images is definitely pretty cool. You can also use your avatar inside of Google Flow. If you're not familiar with Flow, this is a tool that is specifically used for generating images and videos, which of course you can do with Gemini, but this gives you more tools that you can use. And speaking of Flow, for the next month or so, you're going to get an extra 50 credits per day to use with Flow for any image or video generations. So, this is a separate

usage limit from the usage limit on Gemini. And they I guess they're trying to encourage more people to use it. So, if you like generating images or videos, you can take advantage of those 50 extra free credits every day for the next month. So, that's Google Flow, but there is also Flow Music by Google. This is used for generating music. And the

update here is that you can now upload your own beats and instrumentals directly into Flow Music and remix them to take an existing song that you've created to the next level using AI. In the past, that all had to be generated from scratch. But now you can actually start with real music that you've created and use AI to enhance it, which is pretty cool. And this is something else that's also included with your Google AI subscription. Let's look at OpenAI next. This is one I'm really

excited to talk about because I've been making a lot of videos recently about the new chat GBT work, particularly the new chat GBT desktop app because I've been very very impressed with it and they finally made some updates to it that make a lot of sense. So now over here on the top left on this dropdown, you can select between codecs and what they're just calling now, chat GBT. And inside of here, there's a toggle up here between work and chat. In the past, this was all work and there was just this little tiny window for chat. So, it's nice now that we have a full environment where we can switch between chat and work so that we can kind of have a distinction between both of those different types of use cases while still having one dashboard for all of it. What

that also means is that over here on the left, your projects will be merged. So, this is going to show both your work projects and your chat projects. And then down here, you will see your recent tasks and chats in this one section together. And if you get confused, you can hover over any of them and see this says it's a chat. This one says it is a work task. So, I really like this update

because work has a separate usage from chat. Chat's pretty much unlimited. So, if you have any queries that you really don't need to use work for, just switch over to chat and ask it in here to save your work usage for the tasks that actually need it. And you'll still have everything in one place, nicely organized. The other update to the chat GBT desktop app that I don't have access to yet cuz it's literally rolling out right now, but you probably will have access to it by the time you're watching this video is GPT live in the desktop app. and it works with codeex and chat

GBT work. So you can see what that will look like right here. And I think that's going to be pretty cool. I can imagine opening up work using GPT live and saying something like what's going on in my inbox. It'll give me a quick summary and then I can talk through how I want to respond to those emails or ask it to draft up different documents for me and kind of work through it over voice before actually going into computer and you know finishing it up myself. So, I'm

pretty excited for that one. Again, this will be something I could do a full review on next week once I actually get access to it. OpenAI has also said that they are making ChatGptd Health more broadly available to more people. The way this works is you connect it up with your Apple Health data and then you can ask it questions about your health. So, you can say something as simple as, "What can I do today to improve my health?" And it's going to have your

workout history, how many steps you're taking. If you're uploading lab results, it'll see that and it'll see all your calories. If you're logging meals, so it's going to be able to help you get healthier essentially. That's the idea. It can help you plan meals. You can ask

it to help you prepare for a doctor's appointment or even plan workouts. So, I've been using something very similar using my Fitbit Air and the Google Health app that has an AI coach and it is very, very helpful. I've used it to plan workouts. I've been using it for meal prepping and to meet my goals and it's helping me stay on track. So, I think AI for health is really really nice and it's something that, you know, I know not not everyone feels comfortable sharing their health data with these AI companies or these AI tools, which I completely understand, but it certainly has been helping me quite a lot. And I think that if you do

feel comfortable with it, I would really recommend trying at least one of these, either Google Health or the Open AI's chat GBT health. Not to be outdone though, Anthropic has released a few updates to Claude. The first is to the Claude desktop app. Now you can record a skill. This is something you could do before with other tools, but now it's available for Claude. Basically, the way

this works is you click on this, it will start recording your screen and you can talk through what you do. So, here I'll say, "Okay, I want you to come over to youtube.com and search for AI news. Then I want you to scroll through here until you find videos that are pretty new that are having a breakout success where they're getting more views than they normally get for that channel. So, if we look at maybe this person right here, Matthew, he has 133,000 views in the past two days. Let's open up his channel

and I can check how many views he normally gets on a video. If that one is a breakout, then I want to see what he's talking about and possibly make a video about it. Then I can click on done here. And here you can see it now basically typed out what I did. It said, "I watch your video. You search YouTube for AI

news. You're spotting fresh videos, pulling way more views than normal. You check the channel's typical numbers to confirm it's a breakout worth covering. Now, let me turn this into a skill. So, it's kind of the same. Like, I used to

work with a lot of virtual assistants. And at first, I would write out a standard operating procedure for them, but then I realized it's a lot faster to record videos, screen recordings for them. It's kind of like that same thing, but now we're doing it with AI. They've also updated their voice mode. It is a lot better than it was in the past. And

it has connectors and you can switch models. So check this out. I will start live voice. And then down here you can choose which model you want to use for voice, Opus, Sonnet or Haiku. And you can even change the effort level. And

it's able to use tools. So it can access your email, your notion, any other thirdparty tools that you already have connected up with Claude. Live Voice can interact with those tools as well. So, it's definitely a lot more useful than it was in the past. So, the last bit of news that I thought was interesting was that Netflix has said that they have used AI in over 300 of their titles over the past year. That doesn't literally

mean the title of the video. That means like of all of their different productions, their TV shows and movies that they make. 300 of them have used AI, generative AI to some degree. Whether that's in the concept or previsualization to post-production and release, they've used it all across the production process, which is really interesting. And you know, we we see this being talked about how this is going to reduce cost quite a bit and make it a lot faster for producing films and movies. There's a lot of resistance

to this, but I think it's just because of money. It is inevitable that AI, generative AI, is going to be used more and more in the entertainment business. So, that's all the AI news from the past week that actually matters. If you made it this far, do me a quick favor. Just give this video a thumbs up. It actually

helps me out a lot more than you probably think. So, just go down there, give this video a thumbs up, and consider subscribing to the channel because every week I release an AI news recap just like this one. And if you want to make sure you're staying on top of everything, you definitely want to make sure you are subscribed. Otherwise, thanks so much for watching and I'll see you next week. Bye for now.