---
video_title: "How To Create Interactive Websites With NotebookLM"
video_id: lQRwxbk_KiI
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQRwxbk_KiI
video_date: 20260324
video_description: |
  You can turn any NotebookLM notebook into a stunning, interactive website in under a minute — and I'll show you exactly how.
  
  ⚒️ Tools I Use Everyday:
  🎙️ Wispr Flow (voice-to-text that actually cleans up your speech): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/l6qEejY
  🧠 Kortex (the best Chrome extension for NotebookLM power users): https://kortex-notebooklm.com/ — Use code PAUL10 for 10% off
  
  🔗 This video is not sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:27 Set Up The Notebook
  1:13 The Builder
  1:51 Best Model
  3:13 Prompts
  5:01 Live Build
  7:45 Sharing 
  7:59 Use Cases
  8:52 Cloning
---
Did you know that you can turn any notebook in Notebook LM into a beautiful interactive website just like this one? This is great for portfolios, research hubs, client-facing reports. Honestly, anything where you want to take information you've already organized in a notebook and instantly turn it into a beautiful shareable website. No coding, no website builders, and it's really easy. Let me show you how it works.

Start out, of course, inside of Notebook LM. You want to set up a notebook with all of your sources inside of it that are going to be used for the creation of your website. So, be very careful about what sources you put in here. That way, anything that goes into the website is actually accurate and what you want inside of there. Now, for this particular notebook, I set up a fake company called Ember. And this is an AI

wearable company, so I put all of my company documents inside of here. Things like the company overview, brand voice and guide, the missions and values, and the price of the product as well. So, this sort of acts as a central hub for all the information about my new product called the Ember. Now, to actually create a website, you cannot do that right now inside of Studio itself. So, we're going to jump over to Google Gemini. And inside of

Gemini, if you click on this plus icon, you'll be able to choose one of your notebooks. I'll click where it says Notebook LM and then choose the notebook that I want to use to create my website, which in this case is this one right here called the Ember. After selecting it, click on add. And then, under tools, you want to make sure you select canvas. With canvas enabled, that is the secret setting that unlocks the ability to create websites. Let's move over here to

the right where you can choose the model that you want to use, fast, Thinking, or Pro. This will definitely impact the quality of the website that you create. For instance, right here, I created a website all about the history of the West, the Wild West, and I did it three different times. This first version, I used Pro. And you can see it looks really nice. You can click on any of

these, they spin around. Here we have this whole timeline. There's a menu up here that you can click on and actually brings you to different parts of the page. It's a really nice-looking website. The second one I made, I used Thinking, and it also looks pretty good, but I don't think it looks as good, and there's certainly a lot less going on here. And then finally, the last one I

created using Fast, and you can see how different the quality is. Still fine, but it is a big contrast to Thinking and certainly Pro. So, when it comes to creating your website, you want to use the best model that you have access to. I will use Pro for the rest of this video because it creates the best results. But just know that if you are on a paid plan, you will have access to Pro, but only a certain number of Pro chats every single day before you have to wait for it to reset. Next, you have

to put in your prompt. Now, you can keep this pretty generic. For instance, here, I attached to this Gemini chat my notebook all about OpenClaw. If you're not familiar with OpenClaw, it's this open-source AI agent platform that's been going viral recently. So, I created a notebook all about how OpenClaw works.

I attached it to this chat and just said, "Create a website." And honestly, this website looks fantastic. I absolutely love the way that it came out. The colors, there's things you can click on. It's a really nice-looking website. But I ran it again, but this

time I gave it a different prompt. I told it to create an interactive website about how to use Open Claw. So, still pretty broad, but it narrowed it down a little bit. It's not just about what Open Claw is, but how to use it. And so, now this website is more of what I'm looking for because it focuses in on how to actually set up and use Open Claw.

And then finally, I ran it one more time, but was a little bit more detailed with my prompt. I said, "Create an interactive website, and I want to specifically focus in on which AI models to use with Open Claw." So, this is a lot more specific. There's less information here, but it's more specific information. So, just know that the more specific that you get, the smaller the website may be and the less creative Gemini can be with the creation of it, but that might be what you're looking for. Personally, I find like a good

middle ground, like create an interactive website about how to use this is good. It gives Gemini that flexibility while still honing in on what I'm looking for. And I also found that this word interactive is very important because it helps you actually create a dashboard here or a website where you can actually interact with it more. So, returning back to a fresh chat, let's tell Gemini to create an interactive website for my new product, the Ember. It should include pricing, info about the company, etc.

And also include a quiz people can take to determine if the Ember will be a good fit for them. The goal is to sell the product. I'll submit that along, and I'm not going to jump to when this is finished because I want you to see in real time how quickly this works. One other point in terms of the prompt that I want to point out to you is that I gave it the goal, and I've also found that that helps a lot, too. If you tell Gemini what the goal is for your website or any project that you're working on, it's going to be able to get you better results in my experience because it's not only able to understand or try to guess what you're trying to do, it will actually know what you're trying to do and will adapt based on that. Now, over

here on the right, we can see it actually coding out. If you don't understand coding, that's okay because in a second, it's going to switch and we're going to switch into preview mode and actually be able to see the actual website itself and not just have to look at the code. So, here we are. It is now finished. So, how long did that take?

Maybe 30 seconds? It's really fast. So, here's our website right here. You already know something's off. Ember knows it, too. The first wearable built

around how your mind actually works. So, I can click on order your sizing kit. So, here's the information down here about how to purchase it. Here's the monthly payment plan for it as well. Here's like some more sales copy for it and an FAQ section. Do we have that

quiz? Uh is Ember a good fit for you? What's your primary goal for tracking your health? I want to recover from stress and burnout. How do you typically typically feel by 3:00 p.m.?

Uh I feel drained. What wearable experience do you prefer? I want deep stats. And it says, "Yeah, we recommend that you buy this and there here's a plan that we recommend." So, it's cool they added that quiz as well. You can

see all the other stuff in here. Now, I'm not totally happy with this. I think this is a good first step. What I would do is tell it, "I don't like this main image here. Can we actually put an image of the product there?" I might have to

upload that for it. And same thing here, but anything you want change, you can tell it to make those changes and it will. And then after a bit of back and forth, you can usually get your website looking exactly the way that you want. For instance, here it now shows an actual product image right here at the top. I told Gemini to add that. And I

also asked it to add a dark mode just to make it a little bit nicer. So, once you have it perfect, you can share this with anyone by clicking right here where it says share. Then click on share again. And then you'll get a link that you can send to anyone and they'll be able to access your website. Now, don't fall into the trap of thinking that anything you make with this just has to be a traditional looking website. You can use this for

anything. For instance, recently I made a YouTube video about how to use Gemini Gems. If you want to check that out, you can see it right here. But inside that video, I gave a lot of prompts that people can use inside of Gemini. And I said, "Hey, in the description of this video will be a link where you can access all of those prompts." Now, I

could have just given everyone a text file, but instead I created this website that actually has all of the prompts inside of it. So, I had one called image style copier. People can come here now, click on this, and actually copy down the prompt that I used. So, get creative with this because there are some really cool use cases for websites outside of what most people think of when they think of websites. Now, I want to show you a few other cool things that I've been doing with Notebook LM and websites. So, if you

ever come to a website that you absolutely love and you're like, "Wow, this looks so cool. I want a website that looks like this." What you can do is take screenshots of that page. Then, coming over here, you can see I uploaded one of my notebooks. In this case, it's a web a notebook all about how to start bouldering. And I uploaded

screenshots of this website. And I told it to create a website about bouldering, use the attached screenshots as inspirations for the website style. And after a little bit of back and forth, this is what it came up with. It looks really nice. So, these are all different bouldering terms. I can click on any of

them and see the definition of it. It's really neat. If you'll notice this original website, there's two different versions. There's the grid version and there is the spaces version. I took screenshots of both. So, the spaces

version came out pretty good. It looks a little bit weird, right? It's not perfect, but it's it's pretty neat and it does work. But, another trick is instead of uploading screenshots, you can actually upload screen recordings. And that's what I did right here. You

see a 20-second screen recording that I took of this website and I went back and forth between both of them. I clicked on things in the screen recording to show what it looks like when you click on items. And I gave the same prompt, "Use a website or create a website about bouldering. Use the attached video as inspiration for the website design." And it got much closer. This time in the

spaces field, these are actually floating around. And of course, I can click on them. And then in the grid, this looks a lot nicer. The original one right here, the grid looks The grid looks fine, but this one definitely looks nicer to me. So, uploading screen recordings is it's really neat. It works

really well. So, there you go. That's how you easily turn NotebookLM notebooks into beautiful interactive websites. It's so easy and so fun. You definitely have to try it out. And if you do, let

me know in the comments section down below what prompts you're using to get incredible results. I would love to hear about them and try them out myself. So, please drop them in the comments section down below. Then, like I mentioned before, I made a video recently all about how to use gems inside of Gemini and some mind-blowing ways to use them that most people don't know about. Click right here to watch that video. People

are absolutely loving it and talking about how it completely changes the way they use Gemini. So, if you want to make sure you catch all that, click on this video and I'll see you over there in just 1 second. Bye for now.