---
video_title: "Master Gemini Spark in 15 Minutes (Easy Setup Guide)"
video_id: jHFPnqqGC6M
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHFPnqqGC6M
video_date: 20260529
video_description: |
  Gemini Spark is Google's new 24/7 AI agent that handles your inbox, calendar, and busy work with almost zero setup — here's how to get it running and put it to work today.
  
  Current Availability: Spark is rolling out. It's currently only available for Google AI Ultra subscribers.
  
  🔗 This video is not sponsored but I did receive early access to Spark as part of the Google Early Access Program.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:31 Finding Spark
  1:14 Setup
  2:30 Your First Task
  5:53 Skills & Schedules
  8:30 Use Cases
---
Gemini Spark is the easy AI agent you've been waiting for. A personalized agent that just works. Running 24/7, managing your emails, organizing your calendar, and completing your busy work. And all of that without the complicated setup that usually comes with AI agents. In fact, in this video, I'll show you step-by-step how simple it is to set up Gemini Spark and several easy but very powerful ways you can start using it today to automate your tasks. Let's get

into it. When Spark becomes available to you, you'll find it here inside of Gemini. Clicking on this will switch you from regular chat to your Spark agent. Once inside of Spark, you'll find the prompt bar here in the middle. This is where you can ask Spark to do things for you. There's an important distinction

here. Inside of chat, we have chats. These wait for you to prompt them. Inside of Spark, we have tasks, which Spark can proactively handle for you. It doesn't just answer your questions, it can complete multi-step tasks across all of your apps. That's what makes it an AI

agent rather than just a conversational chatbot. Before we give it our first task though, let's get Spark set up. To do that, click on the bottom left here on this gear icon. That will open up the settings. And then you want to click on personal intelligence.

Inside of here, there are several options. You want to make sure first that memory is turned on. This will allow Gemini to learn from your past chats to understand more about you. And this will be very helpful for something like Spark that gets smarter the more that you use it. You also want to come into connected apps. Here you can see that I have my

Google Workspace turned on. This gives Gemini and Spark more access to the tools that you use to be able to help you across all these scattered apps. And guess what? That's all you have to do to set Spark up. There is a lot more happening behind the scenes, but you don't have to worry about what's going on there. It just works and is ready for

you to start using. Let's come back to Spark and give it our first task. I'll keep this one very simple and very generic, so you can follow along with me and see how Spark works before we give it some more complicated tasks. I'll also be using the microphone button, so I don't have to type everything out. Find all the emails I've received in the past 12 hours and help me prioritize them. I want to know which

ones I should respond to, which ones I can ignore, if there's anything I need to add to my calendar, you know, stuff like that. And if anything needs a reply, please draft the reply for me. And once that's all typed out, I can submit it along. As Spark begins working on your task, you'll be able to see right here everything that it's doing. So, first it pinpointed the relevant time window. It then looked through

Gmail for any emails I've received during that time. And here you can see it's even looking at my Google Calendar and looking through Google Search. Now, we have a confirmation request from Spark because anytime it's going to take any action, it's always going to keep you in the loop. In this case, it's telling me that I had a phone call with Amanda that was on my calendar. And it's asking if it can delete this event. And that's because

Amanda emailed me and said that she's no longer able to meet with me, so needs to cancel. So, I will confirm that. Now, we have another confirmation request because another email that I received was from someone saying they were supposed to set up a meeting with me. I've gone back and forth sending this person several emails already. And now they've sent one to me telling me that the best time for them to meet with me was at noon Pacific Standard Time.

So now Spark is asking if they can add that to my calendar. So I'll allow it. And now Spark is finished and we can see everything that it's done. So it found several emails that need to be addressed. And Spark already took care of some of these. So for instance,

this is the email where my friend was proposing a meeting time. And Spark tells me that it already put that on my calendar. I can see that right here. And it drafted the reply. And I can see that reply right here. If I'm happy with

that, all I have to do is click on send and Spark took care of all the rest. The second email is from one of my followers and he asked for some help with signing up for Google Gemini. There are a lot of different pricing plans and he's a little bit confused. So all Spark did there was draft a reply. Let's take a look at it. We can see that

email here. And here is a breakdown. So it went out, did all this research, and put it together in this email. The third email is about a canceled event. This is my friend who I was supposed to get on a call with tomorrow and she canceled that call. So this was on my calendar and now

it's gone because Spark deleted it for me. And finally, the fourth email is an automated email that it's saying I can ignore, but it does give me a summary of what that email was about. Further down, it gives me a summary of all the drafted replies and a summary of the work completed. And it's pretty cool that with that simple prompt, it was able to find emails, draft replies, manage my calendar, and even do research for me. Before I show you some more use cases, I want to talk about Spark's other capabilities. You can find those by

clicking and opening up the side panel up here. We'll start with skills. You can think of skills as saved workflows. So, coming back to the task that was just completed for us where we had it manage our emails, this is certainly a workflow that I'm going to ask Spark to do again in the future. Now, instead of giving it a same the same prompt every time and having to repeat myself and go back and forth about exactly what I want, I can just save this as a skill. So, next time

Spark will just repeat this workflow when I tell it to manage my inbox. If we come back into skills, you'll see there are a few ways to create skills. First, you can upload a skill, which is just a text file with instructions in it. You can also set one up manually where you can type out what you want it to do here. But, my favorite way is to just ask Gemini to do it. So, anytime I complete

a task, let's come back to the task right here, and I'm happy with the results, I just tell Gemini something like this. Now, turn this into a skill that will run every time I ask you to manage my email inbox. And just a few seconds later, it'll tell you that it successfully created and saved your new skill. In this case, the skill's named inbox manager. And you can see the instructions for it right here.

So, next time I want to run this, all I have to do is click on create a task, type the forward slash, and you'll see all your skills here. I can select that one, and it will manage my inbox the exact same way it did the first time. But, you know what? This is a skill that I'm going to end up running every single morning so it can manage my inbox every day. So, instead of having to manually type this in myself, I can instead set up a schedule. You can find those over here

on the left where it says schedules. These allow Spark to run workflows based on certain triggers. These can be time based, but they can also be triggered when certain events happen like when you receive emails. So once again, I will return back to the task that was completed and I'll just tell it to run this on a schedule. Run this on a schedule at 5:00 a.m. every day. And

look at that. It now set up an automated schedule to manage my inbox daily at 5:00 a.m. So every day when I wake up, my inbox will already be set and managed for me by Spark. You now have the building blocks for how to use Spark.

And as you saw, it's really simple. The tricky part is knowing what to use Spark for. So let me go over a few use cases to demonstrate more of the capabilities of Spark that you can then adapt for your own needs. So if you look at my Google Workspace, I'm currently planning well, I am currently in San Diego and I'm looking for some fun things to do while I'm here. So the past couple of weeks I jotted down a bunch of ideas.

It's a little bit unorganized and scattered. Just have this Google Doc where I've been throwing ideas in. I don't even know if some of them are possible like I want to go swimming in the Pacific Ocean. I'm afraid it's going to be too cold. I also found this great website that gives some great ideas of things to do in San Diego and I even have an email about how I'm going to be going to the San Diego Safari Park, the San Diego Zoo tomorrow.

So I want to see if Spark can bring all that together for me into a one-day itinerary. So let's try this out. I'm currently in San Diego. I really only have one day where I can see everything that I wanted see. And my plans are a bit scattered. I

have a Google Doc with some ideas. I have an email with someone about something we're going to do tomorrow while we're here. And there's also this great website that I want to try to get as much done from that website as I can. Can you bring all this together into a one-day itinerary for me? So let's also grab that link and give that to Spark.

And then we can send that along and see what it's able to do with it. All right, it is now complete and we can see what it created for us here. But, if you want to see what's going on under the hood, open up this drop-down and it will tell you all the steps it took to arrive at the answer or to do the task that you asked it to do. For instance, we can see that it went through Google Workspace, went through my drive, my Gmail, and everything else to pull all this information together. So, pretty cool.

So, here's what we got. It found all the information. It correctly found the tickets to the San Diego Zoo Safari Park in my email. It found the Google Drive document. It noticed that I have a meeting on my calendar at 12:00 noon, which will get in the way of the Safari Park. Then it found all the other places

that I referenced and even pulled in my dietary preferences, which it got from my personal intelligence. I never told Spark specifically that I'm a pescetarian, but it knows that based on prior chats that I've had with Gemini. And it also realizes or knows that I'm in a truck camper and that's how I've been traveling around. So, really cool that it's able to pull all of that from regular Gemini chats via personal intelligence. And then here is the consolidated one-day itinerary.

Tells me where I can have breakfast, the drive to the San Diego Zoo, going to the Safari Park, making sure I spend a few minutes to go on that meeting with someone who's who has a call with me. They even recommend that I go back to the truck camper to take that call in a nice quiet place. And then finally, after leaving the San Diego Zoo, I can go over to La Jolla, which was something I had on one of these lists right here. Maybe it was this one. Yep, there we go.

And then I can have a nice drive through Seaport Village. So that pretty much checks off everything that I wanted to do. And it even put it together for me in a one-day itinerary Google Doc. Nicely they laid out right here. So pretty cool that I was able to pull information from all those scattered sources and even information from personal intelligence to give me a highly personalized one-day itinerary for San Diego.

Here's another example. I told it to go through my YouTube channel and also take a look at a bunch of files I have in Google Drive. Using that, I wanted it to put together a report going over what my channel is doing well and where it could improve and to build from that some Google Slides. After it did that, I told it to email those slides to my other account and it drafted the email for me. So you see how this is a multi-step process. Go out, do research, pull in

information from Drive, create something, which in this case was a Google Slides, and email it to someone. And that's what makes agents different than a traditional chatbot. As you begin to use Spark more, you'll have lots of tasks running at the same time. Ones you've kicked off manually, scheduled tasks, and long-running tasks. To help you manage them, you can come into the task section and see all your recent tasks here.

You'll also notice that they have little indicators next to them. These ones right here have no indicator. That means those tasks are complete and I've seen the output. This one right here has a solid blue dot. That means that is a completed task that I haven't looked at the result of or output of yet. And finally, you'll see some that

say needs input. This just means that you need to give Spark permission to do something like add or remove something from your calendar or to draft a reply to an email. Spark can also be accessed from the Gemini app on your phone. Opening up the side menu, you'll see a section here for Spark. And you can see all the tasks that you already started or finished from your computer. You can

even start a new task directly inside the app. So, this is really great for having Gemini Spark do tasks for you while you're out in the world instead of sitting at home in front of your laptop. In fact, you don't even need to have your laptop open for Spark to work. Everything runs completely in the cloud. So, that is Gemini Spark, the 24/7 AI agent that's always with you no matter where you go. As you see, once you know

the basics, it is very easy to use because it just works. Now, if you enjoyed this video and want a part two where I cover more use cases to help you get the most out of Spark, let me know that in the comment section down below. Then make sure you subscribe to the channel so you don't miss out on that video once I release it. Otherwise, thanks so much for watching. I really do appreciate it and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.