---
video_title: "Insane AI News Week: GPT-6 Astra, Fable 5.1, Gemini 3.8, NotebookLM Usage Limits...."
video_id: d1VnNaWl7jE
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d1VnNaWl7jE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Try Scrimba Explain: https://scrimba.com/explain?via=PaulJLipsky
  
  OpenAI, Google, and Anthropic all released major new AI models this week. I break down GPT-6 Astra, Gemini 3.8 Flash, Claude Fable 5.1, Gemini Notebook's new usage limits, Grok Bot updates, Google Pics, and what actually matters.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored by Scrimba Explain
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:39 New AI Models
  1:03 GPT-6 Astra
  5:21 Scrimba Explain
  6:25 Gemini 3.8 Flash
  9:38 Fable 5.1
  14:52 Notebook Usage Limits
  20:18 Grok Bot
  22:12 Rapid AI Updates
---
This was one of the biggest AI weeks we've seen in a long time. I'm almost tempted to say that too much happened this week. We got new model announcements for Claude, Gemini, and Chat GBT. And these were big models. We also got some disappointing news about Notebook LM or Gemini Notebook as it's now called. There's a very interesting

new Google AI app and a lot more. But don't worry, I'm here to cut through the noise and to talk about what actually matters in the world of AI, just like I do every week inside this weekly AI news recap. So, make sure to subscribe to stay on top of the latest. And now, let's get into it. We first have to talk about all the new models that came out this week. So, first, Anthropic

announced Fable 5.1. Then, Google released Gemini 3.8 Flash. And most recently, Open AI announced GPT6 Astra.

And we're going to talk about all these models because quite frankly, I think all of them are the best at something, even if one is not the best at everything. But I want to start with Astra because this could potentially be one of the biggest model releases of not only the year, but of all time. So, here is what you need to know about OpenAI's newest model called Astra. They have said that this is the most intelligent and aligned model in the world and sets a new standard for computer use, browsing, software engineering, cyber security, science and professional work. In some what they are saying is that for computer use and knowledge work this is hands down the best model that has ever been released. Let's look at the

official blog post. And first, check out the website for this blog post. It is absolutely gorgeous. I love what they've done with this and the way that it looks. Let's come down though. They have

a video about it. So, I want to play a part of it because it really demonstrates some of the impressive things that Astra can do. So, what they did in this video was they had a bunch of people talking to Chat GBT. And what chat GBPT is doing on the computer is being projected onto this screen here. And you can see in real time as Chat GPT is using the computer and how good it is at using the computer in real time. It

is incredibly impressive because normally computer use where an AI takes over a computer for you can be very slow. This looks not only faster but incredibly accurate. The fact that all this is just being done by talking to chat GBT Live is incredibly impressive. OpenAI also released a bunch of benchmarks for GBT6 and it seems to crush every single one of the benchmarks. If you don't care about benchmarks, that's okay. Or understand

them, that's okay. It just this just means that on paper, this is the most powerful model that has ever been released. And in this blog post, they spent a lot of time talking about how good it is at computer use and how good it is at knowledge work, which for me is wonderful to see. I'm not a coder or developer myself. I use AI tools for knowledge work. I want to be able to

create presentations, documents, do research, things like that. And the models are already incredibly capable for that. But the more we can see companies focusing on that and prioritizing that, I think it's better. I think it's going to lead to much wider adoption of AI tools. And here it seems like OpenAI is leaning into that quite a bit. And so combined that with computer

use, it looks like this may be a model that will be able to agentically handle a lot more work for us than any model could in the past. Now, a few other things to be aware of. First, it is not available for personal accounts as of right now when I'm recording this video. It's only available for certain businesses and it will roll out for personal accounts over the next few days. So maybe by the time you're watching this, you will have access to Astra. And certainly once I get access

to it, I'll be making videos exploring what you can do with it. So make sure to subscribe if you want to see my take when I actually get to try out Astra. But the other thing you want to be aware of is that it's not going to be cheap. It is going to be as expensive as Fable 5.1. So, it may not be the best everyday

model. For that, you may want to use one of OpenAI's other models. So, how we end up balancing that is something else I would really like to explore. I'm trying to reserve judgment on this until I actually get to test it myself, but I've spoken to a lot of friends who have had early access to it, and they have said this is the most capable, intelligent, and quite honestly, just mind-blowing model they have ever used. So, I can't help but feel really excited by this.

This feels like it may be another big moment for AI that changes everything. In fact, the president of OpenAI, and this is the president of Open AI saying this, so take it with a grain of salt, but he said that this new model represents a generational leap in capability that could be defined as AGI. That remains to be seen, but let's see how it is in a few days when we actually get it. Every once in a while, I try out a new AI tool that makes me go, "Whoa, that's cool." And that's what I thought when I first tried out the sponsor of today's video, Explain by Scribba. So,

check out how this works. Let's say there's a topic that you're curious about. We can ask a question about it right here in the prompt box. But unlike other AI tools that will just give you a text response or maybe a diagram, this instantly generates for you an AI explainer video. Bluetooth is the invisible thread that connects your phone to your headphones or your car.

>> You see how fast that was? It's wild. And it doesn't just work with questions. You can also have it turn documents, web pages, or even a code base into a narrated explainer video. And the best part is since it has a plug-in with chat GBT, you can generate these inside your chats without switching tools. Explain

and chat GBT will create visual walkthroughs with narration and diagrams in a way that's easy for you to understand. Explain is free while it's in open beta, so you might as well try it out. Make sure to use the link below to sign up. And now, let's get back to the news. All right, let's talk about Google's newest model, Gemini 3.8 Flash.

And what's interesting about this is that 3.7 Flash just came out 3 weeks ago. And 3 weeks before that, 3.6 Flash came out. So, this is a pretty fast turnaround, and they're updating their flash model very frequently now. So,

what's new with 3.8 Flash? Well, they released some benchmarks. And on this channel, I don't like to spend a lot of time talking about benchmarks. I want to see how the models actually perform in the tasks that I give them, but it is a good indication of what's being promised by these models or for these models. So,

the first benchmark is one that measures how well the models can handle knowledge work. And unfortunately, 3.8 Flash has scored pretty poorly on this. There are plenty of other publicly available models that perform much better than 3.8 Flash. However, if we look specifically

at finance and how well these models handle financial analyst tasks, you'll see that Gemini 3.8 Flash is the top performing model. And if you look at legal work, you'll see that 3.8 Flash is the top performing model. And what's perhaps the most interesting is that 3.8

Flash is the cheapest model by far, which means that you can get a lot more done with 3.8 Flash than you can with a lot of other models for the same price. Now, as for availability, it is currently available already inside the Gemini app. You can see it right here, 3.8 Flash. And this is the model that

you should be using cuz it is the best model available from Gemini. way more powerful than their Pro model, which is still on 3.1 Pro. Speaking of which, there's still no sign of their new Gemini Pro model. 3.1 Pro came out in

February. We had an announcement at Google IO in May that 3.5 Pro was supposed to come out and it never came out. We had several Flash models come out in the meantime, and still no Pro model. So, that upsets a lot of people.

But here's what most people get wrong. The average consumer has no idea what Gemini model we're on. They have no idea what the benchmarks are, and they probably don't care about the benchmarks. A lot of times, people don't even know they are using Gemini or AI at all. Instead, they interact with AI inside of tools like Google Search when they use AI mode, or inside of Google Docs when they use Gemini down here, or inside of Gmail with the help me write feature. And guess what? All of those

are powered by Flash. They're not going to use Pro for that because it takes too long. So Google needs a really powerful model that's really fast and really cheap so that it can be used inside of all of their products. So it's not super surprising that they're focusing so much on the flash model. Now, that doesn't excuse them entirely. They definitely

need to catch up and finally release a pro model, but I don't think it matters as much as a lot of critics say. And finally, Anthropic released Fable 5.1. And I think it's kind of ironic that I'm talking about this model last because in the past, this would have been the most exciting release. We were really excited when the first Fable 5 came out. We'll

talk more about sort of that aspect of it in a second, but first let's actually talk about the model itself and what was released. So these are the benchmarks for Fable 5.1. Again, we'll just talk about the ones that actually matter. So first, knowledge work. It is really good

at knowledge work. Now I don't have anything comparing Fable 5.1 against Astra because both these models are still too new. But compared to Fable 5, Claude Opus 5, and GPT 5.6, six. It is

the best model for knowledge work. Enthropic is also making a lot of other claims about the new 5.1. So one of the reasons that a lot of people stopped using Fable even though it was such a powerful and intelligent model was because it had a lot of shortcomings I would call them that made it very difficult to work with. So, first, the original Fable 5 had a lot of guard rails to make sure that we weren't using it improperly, and that resulted in a lot of false positives. Enthropic has

said that the new 5.1 will have fewer false positives, and in the limited time that I've been able to use it, it does seem like that is the case. Another problem with Fable 5 was that it tended to be very verbose and at times I would be speaking to it or speaking to it and I would feel like dumb, like I wouldn't understand what it was trying to tell me and I would always keep telling it, can you dumb that down for me? And now this version 5.1 should have more natural language and be able to communicate in a way that makes a lot more sense for a human. And again, this is something I've

already noticed about the new 5.1. And the final important thing is that Anthropica said that 5.1 will be cheaper. This was a big complaint about Fable 5 was that it was just too expensive to use as an everyday model.

So, you'd only use it for your most important tasks or to plan out your tasks and then you would give the task to Opus or maybe even chat GBT to finish it up. Now, that's what Anthropic has been claiming. However, from what I have seen, it's just as expensive. I don't see really any reduction in the amount of usage it's costing me to use 5.1 versus Vibe. Maybe there's a difference,

but it's so little it's really hard to notice. But overall, it is definitely a better model, a lot easier to use, and a lot nicer to use than Fable 5. Again, we went over the cost. It still feels just as expensive. Now, the next thing I want to talk about is sort of the hype cycle around Fable 5 and why I don't think more people are talking about the new 5.1. And it really comes down to the way

all this was rolled out. So, when Fable 5 first came out, the hype was so high. It was one of the most exciting model releases of the year. And then it just went through this entire roller coaster because shortly after that the government removed access to Fable 5 so we couldn't use it and then it came back but Anthropic said you will get access to Fable 5 but it will only be part of your subscription for a few days and then after that you have to pay more to access it and they kept extending that deadline and during that time period GBT 5.6 came out and we all tried GBT 5.6

six and we're like this is a fantastic model. It's really easy to use. It doesn't have maybe the intelligence of Fable in all aspects, but it is so much easier to use and it doesn't have a lot of the problems that we were facing with Fable. It talks a lot more naturally. It lets us use it. It doesn't throw up all

these guard rails and it's not super expensive like Fable. So, a lot of people just said, "I'm not going to use Fable. It's just not worth the hassle." When GBT 5.6 6 works so well. So even

when Fable 5 went onto our subscriptions and we didn't have to pay extra for it, a lot of people just didn't switch over to using it because 5.6 made a lot more sense. And I think that entire sort of timeline and experience really killed a lot of the hype for Fable in general. So this new Fable 5.1, not as many people are excited by it as they were excited about Fable 5. I tell you all this to

make a point, which is that the model that you end up using isn't always the most intelligent model. It's often the model that's just the easiest to use. So, for myself over the next few days, I'm certainly going to be testing the intelligence of Astra and Fable 5.1. But I also want to see how well and how easily we can use those models compared to something like GPT 5.6, 6, which is

honestly one of my favorite models to work with. So, that's what I'm going to be looking for over the next few days as I'm trying out all these different models. Now, on to some rather disappointing news. If you're a fan of Notebook LM, or as it's now called, Gemini notebook, you may have noticed that notebooks now have usage limits. That's right. And this was a little bit

unexpected. I mean, maybe it shouldn't have been. they can't just give out compute for free forever. But it did just kind of seem like one of those things that we were taking for granted and never really saw coming. So here's the deal. I got this email last week

kind of out of the blue and it said that Notebook LM is moving towards a computebased usage limit. So in the past there were limits on using Notebook LM but they were for features. So opening up one of these notebooks for instance we have video overviews for instance you could generate video overviews in the past of course but you could only generate a certain number per day and now they're moving away from that and moving towards computebased usage limits that apply to everything that you're creating inside of notebook LM and it's not like a set number of generations you can do for each feature like we had in the past. So what does this look like? Well, inside of Gemini Notebook now, if you click on settings on the top right, you will now see an option for usage.

And if you select that, you'll be able to see your usage limits. There are two limits. The first one is the current session, and the second one is the weekly limit. If either of those hit 100%, you're not going to be able to use Gemini Notebook until it resets. So, the kind of good news here is that in the past, the limits that were on your account, like the number of videos you could generate or the number of images you could generate would only reset once per day. But with the new usage limits,

those reset every 5 hours, but we do now also have a weekly limit as well. So, realistically, what does that mean? Well, I can only show you this inside my free Google AI account because I don't yet have usage limits inside my paid ones. I know it is coming, but I don't have it yet. So, inside this free account though, what I can show you is if you open up any of the asset generators, like let's say you want to generate a video, you'll notice down here there's a little bar and this will show you how much you've already used in your 5 hour window, which is 0% right now, and a prediction for how much this generation is going to cost you. And so

for this one video, it looks like it costs more than 30% of that 5hour usage window. And that's for a short video. If I choose an explainer video, it looks like it jumps up closer to 50%. What I thought was pretty interesting was that if I select slide decks, you'll notice that uses it looks like over 50% and it doesn't make a difference whether I choose the default length or a short length. But what they've also added which is really nice is if you are getting towards the end of your usage limit for your 5h hour window, you can always click on generate later instead of clicking on generate now. That will

not count against your current limit. It will instead start the generation later when you're not using Gemini notebook. So it won't count against a 5-hour window where you're actually working. So, for instance, you could set this right before you go to sleep and then when you wake up in the morning, your video or your slide deck will be complete and it didn't count against a usage window when you were actually on your computer and working. So, that's kind of nice. They've also said that for

a pro subscription, you will get 4x the usage of a free account and for an ultra subscription, you will get 5x the usage, which doesn't really make a lot of sense to me because pro cost $20 a month and ultra costs at least $100 a month. So, I don't quite understand that math, but the point is with a paid subscription, you will get more usage than you get on a free subscription. Oh, and two more updates about Gemini Notebook. So, first, if you come over to settings now, you will see that there's an option to remove watermarks. Let me actually go over to my paid account. Here we go. So,

this is my paid account. And for paid users, you can remove watermarks. Now, this was something that was rolled out for Gemini and now it's available for Gemini notebook. So, if you generate images and videos, you won't see the watermarks on them as long as you have this checked off where it says remove watermarks. The other thing is a bit of a rumor. So, this right here is the

video that the Gemini Notebook team released when they announced all these new usage limits. and let me know if you see something interesting in here. Particularly right here. You notice that inside the settings when they're highlighting how you can select your usage, notice what's above that Chrome extension. That's something we've never seen before. So, it seems like at least

internally the Gemini Notebook team is testing some kind of Chrome extension for Gemini Notebook. So, we'll definitely keep our eyes on that. I don't think this was an intentional leak, but there it is. It seems like that we may get a native Chrome extension for Gemini Notebook. Next, some quick announcements about Grobot.

So, first, they added a new plugin called Link. This allows Grockbot to actually complete purchases for you using one-time use credit cards. So, if you want your bot to actually go out and make purchases for you, it can now do that with Link. If you're not familiar with Link, it is a tool that is specifically designed for AI agents to be able to make purchases for you. And what's nice about it is that you still have to approve every purchase. It can't

just go out and make purchases on its own. You will get a notification asking you if you want to allow the purchase and then you can verify it. But the rest of the process, like the bot actually searching for a product and going through different comparisons and then choosing one, adding it to the cart and checking out, all of that can be done by the bot and you just approve the final transaction. The other thing you'll now notice in Grockbot after you open up any of your messages threads that you have with your bots, click on their name on the top and then on the right here at the bottom, you can now share your bot as a template. So, if you have a bot that you really like and you want someone else to be able to use it, you can just share it. That doesn't mean you

are sharing in the sense that you're both using the same bot. It just makes a copy of it inside their account. Another thing I just noticed here is that I now have the option to choose the voice for each of my bots. And this was a rumor I had heard about a few days ago where we will soon get the ability to actually call our bots, which is basically like voice live, but that is not available yet. There's dictation, but there's no voice calling. But it seems like it

definitely is coming because we have the option to choose the voice for our bots. Now, Google is also rolling out access to a new tool called Google Pix. I don't have access to it yet, but I'm mentioning it because I got a preview of this at Google IO in May and my mind was blown by what this can do. If you do any type of image generation, you will definitely want to see what this tool can do. So, as soon as I get access to it, I'm going to make a dedicated video about it. If you don't want to miss out

on that, make sure to subscribe to the channel and turn on notifications so you get a notification as soon as this video drops, hopefully in a couple of days. And the final story is about three hikers in California who tried to hike a mountain. They started later than they should have. They didn't bring enough food or water. At a certain point, they realized they were in trouble because it was getting dark. They called for help,

but then they wandered off trail and they ended up spending the night on the mountain unplanned. Well, after they got rescued, they revealed that they had planned their entire trip using Google Gemini, and it gave them a lot of false information. So, here's a little PSA. Use your brain. I wouldn't just rely on AI for something as potentially dangerous as hiking up a mountain. You

definitely want to be smart. You definitely want to see what experts have to say about it. I don't think there's anything wrong with using AI to guide you in the right direction, but remember, AI can still make mistakes and does. So, quite the crazy week in the world of AI. It will be interesting to see over the next couple of weeks how these new models end up working and which one we end up actually using day-to-day. But that's all I got for you

for now. Remember, if you enjoyed this, consider subscribing. I'm closing in on half a million subscribers. So, if you want to help me out there, subscribe. And then I'll see you in the next one.

Bye for now.