---
video_title: "Cursor Just Released Grok Bot (An Insanely Easy AI Agent)"
video_id: QTcZPI-g7is
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTcZPI-g7is
video_date: 2026-08-11T21:10:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Download Grok Bot: https://x.ai/bot
  
  Grok Bot gives each AI agent its own role, always-on computer, browser, files, logins, and routines so a team of bots can handle work together. This walkthrough covers setup, plugins, mobile access, scheduled tasks, what works well, and the biggest limitations.
  
  Some features in this video may not be available in your region or on your plan yet.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:16 Meet the Bots
  1:23 First Bot
  4:26 Always-On Computers
  5:39 Plugins 
  6:35 The Bot's Computer
  7:11 Teach Tasks
  7:46 Routines
  8:31 Mobile App
  9:32 What I Like
  11:08 What I Dislike
---
So, Cursor just came out with something new. It's called Grokbot. I got early access to it, so I've been able to test it out for a couple of days. And I have to say, this could be the thing that finally gets regular people to start using AI agents. Because it's not only really good, but also very intuitive.

Opening up the desktop app, you'll see that this UI feels very similar to a messenger app, like iMessage. Everything you do in Grokbot centers around these bots that you set up. For instance, here I have one that helps me with my emails, one that helps me outline my YouTube videos. This one helps me negotiate deals. And then I also have one that I just use for general purposes if it doesn't fit into one of the other categories. What's also pretty neat here

is you can start a chat with multiple bots. You're not limited to just one. You can see that at the top, for instance, I have a new chat open here. I already have two of my bots selected. I can select even more if I wanted to. And

then all of these bots will work together on whatever task I give them. Or if you're already in the middle of a chat, you can bring another bot into the conversation just by typing in @ and selecting the bot here. And that will allow that bot to help with that task. So, you're basically creating these co-workers that each specialize in a different area. It's a little bit of a shift if you're used to using Claude co-work or ChatGPT work, where you sort of think in terms of tasks. Here, you

need to start thinking in terms of roles. Okay, but let's back up now and I'll show you how to set up Grokbot and all the things that you can do with the bots. To get started, download Grokbot using the link in the description down below. That will be the desktop app. There's also an app for the iPhone as well, which I'll show you in a couple minutes.

Once you download over here on the left, you're not going to have as many bots that I have. So, to set up your first one, you want to click on the plus icon right here where it says new chat. And then here inside this chat, you can either select a bot that you've already created or click right here where it says create new bot. Now, you can do this fully by having the AI set it up for you because all you have to do is just talk to the bot and it will set itself up. So, here for instance, it's asking me what do I want to use the bot for? What do I want it to be around for?

And then I'm just going to describe down here what I'm looking for. So, I'm going to tell it, "Hey, I need your help with planning out a vacation. I want to put together a couple of different itineraries to different locations and then I want you to find me the best deal and monitor maybe for a couple of weeks. Hopefully, the prices can come down for hotels or airlines. Basically, I want the best deal possible on an awesome vacation." So, what I'm doing here is

I'm brain dumping what it is I'm looking for and then I'm just sending that along. And what I've noticed that Grokbot is really good at is just figuring things out on its own. I'm not telling it how to check for deals and what websites to use or even where I want to go. It's going to follow up with questions and then it's just going to figure it out. So, here it's saying, "Where are you leaning? A couple of

places or vibes like Europe? I'll start sketching itineraries from there." So, I'll say, "Europe." Now, I'll select a few of these. I think Italy sounds good.

But I'll actually tell it in the chat. I'll say, "Italy, Greece, UK. All of those sound good. And then looking for around Thanksgiving." So, literally all I'm doing here is answering the questions that it's giving me and that's it. Okay, so the bot has put together a

plan based on all of the answers that I gave it and now it's starting to look for some ballpark fares to all the locations that I was interested in. While this is happening, I want to point out to you something up here at the top. Up here at the top, we have the name of the bot which right now is just new bot. If I click on this, this opens up a panel on the right where I can rename it, give it a title, and give it description. You can either do that manually, or you can just tell the bot in the chat to update all that. So, I'll

just tell it something like, "Give yourself a clever name and write a description for yourself and title, cuz you're going to help me with travel in the future, as well." All right. Atlas, very clever name. I love that. So, it finished that, coming up with this name and description, and now it's still looking for the flight information. All right, so it has

identified some travel itineraries for me, and it says, "Which ones should I watch?" I'm going to have it watch all three of them. And it's going to be able to do that, even if my computer is off and it's closed, because each bot gets its own always-on computer with a browser, files, and logins, so it can keep working even when you're not working and when your computer is off. You can see a good example of that right here. I'm setting up this new bot called Lincoln. He's going to help me do some

research on LinkedIn into different companies, but in order to do that, he's saying that I should log in to my LinkedIn account, so it can actually use the browser and navigate around LinkedIn, find different companies to reach out to, and actually reach out to them for me. So, it went to linkedin.com. I can click right here now where it says take over to actually enter in my password and login information, cuz that's not something I want to actually give one of my bots. So, I can click right here where it says sign in with email, go ahead and sign in, and now that I'm signed in, I can click on the top right here where it says I'm done, continue, and then the bot can take back over. Now, like I said

before, the bots are really good at just sort of figuring out how to get something done. In this case, it determined that the best way to help me with this LinkedIn research and outreach is to actually use the browser. But, it does have plugins available. So, if you click right down here on the bottom left where it says plugins, you can see all those plugins here, but honestly, I wouldn't ever come in here or worry about this. Because as you are chatting with the bots, if it needs access to something like your Gmail or your Google Drive or Notion, it will just set that up in the chat for you. So here, if I

tell Lincoln that anytime it does research for me, I want it to add it to a new page in Notion, you'll notice that it's now prompting me to connect Notion because I don't yet have it connected. And it's using the plugin for that. It's not using the browser because it knows that that's the most efficient way of doing it is through the plugin. And I can click right here where it says authorize and that will then open up Safari on my computer or whatever your default browser is. I can log in to my Notion account and authorize Grokbot to have access to it. Now, I showed you

before how sometimes a bot will ask you to take over its computer if you need to do something like log in. But at any time, you can see exactly what the bot is doing on its computer. And you can do that by clicking on the top right here on this computer icon. And right here is the bot's screen. You can click on this and you can see what is happening on their computer. In this case, the bot is

just on the desktop. It's not doing anything. But sometimes it might have Chrome open, it might have the file manager open, or it might have its terminal open. So you can always see exactly what it's doing. You can also teach the bot a task. So if you click on

the top right here where it says teach a task, it is now recording its own screen and you can show it step-by-step how you want it to go through a certain workflow or task. Like I'll tell it to open up Google Chrome, tell it to navigate to website, click here, click here, do that, do that, and it records all of that and learns it so that it can then repeat it on its own in the future. So once you're done, you just click on stop and then all of that is automatically being loaded into it as a skill for itself. And then anything a bot does for you can be done on a schedule. So, in the case of Atlas, which was the bot that we had set up to help me find a very good deal on a flight, I just described to it, "Hey, I want you to keep an eye on all the airlines and different hotels and find me a good deal." And so, you see over here on the

right, underneath routines, it set that up to run on a schedule. You can always press on this plus icon to create a new routine by hand, like manually doing it. I wouldn't recommend that though. Literally, just describe in the chat what routine you want set up, and then it will do it. You click on the computer icon on the top right, and underneath the bot screen, you'll see all the routines that that bot is running. But,

honestly, I don't see myself using Grokbot all that much. And by that, I mean the Grokbot desktop app, because everything you can do with Grokbot, you can do from your phone with the app. And I think this is a much better way to use it. So, here, inside my phone, you can see I'm here inside Grokbot, and you can see all the same chats that are available on the desktop app. And I can click on the top right here and create a new bot or create a new group chat with multiple bots. Opening up any of the

chats, it shows you everything that we see on the desktop, and you can even see the bot's computer, and you can take it over from your phone, which is pretty incredible. And since the experience is exactly the same on both devices, I think this is going to be the modality that I end up using a lot more. Just open it up, use the dictation tool to just speak into it, and just assign all of my bots different work. Okay, so what do I like and what do I not like about Grokbot? I've already said this like four or five times, so I probably sound like a broken record, but it is true.

Grokbot just figures things out. You give it a task, and it will accomplish it. It is not lazy at all, like you see with other models and other tools, where it will work and kind of give up and just say like, "Oh, I wasn't able to do it." No, Grokbot will fight, and it really wants to accomplish whatever task that you give it. I also really love the UI and just the way that it's set up, how we have these agents over here on the side that really feel like employees. Like if I want help with

sales, I talk to this bot. If I need help managing my inbox, I talk to this bot. They all have an assigned role, so it feels like you're building a team of AI agents. We've seen that with other tools, but those have been more complicated to set up. This one is up and running the moment that you open it up. It is one of the most intuitive

tools I have ever used for working with AI agents. You can even just set up one bot that is your chief of staff, and then that bot will delegate all the tasks out to the other bots. So, you never even have to talk to the other bots, you can just talk to this one chief of staff bot. I also love that the experience on mobile is so good and works exactly the same as the experience on desktop, which means that I can manage all these new employees from wherever I am, as long as I have my phone with me. But, Grokbot isn't perfect. There are some things that I

hope that they add in the future. So, first of all, when you are setting up a bot, you'll notice that there is no way for you to choose which model is being used. And that's because behind the scenes, it's just choosing the best model based on the task, which I think for most people and for general consumers, that's great. But, for a lot of people like you and I, like if you're watching this video, you probably want to choose which model is being used. And the fact that we can't make that choice, and that there's no advanced mode, is a little bit disappointing. I would like

to see that added in the future. I would also love to see some kind of live mode. This button only does dictation. There's no live with the bots, which is a feature I use quite a lot with other tools, so I would really love to see that. I think it would work so well with Grok bot. Again, have that one chief of

staff, just use voice mode, and just start rattling off all these tasks, and it'll start assigning them to the other bots. That would be awesome. I'm sure they're working on that, but I hope it is added soon. But the biggest problem with Grok bot is that it's in beta right now, and it's only available if you have Super Grok Heavy, which costs $300 a month. But that's as of the recording of this video. I'm sure in the future it's

going to become available on the cheaper plans, hopefully in the very near future. And once that does happen, I will update the pinned comment down below to let you guys know. So, unfortunately, most people, at least as of right now, aren't going to be able to try out Grok bot because of the price, but hopefully that changes soon. So, that's Grok bot, a very impressive tool. And once it becomes more affordable, I think this could finally be the product that helps regular consumers understand what agents are, and why they are the future when it comes to using AI. It

really feels like you are creating a team of AI employees that can help you do your job or run your business for you. But that's all I got for this video. If you found it helpful and want to stay on top of all the breaking AI news for different tools, like Grok bot, make sure to subscribe to the channel, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.