---
video_title: "Master 80% of Claude Design In Just 15 Minutes"
video_id: GPqcZ_GSqOg
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPqcZ_GSqOg
video_date: 2026-04-19T13:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude Design makes it surprisingly easy to build motion graphics, slide decks, and app mockups — and in this video, you'll master 80% of it in just a few minutes.
  
  Heads up, these updates may not be available worldwide yet. Just because I have access to them doesn't mean you will yet.
  
  🔗 This video is not sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:36 Interface Overview
  1:02 Design Systems
  3:57 First Slide Deck
  6:18 Edit Your Design
  8:31 Sharing & Exporting
  9:41 Templates
  10:17 Motion Graphics
  12:33 Prototypes & Other
  13:13 Usage & Limits
  14:10 Outro
---
Claude Design is really, really good. It's so easy to create motion graphics, slide decks, mock-ups, and more. But the first time that you open it, it can feel very overwhelming. If you just learn to master the basics though, you'll get a ton of use out of it. So in this video, I will show you step-by-step how to get started with Claude Design, so you can learn 80% of what it can do in just a few minutes. So this is Claude Design.

Currently, you can only access this from the web at claude.ai/design. And this is included with your Claude subscription. So if you have a Pro or Max subscription, you're going to get access to this right now for free. Once you are logged in, you'll notice that there are two distinct areas. Over here

on the right, this shows you all the designs that you have in your account. These will include both the designs that you've created and designs that were shared with you. If you want to just see your designs, you can click on your designs. Then we also have some examples that have been provided by Anthropic to inspire you. And then we have design systems. I'll talk about that in a

moment. But over here on the left is where you actually start your designs. There are four tabs here. The first one is called prototype. This is used to mock-up designs of different apps. There

is an example of that right here. The second one is called slide decks. That's pretty self-explanatory. Then we have templates, which I'll cover in a moment, and other, because you're not just limited to prototypes and slide decks with this. You can use Claude Design to create websites, landing pages, marketing emails, and so much more. But

let's start with slide decks because it's very straightforward. First thing it'll ask you for is a name, and the second thing is a design system. You can think of design systems as brand kits that tell Claude your brand colors, fonts, and style. You can skip this part if you want and just choose none, and then skip ahead using the timestamps down below. If you do that though, your slides are going to look like this, which certainly looks great, but everyone else who uses Claw Design without design systems will end up with designs that look really similar. It's

going to get very old very fast. So, it is worth taking the time to set up your own design system. To do that, I'll come back to the homepage, and then up here it says design systems, click on that, and then click on create. You'll start by giving it a name. So, I can just give it the name of my business, or in this case, I'll just call it Paul's design system. And what's really cool about

this is that you don't even have to tell Claw Design what the branding is. You can just give it examples. So, you can link to code on GitHub, you can link to code from your computer, you can upload a fig file if you've used Figma in the past, or you can just upload fonts, logos, any images, and paste in your branding in this text box. So, here I have my website. I'll literally just take a screenshot of this, and then save that, and upload it right here. And in addition to that, I will

paste in my branding. I have all of it written out in a text document. Once you have all your examples and your notes uploaded, click on the top right where it says continue to generate, and this will take about 5 minutes for it to generate your design system. Once it's done, for me, it asked me to review it to make sure it's accurate, and it'll tell me if anything's missing. So, here it's saying that my fonts were missing. If I wanted to, I could upload

them, but in the meantime, Claw is just using some other fonts. And right here, you can review and make sure that this matches what you want. So, I like this, that looks good. That looks good. That doesn't look right to me. I'll say the

font is too spaced out. That looks great to me. Yeah, so just go through all of these and make sure that this looks right to you. Once your design system is set up, you can click on the top left on this home icon. Then let's return to the left where you can create things and we'll set up our first project, our first slide deck. I'm going to create a

slide deck for a YouTube video that I'm working on where I'm going to be sharing with people different skills that they can use in Claude. So, I'll call this one Claude skills slide deck. Now, here we can choose our design system by default. You should already have the one you created selected, but if there are multiple, you could choose another one. And if you wanted to, you could toggle on speaker notes. I'm going to leave

that off and I'll click on create. Speaker notes will just put alongside it the notes or what you're supposed to be saying while the presentation is going. So, all the the notes that match up with the slide that you're looking at. Now, here we can describe what we want to create down here in the text box. So, you can either type this in or you can upload things. I will upload a file that

has the outline for this video. But, you could also click on import and upload again a FIG file, connect to GitHub, grab a web element, link from a code folder. So, there's lots of options to give it the information that you need for what you're designing. In addition to that, I'm going to type in here what I'm looking for. I'm working on a YouTube video about Claude co-work skills. Create a slide

deck that I can show on the screen while I'm recording. You can also do voice input, there's an option for that, and you can choose what model you want. I'll leave it on Opus and then I'll send that along. Whenever you use Claude design, it will always ask you these quick questions to make sure it gets the design exactly the way that you want. So, here it's asking me, "How will I use the deck on screen?" So, I'll say, "I'll

use it as full screen cutaways between A-roll." Then, how many slides in total do I want? I'll just do 15. Or if you're not sure, you can always say decide for me. Every time that you do this, the questions are going to be different. It depends on what you're

creating. How should each skill be framed on its hero slide? Decide for me. Include section divider slides between skills? Decide for me. You know what? For the

rest of them, I'll just say decide for me to speed this along. Once you've answered all the questions, of course, click on the bottom right where it says continue. And now it's getting to work. So, I'm going to pause the recording now and we'll come back once it's finished. And here is the first version that it's made for us. You can go through the

slides by clicking down here at the bottom. And what you'll notice is that this matches or looks very similar to my website. And that's because we use the design system. Overall, I have found that the first version that Claude design has been making for me always comes out really nice. But if you want to make some changes, there are many easy ways to do that. First, up here at

the top, toggle on where it says tweaks. This will allow you to switch just very basic stuff that will impact the entire design. So, first I can switch it to dark mode for instance. We have accent colors that are currently it looks like orange. You can see that right here. So,

I can change that maybe to green. Yeah. So, here it was orange here and now it's green. I can change it to purple or blue. So, you can change the accent color.

There's number of badges. You can have that on or off. And you can turn off these background blobs as well. So, just minor tweaks that you can do right there. But if there's more fine-tuning that you want, you want to click on the top here where it says edit. And so now

you can change anything in here. So, we have text here, right? I can click on this text and I can change it. Maybe I want it to be the eight Claude co-work skills I use every day. Then maybe this word Claude I want to be a different color. So, I will select that. And over

here on the right, I can change the color. Maybe I want that to be red. I can change the size of the font here. Let's make it much larger, the weight, the alignment, the width, and even this box that it's inside of. I can change the padding, the margin, the border, or the radius. So, there's a lot you can do

with this editor. But, if you want the AI, if you want Claude to actually make the changes for you, then you want to use the comment tool. So, I'll select comment. I'll select this and say, "I hate the colors here. Use my brand colors." Send that

one to Claude. And then maybe on this slide, I'll say something like, "This slide is too boring. Add some graphics." And send that one to Claude. And so, between tweaks and the editor and commenting, you should be able to get your design exactly the way that you want.

Once you're happy with it, you can come up to the top right and share it. You can click on the share icon, and you can share it with teammates, you can get a link for it. You can even duplicate it or duplicate it as a template. So, I did show you briefly templates before. This is where they come into play. If you

absolutely loved this this design and want to be able to use it as a template in the future, you will come in here and click on duplicate as template. This will then bring up the template information. So, I'll call this one slide deck for videos, the slide deck template for any video I'm making, and then I'll publish that. So, now I can then use that as a template. Let's go back to it by clicking on the top left here. You

should now see your designs right here. So, this is the design that we just worked on, and then this is the template that we just created. Let's come back into the slide deck because I want to show you something. Over here on the top right, we also have an export button. This will allow you to export it as a zip file, as a PDF, as a PowerPoint. You can even send it to

Canva, or export it as a standalone HTML. So, there's lots of different options for how you're going to end up using this. Let's run through another example. I'll click on the top left here to return back to the home page. We've already worked on a slide deck. So,

let's now go over to templates. I showed you how to create a template, but if you now want to use that template, you'll come in here and select the template that you want to use. So, even if what you're creating is a slide deck, you don't have to create the slide deck from within the slide deck tab. Because we have a template for it, we can come to from template and use this as our template for a slide deck. Instead though, for this next example, I want to show you an animation. This is a

motion design. It's sort of like a small video. We'll select that one and I will call this one Claude Opus 4.7 benchmarks. I'll make sure that my design system is selected and then click create from template.

Now, there's a lot that you can do with motion graphics, but for this example, I want to bring to life a chart. So, here is a chart showing the benchmarks for Claude Claude Opus 4.7 and I want a motion graphic that represents that. So, I will take a screenshot of these benchmarks. Coming over to the design, I will upload that as an attachment. And

then I'll describe what I'm looking for. Create a motion graphic that represents this data. Each model is represented by a blocky humanoid figure and they're all racing. The winners on each benchmark pull ahead until everyone reaches their relative percentage number. Then I can send that along.

And it's ready. So, let's watch the motion graphic together. We have Claude Opus 4.7. There are all of our contenders.

We can see all of them racing ahead on that benchmark. We have the next one. I don't know why Opus 4.6 fell over there. We have Terminal Bench 2.0.

We have Humanities Last Exam. This is This is what I was looking for. It's a little silly, but I think it's fun. So, it's that easy to make something like this. I don't know how I ever would have made something like this in the past. I've certainly tried, but I just

always found it extremely difficult. A lot of those other tools are either expensive or really difficult to get set up. You have to use terminal for it. This has been so easy. You're going to see a lot more of these motion graphics in my videos because I just think they're a really nice way to explain different concepts. And same thing like

I showed you before, if you want to make changes, you can click on comment here and describe what you want changed. You can turn on tweaks and tell it what changes you want or click on edit. There's definitely some stuff in here I can change like this text right here. So, these same principles apply no matter what type of graphic you're making with Cloud Design. Back on the home page, there are still two tabs inside the design section that we haven't talked about yet. The first is

prototype and the second is other. But you already have a really good foundation on how Cloud Design works. All the principles that we've already talked about can be used to create any of these designs. Prototypes are used for things like this. They're mock-ups of apps. So, you can tell it something

like create a simple iOS sign-up flow for a bike sharing app. Show screens on a canvas and with your design system loaded, it will be on brand with all your colors and fonts. And then finally we have the tab called other. And this can really be used for anything else. I think a lot of people are going to end up using this for things like websites and landing pages. Let's talk for a

moment about usage and how much this is going to cost you. Now, as far as I know, there's no way to see your usage here on Cloud Design itself. For that, you want to jump to the app, come over to the settings, and click on the left where it says usage. The good news is that Claude design is not used against your limits with regular Claude. You see here, these are your regular limits for weekly and your regular limits for your current session, and Claude design is completely separate. It only has a

weekly limit. The bad news though, I hit my weekly limit very quickly, within just a couple of hours of playing around with Claude design for the first time. So now I'm using my extra usage. So do keep in mind that certain designs like videos will use Claude design usage a lot faster, and if you're using this with any regularity, you probably will hit your usage limits just like I did, pretty quickly. So what do you guys think of Claude design? Personally, I've

been loving using it and how easy it is, but with those usage limits, I really have to limit the number of times I use it every week. And because of that, I'm not going to use it for simple things that I can easily do elsewhere, like slide decks. I will probably only use it for motion graphics. But let me know in the comment section down below how you plan on using Claude design. Then, if you want to learn about my favorite Claude feature, which is Claude co-work, check out this video right here. This is

my entire Claude co-work system. So if you want to learn how I set that up, click on this video and I'll see you over there in 1 second. Bye for now.