---
video_title: "Gemini Plus vs ChatGPT Go in 2026"
video_id: 3l8GyVW4vZU
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3l8GyVW4vZU
video_date: 2026-06-14T13:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  I signed up for Gemini Plus and ChatGPT Go to figure out which AI plan under $10 is actually worth the money. Here's what I found.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:58 What You Get With Each Plan
  4:04 Context Window and Memory
  6:01 Integrations and Gemini-Only Features
  7:29 Image Generation
  8:06 Canvas and Deep Research
  11:02 Usage Limits
  12:37 Subscription Extras and Super Apps
---
While there are dozens of AI plans you can choose from, there are really only two companies that offer budget plans, Gemini Plus and ChatGPT Go. I signed up for both to find out which one is really worth your money. I compared the features, how good the models are, and how much you can even use these cheap plans before you hit your limits. In this video, I'll reveal what I found and which budget AI plan I think is the best one for you. For this video, I really wanted to compare all the paid AI plans from the top companies that are under $10. So, we are going to look at ChatGPT

Go, which is $8 a month, and Google AI Plus, which is only $5 a month. Unfortunately, neither Claude nor Perplexity have a sub $10 plan, and technically, neither does Grok either. Their cheapest plan is $30 a month. Now, X does have X Premium, which is only $8 a month, and that gives you enhanced Grok access, but it's not really an AI plan, so I'm excluding it from this comparison. Both of these plans, ChatGPT Go and Google AI Plus, have a lot of similar features, but there are some big differences. Those are what we're going

to focus on today. So, I'm going to compare these two plans across five or six different categories, so you get an idea of what features you get with each plan, and how good the models are that you get access to. But then I'm going to live with each of these plans for an entire day, because I really want to get a good idea of how often you're going to hit your usage limits with them. But first, let's just look generally at what you get with each of these plans. So, let's take a look at Gemini on my Google AI Plus account. Here, of course, is

where you can send it your prompts, and I can select between all the models that are currently available from Gemini. That includes flashlight, flash, and pro. I can also switch between two different thinking levels, standard and extended. Even though this is Gemini's cheapest plan, Google really doesn't limit too much what's available on this plan. So, you still get access to daily brief, which is a daily summary of what's going on across your entire Google workspace. So, this will pull in

information from Gmail, from Google Drive, and from past chats to give you a daily update on what's going on for your day. You can also get access to notebooks. This is connected up with the tool Notebook LM, and this is a great way to organize chats. You can kind of think of them as folders. You also get access to gems, which are like specialized AI chats. With my ChatGPT Go

plan, things are a little bit different. So, we have the chat here in the middle, but I cannot switch between different models. Up here at the top, you see I have access to what they call ChatGPT. If I want a different model, I have to upgrade to the more expensive ChatGPT Plus. What this means is anytime you're chatting with ChatGPT with a Go subscription, you're getting access to the instant model. With the Go

subscription, you don't get access to thinking or Pro model, but what you can always do is click on this plus icon and turn on thinking if you want to. With ChatGPT Go, you also get access to projects, which are similar to notebooks. This is a way that you can organize your different chats into these different folders. And what's great about them, across both ChatGPT and with Gemini, they work similarly where you can upload the sources to give the AI more context. You also get access inside of ChatGPT Go to GPTs, which are similar to gems. These are custom versions of

ChatGPT that combine instructions, extra knowledge, and any combination of skills. So, they're like specialized chats. Realistically though, if you're just using this for regular AI chats, you're going to be happy with either ChatGPT or Gemini. The default model on both of them is quite good, and you'll probably be happy with either of them. It kind of comes down to personal preference. Try out both of them and see

whose personality, so to speak, you like better and which responses you like more. But, if you do want access to more advanced models, that's something you can get with your Gemini Plus subscription that you're not going to be able to get with a ChatGPT Go plan. The other great thing about Gemini Flash is that it has a massive context window. That means that you can upload large files or attach notebooks that have a lot of sources, and it'll be able to see all of the information and use it when answering your queries. ChatGPT's context window, on the other hand, is much smaller. It's okay for everyday

tasks, but it's certainly nowhere near as large as what Gemini has. Another important consideration is the memory system that each of these tools has. So, with ChatGPT, if you come into the settings and come into personalization, you can turn on memory. So, it can reference saved memories that it will auto save as it learns more about you, and it can also reference past chats. Gemini does something slightly different. If you come over to settings

and click on personal intelligence, we have memory at the top. This is similar to what ChatGPT does. This will enable Gemini to learn from your past chats. But, they also have something called connected apps. With this, you can turn on your Google Workspace, and this will give Gemini access to your Gmail, Doc, Google Keep, Calendar, Drive, and Tasks.

You can even turn on your photos, your search services, YouTube, and YouTube Music. With all these turned on, then anytime you ask Gemini a question, it'll be able to pull in context from these connected apps. Now, in my experience, I find that ChatGPT's memory is the best. The way that it naturally integrates it into the conversation works very well. Gemini's is also really good, and especially if you're a heavy user of Google products, personal intelligence has been a real game-changer. But, if

you're looking to connect your AI tool with apps outside the Google ecosystem, that's where Gemini really shows its weakness. Because although it works really well with other Google products, it doesn't connect up with that many third-party tools. Here are all of them, in fact. It's really just Canva, OpenStack, GitHub, Instacart, OpenTable, and Verify AI. I have heard that more are coming, but those aren't available right now as of the making of this video.

On the other hand, if you come into Chat GPT and click on apps on the left, you can see that this works with a lot of third-party tools. So, if it's important to you to be able to connect with a lot of third-party tools, you'll definitely want to use Chat GPT for that. Let's now quickly cover two things that you can do with Gemini that you just cannot do with Chat GPT. The first one is schedule tasks. If you come into schedule actions here in Gemini, you can see that you can set these up to run at a certain time every day.

So, for instance, I can have it give me a news digest every day at the same time so that this is ready for me when I wake up each morning. Unfortunately, even though Chat GPT has the ability to have scheduled tasks, those are not available on the go plan. So, if you need to schedule anything out, you'll want to sign up for Gemini for that. Another thing that you can do with Gemini that you cannot do with Chat GPT is generate videos. Even on their plus plan, Google gives to their best video generation model, and you can generate a few videos per day before you hit your usage limits. We'll talk about

usage limits later, but just understand that videos will burn through those faster. One thing you can do with Chat GPT though, that you can also do with Gemini, is create images. And Chat GPT does a great job of that. In fact, right now the image generation model inside of Chat GPT is considered the best in the world, and I would have to agree with that. It looks really nice. The ones

created by Gemini are also really nice. They're just not as good, and you will also get this watermark on the bottom right-hand corner that you're not going to get with ChatGPT. So, overall, I think that if you want the best images, you should go with ChatGPT, but if it's not super important for you, I think you're going to be happy with either one. Next, I want to talk about some features that are available for both Gemini Plus and ChatGPT Go, but they work a little bit differently. Inside of Gemini, they have this really great tool called Canvas, and this is available even on the Plus plan.

When you use this, it will create this side panel over here where you can work interactively and collaboratively with Gemini. So, here I asked it to create a short story for me, and it's over here on the right. And I can edit the story. I can delete stuff, I can add new text if I wanted to. I can change the font, change it to a heading. So, it's really

collaborative. I can even highlight different parts of it and tell Gemini exactly what I want change for that part that's highlighted. This is really helpful when you have it create for you different apps. So, here I just had it create for me a simple timer app, and we can see that over here on the right. And if I want to make any changes, I can click where it says select and ask, and maybe select this section and say make this purple ring green, for instance, and it'll make that change.

The way that ChatGPT handles this is a little bit different. It's still called Canvas, but it shows up in the chat like this. Personally, I don't like this because I want to see the two side by side. I find it's easier to work on it. But you can fully change anything in here. You can also highlight stuff and

ask for changes just like you can with Gemini. And just to round this out, here is what it looks like with an app. I asked it to create another timer for me, and here it is, but it's here inside the chat. And there's really no way to ask it to make changes, um to highlight certain sections of it, like you can with Gemini. So, I do like the Gemini experience there better.

Another tool that you get access to on both these plans that I think is pretty comparable is the deep research tool. So, inside Gemini, for instance, if you click on this plus icon, you can select deep research. And with ChatGPT, it's the same thing. You can click on the plus icon, select deep research. This is different from regular chat because when you send a query through deep research, it's going to spend a lot more time doing the research and compiling the information into a report for you. Once

Gemini is done, the report will look like this. It looks similar to Canvas, where it's over here on the side, and you can scroll through and see this is quite a dense, comprehensive report. They put tables in here, equations in this case, a lot of citations. So, it's a very full report. ChatGPT does something similar. You can see the

report right here. One thing I do like about ChatGPT is over here on the left is this table of contents, so you can easily move through this report. Again, I think both of them do deep research very, very well, and I haven't found that one is better or worse than the other. Next, let's talk about the usage limits for each of these plans. This is how much you can use the plans before you max it out and they downgrade you to a weaker model. So, I spent the last day

using both my ChatGPT Go plan and my Gemini Plus plan to really push them to their limits to see how many times I would hit the limit with them. With ChatGPT, this was really easy to understand because with a Go subscription, you can send up to 160 messages every 3 hours. And after that, they will downgrade you to a weaker model. With Gemini, it's not as clear. It really depends how heavy the task is that you give it. So, if you upload a

lot of files or give it a ton of context, like if you attach a or use a notebook that has a lot of sources, that's going to burn through it faster. And certainly creating videos is going to burn through it really fast. For instance, one video generation is typically costing me about 37% of my current usage. Once you burn through your usage, you can still use Gemini, but they downgrade you to the flashlight model. At the end of the day, I found that I hit my Gemini usage limit a couple of times throughout the day, but I never hit my ChatGPT limit. So,

once again, there's a bit of a trade-off here. If you're happy with the default ChatGPT model for all your work and just want a straightforward plan that gives you the most usage, that's going to be ChatGPT. With Gemini, you get access to more models and a few more advanced features like video generation, but you have to be very careful when planning out your usage. For this next category, I want to talk about what benefits you get with your subscription outside of the chat experience. With Google AI Plus, for instance, you get credits that you can use inside of Google Flow. Flow

is a tool that you can use to generate images and videos. This is separate from your usage limits inside of Gemini. With a Plus subscription, you get 200 credits to use every month. And when it comes to generating videos or images, you'll see how many credits each generation will take before you run it. So, you can kind of plan out how many credits you're going to use every day.

This is similar with Google Flow Music. This is a tool for generating AI music. And with a Plus subscription, you get 3,000 credits to use specifically for Flow Music. With your subscription, you also get enhanced access to Notebook LM. This is a tool for organizing different research topics into these notebooks. It is a

free tool, but with your plus subscription, you get access to higher models and more tools. It also gives you 400 GB of storage that you can use across Drive and Gmail, and you can share this with up to five family members. So, it's a lot of value that you are getting for just $5 a month. With the ChatGPT Go plan, you don't get anything like what you get with Gemini. In fact, with a Go subscription, it can also include ads inside of chat, although I haven't seen any of those yet. Finally, let's talk about the super

apps that you get access to with each of these subscriptions. With a ChatGPT Go subscription, you get limited access to OpenAI's Codex. This is an app you download onto your computer. What makes it different from using ChatGPT is that you can point it to local files and folders on your computer. So, for instance, here I have a folder called invoices that I have Codex connected to.

So, if I start a new chat from within invoices, it'll be able to see all the invoices I have in that folder and can create new ones for me and place them directly in the folder on my computer. Google has something very similar called Anti-gravity. It pretty much works the exact same way and you get limited access to it with your plus subscription. Now, comparing the two apps side by side, I think Codex is much better, but it's sort of irrelevant at this price point because with both of these plans, you really have very limited access to these tools. In fact, with the Anti-gravity app, I was able to burn through my entire usage for at least one of the models with one prompt.

And you can see down here if I come to the usage, I've already burned through two of them. It takes a week for them to reset. So, you really can't use this that much on the plus plan. With Chat GPT Go, I had a very similar experience where the usage you get out of it is just very low and it takes an entire month for it to reset. So, if you're going to use either of these apps seriously, I just wouldn't do it on these cheaper plans. So, that's Google

AI Plus and Chat GPT Go. Which one is right for you really depends on what you're using AI for and how much you're going to use it. But hopefully this video helped give you some clarity. Now, one thing I haven't compared yet is any of the Grok plans. So, if you want to see a comparison between those and Chat GPT or any other comparisons, let me know which ones you want me to look at in the comment section down below. One

thing I did do recently was compare the three big $20 plans: Chat GPT Plus, Claude Pro, and Gemini Pro. You can find that video right here. So, if you want to see which $20 plan is worth your money, click on this video right here and I'll see you over there in 1 second. Bye for now.