---
video_title: "5 Mind Blowing Claude Cowork Uses Cases"
video_id: hW4FHg4-Ss0
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hW4FHg4-Ss0
video_date: 20260329
video_description: |
  🔒 Get your $5 sign-up bonus at  http://privacy.com/paul. 
  You can use it on your first purchase!  
  Privacy has a free plan with no transaction fees for domestic purchases. Protect your financial identity online with virtual cards.
  
  💎 Get the Two Prompts: 
  https://pauljlipsky.com/use-cases
  
  ⚡ Presentation Skill: 
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pCMelDZWf49Edn350FEvGWgZi1PjaRiY/view?usp=sharing
  
  👉 Slide Template (You’ll Need This For the Skill): 
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kr16DO5Ivip7RtLOiVOZRdGdv_DmYM2S/view?usp=sharing
  
  Most people are barely scratching the surface of what Claude Cowork can actually do — here are 5 use cases that go way beyond organizing your desktop.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:47 Morning Brief
  3:02 Scheduled Tasks
  6:47 Phone Control
  10:09 iMessage Tasks
  14:45 Shopping Setup
  15:51 Privacy.com
  17:24 Presentations
  19:47 Wrap Up
---
Claude Co-work is without a doubt one of the strongest AI agents I've ever used, but most of the videos you'll find about it are showing you the same basic stuff. Organize your files and clean up your folders. And sure, that's great, but we can do so much more with it. So, what I have for you today are some really cool use cases that are actually helpful, and I think some of these are going to blow your mind. Let's start by opening the Claude desktop app. This is currently

the only place where you can access Claude Co-work. Well, it's not entirely true. We'll talk about that later, but have to start here. So, come into the app and you'll notice here at the top there are three different tabs. We're inside Co-work. And if you didn't know

this already, what makes this different from regular chat is that with Co-work, you can actually interact with files that are on your computer. So, right here I have a entire folder that has all these subfolders and all these files on it, and this is what I've given Co-work access to. So, for instance, I have one here for bookkeeping, one for presentations, one for different tasks. And we'll talk more about some of these later, but for right now, I just want to show you my first use case, which is this one right here. Every single day, Claude makes for me this daily brief.

You can see up here at the top, it flags important emails in my inbox. These ones aren't real. These are just demo ones cuz I didn't want to expose my real emails, but my actual morning report looks just like this. Down here, it also shows me my calendar events for the day. And then, it goes out and does research for me. And it surfaces for me the top

stories that I should be concentrating on. Now, since I make videos about AI, it's looking at the latest AI news and trying to prioritize stories that it thinks I would be able to make a good YouTube video about. So, right here it looked and saw that OpenAI is shutting down its video creation tool Sora, and that's a really big deal, really high engagement on that, meaning that a lot of people are talking about it. It's getting a lot of buzz. So, it correctly identified that that would be a great video topic. Here's another one, Claude

can now control your Mac. We're definitely going to talk about that one today. And some other ones for Notebook LM. And then down here, we even have some secondary news that maybe isn't as important, but still worth noting. And then finally down here are my metrics.

So, it actually is able to pull information from my YouTube videos and give me an every single day on how my channel is performing. Now, obviously you're not a YouTuber, but you can set this up the same way. Like it will pull in your emails, it will pull in your calendar, it will search for news in your industry, and then if you have any sort of analytics, like maybe you use Google Analytics or you have Facebook Ads, it can pull information from those in as well and give it all to you in this morning report. And this shows up on my desktop every single morning, so I don't have to search for it. there on my desktop. I open it up and with a quick

glance, I can see what I have for that day and what I should be concentrating on. Now, back inside CoWork, let me show you how to set this up. I've actually made it very easy for you. So, this takes advantage of scheduled tasks. You can find those over here on the left by clicking on scheduled, and then you can start a new one by clicking on the top right where it says new task. Here you

can give it a name and a description, but the prompt is really what matters. That's going to tell CoWork what you want it to do, and then you can set the schedule down here. On this drop down, you can choose between hourly, daily, weekdays, or weekly. So, for this one, you would select daily and choose what time, like maybe 5:00 a.m. And there are

some other options here as well, like what model you want to use and what folder you want it to actually put the report into. Now, a couple of tips about this, most people don't know this. This frequency, you're not limited to just these ones. If you come over to CoWork and start a new task, you can tell it every 2 hours create for me a a research report on what's trending, and it will actually set it up every 2 hours. Or you can be a lot more specific. You can say

at 1:00 p.m. and then at 5:00 p.m. and then at midnight, I want you to put together a research report for me, and it will do it and set up a schedule tasks for those hours, even though that wasn't an option on the drop-down. The

other thing you have to be aware of when it comes to schedule tasks is that in order for them to run, the computer your computer needs to be on and Claude needs to be open. Now, Claude made that very easy because there is a toggle right here that if you leave this on, it will prevent your computer from going to sleep and obviously leave Claude open in order for that to work. Now, I know this isn't an option for everyone because you can't leave your computer on all the time. Maybe you have to close your laptop and bring it to work with you. So, personally what I did was I bought a Mac mini and actually have it set up running tasks for me 24/7 because this has become such a valuable feature for me. But if having this open 24/7 or

having a computer on 24/7 isn't going to work for you, that's okay because you can still set up one of these schedule tasks and then when you want to run it, you can just click on it and click run now. So, for this one, you can just have your computer off or closed, wake up in the morning, click run now, leave it on your desk and while you go make yourself some coffee, and then when you come back, that report will be ready for you. Now, to actually set up the report, what I've done for you is if you come to the link in the description down below, you'll see that I created this page for you. It has two different prompts on here. We'll talk about the second one later. But this one is build my morning

report. If you click on this, you can see this prompt that you should put into Claude. Go ahead and copy it, and then go back to Claude, and actually just come to a regular co-work task. Don't come into scheduled, and paste this in. And what it's going to do is it's going to ask you some questions about what you want your morning report to look like.

And then based on what you give it, it will then output for you the instructions for your scheduled task. So, just go through all of these questions. Like right here it says, "What do you do for work?" I can say I'm a YouTuber, and I make videos for YouTube about AI. And then it'll ask you some more questions. And then once it's done, tell

it, "Hey, set up for me this morning brief on a schedule every day at 5:00 a.m." or whatever you want, and it'll actually set it up for you. You don't even have to come into scheduled and set it up yourself. So, that's how I do my morning my morning briefs. It is extremely

helpful for getting settled in the day, and knowing exactly what I have ahead of me. The second use case I want to highlight for you is that you can actually control your computer from your phone using Claude. What I have for you right here is on the right, I am screen sharing my phone. So, this is being streamed directly from my iPhone. And then over here on the left, I have remoted into my iPad Mini, which again, I have running 24/7 doing scheduled tasks for me. And this

is the one that I have linked up with my phone to be able to control things on the go. For instance, on my desktop of my Mac Mini, I have this file right here. It's this presentation. Let's say I forgot to email myself that presentation, and stuck on my Mac Mini. What I can do is open up the iPhone app for Claude, and come over to the menu, and you want to select dispatch. This

allows dispatch here to connect up with dispatch on your Claude desktop app. And anything you send it here is actually going to execute for you. That's also combined with another feature inside of Claude that allows it to control your computer. So, let me just show you how it works first and then I'll show you how to like set this up. So, I can say to Claude, "I left the presentation on my desktop. Can you iMessage it to me?"

Now, if I send it along from my phone, you'll see it also appears here on the dispatch section of the desktop app. Now, it's asking for permission. I'll click where it says allow once inside of dispatch on my phone. And now you see it's getting to work. My hands are off here. It's doing this on its own. You

can see it opened up iMessage. It then dragged in that file. And there we go, it just sent it and then it let me know inside of dispatch that it was sent as well. So, this highlights for you two different features. The first one is dispatch. Setting this up, all

you have to do is click on the left inside the desktop app on dispatch and also come to it over on your phone. It will walk you through how to connect the two up. And then you can send it messages and tasks through dispatch. So, it doesn't need to be computer use where it's controlling your computer. You can have it just come in here and like say create a presentation for me or find that that file that I have with the research report and pull some information and and send me the information here in dispatch. Anything

like that, it'll be able to do for you. But if you wanted to use computer use to set that up, you want to click on Claude on the top here, click on settings underneath general, scroll down to computer use. Make sure this is on. I also recommend that you toggle on unhide apps when Claude finishes. And then there are two settings you have to grant access to. One is accessibility

and one is screen recording. So, grant access to both of those and then it will be able to actually control your computer for you. And combined with Dispatch, it's really powerful. You can use this for any apps on your computer that may not be available for mobile yet or on your iPhone or Android. And that way you can tell Dispatch, go on my computer, open up that app, find some information for me or do something inside that app and it'll actually be able to do it for you. It's very, very

impressive what it can do. Use case number three also allows us to communicate with Claude co-work from our phones, but it's not by using Dispatch. Dispatch is great if you need to have a back and forth conversation or you need to approve something, but if it's just a regular task that Claude has already done for you before, so it doesn't need permission and you just want to send it something quick and then move on with your life, I found a really good system for doing that using iMessage. So, over here on the right you can see my iMessage conversation with Frank, which is what I've named my co-work. Here you can see presentation that it just sent me, but last night at 9:30 as I was falling asleep, I suddenly realized I had to do something and I didn't want to have to pull out my phone to do that.

So, I just grabbed my Apple Watch, sent a message to Frank and had him do research for me and that research was waiting for me when I woke up on my desktop. Coming up further, you can see I sent it a screenshot and just said AI news. That lets Frank know that this is something that I'm thinking about talking about in my next AI news update. So, he's able to screenshot this, pull the text from it and add it to my AI news sheet for the week so that at the end of the week I can just go in there and see all the stories that I screenshotted organized by him. And then also every time it does that morning brief, he also sends me that as an iMessage as well. So, this is

really not only fun to have, but very, very convenient. Because if I'm, let's say, driving, I can just say, "Hey Siri, send Frank a message." And then I can send him a task. Or if I'm out for a run and I don't have my phone on me, I can just send him an iMessage from my watch and have that report, or whatever I asked him to do, ready for me when I get back from my run. So, it's very convenient. So, there are a couple

different components of this, depending on how elaborate you want this to be. But to keep this very basic for the first step, what you want to do is click on Claude on the top, click on settings. This time, click on extensions. And in here, you can click on browser extensions and find the one that says read and send iMessages. Now, warning about this, if you're using this on your main computer, then it will have access to all your iMessages. If you have it

set up on a second computer, like I do, Frank on that computer, the only person he iMessages is me, so it's not a big deal. That's where I have it set up. You see, I don't have it set up on my main device. And that is on purpose to cuz I don't want Anthropic, I don't want Claude reading all of my iMessages. But it's fine on the other device. So, with

this, anytime I have a recurring task set up, like I have the recurring task for my morning routine, as part of the instructions, I say, "When you're done, also send me an iMessage and he's able to send me an iMessage with the report as well." So, it's very convenient anytime you have those recurring tasks, those scheduled tasks, I should say, just to put in there, "Send me an iMessage letting me know when you're done." But if you want to set it up so you can actually send Claude iMessages as tasks, you can do that even if it's only set up on your main computer. To get started with that, I have another prompt for you, again, linked down below. This one is the iMessage task setup. So, you can copy down this prompt

and return back to Claude starting new task, paste it in. It's going to interview you again just to make sure that this is optimized for the workflow that you want. It'll ask you things like, are you just going to send text tasks? Are you also going to send screenshots? What do you want to do with those screenshots? Things like that. And

then it'll set it up on a schedule for you. So, you can have it run, let's say, every hour. So, as a day goes on, you can send the iMessages and then every single hour it will check iMessage for any new messages from you and then execute those tasks. If you wanted to look at screenshots, it will then use computer use to take a screenshot of iMessage which has your screenshot and then it'll be able to analyze that image and work on it accordingly. So, to set this one up, just use the prompt. You

will also need the iMessage setting over here inside of extensions. So, you need iMessage in here and you need computer use on as well, which I showed you before. All three of those combined will make this system work. Like I said, you can run this on your your main computer. You'll just be sending messages to yourself and then Cowork will actually be able to look at the messages that you've sent yourself.

Next, did you know that you can have Cowork shop for you? I use Dispatch for this. If I'm noticing that something is running low in my house, I'll just tell it that I'm running low on that product and add more to my Amazon cart. The reason I use Dispatch for this is because often times it will have follow-up questions, which doesn't work all that well on iMessage, so it's easier to use Dispatch for that. Then you can see it opens up Amazon, finds the right product, and then adds it to the cart. Dispatch also has a

button here to take photos and I've tried taking photos of products and sending them over to Claude Work. However, Claude Work is never able to recognize the images for some reason. Hopefully, that gets fixed because that would be really nice to just snap photos of the products that you're running low on and then have Claude Work find them and add them to your cart. Now, Claude isn't supposed to actually make the final purchase for you. That's a protection that's built in, but there's always a risk here. You're giving it

access to your Amazon account, you're logged in, you have credit card information in there, and there is the potential for prompt injection. And that's where the sponsor of today's video, privacy.com, comes in. privacy.com creates a safe solution for AI agent initiated shopping and payments.

It allows you to create virtual cards, and each card can be set up with a certain spend limit or even be locked to a certain merchant. At any time, you can pause a card or close it entirely. I set up my Amazon account, so the only cards in there are privacy cards. That way, if something does go wrong with Claude Work, it really limits the blast radius, and I can always pause or turn off those cards. But, if you want an agent to actually make fully autonomous purchases for you, you could do something like that with open Claude and use it safely with a privacy card. Best of all,

privacy has a free plan with no transaction fees for domestic purchases. They've been operating for over 10 years now and have processed billions of dollars in transactions. I've personally been using them for over 5 years now. Every time I sign up for a new subscription, that way I don't get locked in in case the merchant keeps charging me when they're not supposed to. I can just turn off or pause the card. And recently, I started using them

with my agents as well. To get started, go to privacy.com/paul. That's p r i v a c y dot com slash paul, or use the link in the description to get your $5 sign up bonus today. That $5 can be used on your first purchase. So,

thank you privacy.com for sponsoring this video. Now, let's move to the last use case before the bonus one, which are presentations. Because surprisingly, Claude Cowork is really good at creating presentations for you. I just throw at it a YouTube script or a research topic, and it will always make a presentation for me that looks like this in the same style. That way it's always on brand.

Now, I've set this up using something called a Claude Cowork project. You can find those over here on the left. You see I have a bunch of them. Click on plus to create a new project and start from scratch. And what's great about this is that you can give it a set of instructions that it will follow every single time you start a task inside that project. So, for my presentation one,

all I have to do is tell it something like, "Research why ChatGPT's closing down Sora and create a presentation for it." And it knows what to do because built in to this presentation project are instructions telling it how to set this up and what skill to use. It uses a create presentation skill. So, I've decided to make this skill available to you so that you can put it into your own Claude Cowork and use it. Just know you will have to modify it. It says my name

at the bottom of every slide, and the colors are the colors that I like, so you'll want to modify it for your preferences. The skill will be linked in the description down below. You can download it, then click on customize, click on skills, click on the plus icon, and upload that skill just by dragging it in. Then, anytime you want to use it, just say, "Create a presentation for me." and it will load this skill for you. To make

changes to it to fit your styling, just start a new task, tell it to load up that skill, and tell it what changes you want to make. The other link down below will be to the presentation I just showed you, this one, and you may also want this one as a reference for Claude to look at when it's making future presentations for you, but that's up to you. And just to close the loop on this use case, this is the presentation that I put together for me. I noticed that I didn't give it the research. I didn't tell it specifically what to put in it.

It just went out, found the information on its own, and brought it into this presentation. So, sometimes if you're looking to research on a topic, this is a nice way to do it to have it in a really nice presentable form to help you learn about something new. So, those are five ways to use Claude co-work that go way beyond just organizing your desktop. With all the different capabilities that co-work has, you can do some pretty wild stuff. And I think the more that I use this, the more cool use cases I'm going to discover. But please, let me know in

the comments section down below some cool ways that you're using co-work. I promise you that even if you think your use cases are pretty ordinary, someone's going to find them interesting. So, please let us know what you're doing down below. And like I said before, I've a bonus use case for you. I actually have an entire video about it right here. This talks about how you can set

up Claude co-work as your entire second brain. It involves an entire folder system that is optimized for co-work to be able to get the most out of it. So, if you want to look into setting up co-work for the first time, and you're not really sure how to organize it all, this is the video for you. Make sure to click on this, and I'll see you over there in just 1 second. Bye for now.