---
video_title: "GPT 5.6 Edited This Entire Video"
video_id: 0RiUicSjUKk
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0RiUicSjUKk
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  Download Borumi: https://borumi.com/
  *Not sponsored and not an affiliate link*
  
  Free Prompt: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AGQ72gMN0CqUxyBdh5pf6Q7shJ7vs9VEUmIr4l5A--8/edit?usp=sharing
  
  ChatGPT edited nearly this entire video from cuts and layouts to zooms and Remotion motion graphics. I’ll show you how to connect your video to ChatGPT or Claude, give it spoken editing instructions, and train a reusable editing skill that gets better over time.
  
  0:00 Intro
  1:09 Remotion Plugin
  2:42 Meet Borumi
  3:58 Borumi Workflow
  7:33 Connect ChatGPT
  8:56 First AI Edit
  10:29 What It Misses
  12:09 Editing Tips
  12:32 Claude Alternative
---
Everything you're watching right now was edited by Chachib. The video of me is real and I made all these screen recordings myself, but Chachib chose what cuts to make, all the layout choices, and when to zoom in. It even created all of these motion graphics. A month ago, this was impossible. But thanks to some new software and better models, you can now have Chat EBT or Claude edit an entire video just like this one. And I'm not exaggerating when

I say that this has taken my editing time from hours down to minutes. Up until recently, AI was really bad at editing videos. I tried pretty much every AI video editing tool out there, and none of them actually saved me any time. But recently, that all changed for two reasons. First, because Chachbt and Claw Design have gotten really good at motion graphics. Those are these

animations that you may have seen in some of my videos. And the second reason is because we finally have easy software that ChatGBT and Claude can plug into to actually do the video editing for us. I want to start by showing you how you can enable Chat GBT to create motion graphics and then I'll show you the new editing software that Chat GBT and Claude can control. To get started with this, come into the Chat GBT desktop app and click on the left here where it says plugins. The plugin that we're looking for is called Remotion. This is it right

here. I already have it installed, but if you don't have it installed yet, there'll be a button here to install it. And that's it. It's that easy to set up. Now, when you come over to a new chat, you can type in the at@ symbol, type in remotion, and ask chat GPT to create a motion graphic for you. So, for

instance, here I'll ask it to create a simple motion graphic that I can use as a title card for a video about remotion. All right. Right. So, chat GPT is now finished and it put the video for us right here in the chat. So, we can watch it here. There is the title card and

that's perfect. That is exactly what I wanted. So, now what I can do is click right here where it says download the MP4 if I want to use that video. If you're curious though, you can click on the top right here where it says toggle side panel. And this is the remotion UI.

So, if you ask Chat GBT to make any changes to this motion graphic, it will do it in here. And then you can always click right here where it says render to actually export the video or it may just send you it in the chat like it did for us here. There's a whole lot you can do with these motion graphics. They're really good for visualizing data for instance. But we're not going to spend a lot of really any more time talking about how we can prompt chat GBT to create motion graphics with Remotion because we're just going to leave that at the discretion of ChatGBT while it's editing the video. So, let's move over

now and I'll show you the editing software that I've been using with Chat GBT and Claude. So, Chat GBT cannot edit videos directly or at least not very well. You really need a third-party tool that is built for video editing that chatbt can then control. Like I've said, I've tried a lot of them and the one that I found that's actually good is called Buri. I've actually been using Broomi for almost a year now, well before they added any AI capabilities because it's just really good for creating these talking head style YouTube videos. But recently they added

MCP support. So Claude and ChatBT can edit the videos for you inside of Burumi. Now I want to be upfront that Burumi is not free to use. However, I think it's pretty reasonable. It's just a onetime payment of $79 and then you get full future updates included with your purchase, so you never have any sort of upcharge for it. It looks like

that price may go up eventually, but at least as of right now, it's only $79. By the way, Burumi is not sponsoring this video. This is just genuinely the actual tool I've used to record and edit all my YouTube videos on my channel for the past year. But before deciding if you want to purchase it yourself, let me show you what this can do and how you can use it with Chat GBT or Claude. So this is the Burroomi desktop app. And

when you open it up, you can create these different video projects for each video that you're working on. Here's an example of one I started earlier today where I was making a video all about how to use the AI capabilities inside of Google Drive. There are three tabs down here at the bottom. The first one is where you put in your script. And what I love about Burumi is that they have scenebased recording where you can break up your video into different chunks. So

you're not forced to record the entire thing at once. And then this tab is where you actually record it. So it records your camera, your microphone, and your screen. And then over here on the right, these are each of the scenes that we just put together inside the script section. So that way if you mess up one of the scenes, you don't have to start the entire video over again. you

can just start over on that one scene. It makes it a lot easier to get through the content. Now, once you've recorded everything, you can come over to the editor, and this is going to look very similar to a lot of other video editors. We're down here, we have the timeline with each of the different scenes labeled. You could see the bottom row down here, this is my talking head, my face, and the top row is the screen. and

they are kind of linked together so that you don't lose your place and they're matched up. And within this editor, there's a lot we can do. So, let's start by playing the video and taking a look at it. Today, today I Today Today I want to show you how to use all the AI features inside. So, notice how in the beginning there's a lot of mistakes that I made. Took me a

couple of tries to actually get started. So, normally what I could do is just drag over the start so that it gets rid of all those bad takes. Very easy to do in Burroomi. But as you see right here, there's a lot of blank spaces like here. There's another false start here.

There's a couple of false starts here. More blank spaces here. So, even though it's easy to do it for one, doing it for the entire video, especially for longer videos, can get quite tedious. So, we're going to have chat GBT do that for us. Another thing you can do inside of Broomi is set up these layouts. So when

I click on layout, I can choose to just show my face. I can choose to show myself in the corner as a round circle in the corner. I can do just the screen. So there's all these different layout choices. Again, pretty easy, but this is also something that chatbt can choose for us. And there's also one section

right here where I talk about AI adoption rates. And this video couldn't have come at a better time because right now the rate of adoption for the AI features inside of Drive is just taking off. So I'm hoping that that will be a place where chat GBT will add a motion graphic showing the adoption over time. And in fact what I've done is right here I've actually given instructions to chat GBT. We can listen to that. Hey Barumi

when I'm talking about the AI adoption create an infographic for that. It doesn't need specific numbers, but just something showing adoption over time going up, like a bar graph or a line graph. So, what I've done is I've recorded the video and then while I'm recording the video, I'm actually giving instructions to Chat GBT on how I want the video edited. That way, I don't have to type it out. And ChatGpt knows that when I say, "Hey, Barroomi," it's going to remove those instructions and follow those instructions. So, let's stop

playing around inside the editor now and let's go over to ChatGBT and have it edit the video. Back inside the chat GBT app, you want to make sure you have either chat GPD work selected or you are inside of codeex. Then click right here where it says choose project and new project. And you want to select a very specific folder on your computer. So, click here where it says add folders.

Then click on your username on the left. Open up documents and click on the folder that says Broomi AI workspace and then click on open. As long as you have that folder selected, then chatbt will be able to edit any of your videos. You then want to give chatpt the name of the video. The video I want you to edit is called how to use Google Drive. And then

you'll just describe what edits and changes you wanted to make. What I've done is I've created a skill called edit Broomi video. And in the description down below, I have a link where you can grab that prompt for free and you can just copy it and throw it into the chat. That will tell it to remove all the pauses, all the false starts, and to follow your instructions anytime you say, "Hey, Broomi," as well as a few other things. So, with all that in place, I can now send it along. And now

we'll just sit back and let it work. This can take a little bit of time. So, usually what I do is I go grab some lunch or do some other tasks. And then when I come back, the video is edited. All right, I finished my lunch and chatbt finished editing the video. And

we can see right here what it did. It cut down the video from 2 minutes and 45 seconds down to a minute 26. And it did that by removing all the false starts, the repeated takes, my instructions, and all the dead air. It also created a motion graphic. It struggled a little bit here. It originally tried to create

an image instead of the motion graphic and I told it no, I wanted to create a motion graphic instead. I'll make sure to update that for the prompt that I give all you so that shouldn't happen again. And then it made a few other edits, changing the layouts and adding all the zooms. So let's go over now to Burumi and see what it did. So as you see here, this looks much different now.

We have all this formatting. All the dead space has been removed. They added a bunch of zooms. So, let's give this a quick watch, at least part of it, and see what chatbt did. Today, I want to show you how to use all the AI features inside of Google Drive. And this video

couldn't have come at a better time because right now, the rate of adoption for the AI features inside of Drive is just taking off. So, if you don't understand how to use these, you are going to get left behind. Now, inside of each of the different tools, like docs, sheets, slides, and vids, there are different capabilities. So, we're going to dive into each of these. Yeah. So,

not bad. That's exactly the way that I would have edited the video. And all of that was just done with one prompt inside of Chat GBT. Now, I've been using this for a few weeks now, and what I found is that ChatGpt can successfully edit about 80% of the video, but I still have to go in and fine-tune it and finish that last 20%. For instance, right here, I'm showing Google Docs and Chai GBT correctly zoomed in on the Gemini bar on the bottom, but then it zoomed out only to zoom right back into the same spot, which is a little bit nauseating to go in and out like that.

So, I would fix that. I would get rid of the second zoom and just make the first one longer so it stays zoomed in on that one spot. There's another spot here where it zooms in on the document where it really doesn't need to. So, I would delete that zoom. But then it correctly changes the layout to just my face and then switches back to a split view of the screen and my face and zooms in on the right section. So, that all looks

great. But right here, it's supposed to zoom in on the panel on the right, but you can't actually see the right thing. So, it's zoomed in correctly at the right time, but the zoom is a little off. So, I can just use Broomi to fix that and then it is perfect. So, yeah, just like those little minor adjustments. Every time I use it, it

gets better and better though. So, what you can do is after you finish the final polish of your video, you can come into chat GBT and just tell it, "I finished making the edits to the video. Look at what I did." and update your skill or prompt so next time you get me closer to the final version. I do this every time and the skill gets better and gets me closer to that end result every time that I use it. Couple other tips for

you. The motion graphics are definitely optional and they will definitely add a lot more time to the editing process. Without those, it can edit the videos much faster. So, what you could do is just ask it to edit the video for you and then create the motion graphics using either Chat GBT or Claude Design and just drop them in yourself. Speaking of Claude, you can have the Claude desktop app edit the videos for you instead of Chat GBT. And it works the

same way. You just have to switch over to Claude Code and then make sure you select that same folder, the Broomi AI workspace, and then ask it to edit the videos for you. I personally prefer to use Chat GBT for this. I've experimented with the same video giving both of them to Chat GBT and one version of it to Claude and I found that ChatGBT did a much better job. Of course, that may change as new models are released. So,

yeah, that's how I edit my videos or how I don't edit my videos now using Chat GBT and Burumi. Now, we talked a bit in this video about motion graphics. I have a whole video on that right here. I show you how you can create motion graphics with claw design. And I still think that claw design is a little bit easier to create motion graphics than chatbt. And

usually the results I get out of it are better. So if you want to see all the cool things I've been making with motion graphics and claw design, check out this video right here. And I'll see you over there in one second. Bye for now.