---
video_title: "AI News: ChatGPT Is Back, NotebookLM Update, Google AI Health Coach, New Pomelli Feature..."
video_id: myJ2IVHOfrI
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=myJ2IVHOfrI
video_date: 2026-05-09T13:01:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Try i10x: https://i10x.ai/?fpr=paul53
  Save 15% with code "PJL15"
  
  ChatGPT returns to form with a major model update while Google and Perplexity drop massive new tools for health and desktop control.
  
  Prompt of the week: https://x.com/itsolelehmann/status/2036065138147471665
  
  Heads up, these updates may not be available worldwide yet. Just because I have access to them doesn't mean you will yet.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:32 OpenAI updates ChatGPT’s default model
  1:37 Trusted contacts in ChatGPT
  2:13 Voice mode improvements coming
  3:13 New Codex app updates
  4:04 Google AI updates
  4:08 Google Health and Fitbit Air
  6:20 Gemini personal intelligence expands
  6:58 Custom Gemini instructions in Google Docs
  7:41 Gemini skills in Chrome
  8:50 Sponsor: i10X
  11:46 NotebookLM mind map updates
  13:05 New Pomelli catalog feature
  14:56 Meme of the week
  15:47 Anthropic signs new compute deals
  16:41 Prompt of the week
  18:23 Perplexity Personal Computer for Mac
  19:17 Apple AirPods with cameras rumor
  20:10 Question of the week
  21:22 Recommended videos
---
Chat GPT is so back. Open AI has made so many updates in the past week to both their default models and features inside their Codex app. We'll talk about all that in a second along with some announcements from Google that makes Gemini even more of an insane value and updates to notebook LM and Pameli. There's a lot to talk about. My name is Paul J Lipsky and on this channel I talk about all the stuff that's going on with AI that non-technical users actually care about. And every week I release a

news recap video just like this one to help you stay informed. Let's first talk about what Open AI has been up to. So first Open AI has updated the default model for Chat GPT. It is now 5.5 instant which is supposed to be smarter, clearer and more personalized. The

biggest difference I've noticed is that it's just less annoying. For months now I just have not been able to use Chat GPT because every time I would talk with it it would give me these long verbose answers that would just had way too much information in them. And the new model 5.5 is just so much more concise and actually gives me helpful information without repeating itself over and over and over again. So I'm really enjoying this new update. It makes Chat GPT

actually usable for me. And you can see an example here of the two models side by side. So on the left is 5.3, on the right is 5.5. The same question, 5.3

gives a really long again sort of repetitive answer with a lot of fluff and 5.5 is lot more to the point while still having enough to answer the question. Open AI has also added trusted contacts into Chat GPT. So if you opt into this then if Chat GPT notices that you're having some kind of emotional crisis it will reach out to your trusted contact and let them know that something might be wrong. I think this is a really smart move on their part. You know a lot of

people use ChatGPT and other AI chatbots sort of as an emotional support, and that can be problematic. So, the fact that this is now being added, I think is a smart idea. But, of course, people have to opt in for it to actually work. Okay, so some other updates from OpenAI. So, Sam Altman has said that they are working on improvements to voice in chat. This past week, they released in

the API some new real-time voice models. So, that's very promising. They're supposed to be very good, and hopefully we see those improvements now being brought over to ChatGPT itself for voice mode. Sam Altman has said, I think this past week, that No, he understands that voice mode isn't as good as text chat. It's just not there, and he really wants it to be better. He really sees voice

chat as a way that a lot of people are going to are do interact with ChatGPT and are going to want to do more in the future. So, he really wants to make it a lot better. So, that does seem to be a priority. They also released this very cryptic tweet today. Not sure what this is all about, but they love hype, so we'll see. If there's an update to this

and what this means, I'll let you guys know next week. And then finally, OpenAI has released some new updates to Codex over the past week. I first talked about Codex last week in my news recap. This is an app that's very similar to Claude Co-work, if you're familiar with that. You download it onto your computer, and you can interact with individual files or folders on your computer. So, nothing

is being done in the cloud. And a lot of people are absolutely loving Codex. I've already made two videos about it, and I think it is incredible. So, definitely check out those videos when you get a chance. And they just released a new update. So,

there's a Chrome plugin for the Codex app, which means that it can now control your Chrome browser just like Claude co-work can. I actually did an entire video comparing the features inside of Codex versus Claude co-work. I'll have that linked up for you at the end of the video so you don't forget. All right, let's talk about what Google has been up to in the world of AI. They've released a new app or actually they took the Fitbit app and they are rebranding it as Google Health. And they are also along

with that introducing a new wearable called the Fitbit Air which looks a lot like a Whoop band. Why am I talking about this on an AI channel? Well, because this includes a Google Health coach that is powered by AI. So, you can talk to it about your health, you can have it help you create workouts, and it can track everything that you're doing. What's really cool about this is that this is included with a Google AI Pro and Ultra subscription. And you can

bring into this app any data that you that you have from third-party tools. So, if you already have other Fitbits or Garmins or Apple Watch, all that data should be able to be brought into this. Then you can use your Google AI subscription and get this health coaching. And it looks like it's some pretty cool stuff that it can do. So, in this demo they show you you can chat with it, have it help you with sleep, with fitness, with overall health and wellness, and it is able to pull all that information together to really understand you. So, if you want to

increase your strength, if you say you have an injury like you tweaked your back, then it can adapt your workouts or what you're doing to make sure you don't injure yourself further. And it actually builds workouts for you. And like here's another example, he's saying or this user is saying, "I'm working late this week. Can you update my plan to include at-home suggested workouts?" And here it's swapping it all out. So, I'm pretty

excited for this one. I'm definitely going to try it out. It's like you might as well. It's included with your Google AI subscription. And overall, I mean, this just amazes me how much value they pack into one subscription. I used to never pay for a

Google subscription because it just, you know, I didn't think there was a ton of value there besides just having extra storage in Google Drive. But now you get updated limits for Gemini, for Google AI Studio, you get Google Health, you get Google Home. There's so that's packed into this one subscription. It's kind of crazy. Another update to Gemini is that personal intelligence is now rolling out in the EU. It's been out for a couple

months now in the United States. It's very good. So, for instance, the other day I asked it to do create a road trip for me from where I live to California. Gave it the dates I need to travel. It created the entire route for me. It even

knew my dietary preferences and suggested restaurants along the way that I could eat at. It knew that I had a dog, so it suggested places we could stop to walk the dog on the trip. And I didn't tell it any of that stuff in the prompt. So, it's really cool the way it kind of brings all your information together. And now it's rolling out for the EU.

There's also another little update that is inside of Google Docs that I haven't heard really anyone talking about. Now, you can create custom persistent instructions for Gemini in Docs. So, if you open up the side panel like this and tell it something like "Always make my reports very concise and professional." It should remember that going forward and always apply that every time you have it create a report for you inside of Google Docs. So, that's really nice.

I want to see that everywhere in all of Google's products so that I never have to like repeat the same things over over again. And along the same lines, I finally got access to skills. So, inside of Chrome, if you click on the ask Gemini button, this brings up Gemini on the right, and there are now skills in here. You can do / and you can see the skills that you've created, or you can add a new one, or browse the ones that were created by you, or the ones that were given to you by Google that you can then add. You can see all their suggested ones here. And so, if you

don't know what skills are, these are basically prompts. So, for instance, if I click on this meal planner one, you can see the prompt right here, but instead of having to write it out yourself every single time, you just have to invoke the skill, and it will automatically apply that prompt. Saves you a lot of time. A lot of other AI tools have this. We now have it inside of Gemini for Chrome. Hopefully,

it comes everywhere else. It's kind of interesting that this is the first place inside a Google product that we're seeing skills, but I'm assuming that means it's going to come everywhere very soon, like inside of Docs and inside of Gemini, and it's very needed. That would be very nice once that comes. So, next we're going to talk about some updates to Notebook LM and Pameli, but before we do that, let's hear real quick from today's sponsor, i10x. i10x is an AI chatbot, but it's pretty unique because you're not limited to just the models from one company. So,

coming over to the chat, you can see right here under the model picker, we see models from OpenAI, like GPT-5 Mini and GPT-5.5, but you also see Google's models, like Gemini 3.1 Pro Preview, xAI's models, like Grok 4 and 4.1 Fast, and Anthropic's Claude 4.6 Sonnet, as well as a few others. So, you're not locked

into one ecosystem. In addition to that, you're not giving up a ton by converting over to this or using this, because you also have the ability to connect to other services like Stripe, YouTube, Telegram, and there are features like web search, memory, and knowledge bases. There's even deep research, which gives you access to Perplexity Sonar Pro, which is great for research. If you want to create images, you can also do that inside of i10x. There are image generation models like GPT image, Nano Banana, and Flux, and video generation models like Sora, Kling, and Google Vio.

If you're looking to use AI to automate, there's an automation section here where you can build these workflows. This is very similar to Zapier, where you can have a trigger like if someone updates a Google Sheet, then AI can look through that information and take action like send an email based on what's in that sheet. And creating any of these flows, you can see that this connects up with a lot of third-party tools. So, we have Airtable, Amazon, Asana, Calendly, Canva, Evernote, Facebook, GitHub, Gmail, Meet, Sheets. So, there's a lot that you can do inside of this. You can

even set up these custom agents, where you can select the model that powers the agent, give it a custom set of instructions, and then chat with that agent so you never have to repeat your instructions, and you can always have these ready to go. i10x starts at just $8 a month if you go with annual billing, or $10 a month if you pay month to month. That includes 5,000 uses of basic models like Haiku and GPT-5 Mini, 200 uses of advanced models like GPT-5.5 and Gemini 3.1, and 2,500 i10x credits for things like image and video generation.

But for just $17.50 a month, you get unlimited use of basic models, unlimited use of advanced models, and 7,500 credits for things like image and video generation. Also, if you use my link down below and my coupon code, you'll get an additional 15% off. So, if you want to check it out, all the information is down in the description, and thank you AI2 Nexus for sponsoring this video. Okay, so what's been new with Notebook LM? Well, over

here inside of Studio, you know, over the past couple of months, they've been releasing all these updates to make all of these features a lot more customizable. And the newest addition to that are mind maps. So, here you can tell it to focus just on specific sources. You can tell it to focus on specific concepts, or just tell it generally what you're looking to learn about, and it will tailor the mind map more for you. So, let's try it out.

This is a notebook all about how to pan for gold. And one of the difficulties with panning for gold is that there's a sequence of events things you have to do to make sure that you end up with just gold in your pan. And And it can be kind of tricky to get that. So, let's see if this mind map can help with that. I will tell it something like create a mind map that walks me through the sequence I need to do to make sure I only end up with gold in my pan.

And then here we go. Here's the gold panning sequence with every step you need. And I can expand this further, and this is so much smoother than it used to be. It used to not look this nice. You can kind of zoom in and out as much as you want. So, it's a lot for more

helpful for actually getting your mind maps to give you the information that you want, instead of just filling it with whatever general generic info it wanted. There's also a new free feature for Pamely. So, if you remember, Pamely is the tool where you can upload a link to your website, and it grabs your business DNA. So, that includes things like the images on your website, the fonts, and the colors. And from that, it builds out these social media campaigns for you that are on brand. Recently, they added photo

shoot, where you can upload an image of your product and it will do an AI photo shoot, so you don't actually have to manually do that yourself with a real camera. But the problem was you had to upload the images. Well, now there's a feature called catalog. And with catalog, you can just upload links to your products and it will actually it's going to look through your website for products and then pull them in and then you can create things with that. Now, on my website, I don't have any products on my website, so this isn't working. But

here's a demo. You can see it finds all the products, brings them in, and you can even it says you can upload from a URL. So, maybe I just wasn't patient enough. Oh, I don't know what it's doing. Hmm, let's give it a second.

And there we go. I just wasn't very patient with it, but it will bring in images of your products if you have any. I don't have any, but I'll try adding one from another website as an example, so I'll just borrow this and see if that works. And there we go. So, it brings in the images, the name, the description. You

can change any of that up. We'll click on create catalog item and now from that you can create a campaign or you can create a photo shoot, which were the features that were already built in, but you can just quickly get to it now. So, that's pretty cool. So, that is really, really neat. I've always said that this is one of the best tools available for small businesses who need help with their marketing and it's completely free. All right, I think it's time for

the meme of the week. So, this was posted on Reddit and this woman uploaded to chat GPT an image of herself and her husband and asked chat GPT to make her husband look happy and this is what it came up with. So, yeah, he's in trouble and it's not even his fault. That's pretty funny. So, to balance this out, we have a much more wholesome [snorts] one. This was posted

by Austin Lau on X. He got married this past weekend, so asked Claude code to analyze 12 years of iMessages with his wife and to whip up a dashboard for his guests. So, it's very very sweet. And a pretty good use case for AI, although I don't know if I would trust giving all of my iMessages to an AI, but hey, it is really sweet. Speaking of Claude, Anthropic has just signed a compute deal with SpaceX and I think with Google Cloud as well. So, this is really

important for them because they didn't anticipate Anthropic how quickly they were going to scale up this past year and they haven't been able to keep up with it cuz they don't have enough compute. So, now that they signed this deal, this should help with the usage limits. They've already increased it for Claude code, for instance. And I think this highlights a bigger problem. There are great models out there, but great models aren't going to win. What are

going to win is great models with a lot of compute and not a lot of companies have that. Google, for instance, does. They have a ton of compute and they have a good model. And so, I think they really have a unique foothold in this race as well as some other models do as well. So, it'll be interesting to see how this all plays out for them. And

while we're talking about how good the models have become, this is a good time to talk about the prompt of the week. This is when I give you guys a prompt that is going viral or that I found that I think is really cool. A lot of times, I'll give you prompts that are for image generation, but not always. This one is super useful. This was posted on X by Ole Lemon.

And what he realized was that as the models are getting better, they don't require as much instruction from us. And this is something that Anthropic has said and OpenAI has said. So, actually, if you give it too much instructions, the outputs will be worse. The problem is that if you've been using AI for a few months now, then you probably have a bunch of instructions in there because of mistakes that the AIs have made in the past. So, it's a good idea to clear a lot of that out. So,

this is the prompt that he used that worked for him. It says, "Read my entire setup." So, all my files, all my skills, every every context that you have, go through it all and find stuff that doesn't need to be in there. Are you doing something Are there instructions that I'm telling you to do that you already do by default? Does something in there contradict or conflict with another rule somewhere else in the setup? So, it really wants to kind of

like clean shop and make it all a lot more streamlined because the less you have in there, the better the models are going to perform. And the better the models perform, the less instructions that you need. So, I'll leave a link to this post down below so that you can grab this. You don't just have to use this in Claude like he did. You can use this in Codex, you can use this in directly in the Claude app or the ChatGPT app or Gemini, really any AI that you've been using. We have one

update from Perplexity this past week. Perplexity has rolled out personal computer for all Mac users. So, Perplexity personal computer that is. Personal computer is an app that you download onto your Mac and can control your Mac the same way that Claude Co-work works or Codex. And it It's really good. I've played around with it.

Originally, when it released, it was only available on the Mac Mini and now it seems like it's available on any Mac and it's rolled out for all users. The downside to this one is that it can be a little bit expensive because the cost is on top of your Perplexity subscription, which is unlike the way that Claude Co-work and Codex work, which are included with your subscription. So, I will say it is one of the best, but it's also one of the more expensive ones. And then finally, we have a rumor from Apple. I always like to pay attention to what Apple's doing, although they have been so behind with AI.

Where's the new Siri? Waiting for it. Well, what they are building are AirPods with cameras, but the cameras aren't for taking images. They're going to be very low-quality and low-resolution cameras. Instead, the images will be fed into Siri to help give it more context for answering questions. So, pretty cool. It's very

sort of subtle, right? It's not like a camera on your eyes like the Meta Ray-Bans. So, it will be kind of interesting to see how those are used. But, the rumor is that these are already in production or very close to production, and and testers are already using the prototypes. So, we might see these later this year. And before we

close this out, let me give you the question of the week, which is how do you plan to navigate a world where we're not going to be able to tell what is real from what is fake? And this question is inspired by another Reddit post on the ChatGPT subreddit that is sort of blowing everyone's mind, including mine. So, this person uploaded this image. A screenshot. It says, "This was generated by ChatGPT."

And then the person responded saying, "Holy wow." And then the person said, "Just kidding, I took it myself." But then the next image, you can see the person asked ChatGPT to create an Instagram chat screenshot where I send someone a really realistic image of a Coca-Cola product and say that it was generated by ChatGPT. And then they say, "Holy wow." And then I say, "Just kidding."

But then they reveal that actually they asked ChatGPT to create that prior image. Create a realistic iPhone screenshot of the ChatGPT app showing a generated ChatGPT screenshot, etc. Then it was revealed that was actually generated by ChatGPT, and then it was revealed that that was generated by ChatGPT. So, it's like, what even is real anymore? It's kind of scary.

Anyway, thanks so much for watching this week's news recap. As promised, on the screen right now will be that video all about Claude Co-work versus Codex. If you want to compare the two of them and see which features you like better, click on this video right here. Or, if you just want to dive right into Codex to see what it's all about, here's my Codex for beginners video. Click on this, and I'll see you over there in 1 second. And make sure you subscribe so

that you get the latest AI news every week. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.