---
video_title: "NotebookLM vs Gemini (When To Use Each)"
video_id: uR021Veq9s4
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uR021Veq9s4
video_date: 2026-03-31T13:01:12+00:00
video_description: |
  NotebookLM vs Gemini. Here’s the simple breakdown for which one you should use for chat, research, infographics, slide decks, and content creation.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:31 Chat
  3:17 Images
  5:54 Slides
  7:46 Video 
  9:59 Audio 
  11:18 Quiz, Cards, 
  13:14 Apps
  14:50 Two Themes
---
Notebook LM and Gemini are two of the most incredible free AI tools out there right now, but it can be confusing trying to decide when you should be using each one, especially because they have a lot of features that overlap. But the truth is, there is a clear winner when it comes to when you should be using each tool for different use cases like infographics, slide decks, videos, or just as an AI chat. So in this video, I'm going to put these two AI tools head-to-head and tell you when you should be using Notebook LM and when you should be using Gemini. First, let's talk about when you should be using each tool as an AI chatbot. And to understand this, you first have to understand how these tools are set up. Gemini is, of

course, an AI chatbot similar to ChatGPT or Claude. You can send it prompts directly in here, or you can even set up custom gems, which are like specialized chats. Notebook LM, on the other hand, is more of a research hub. You create these notebooks and add sources from across the internet or even upload your own sources like PDFs or Word documents. Both of these tools have an AI chat, but how they work is fundamentally different. Gemini is a general-purpose

assistant that answers questions from broad world knowledge. That includes its training, real-time access to the web, and whatever you paste into the chat. Notebook LM is the opposite. It is intentionally grounded in the sources you provide. So it's not trying to be all-knowing about the entire internet.

It's trying to be the best possible assistant for your sources with answers that stay anchored to these sources. So choosing when to use each AI chat is actually pretty straightforward. If you have a general question, you usually want a very intelligent AI with broad knowledge and training. Gemini is best for that, and 80% of the time, Gemini is what I use. But, if you want to go deep on a topic, or you already have a specific set of sources that you need to stick to, that's where Notebook LM shines. Drop those sources into a

notebook and start chatting with them. And that allows you to chat with your knowledge and your material, which keeps it way more grounded and consistent for research, summaries, and pulling out the exact details you care about. In short, Gemini is for broad, real-time knowledge, and Notebook LM is for going deep on one single topic. But, there's a slight wrinkle. Because now, you can add Notebook LM as a source inside of Gemini. But, there are really only two

times I would do that. First, if you want to supplement what is already inside your Notebook LM sources with broader world knowledge. And second, if you want access to Gemini features that either aren't available inside of Notebook LM, or where Gemini does it better. So, let's compare some of those tools next. Now, like I said before, there's a lot of overlap between what you can make inside of Notebook LM and what you can make inside of Gemini. And

now that you understand the key differences between these two tools, let's get into some of the more specific features. And we'll start with images and infographics. Both Gemini and Notebook LM is capable of creating images of some sort. So, here inside Gemini, there's a create image button. You can see you can pick from any of these styles, or just describe what you're looking to create. Inside of

Notebook LM, there's a button over here inside of Studio called Infographic. And opening this up, you can choose between all these different visual styles, the orientation, and the level of detail for these infographics. So, the first big difference between these is that Notebook LM doesn't create images. If you want to create images like these, you want to use Gemini for that, no question asked. The real question is which one should you use to create infographics?

Here we have two different infographics. On the left is one that was created by Gemini, and on the right is one created by Notebook LM. But, I pretty much prompted them the same way. I asked both of them to create infographics for me teaching me how to juggle and to use anime style. Now, they did take slightly different stylistic choices, but I will say overall, both of these look fantastic. And in my past experience

using both of these to create infographics, I can't say that one is better than the other in terms of the actual infographic that it makes. Both of them always look stunning. But, the real difference is in how these are made. To create an infographic in Notebook LM, all you have to do after you add in all your sources is click on this infographic button, choose what you're looking for like the orientation and what style and the level of detail, and click on generate. It's fast and because it has these buttons here, it sort of feels fun as well. For Gemini on

the other hand, you have to write out the entire prompt. So, if you just want something really fast, then Notebook LM is the way to go. But, there is a benefit that Gemini has that Notebook LM doesn't. After you create an infographic, you can ask Gemini to make changes to it. And that's something that just isn't available inside of Notebook LM yet, but I anticipate that it will be coming soon in the future. In summary,

if you want something fast and easy that gets you great results 90% of the time or more, just go with Notebook LM. But, if you need something that is very precise and you need the output to look a very specific way, then you would want to use Gemini for that because you can make some edits. Next, let's talk about creating slide decks or presentations. To create one inside of Notebook LM is incredibly easy. All you do is come up to slide deck, open it up, and you can choose between a detailed deck or presenter slides. You can make the

length short or a default length, and you can even describe what you want the slide deck to look like, like the style or what it should concentrate on. Then it creates a slide deck that looks something like this. I asked it to create one in a sketch note style, and it adhered to that prompt very, very well. This is what it came up with. I always love the results that come out of Notebook LM.

With Gemini, on the other hand, you have to turn on the tool called Canvas. You then need to tell it what the slide deck is going to be about, and specifically you tell it create a slide deck for me. And then it'll create something that looks like this. And sure, all the information's in here. It looks pretty good, all things considered, but comparing it to the one that's made by Notebook LM, I think there's no competition at all.

This one looks so much better, and it's so much easier to create these as well. Just clicking a few buttons, you don't have to remember to turn on Canvas, you don't have to remember exactly what to say. It'll just create for you 95% of the time stunning, almost perfect-looking slide decks. And if there's anything in here you don't like, all you have to do is click on this revise button and tell it what changes you want to make. So, if you want a different title, you can tell it to change the title. If you want a

different style for the slide, tell it what changes you want, and click on generate revised deck, and it'll make all those changes for you. It takes longer than to create is well worth it in my opinion. Next, let's talk about video creation. Now, the way these two tools handle videos is very different, but there's a slight overlap. So, here inside Gemini to have it create a video for you, click on tools, and there's an option here for create video. And you can have it pretty

much create anything for you. There are templates here, so you can have it create in any of these styles, and you can tell it specifically what you're looking for. If you want a realistic video, it will make that. If you want a animated video, it will make that, and it can be about pretty much any topic. Inside of Notebook LM on the other hand, to create videos, you can find those right here in video overview. And these

are more for educational explainer videos. They're going to actually walk the viewer through the information that's inside your notebook. So, for instance, you can take a look at what one of these explainer videos look like. Success in the cascade depends on a repeatable sequence of upward throws, where dropping the ball serves as essential mechanical feedback. If you find yourself walking forward to catch the balls, practice directly facing a blank wall. So, you see it

creates these really beautiful, fantastic-looking explainer videos. And part of the reason for that is because when you open up the video overview section, there's a new tool here called cinematic. That's the one you want to use. They're really rich, they're very immersive, very well done. Now, by contrast, inside of Gemini, if you ask it to create an explainer video for you, I just haven't been able to get it to make a video like that. It constantly

wants to do something like this. Once you have the two ball rhythm, introduce the third ball underneath the cascade. Just keep them moving in that circular motion. Right, that's not what we're going for and these are only about 8 seconds long where the ones inside of Notebook LM are much longer. This one for instance is almost 4 minutes long.

So, if you want to create an explainer video, definitely use Notebook LM for that. I also want to spend a second to talk about audio. Inside of Notebook LM, there's an option to create something called an audio overview. And this is sort of like a podcast episode where two people are talking about the subject of the notebook. You can choose between deep dives or a brief podcast or more of a critique or a debate. And you can give

more specifics in here as well. And these are really helpful for helping you learn about a topic on the go because you can access them from the mobile app for Notebook LM, which means that as you're exercising or driving, you can listen to these audio overviews to learn the subject. Extremely helpful for that. So, to give you an idea, this is what one sounds like. You know when you watch someone juggle, it's just it looks like magic.

>> Yeah. >> They have this extra set of invisible hands or I don't know, a cheat code for gravity. >> Right, yeah, totally does. >> But as we're going to see in this deep dive today, juggling looks like magic right up until you learn its vocabulary. Yeah, so it's really helpful when you're trying to learn on the go and you can't be staring at your screen. Now, Gemini

doesn't have anything like this. The closest thing they have is to create music, which is something completely different, but it is fun. So, in summary, if you want those audio overviews, you have to use Notebook LM, but if you want to create music, use Gemini, of course. I'm going to lump the next four together because they end up having the same results. We're going to look at mind maps, flashcards, quizzes, and data tables. You can make all four

of those inside of Notebook LM and in Gemini as well. So, for instance, these are what flashcards look like. You get your question, you can see the answer, mark whether you got it right or wrong, go to the next one, and then after you complete the entire flashcard set, you can revisit it and see which ones you got wrong, and then take the quiz again, and only get quizzed on the ones you were struggling with. There's also a quiz, which acts the same way where you go through it. You can get a hint for this one, though. And then again, if you

get any of them wrong, you can revisit those ones. And we also have mind maps, which honestly, I don't ever use, but this is what they look like. And finally, we have data tables, which again is one that I I honestly don't use all that much, but this will give you an idea of what those look like. So, hopping over to Gemini now, let's take a look at the difference. So, this is what a mind map looks like inside of Gemini.

And not only does it look terrible, but it actually doesn't really give you any information. And it's a lot harder to set up. It's not just one click of a button, you actually have to prompt it. Again, use Canvas for this. Same thing with flashcards. Flashcards come out

pretty good, but you're not going to get the full functionality of Notebook LM where it actually remembers the ones that you got wrong, and it can quiz you on those ones. You have to actually create this yourself using Canvas. And I think you get the pattern here. All these things work like creating quizzes inside of Canvas, but the experience is just not going to be as good as Notebook LM. So, this is another one where hands down for all four of these, Notebook LM is the clear winner.

But, there are plenty of use cases where Gemini destroys Notebook LM. So, first, there's a tool inside of Notebook LM called reports. This allows you to create things like briefings, study guides, or blog posts. And the results are again, like okay. Like here we get a blog post that is written for us about how to juggle. I can copy down the

content of this, but I can't do much more with this. It's just kind of stuck in here. Inside of Gemini on the other hand, if you activate Canvas and tell it the exact same thing, create a blog post for me, and I even attach the notebook, here you can see it created for us a great blog post, and I can change this up. I can change any of the text in here. I can highlight any of it and ask Gemini to make changes. So it's a lot

more dynamic and interactive. And these results, I would say, are much better. Also, there are things you can do in Notebook LM that you can't do at all inside of Notebook LM. So for instance here, I had it create for me an interactive app that teaches you how to juggle. And this is something that doesn't exist inside of Notebook LM right now. Similarly, I had it create a

website for me about how to juggle. And again, you can't do that inside of Notebook LM. And I made both of those using the tool called Canvas. And with Canvas enabled, this unlocks a ton of different possibilities inside of Gemini. I actually made an entire video about that recently, which you can check out right here in the card up above. So

for some of these use cases, there is a clear winner. But for everything else, I think there are two themes that continually come up when comparing Notebook LM to Gemini. First, Notebook LM is all about learning. Their audio overviews, their video overviews, their infographics are all centered around helping you learn something new. Where with Gemini on the other hand, you can use it for learning, but you could also use it for productivity or really anything else. And the other big

difference between the two of them is that if you just want something quick and easy that gives you great results most of the time, Notebook LM is all about that. But if you want to spend more time refining the output and getting it exactly the way that you want, Gemini is generally better for that. It's just going to take more work and time on your part. Now, like I said before, I made an entire video talking about that really neat tool inside of Gemini called Canvas. I made it available right here. You can click on

it and watch this video. I highly suggest you check this out because when you use Canvas, it unlocks a ton of really cool use cases for Gemini that most people don't even know that you can do. So, click on this video, check out what it's all about, and I'll see you over there in just 1 second. Bye for now.