---
video_title: "Claude Cowork Is Now On Mobile and Web (Here's How It Works)"
video_id: kMy46Y8Cruc
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kMy46Y8Cruc
video_date: 2026-07-11T13:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude Cowork now works on the web and your phone, but cloud tasks and local tasks behave differently. Here's how to sync Cowork tasks, access files on your computer remotely, and avoid starting a task in the wrong place.
  
  Some features in this video may not be available in your region or on your plan yet.
  
  0:00 Intro
  1:00 Claude Web vs Desktop
  2:06 How Cowork Tasks Sync
  2:50 Set Up Cloud Sync
  5:16 Accessing Local Files Remotely
  6:51 Cloud vs Local Tasks Explained
  7:46 Start a Remote-Ready Task
  8:37 Cowork Mobile vs Dispatch
  9:32 Final Thoughts
---
We just got one of the biggest updates to Cloud Co-Work ever. Cloud Co-Work is now available on the web and on your phone. And Thropic even says that you don't even need to have the desktop app open in order for Co-Work to work. But I found that that's not entirely true. After all, one of the things we love about the Cloud Co-Work desktop app is that when you have it open, you can select a folder on your computer and Cloud will have access to all the files in that folder. It will be able to read them and create new ones. But if I open up Cloud on the web app and open up Co-Work and tell it something like, look at a spreadsheet on my computer, it's not going to be able to do that. So is it Cloud-based or not? Well, it sort of is and sort of isn't. And I know that's confusing, but I have found a way to easily make sense of this. And I promise you, by the time you're done watching this video, it's going to make a lot more sense. Let's start by looking at the Cloud Web app, which I have over here on the left, side by side with the Cloud Desktop app, which I have over here on the right. And what you'll notice now is that they are nearly identical. They both have the same layout. You can access projects inside of them. You can access also both Co-Work and Chat, even on the web version. And I want to start by explaining the easiest part of this to understand, which is regular Cloud Chat. To use regular Cloud Chat, you want to click on Home on the top left, and then inside the Chat box, click on Chat. And the great news is that any Chat that you start from within Chat will be available on every device. So in a second, you're going to see it over here in the Cloud Desktop app. Here it is. And this will also be available on my phone as well. And vice versa. If I start on my phone, I'll be able to see it on both of these. And if I start it on the Desktop app from Chat, it's going to come up on all my other devices as well. So that part is easy to understand. Chat syncs everywhere. Co-Work works a little bit differently. First, we don't have chats in Co-Work. We have tasks. And some tasks will sync to the Cloud while others won't. Here, for instance, is a task that I started on the Cloud Desktop app. This one, sync to the Cloud. So over here on the left, you see I can access it from the Cloud Web app. And I can also access it from my phone. However, this task right here, which I also started on the Cloud Desktop app, did not sync to the Cloud. So I can only access it from the Cloud Desktop app. Now that may seem a little bit confusing at first. When do they sync to the Cloud? And when do they not sync to the Cloud? Well, once you understand the rules and patterns, it's actually pretty easy. If you want your tasks to sync and you want to be able to access local files remotely, there are three things that you need to do. First, make sure that the Cloud app is updated, both the one that you have on your phone and the Desktop app. So here on my computer, I have the Cloud app open. I'll click on Cloud on the top left and click on Check for updates. Do that, make sure you are on the latest version and on your phone, open up the App Store, make sure you're on the latest version. Then you need to sign out of Cloud everywhere and then sign back in. Now for me, while I was using Cloud for the first time after these updates, they all automatically logged me out at certain points. The web app did that, the Desktop app, and my phone app. All of some of your message saying, we are signing you out, you need to sign back in. Now, I believe that you don't have to wait for that to happen. You can just manually sign out and then sign back in to reauthenticate. But if some reason it still doesn't work, just start clicking around on all your past tasks until it tells you to sign out or it automatically signs you out and then prompts you to sign back in. The third thing you need to do is here in the Desktop app. When you start a new task, you need to make sure that on this dropdown right here, you have manually approved selected. If you select Skip All Approvals, then all those tasks are going to run locally and won't sync to the Cloud. For example, I will select Skip All Approvals, which is what you don't want to do. And then if I start a new task here, what you'll see is on the top left, up here is this computer icon. That lets you know that this is running on the device and not in the Cloud. However, if I start a new task and this time, the only change I'm going to make is I'm going to switch it to manually approve. And then I will send the exact same prompt again. And this time, you'll notice that we have a Cloud up here. That tells you it is running in the Cloud and that task, you will now be able to see here on the web or on your phone. And then here on the web app, I can then continue the conversation and even ask it to do things locally on my computer. As long as my computer is on and the Cloud desktop app is open, you will be able to do that. However, this is really important to understand. If you come into the web version of Cloud or the phone version of Cloud, and you start a new cowork task from within one of those apps. In other words, you don't start it on your computer. Then that task will never have access to local files on your computer. So here, if I start one inside of the web app using cowork, you'll see that it runs the task and we see the Cloud icon on the top left, telling me that this is cloud based. If I then return to the desktop app, we can see that task right here. That is the one that we just started. This is Cloud based. But now I want this task to access local files on my computer. It can't do that because I started it on the web. So if I say to it, what's on my schedule according to a local file that I have, it will tell you that it does not have remote access to files on your computer. It always tells you that the desktop app isn't connected even though it is. Now that may change in the future where we will be able to start cowork tasks on the web version or from our phone and have it access local files from that task that we start on our phone. But that's not the case right now. So if you want access to local files, you need to start the task from within the Cloud desktop app, not from the web version or from your phone. Let me sum this up for you another way. If you don't need access to local files on your computer, it doesn't matter where you use cowork or where you start a new cowork task. Everything will be Cloud based and accessible from everywhere. So the web app, the phone app, the desktop app, you can start a cowork task from any of them. It doesn't matter for cloud based tasks. But if you want to work on files that are locally on your computer, you'll mainly want to use the desktop app. And then if you want to be able to continue your conversations and tasks elsewhere, like from your phone, after you start them on the desktop app, all you need to do is make sure that on this drop down, you have manually approved selected, and you leave your computer on and the cloud app open once you leave. One tip I have for you is you can come to the cloud desktop app, make sure you have cowork selected, make sure you have manual selected, and then choose the folder on your computer where you do most of your work. I have mine selected right here. And then I'm just going to send a simple prompt like high. You can see that is now cloud based. So if I come over to the web app, I can see that task right here, and I'm just going to leave that one. So that way, if I'm out and about and suddenly I remember something I have to do, I can pull out my phone and come to this task, which is linked up with that folder on my computer, and say, do this, send this person in email, pull this file, and send that in an attachment to the email to this certain person. And it's going to be able to do that because I already started the task on my computer, and my computer is on and running with the cloud app open. Overall, I think once you understand this, it's great. And I personally think it's a lot better than what we had before, which was dispatch. Dispatch is another way that you can remotely talk to Cloud Co-Work if it's running on your computer. The problem with dispatch is that it's just one long continuous conversation. You can't have separate tasks like you can with Co-Work. But now when you open the menu inside the cloud app on your phone, you'll now see Co-Work here. And you will see all of the cloud based tasks, even the ones that have access to local files on your computer. And what's better about this is not only that they are separated, but also check out what else you can do that you can't do with dispatch. You can choose the model that you want to use, and you could also use the dictation button. So this is much better, in my opinion, than cloud dispatch. So there you go. That's everything you need to know about using the new Cloud Co-Work in the cloud from your phone no matter where you are. If you guys enjoyed this video, do me a quick favor, give it a thumbs up, and subscribe to the channel. I'm constantly making videos like this, keeping you up to date on all the latest changes to your favorite AI tools, even if I'm traveling around the world and not home. It's still important to me to keep you guys updated. So if you appreciate that, give the video a thumbs up, and subscribe to the channel. Otherwise, thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye for now.