---
video_title: "The Gemini Mac App Is Finally Here (Free Upgrade)"
video_id: ImMowTmkkG8
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ImMowTmkkG8
video_date: 20260415
video_description: |
  It's finally here, the Mac app for Gemini. And what's perhaps the most remarkable thing about this isn't the app itself, but how it was made. But more on that in a second. Let’s take a look at this. 
  
  You can find the app by coming to https://gemini.google/mac/
  This is available to all Gemini users. You don't need a paid account.
---
It is finally here, the Gemini app for Mac. And what's perhaps the most remarkable thing about this isn't the app itself, but how it was made. But more on that in a second, let's take a look at the app itself. So first, you can download this app by coming to gemini.google/mac.

I'll also have that link for you in the description down below. And here is where you can just download the app itself. It's only available on Mac, and there are some other requirements like you need to have the latest macOS Sequoia 15.0 or later, and it only runs on Apple silicon. It doesn't run on Intel-based Macs. Once you have it installed, this

is what it looks like. First impressions, I think it looks beautiful, quite honestly. It's a lot nicer looking than the web app, with this really clean, minimal aesthetic. Coming down to the chat bar down here, you can easily switch between your models, Fast Thinking or Pro, just like you can on the web app. And you can add things in here like files, Drive, photos, Notebook LM, and creating images, create videos, all your tools are available in here.

What I like about this is just it's just a lot sleeker, right? On the web app, there's a lot going on here. Like there's one section for tools, another section to attach things, and I like that this is just one plus icon that includes everything. It makes it look a lot cleaner. And most of the core features are already in here. You can

generate images and videos directly inside of it. It will create music for you. You can use Canvas, although it looks a little bit different. Everything looks just slightly different. So opening up Canvas, you'll see that it works, but you're not able to edit like you normally do. Not all the features

are here. Here's another thing I created. I asked it to create a a landing page for me about the Artemis 2 mission. Again, it's here, it's functional, it just doesn't quite have everything. But the core functionality is there. But there are two important

features that are conspicuously missing. Over here on the left, you may have noticed that there are no gems and no notebooks. On the web app, we have our notebooks and gems right here. And this is more than just a slight annoyance, because if you are on the web app and you open up one of your notebooks and you start a chat inside of here, like this one that I did earlier today, then you go over to the Mac app, you will not be able to access that chat. It is not here at all. And that's because the chat

lives inside the notebook, but we don't have access to notebooks inside of Gemini. So there are definitely some features that aren't on the Mac app yet. However, the CEO of Google has said that this is just the initial release and more features are on the way. And for what I hear, those features are coming soon. In fact, if you come into the settings on the Gemini Mac app, you'll notice right here that there is an option for speech where you can choose what Gemini's voice sounds like. Now,

right now we don't have live on this Mac app, but this indicates to me that this is coming really soon. And without a doubt, I wouldn't be surprised if they are prioritizing syncing up the features between your phone app, the Mac app, and the web app. So things like notebooks and gems will appear in here very soon. But for right now, there are two features that I absolutely love about this new app. First, if you close out the app, then from anywhere on your computer, if you have no apps open or you have apps open, it doesn't matter, hold down option, press space bar, and this query bar will pop up. And you can

type in a prompt, and the best part is when you submit it, it doesn't full screen it like some other apps like Claude does. It's just this nice small chat window that you can move out of the way, so it doesn't fill up the entire screen. So this allows you to access Gemini from anywhere on your computer quickly and without taking up a ton of screen real estate. The other feature I really like is that it's able to quickly take screenshots of your screen if you allow it to, so it can help you out with anything you're working on. So for instance, here I have an app open called Keyboard Maestro. This allows you to run

certain automations on your computer. It's very powerful, but it can be very confusing to set up. So let's ask Gemini for help. I'll hold down option, press space bar, and I'll click on the plus icon, share my window, and I will share my Keyboard Maestro window. Then I'll just ask a question, like why isn't this automation working, and send it along.

You'll see here that it sends not only my prompt, but also a screenshot of the window as well to help answer my question. What's also really interesting about this app is the way that it was made. This wasn't some huge team that took months to make this. This was a small team. They used Google's own tool called Antigravity. This is an app that

you can download yourself if you're into coding and code on your MacBook using the Antigravity app. And the small team developed it in just a few days. And more and more, we're seeing big companies do that. Anthropic built out Claude Co-work in just a few days using Claude Code. So this is really speeding up development. And hopefully that means

we'll see more features for the Gemini Mac app really soon. Maybe, hopefully, we'll see notebooks and gems. It looks like Google Live is coming or Gemini Live is coming to the Mac app soon as well. But then, what's next? Personally, I would love to see something like Claude Co-work for Gemini. I think that

would be a total game changer. If it has the ability to access local files and to modify them and to basically act as an agent, that would be so powerful coming from Google. But we'll see. Let me know your thoughts in the comment section down below and your wish list for the new Mac app for Gemini or the new Gemini app for Mac. And if you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs up and subscribe to the channel. I'm always staying on

top of the latest AI news, especially news related to Google AI. So if you don't want to miss out on the latest updates, definitely subscribe, and then I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.