---
video_title: "AI News: NotebookLM Update; Gemini Study Notebooks; Claude Design 2.0; and ChatGPT Is Now Better!!"
video_id: JfxLTPAjGgg
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JfxLTPAjGgg
video_date: 2026-06-26T12:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Try Lovart Today: https://www.lovart.ai/?sourceId=902604
  
  Every week I bring you the latest AI news. This week I show you some updates to NotebookLM and Gemini, including their new Study Notebooks. Claude Design also got a UI overhaul that looks so nice. ChatGPT gave us a nice update and so much more!
  
  This video is sponsored by Lovart.
  #BuiltWithLovart  #AiDesign #AIBranding  ⁨@lovart_ai⁩  
  
  00:00 Intro
  00:33 NotebookLM Update
  01:40 Anthropic News
  02:28 Claude CoWork
  03:36 Claude Tag
  04:26 AI Meme
  04:53 Claude Design
  06:18 LoveArt
  07:45 Gemini News
  07:52 Study Notebooks
  11:39 Gemini Chrome
  12:31 Gemini Delay
  12:51 AI Prompt
  13:38 ChatGPT Update
  14:10 GPT-5.6 Delay
  14:29 Meta Glasses
  16:17 Recap
  16:50 Outro
---
In this weekly AI news recap, we're going to talk about a small but very needed update to notebook LM. We have some new information about what's been going on with anthropics fabled a really cool new feature for Gemini called study notebooks and chat GPT is now better than ever. My name is Paul J. Lipskin every week. I make an AI news update video just like this one where I talk about the stuff that regular people actually care about. We're not coders here. We just want to know what's happening in the world of AI. If that interests you, make sure to subscribe. This first one is a quick one, but it's a really nice update to notebook LM. So as I'm sure you know inside of notebook LM, which is a tool you can use to organize different research topics that you're interested in. After you create your notebook with all the sources in it, over here on the right inside of studio, you can create all these assets and one of them are these flashcards. After you generate the flashcards, this is what they look like. You can quiz yourself on the information inside your notebook. Now in the past, you weren't able to edit these, but now you can. So if you click on these three dots on the top right of any flashcard, you'll see a new button here that says edit flashcard and you can come in here and make any changes either to the question or to the answer. Once you have it the way you want, click on save. Or if you just don't want the flashcard at all, you can click on these three dots and delete the flashcard. It'll just delete that one card and leave all the others. Once you're happy with it, you can click on the share button on the top right and share it with your friends and family if you want. So it's a small update, but it's really nice and it was long needed. Next, let's talk about what's been going on with Anthropic. We'll start with an update on Fable and Mythos. Anthropic has been very quiet about what's happening with these models ever since they removed access to them a few weeks ago. For those of you who may not know, the US government told Anthropic they had to effectively cut off access to their latest model Fable to the entire world. Anthropic has been working with the US government trying to get it back ever since. Rumor has it the negotiations are going better now that the CEO has stepped back from negotiations and they've replaced him with the co-founder Tom Brown. So nothing definitive yet, but it does appear we are moving in the right direction and hopefully we'll be able to access Fable again very soon. Moving on from Fable for now, there are some rumors that the mobile version of Claude Kowrk is going to get much better. I'm a huge fan of Claude Kowrk, if you follow my channel you know that. This is an app you download onto your computer. It's a Claude desktop app and it includes Kowrk which can access local files and folders on your computer. The problem is if it's running on your computer you don't have access to Kowrk from your phone. So they invented this thing called Dispatch. This has been out for a few months now. It's a way to access the Claude Kowrk that's running on your computer. But the way it exists right now isn't great to be honest because it's one long conversation. It makes it very difficult to multitask with Claude Kowrk. The rumor is that's going to get better. So I don't know exactly what this is going to look like, but I would imagine that you'd actually be able to see every single task that is running and assign it different tasks instead of just having this one long conversation. So I'll definitely keep my eyes on that and if there is an update to the mobile version I'll be releasing a video about it. So stay tuned for that. What's not a rumor though is Claude Tag. This is a new way for teams to interact with and use Claude directly inside of Slack. So basically you are creating a Claude account for your team inside of Slack. So you can message Claude directly inside of Slack without having to open up a different app and it will start executing on the tasks while you focus on other things. So we can see an example of that right here where Nadia asked Claude to schedule something out for her and then it goes and does that. Now I'm not the idol candidate for this because I don't use Slack. I don't have a team. It's really just me. But what I can say is this feels like we're moving away from using AI in dedicated apps and starting to use them where we already work. Google has been doing this for a couple of months now with Gemini in Google chat for teams and I think businesses are going to start doing this a lot more both big teams and small teams. And that brings me to the meme of the week. This is where I share something with you in the world of AI that I found to be pretty funny and this one makes fun of a little bit the new Claude Tag. I thought this one was pretty good. The last bit of news from Anthropic is that the overhauled Claude design. So this is a tool you can use to create prototypes, slide decks, documents, even wire frames or animations. I use this a lot for animations. Another word for this is motion graphics. So all those motion graphics that you see my videos. I make those with Claude design and this has got a major overhaul. The UI looks a lot nicer, a lot cleaner. So here is where you can describe what you want to create and they can choose one of these templates like animation. You can even set up these design systems so you can make sure that every project has the same colors, type and components so it all states on brand. Here for example is a motion graphic that I made for a video that's going up in a couple of days where I'm comparing chat GPT to GROC. And one of the other updates is that this whole editing experience has gotten much better. So now we have all these tools up here. Some of these were already here but it's just gotten better. So this markup tool for instance let's say there's something I don't like in here like this logo is wrong this verse right here. I can say change this to verse with a period if I wanted to for some reason and I can send that to Claude. So it makes it a lot easier to ask for edits and changes. Now with Claude design you still can create images and you still can't create videos. It's a great tool but it's a bit limited in how useful it is. That's why I'm excited to partner with the sponsor of today's video LoveArt. LoveArt is an AI design agent which means that unlike most design tools that hand you up blind canvas and a thousand buttons and expect you to figure out how to create what you want with it. LoveArt flips that. You tell it what you want in plain English and it hands you back a finished design. Here for instance I asked it to design e-commerce product visuals for a premium skin care line and you can see it not only created one image for me but it created multiple images all existing on this one canvas. So I can keep my entire project organized in one place with all of these assets and easily iterate on any of them. So let's say I absolutely love this image but I want it without a background. I can just click on remove background and it's going to make another version of it without the background or if I want to see this from multiple angles I can click on multiple angles, click on run and now it's creating the same image again of the same product and it's going to show it from a different angle but it still maintains the original images so nothing ever gets lost or deleted and then you can turn these images into stunning ads just like this one or even into videos. So if you've been hiring out your design work or just avoiding it entirely I would check out LoveArt. There's a link in the description down below they've got a great deal going on right now just reviewers of my channel so try it out and give this some thanks for sponsoring today's video. Let's move on now to what Google has been up to. They've announced some great updates to Gemini but we also have some disappointing news. First thing I want to talk about are study notebooks. Inside of Gemini over here on the left we have notebooks these aren't new. This connects up notebook LM with Gemini. So any notebook you have in notebook LM you can now access inside of Gemini and chat with the information in there and any chats from Gemini show up inside your notebook LM notebook that's not new. What is new though is that we have a new kind of notebook called study notebooks. So when you click on new notebook right here we have the organized your ideas that's a traditional notebook but now we have study and learn and using this this will help you learn any new topic. So let's say you're studying for the LSATs because you're trying to get into law school. You just put in the topic that you're studying for and it will begin asking you some questions about how it can help you study for that topic. So here it says are you aiming for a specific target goal? I'll say something like I want to get into a good law school. Then it's asking what my target score is or the current timeline for the exam. So I'll say that I am taking the test in late July. I want the best score. I forget what the scoring is for the LSAT but I want a good one. So now it has updated our notebooks. So if I click right here where it says view updated notebook that will bring me over to the notebook. Once you open the notebook the first thing it's going to ask you to do is to take a diagnostic quiz which will figure out how well you already know the subject that you're studying for. So by taking this quiz and answering these questions it will know how to tailor the lessons that it creates for you. So you just want to go through these and answer these and I'm not going to read through all these but you get the idea of how this works and then once you're done it will actually put together a whole lesson plan based on your strengths and weaknesses. Here for instance if we come over to my other notebooks I have one right here that I created for scuba diving and you can see up here my progress. So these are all the different topics and how well I've learned those topics so far based on not only the lessons I've taken but the quizzes in those lessons. So I can see that when it comes to equipment and scuba systems I'm doing really well but I haven't spent any time learning about dive planning and safety management yet. So this kind of shows you your progress as you learn the material in the notebook. Coming down here you can see the different lessons and they break it down by different categories. So here are the strengths and you can kind of see what I've already done well with and these are the topics I haven't started yet that I may want to dive into and at any point I can retake the diagnostic quiz by clicking right here where it says take quiz. So to give you an idea of what one of these lessons looks like if we open up this it gives you a whole lesson this time on nitrogen tracking to make sure you don't get the bends and then scrolling down you can kind of read through all this and then at the end you can either take a quiz based on what you learned or if you want more help learning about the subject you can click on any of these or ask any follow up questions. And the quiz is just like I showed you before we're kind of asking you some questions about what was in this lesson and then that then becomes part of your updated notebook at the top here where it shows your progress. Now inside of notebook LM these study notebooks look exactly the same as regular notebooks. So you might have some sources over here on the left if you edit any you can chat with the notebook here you can create anything in studio. So none of that changes it really is just different on Gemini. The next update to Gemini is for Gemini in Chrome. So if you click on the top right in Chrome where it says ask Gemini this is of course a place where you can access Gemini from anywhere assuming you're in Chrome or ask questions about the tab that you're on. There's a new feature here though if you click on add attachments there's a button here for select from screen. If you click on that you can select any element on the screen. So let's say I can like highlight this text right here and then ask a follow-up question specifically about that area that I highlighted. This I think is super useful because a lot of times when I'm asking Gemini about something on the tab I have to describe what I'm talking about and instead I can just highlight it like this and it looks really nice it did a really good job with this UI. But now for the bad news rumor has it that Gemini 3.5 Pro is now delayed until July. It was originally supposed to come out in June. That's what they said during Google I.O. Obviously it's the end of the month we don't have Gemini 3.5 Pro yet but it should roll out next month. This is a perfect time now for the prompt of the week. This is where I share a prompt with you that you can then use yourself prompt that I found to be pretty helpful. So this one actually comes to us from Gemini or from the Gemini team and they suggest using Gemini but I'm sure you can use any AI for this to build a jet lag strategy. It's able to the reason this works so well Gemini is because it connects up with Gmail. It can quickly grab your flight information, build a custom sleep schedule based on your time zone and edit right to your calendar with helpful reminders. So I'm flying out myself in a couple of days for a short trip and I think I'm going to take advantage of this jet lag strategy. Open AI also has some new updates that are nice and similarly we have some disappointing news from them as well. So the first update is to their instant model. They have said that they have rolled out an update for it. It is now smarter, more intuitive and very fun to chat with. I've been testing it out a little bit. I don't tend to use instant. I usually use medium or high when I'm using chat GBT but I can say that it feels better than it did in the past using instant. The nice thing about that is that instant is fast and now it's much better than it was in the past. So if you just want to have a quick conversation it's a lot better. However the bad news is that GBT 5.6 which was rumored to come out. I think a couple of weeks ago at this point has still not come out and has been delayed and is likely going to come out in mid July. So we'll have to wait for that new model for at least a couple of weeks it seems like. Let's now talk about the AI gadget of the week. This is where I talk about a physical device that either has AI in it or incorporates AI into it. This week we have to talk about the new meta glasses. So meta AI glasses have been out for a while. They did a partnership with Rayban in the past. So we've always had these Rayban meta sunglasses for a while. Both Gen 1 and Gen 2. And now they've come out with new styles. So we have the Kylie Jenner style. This is a partnership with Kylie Jenner obviously. We have the new adventure and we have the new fury. I personally really like the fury. I think those ones look the best. And the other nice things that they're cheaper. The Gen 2 Rayban Metas are $379 and these new furies are only $299. So there is a discount for those more like unbranded ones. Now I have the Wayfair the Rayban Meta Gen 1 sunglasses. And I think they're okay. You know they're pretty ordinary looking. They don't look too bulky. You can definitely tell they're like a little bit chunky but they're not too bad. When you consider how much tech they pack in here between speakers, a camera, the AI assistant, microphones. There's a lot in here for such a small frame. But I tend not to use these a lot mainly because it's meta right. There's definitely some privacy concerns with that. And I don't love the meta AI. And so I just find myself not really using the AI all that much. Especially when I have access to Gemini on my phone, Siri now, chat, GPT, Claude. So these usually end up just sitting on my shelf to be honest. So we had some nice updates this week. I really like those study notebooks inside of Gemini. I like the new update to chat, GPT. But in terms of the models, it's a bit of a disappointing end to the month of June. You don't have a new Gemini model. You don't have a new chat, GPT model. We're still missing fable. So I expect several top models to have been released by now. And we've just seen a lot of delays. My guess is that all these AI companies are spooked by what happened with fable. And they're all just waiting to see what's going to happen next. And of course, as soon as something does happen, I'll report for you here on this channel. If you want to make sure you don't miss out on all the important AI news that actually matters for you, make sure to subscribe to the channel. And if you enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Bye for now.