---
video_title: "Seedance 2.0 Is Here On Higgsfield!"
video_id: l7hq9lTIeyQ
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l7hq9lTIeyQ
video_date: 20260410
video_description: |
  Try Seedance 2.0 on Higgsfield: https://higgsfield.ai/s/seedance-2-0-pauljlipsky-ZxCjzL
  
  Watch the Seedance Video By Higgsfield: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jvFaFq-2Gzw
  
  This is the most realistic AI video generation I’ve ever tested — multi-shot scenes, native sound effects, and scary-good AI avatars all in one workflow.
  
  Heads up, these updates may not be available worldwide yet. Just because I have access to them doesn't mean you will yet.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
---
I don't think the world is ready for C-Dance 2.0. It just got released on Higgs Field and I've been playing around with it and some of the videos I've been able to produce are mind-blowing. For instance, this is AI.

That is wild. If anyone had shown that to me, I never would have known that it was generated by AI. Or check out this one. This is an idea I had for a video game for a while where you have to run through this world, sort of like a Pandora type world, and swing from all these branches.

And as a concept video for a video game, I think that is absolutely stunning. And all the videos being generated with C-Dance 2.0 are just next-level in terms of video generation. This is huge leaps forward and I think it's really not only terrifying in a way, but also really exciting. So, I want to show you some other things that I've made with C-Dance 2.0 in this video. Like I said at the

start, I'm accessing this using Higgs Field AI. I'll have a link for them in the description down below. They are the sponsor of this video as well. This isn't available in all regions yet, but it is slowly rolling out to different parts of the world. For this example, I wanted to make a commercial for these wireless earbuds. So, I uploaded this

reference image and told it to create a video where it's a sleek wireless earbud, it spins around the camera 360 around it, and then it cuts to a stylish young woman jogging at night wearing the earbuds.

Crystal clear sound anywhere you go. So, we have video, we have camera movements, we have multiple scenes, and we have voice-overs generated by AI. I think for commercials, if you're a small business, you can't afford a whole video shoot, this is going to completely change the game. Next, I wanted to test a cinematic shot. So, this is a 10-second multi-shot Hollywood style story about a woman running through the woods and attacking a monster, slashing it with her sword.

One thing you'll notice about C-Dance 2.0 is that it handles sound effects incredibly well. In the past, when we had sound effects, it sounded like they came from everywhere. They didn't feel directional or proportionate to the actual video itself, and that is now changed. So, listen to this again while you're watching it.

And you can see what I mean. It feels so much more realistic, not only because of the visuals, but because of the sound effects as well. And of course, we have that epic soundtrack over the top of it. As a YouTuber who makes talking head style videos, this also really worries me because check out how realistic this is. C-Dance 2.0 on Higgs Field just

changed AI video forever. Watch this multi-shot demo. I have never seen AI video avatars that look as good as that. A lot of times, when you see them on YouTube or other platforms, the lips just don't quite feel natural. It's something like a little off-putting about it, and this one, I mean, wow, this really is a giant leap forward.

C-Dance 2.0 on Higgs Field just changed AI video And it's not only that, the subtle movements of the body. It's not over-exaggerated, he's not stiff. It feels very natural. forever. Watch this

multi-shot demo. That one, I think is really scary. Now, I showed you this clip at the start of the video, this mock-up for this video game that I imagined, but I made another scene for it as well. We can watch that right here. And as this is playing, notice how the music over the top is synced up so well with the action that is taking place in the video.

We just have never seen anything like that before with AI. This is really becoming an all-in-one system where it's not just great music that doesn't match well with what's going on. Everything is working together, like this synergy that's incredible that's able to handle all of that. Of course, it handles cartoons very well.

And honestly, I wouldn't be surprised if within the next year all cartoon shows are made using AI because it's just so efficient, so fast, and it looks incredible. And to showcase the full capabilities of this model, Higgs Field created an entire show using C-Dance 2.0. Let's check out the intro for the first episode.

Girls, >> [screaming] >> I think I need some backup.

Spotted her. Sending a mark. I hope I will be MVP today.

That is totally wild. If you want to check out the full episode, I'll have it linked down below for you. I want to give a shout-out to Higgs Field for getting me early access to C-Dance 2.0 to be able to make this video. If you haven't checked them out already, again, a link for it will be in the description down below. This is your one-stop place

for all things image, video, audio generation. You can have characters in here, mood boards, cinematic studio. There is so much you can do in here, and you get access to all the top video generation models. So, we have C-Dance 2.0 again rolling out to different regions, Kling 3.0, Kling 3.0 with

motion control, Google VO 3.1 light. So, yeah, you can see basically everything. And over here on the left is where the generations actually happen. You can put a in a prompt, you can upload media like images, videos, or audios that will be used in the video or as inspiration for the videos. You can select your model

here and then choose the duration, aspect ratio, resolution, and then you can generate your video. And I'll leave you with this last video right here. It's the most ordinary, boring video, but that's what's so incredible about it because it just looks so realistic.

So, that is C-Dance 2.0 on Higgs Field. If you want to try it out for yourself, click the link in the description down below, and then let me know in the comment section what you're making with it. Otherwise, thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.