---
video_title: "AI News: Fable Is Here; New Siri AI; NotebookLM's Biggest Update Ever; and Free New AI Tools!"
video_id: J-Acljr9YKw
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J-Acljr9YKw
video_date: 2026-06-12T13:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Try i10x: https://i10x.ai?fpr=paul53
  Save 15% with code "PJL15"
  
  Join the waitlist for my upcoming AI community: https://join.pauljlipsky.com/waitlist
  
  Anthropic just dropped Claude Fable 5, Apple finally rebuilt its assistant, and NotebookLM is turning into a full research agent. Plus new Gemini updates, the Fitbit Air, and two free new tools from Google.
  
  Some features in this video may not be available in your region or on your plan yet.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  Whoop x work calendar stress experiment: https://x.com/the2ndfloorguy/status/2064704204166635930
  
  0:00 Intro
  1:00 Claude Fable 5
  8:55 Meme of the Week
  9:43 Sponsor
  11:18 Apple's New Assistant
  13:57 Gemini Updates
  16:12 Fitbit Air
  18:54 NotebookLM Updates
  24:02 New Free Google Tools
---
This week we have seen some of the biggest AI updates ever to both Claude and believe it or not, Apple's assistant. Google also released some understated but very important updates to both Gemini and Notebook LM. And they released some free new tools. One that is very impressive that you guys are going to love. And the other one that's probably their weirdest release so far.

This was a huge week. We got a lot to cover. If you don't know who I am, my name is Paul. Here on this channel, I talk about the AI news that regular people actually care about. We don't talk about coding. We talk about how AI

can help you in your everyday life or with your work. Now, I typically do these AI news updates every single week for you. I took a couple of weeks off because of some travel, but I'm back now ready to get you caught up on all the AI news, and I'll be returning back to my regularly scheduled once a week updates. So, if you want to stay informed about the latest AI news that actually matters, make sure to subscribe and turn on the bell notification. Let's start with the biggest news first. Anthropic

dropped a new model called Fable 5. Now, a couple of months ago, they announced that they have created a model called Mythos, which is so powerful they said they cannot release it because in the wrong hands, it could be very dangerous. So, Fable is basically a version of Mythos, but with more guard rails. Enthropic has said that this is their most powerful model yet that they have ever publicly released at least and the benchmarks certainly support that. But if you've been following my channel for a while, you know that I don't care about benchmarks or marketing hype. I

want to see how it performs on realworld tasks. So first, like I mentioned before, there are a lot of guard rails with Fable and you might feel those guardrails with certain queries. If you try to do something Fable doesn't like, you'll get a message saying that you can't ask Fable that. and to use a different model instead. There have been a lot of people on X complaining about this. Personally, I have not had this

happen to me once, just having it do general knowledge world tasks for me. So, let me show you what I've been able to do with this and my opinion on how good Fable is. So, the other day I was working on this script pretty much when Fable came out and I had to run to the gym or I wanted to run to the gym. I didn't finish writing the script. I didn't even get to test Fable out. So,

what I asked Fable to do was to look at the script and to just finish it for me. I wanted to look at the first half to understand my tone of voice. I said, don't make it AI slap slop. I don't want any cringe language. I don't want to sound like AI, you know, make it in my tone of voice. And then I just left and

went to the gym. Now, normally I don't have AI write my scripts for me because it always comes out really bad. just like this very predictable AI language that I hate that doesn't sound good. But Fable did a really good job. The best I've seen any AI do when it comes to writing. And it's very usable. It's not

perfect, but it's very usable. So this line right here, for instance, it says, "This is the part that made Co-work finally click for me, so I want to spell it out." Like that is classic AI language. That's kind of sloppy. But the rest of it is really excellent and I was super impressed with it. Like I think if

I showed you this entire script, you wouldn't be able to know where I stopped writing and where Fable started. That's the first time I've seen that. It's really incredible. Not perfect, like I said, but the closest version I've ever seen to my tone of voice. I also asked it to redo my website for me. So, this

was my original website and I always thought it looked fine. There was nothing wrong with it. It looked pretty good. One thing you'll notice here is that you can't see any images. Like the image of my face is normally here and the image of the YouTube videos are here as well. Those don't render when I'm on

my uh computer like this. They only render when I actually have them on my actual website. So, just kind of keep that in mind. But when I had Fable actually go through it and I just said, "Hey, just basically make this better. Update it and make it better." That was

the only instructions I really gave it and I think it made it a lot better. So, first of all, it somehow figured out how to get the images like permanently in there so that I don't have to have them as a separate file, which is really nice. And it just kind of subtly improved it. So we have like this more moving dynamic image here with this border, these things popping out, this handwaving. It just fits more of the style that I was going for and feels a lot nicer than the original one that we had going, which again was fine, just not as good as this new version. had to

go back and forth with it a little bit because I wanted some personal changes like I wanted to be permanently in dark mode, but also it did get some stuff wrong like some of the logos were incorrect and there was a spacing issue. But overall, it was really good and I was able to get it looking like this after just about three prompts. So, I was very impressed with this. I think it looks a lot nicer than the original one. Now, there have been a few strange quirks that I've noticed with Fable since I've been using it. So, first, it

almost feels too autonomous. A few weeks ago, I had Opus set up for me this health dashboard to help me with my health goals. I'm trying to gain some muscle. So, it's helping me track that, and it even sends me text messages throughout the day to make sure I'm staying on track. Now, this morning, I got a message from my agent that I didn't quite understand. So, I asked it

for clarification. And instead of clarifying, it just started implementing changes to the system, which is not what I wanted it to do. It just assumed that it knew why I was asking instead of just answering my question. And I've noticed that in general, it just seems almost a little bit too eager. It also seems incredibly intelligent, sometimes too intelligent, and I can't always understand what it's talking about.

There's also plenty of workflows that I have running. So, you see I have a daily AI brief and email inbox advisor, nightly cleanup, and all my my health ones going. And I noticed that when I switched over to Fable, I didn't really notice any difference. So, in conjunction with this dashboard, I have my health coach. I was hoping that it would be able to give me more intelligent insights into my workouts and my progress, but I didn't really notice any difference between Opus and Fable. I also have co-work doing

research for me. It creates this research report for me every morning that has the latest AI news and different topics like that that I might be able to cover on my YouTube channel. It's always been really good at doing the research part, but not very good at the analysis or the understanding of what would make a good video topic, and that continues to be true with Fable as well. There's a certain understanding there that no AI I've worked with has been able to figure out yet, and that's true for Fable as well. Let's also talk about availability. Fable is right now

included with your Pro, Max, and Team subscription through January 22nd. After that, you'll be able to use it with usage credits. So, it will cost additional on top of your subscription. At some point, though, it will come back to subscription plans. We just don't know when that's going to happen. Fable

also costs twice the price of Opus, so you're going to burn through your usage twice as fast. However, right now, uh, Anthropic has a deal going on where you get twice the usage inside of Co-work until July 5th. So, effectively, you should be able to use Fable just as much as you were using Opus. So, we have a great opportunity right now to try it out for the next couple of weeks until they switch over to usage credits. So, the real question is, does Fable even matter? How is it going to impact the

work that you do with Claude or Claude Co-work? And should you be using it at all? I personally really like it, and I'm going to continue to use it for the next 2 weeks while it's part of my subscription. Once it moves out of the subscription though, and I have to start paying extra to use it, I think I'll only use it for my most important tasks. But generally speaking, anytime I have to pay extra to use a model, I find myself just not using it. And I think

that's going to be the case here, especially because Opus is still really good. And for most day-to-day tasks, you're not going to notice a huge difference. So, if you want to have some fun testing out Fable, go ahead for the next 2 weeks. But otherwise, if you have your workflow set up and running and you're happy with them and the results you're getting, then stick with Opus for now and maybe explore Fable when it permanently is added as part of our subscriptions. Okay, let's move on. Now,

every week during my weekly news update, I have a few segments that I include as part of the update. And two of them are the prompt of the week and the meme of the week. The meme of the week is just something funny that I found in the world of AI that I wanted to share with you. So this week I'm going to combine both of them into one. I saw this post by this guy uh Pan K AJ if you want to check him out. So what he did was he

hooked his Whoop up to his work calendar to find which co-worker gives him the most stress and using Fable was able to pull all the heart rate data out of Whoop and match it up. Uh so I think that thought that was pretty funny. So I'll have this post down below if you want to check it out. He has a blog where I think he shares how he set this up. Now, like I said, the second big announcement I want to cover this week was from Apple. But before we get to

that, let's hear from today's sponsor, iTX. I 10X is an all-in-one platform that gives you access to all the major AI models in one workspace. So when you start a new chat, instead of being limited to the models from one company like OpenAI, you also get access to models from Google, XAI, Anthropic, and Deepseek. You can also turn on things like web search, memory, and knowledge bases. If you want to create images, they have image generation using other models like Nanobenetta 2, uh image 2 from OpenAI and Flux. And you can even

generate videos using leading models. So we have cling in here, VO3.1 and XAI. They just added a new super agent which you can check out right here. With this you can set up these different templates so you can have your agents research for you, track competitors, set up whole marketing campaigns, and as you see it connects to all the thirdparty apps that you already use and love. I 10X starts at just $8 a

month if you go with annual billing or $10 a month if you pay month-to-month. If you get the unlimited plan though, it's just $17.50 a month and that gives you unlimited usage of basic models and advanced models and 7500 credits for things like image and video generation. If you want to sign up for it, I'll have a link in the description down below along with a coupon code to get an additional 15% off. And thank you for sponsoring this video. So, the second

big AI update from the past week was from Apple. They have finally updated the AI capabilities on all their devices. And we have a brand new assistant, which they're calling this. I'm just going to call it the assistant from now on though, so I don't accidentally trigger your devices. So this assistant will be integrated throughout your iPhone, your MacBook, your iPad, your watch, your Apple Vision Pro, and it's unlocking some really nice looking capabilities. So first, it will

have onscreen awareness, so you can invoke it from anywhere and ask it questions like, "Show me photos from when I went to Spain." It'll just show you those photos. It'll be able to take action through multiple apps like messages, music, reminders, and more based on what you're doing in that moment while still being able to tap into broadworld knowledge. There's also going to be a dedicated assistant app that you can see all of your past chats, and this is kind of like a chat GPT clone in some ways. So, you'll be able to have a running list of all the chats that you've had with it. There will be

an updated visual intelligence where it just is where you can aim your camera at something and have it give you information like the nutrition inside the food that you're eating. And of course, it's going to help you with things like writing. They've also updated their image playground which was a tool for generating images and it looks much better than the existing one which quite honestly is pretty much trash. And there are new capabilities inside the photo app. So if you take a photo and you want to reframe it, you can actually move around the image to reframe it and cleanup tool has gotten a big improvement. This person had a

chance to test it. So they held this credit card in front of their face. They asked the new iOS 27 to erase the credit card and look, it's done a fantastic job. The big difference here with what they have implemented is the fact that Apple is going to have so much context about you. You'll be able to read your emails, your messages, your reminders, your calendar, and pull all of that information in when it's answering your questions. It feels very similar to what

Gemini is on Pixel devices, but now it's finally for iOS. So, this is currently in developer beta, which means that developers have access to it, and there will be a public beta soon, and then it will be released to the public, I think around September. So, I will be joining the public beta and probably will make a video on this once that is available to me and I've been able to test it out. Let's move on now to what Google has been up to with Gemini. If you come into the connected app section of your Gemini settings, you'll see down here that it now works with more thirdparty tools like Canva, Instacart, and Open Table.

So with Canva, for instance, you'll be able to search, summarize, and design digital assets with Canva inside of Gemini. Now, in and of itself, this is not huge news. This is only three new apps, but the broader implications of this are significant because for a long time, Gemini only worked with Google products like Gmail. They have said that they are opening up support for more thirdparty tools. So, this is good news.

We are finally seeing the first steps of this and personally I think Gemini needs to add more thirdparty tools if they want to be competitive. Another huge win is that the price of Google AI plus has just dropped from $7.99 a month to just $4.99 a month. And the only change to the plan besides the price is actually that they are doubling the storage from 200 GB to 400 gigabytes. It's kind of

mindblowing that you get that much for just $5 a month now. So, personally, I've never used a Plus plan myself because I've always had Pro and Ultra plans, but I do plan to buy it on one of my accounts and compare it against the cheapest Chat GBT plan, uh, which is like $8 a month or something like that. So, I'll be comparing both of those plans in a video. So, if you're interested in that, make sure to subscribe. That is coming soon. There

have also been some significant updates to Gemini Live. Not sure when this first one actually came out, but I just noticed it the other day. When you are using Live, it now has access to personal intelligence, so it can reference prior chats and knowledge about you when answering questions, which makes it so much more helpful. The other update is that inside of Live, you can ask it to create images for you, and it can do that now, including when you're sharing your camera. So, you can point your camera at something, ask it to transform what you're looking at, and it can do that. It's really neat. Next,

we have our AI gadget of the week. This is a segment where I talk about some new AI gadget that I've been trying out and showing you if it's worth you buying or not. So, this week we are talking about this device right here. It's called the Fitbit Air. This is made by Google. They

bought Fitbit a few years ago. So, this is a very thin band that is kind of like a Whoop, if you're familiar with that. So, it's a fitness tracker and it only costs $99 and there's no subscription fee with it. You get access to all your basic data with just the device. You don't have to pay anything monthtomonth.

However, you can upgrade to get Google Health Coaching. That does cost money, but Google Health Coaching is included with a Google AI Pro and up subscription. So, if you're already paying for Google AI Pro, like Gemini Pro, you get access to the health coach. I've been using this for a few weeks now, and I am very impressed with it. So, it is of course a great fitness tracker. There's nothing super

surprising there. It tracks your steps, your calories, your workouts, your sleep, things like that. But what I really like about it is the AI coach. So, for instance, earlier today, I needed to do a workout. My gym is closed today for some reason. So, I just opened

up the coach and told it, "Hey, I have to work out at home. Here's the equipment I have available for me." Now, it not only put together a plan, but it actually put together a workout for me that I was able to follow. So, you can see it has the warm-up, the entire circuit, and the cool down. And if you click on start workout, it'll actually walk you through this workout. After

your workouts are done, you get a message kind of summarizing it and telling you how well you did and how well it aligns and brings you closer to your goals because the first time that you use it, it will sort of interview you and ask you questions. So, it knows that I'm really into ninja and that's the main thing that I'm training for. So, everything sort of evolves around that. So, it says, "Hey, it's good that today you didn't do ninja. you did like a nice hit workout and it's, you know, this was your heart rate during it and this is probably going to help you a lot with like your grip strength, especially carrying. I did had it do a bucket carry

for me, like a heavy bucket carry. So, that's going to help with my grip strength for Ninja. So, it's really cool. It kind of brings all that together into these proactive messages after your workouts. It will also message you at the start of the day and the end of the day to let you know like what you have going on for the day and kind of a recap of how everything went.

So, I am very impressed with it. I really love it and I especially love that after I buy the device, it's completely free because I'm already paying for a Gemini subscription. Next, we need to talk about what has been going on with Notebook LM. So, first two minor updates. Anytime you make something inside of Studio over here on the right, if you open it up, you'll notice on the top left, you can now view the prompt and sources. So, if you're

wondering what sources were used to make this artifact, now you can see exactly which ones were used, which is pretty nice to have that and also be able to easily access the prompt. The second minor update is that sources, if you have any sources that are inside of Google Drive, will automatically sync. This wasn't the case in the past. If you added let's say a Google doc or a Google sheet then in the past it would kind of take a snapshot of that. So it if you made any updates to the Google doc those wouldn't be reflected in the notebook but now they are reflected. It

automatically syncs. The big update though is that notebook LM is now a full research agent. Here's what they had to say about this announcement. They said this is a new powerful notebook LM and they called it a massive upgrade that delivers agentic capabilities in chat, more advanced reasoning and a suite of new output formats. We'll talk about that in a second. So, this should be

able to tackle complex multi-step research problems a lot easier than in the past. So, if we scroll through this video that they made, we can see some of that in action. So, it initially looks exactly the same to me. I'm not going to lie. But as you begin to use it here, for instance, they're asking the chat to search for things that aren't already in the notebook, then the notebook goes out, does the research, and finds outside sources and asks if you want to import them as a source, which you can do directly inside the chat. That's

something you cannot do inside of Notebook LM right now. To add outside sources, you can either add them manually or use the research tool over here on the left. You can't do it from the chat. Notebook Align will also be able to create new artifacts. So here it's creating a PNG and then here it's creating an Excel file and you'll also be able to see its thinking. So if we

look at it thinking right here, you can see it actually go through the thinking process. We see this with other AI chats. Now that's coming to Notebook LM. In a follow-up post, Josh Woodward, who's a VP at Google, has said that some of those output formats will include PDFs, docx, Excel files, powerpoints, charts, etc. And all of those you'll be able to make just by asking the chat to make them for you. So, that part of it I

get that's really exciting. What I don't quite fully grasp yet are the agentic capabilities and exactly what that brings to Notebook LM. They have gone on to say that this new improved notebook will be powered by Gemini 3.5 and surprisingly anti-gravity. So that's what enables that thinking process. Plus each notebook will have a

secure cloud computer including 100 plus curated software skills unlocking deeper research and more complex analysis which sounds great but what exactly does that mean? So here in this example that they gave, the person asked, "Can you compare our gym sales to what we spent on ads?" And they added in as a source a few documents. I guess that shows their sales and their ad spend. And they're having Notebook LM compare the two of them. So that's really cool and all, but

it really makes me question, would you use Notebook LM for this? This feels like a task for Gemini and I'm not sure it makes sense to do this inside of Notebook LM and what the benefit of doing it inside of Notebook LM is the only thing I can think of is because the way that Notebook LM is set up, it is grounded in the sources that you provide. So perhaps setting it up inside of notebookm and running it inside notebookm will mean that it will hallucinate less than if you did it inside of Gemini. Until I get my hands on this and can really test it, I'm really not sure what the use case is going to be. So as for availability, they have said that right now it is only rolling out for ultra users, but very soon or at least down the line it will come out to other users, other plans in the future. Now, I have two Google AI

Ultra plans, and I do not yet have access on either account to these updates. So, I don't really know where it is or what's happening with it. I don't know anyone who has access to it yet. So, I'm eagerly awaiting it. And of course, once I do get access to it, I will thoroughly test it and make an entire video about it because I do think this is a big deal. We just have to

understand like the nuance of it and how we're going to use this and when we should use this over other tools like Gemini. So, if you don't want to miss out on that video when I create it, make sure to subscribe to the channel and turn on the bell notification. And finally, I want to talk about two new tools that were released by Google this past week. This first one you're going to absolutely love, and both these are free, by the way. This one is called Google AI Edge Eloquent. So, this is an

AI dictation tool, but what makes it unique is that it not only transcribes your voice, but it cleans it up and everything is done on device. It's not sent to the cloud. So, it uses a local transcription model and gamma or Gemma, was it 4B or 12B, which are two local models. Yeah, I'm using Gemma 4B. You can use 12B. These are used for the

cleanup. the 12B model works better, but it's a little bit too slow for my taste. And I found the 2B model still works really well. So, let me show you it in action. So, let's say you have an email that you're writing. I can invoke it by

pressing this button. You see it down here on the bottom and I can start talking to it. So, let me restart that. Hey, Susan, thanks for getting back to me. Um, can you meet with me on Thursday? I mean on Friday.

And there you go. You see it has the text and it got rid of my ums and it got rid of the Thursday part and just left the Friday part. So, it works pretty well. And again, this is free. It's definitely not perfect. Like, I hate

that it excluded the beginning part where I said, "Hey, Susan." I also don't like that the animations it sticks down here way too long. There's supposed to be a setting where this goes away and it kind of works inconsistently. So, it's not perfect, but it's pretty nice for being free. And the second free new tool that they've released is kind of a weird one. It's called Dream Beans. So, the

idea is this provides proactive personalized collections of stories each day covering things that matter most to you. So, what that means is that in the middle of the night, this app will go through your Gmail, your calendar, things you've chatted about with Gemini inside the Gemini app, and create for you these stories that are curated for you that might teach you something new or give you suggestions on things to do. So, I got access to that. This is my dream beans for today. And it says, try making a thick superfood acai bowl at home. Not a 100 percent sure why it

surfaced this, but it is certainly very relevant for me. Maybe that's because when I was in San Diego recently, I kept asking it, "Where can I find the best acai bowls?" Or maybe it's because inside the Google Health app, I've been logging a lot of smoothie bowls that I've been eating uh after my workouts. If you click on the story, it will open it up and you can read it. So, here it's telling me to make a superfood acai bowl. And there's a little recipe for

it, things I can put inside of it. And there are always these links to where you can explore more about this topic or even ask Dream Beans about it if you need some clarification or follow-up things. And every morning you get a few stories like this. So here's my acai bowl story. Then here's one. Oh, it kind

of moves fast on my phone or my computer. Here's one where it's telling me to check out these smart glasses that I've used before and how I might be able to use them for early morning focus and tracking board for the latest notion updates. I guess I've talked with it about how I've used notion in the past. So, it's pretty neat. Um, it's definitely interesting, right, with these labs tools. So, this is part of

Google Labs. These often start out as like these strange experiments and they give it their own app and a lot of times it gets incorporated into the the bigger apps. So, I can see this being part of Gemini in the future. I don't know if it really needs to be its own app, but I think for like right now as we're testing out, it makes sense. And I guess it's it's pretty cool. I also like the

images that it creates and like this watercolor style. It's definitely a lot better than doom scrolling in the morning. I can just kind of go through these curated fun stories. So, that's all the AI news from the past week. This was a big update. The last thing I have

for you is a reminder that I'm going to be opening up my AI school community very soon. This is where I'll share all my exact Claude Co-work systems that I use to run my business, generate my health dashboard I showed you before and coach to answer emails for me, and to do my competitor research. Of course, you'll also be able to connect with other community members and learn from them as well. To get on the wait list for that community, make sure to click the link in the description down below. Joining the weight list doesn't require you to actually join the community. It

just shows that you might be interested and then I'll email you later with more details. Again, the link for that is down below. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.