---
video_title: "Huge AI News Week: Fable 5 Returns; NotebookLM Shorts; Gemini Spark Updates; Nano Banana 2 Lite 🤯"
video_id: 1u0vKWeP9HI
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1u0vKWeP9HI
video_date: 2026-07-04T13:00:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Try Building a Digest Today With xTiles: https://xtiles.app/en?fp_ref=pauljlipsky
  
  Fable 5 is back with new restrictions, Anthropic released Sonnet 5, OpenAI announced the GPT-5.6 family, and Google had a monster week with NotebookLM Shorts, Nano Banana 2 Light, and Gemini on Mac. Here's everything from this week that actually matters for regular people.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. 
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:49 Fable 5 Returns
  3:46 xTiles (Sponsor)
  6:13 Claude Sonnet 5
  8:25 NotebookLM Shorts
  11:01 Nano Banana 2 Light
  17:00 Gemini Mac App + Spark
  19:36 AI Gadget of the Week
  21:13 OpenAI GPT-5.6 Models
  22:43 Rapid Fire
---
What a week. Fable 5 is back with some strings attached. OpenAI dropped an entire family of new models. One of them is so powerful that the government stepped in before it even launched. And Thropic also quietly released what might be the best everyday model for regular people. And Google had a monster of a week too. A big notebook, an online update, new image and video models, and Gemini updates that turn your Mac into an assistant. This was a huge week we got a lot to cover. If you don't know who I am, my name is Paul J. Lipsky. Every week I release a video just like this one recapping the top AI news stories from the past week that regular people actually care about. I'm not talking about benchmarks or coding. This is the stuff that's actually going to make a difference in your life. So if that interests you, make sure to subscribe and let's get to the news. Let's start with the story. Everyone's been waiting on Fable 5 is back. As I'm sure you know, the US government basically banned it a few weeks ago because it was too powerful. And they've worked out a deal now with Anthropic and it's back. You can see it when you come into Clod on the drop down. There is Fable 5. But there are some strings attached to this. I can spend too much time on this because I already made an entire video on it. I'll give you a short recap. First, this comes with more guard rails. As Anthropic explains it, when you're using Fable, if it detects that you're trying to do something harmful with it, it will block that request. If it's ambiguous, it will also block it. And there's also this safety margin. But now they've increased that safety margin. So as you use Fable 5, you may notice that sometimes you enter a prompt and it will automatically switch it to Opus. And that's because you're either sending a prompt that it considers dangerous, ambiguous, or as part of that larger safety margin. It will still answer your question. It'll just use Opus for it. And you can click and see exactly why. It's what I just explained. Now, a lot of people are complaining about this, saying that nearly all of their prompts are hitting this block. Myself, I'm rarely seeing it. I'm using Fable for what I always use Clawed 4, which is knowledge work and research and learning. And so I think those types of questions are pretty benign. So it's not triggering this block. I also use it for some pretty simple vibe coding projects that I'm working on, not hitting the block with that. I think it's really when I aggressively tried hit the block that I actually hit it. So as long as you're not using it for very serious coding work or anything biology related, you're probably not going to see this block all that often if at all. And honestly, if this is what it took to get Fable 5 back, I think I'm okay with that. The second issue is that we only get access to Fable 5 for a few days now with our subscription. After that, it's moving over to a usage credit system, which means that you'll have to buy credits on top of your plan. And it's likely going to be pretty expensive. So after this week, if you're not willing to pay extra, you're not even going to be able to use Fable. However, that may not matter for you. When Fable 5 first came out a few weeks ago, I said it is the most powerful model I've ever used. But you probably shouldn't be using it for most tasks. And I still agree with that. If you use it for your most complex, important tasks, you're going to notice a big difference. But for simple tasks, it really doesn't make sense. It's a lot more expensive. It's a lot slower. And the results are just marginally better. We're sometimes worse because Fable has a tendency to overthink things sometimes. So my advice hasn't changed from a few weeks ago. Fable is great for your most important tasks only. Other than that, you should be using Opus or Sonnet for your everyday tasks. That's certainly what I'm going to be doing. Even for my schedule tasks, I'm leaving them all on Opus. So for instance, if we open up this one, you'll see right down here, I've left it on Opus. Now I get a lot of questions about what kind of schedule tasks I run. So let me show you one of them that I set up right here. This one builds a daily digest for me every morning at 5 a.m. Now what it used to do was deliver to digest to me like this in the chat, this giant block of text. That's a little bit difficult to read. And I have to read it on my computer. But now, thanks to X-tiles, the sponsor of this video, that same digest looks a lot nicer, more actionable, and it's somewhere I can actually work from. Let me take a minute to tell you about X-tiles. It is a visual workspace for organizing projects, notes, tasks, and research. And now they have a Claude MCP, so Claude can build this digest for you right inside X-tiles every morning. Here is my planner for today. That Claude made for me this morning inside of X-tiles. And you see compared to that giant block of text, this is not only a lot nicer to look at, but it's also actionable. So over here, we have all my tasks for the day. As I accomplish them, I can check them off. It also organizes it. So it shows me the top priorities for the day, what I should focus on, it brings in stuff from my calendar, my slack highlights, important emails, and even summarizes my newsletters. And as my day progresses, I can move any of this around. So if I need to focus on my emails, I can drag those up here. If I need to add a new block, I can easily do that by dragging in here and maybe starting a new note right here. If something on my calendar becomes a to-do list item, well, I can grab that calendar event and bring it into my to-do list just like that. And now it is part of my tasks. It also syncs with the X-tiles app so you can see all of this on the go from your phone. And what's awesome about this is that once you connect X-tiles with Claude, all you have to do is come into Claude and tell it to digest X-tiles for you, and it kicks off a step-by-step process that builds your digest for you. You can even use it for evening reflections or weekly reviews to help you stick to your goals over time. It's perfect for freelancers, solo-prenuers, or any busy professional. Try out X-tiles with the link in the description of this video and now back to the news. Okay, we're not done talking about Anthropic yet because they also released a new model Claude Sonnet 5. If you look at the Claude models, we have Fable, their most powerful model, then we have Opus, which is also really powerful, then Sonnet and then Haiku, which is their weakest model. And the good news is we now have Sonnet 5, which is supposed to deliver performance that's close to Opus 4.8, but it's cheaper. Now, if you go on X or YouTube, you're going to see a lot of people complaining about Sonnet 5 saying it actually ends up being more expensive than Opus because it takes longer to get good results, and for some other reasons as well. But regardless, most of those people are complaining because they're using it for coding tasks, which is very understandable. As we're discovering though, Sonnet 5 is really made for everyday people with everyday tasks like knowledge work. For that, it's very efficient and it's very good. So for most of you who are on this channel, that's really good news. That means you can get near Opus level intelligence for cheaper if you're using it for knowledge work. So now with Fable 5 and Sonnet 5, here's sort of a recap of how I would use all of these models. I honestly never use Haiku. It's designed for fast quick answers, but if I want quick answers like that, I tend to use ChatGBT or Gemini. If you're on the $20 pro plan, I would suggest you use Sonnet 5 as your default model. Then when you have something more complex or important, you can bump it up to Opus 4.8, and I wouldn't use Fable 5 on the pro plan because you're going to burn through your usage quite quickly. If you're on any of the max plans, I would suggest using Opus 4.8 as your default unless you frequently hit your limits. Then you'd want to use Sonnet 5 as your default. For more complex things, you can use Opus and then for the most important tasks, you could use Fable 5. Let's talk next about what Google has been up to because they were very busy this weekend. You probably haven't heard about some of these updates. This first one is to notebook LM. I was so excited about this update. I heard you made an entire video about it, but I'll show you the quick recap right now. So now when you come into any of your notebooks, over here on the right, of course, is Studio where you can generate infographics and audio overviews. We also have video overviews that's not new, but opening it up, this is new. We now have shorts. These are shorter in length, and they're also 9x16. Here's an idea of what one of them looks like. Over a billion people watched the World Cup final, but the entire tournament only exists because of a better fight over unpaid labor. In the 1920s, the Olympus... So that's what they look like. I think they look so cool. I've been playing around this, and I absolutely love what it's been able to generate. They look really nice. I think a lot of times they look nicer than the regular video overviews, like if you choose explainer, and a lot of times even better than the cinematic ones. They're really awesome. They're only about a minute long, but they're a really nice addition to notebook LM that I've been really loving. Now, there's also been some new updates notebook LM. I don't even know quite when these were announced, but I know I haven't covered them on my channel. So when you come back into video overview, and you select any of these, you'll notice you can now select exactly what sources you want to use from within here. So in the past, you had to first select it on the side, and then open up video overview or any of your studio buttons, but now you can choose your sources directly inside of here. And that's true for all of these. So if I open up flashcards, you can see I can select my sources in here, same thing for audio overview. I can select my sources right here. So that's really nice. It kind of saves you from having to remember to choose them on the side first. The other thing is that inside of video overview, if you select explainer, originally when they came out these visual styles, you could only choose between these preset ones. But now you can set a custom style just by selecting custom and explaining the style. And then below that, you can still explain what the topic is about. So you can choose both the topic and the style. So those are nice new additions that they've added. And they've also added the video focus recommendations. So instead of manually typing in what the topic is, it will give you some suggestions based on what is inside your notebook. So all of those are really nice additions to notebook LM. Google has also released a new image generation model called nano banana to light. And there's been an update to their video generation model Gemini Omni flash. Now Omni flash is not new. I reported on this video generation model about a month ago when it was released at Google IO. It's an incredible model. It's been available inside of Gemini and Google flow for weeks now. But now it's available to developers through the Gemini API and Google AI studio. So if you like to build things in Google AI studio and incorporate video generation into the things you build, that is now available, which is pretty cool. But let's talk more about nano banana to light. So nano banana to the image generation model has been out for a while now. And it's really good. I think it's one of the best models out there. Not quite as good as chat GPT's image generation model, but still quite capable. So what Google did was they released a light version of it. In some ways you can think of this as a weaker version. We definitely will see that it's not as good as regular nano banana to. But it's also incredibly fast. So to use this, when you come into Gemini on the drop down, you want to select flash light. Then you want to select that you want to create an image and then tell it what image you want to make. Now watch how fast this is when I send it along. You'll see it starts. And after just a few seconds, this will be available. Bam, just like that. That is incredible. How quickly that is. And for that speed, we get what is a great looking image. I mean, take a look at this. It's certainly not perfect. But man, it is really good for how fast it is. Now in comparison, if we grab this same prompt and this time in Gemini, we select flash, that's going to use nano banana to not the light version. And you're going to see this is going to take longer. It's still pretty fast. It's just not as instant feeling as the light version. But the image quality will be better. Like, I mean, that's still really fast. Let's actually check if you click these three dots and click on see response details over here on the right. You can see what model was used. So that one used nano banana to. So the real benefit of the light version is that it's cheaper and it is a lot faster. So let me show you some other comparisons between the different models. So I generated this image using nano banana to, I think it looks fantastic. And then I generated the same image with the same prompt using nano banana to light. And I feel like it loses some of the detail in there and it just feels a little bit more washed out. Still great. It's not as good as nano banana to. Interestingly, I gave the same prompt to nano banana pro. And I think this one came out actually really bad. Like the worst of all three of them. Now that's still nano banana one pro. We don't have nano banana to pro yet. I really want that. I think that once nano banana to pro comes out, it will be the best image generation model in the world. But we have absolutely no rumors about that yet. I haven't heard anything about it. Here's another example. I generated this one with nano banana to light. And you see the focus of the image looks great. It's this guy cooking right here. But if you look at these background characters, their faces are quite blurred and you sort of lose a lot of detail there. So same prompt with nano banana to and everything is just a little bit more sharp and feels a little bit more real to me. Now when I generated this image, I had selected flash. But if you select pro, it will also use nano banana to. But it will think through what it does before generating it. It takes longer. But you get results like this again, still using nano banana to. But it just took longer, thought through it more and then generated the image. And I think this one looks the best. There's just so much sharpness to it and a lot more detail between all three of them. And then finally, we have this example. So I asked it to create an image in the style of studio Ghibli. This is nano banana to light. I think it looks fine. But check out nano banana to that really looks like an image that came out of a studio Ghibli movie like spirited away or something. Just the attention to detail the way the boy looks, the way the flying cat looks. That looks incredible. So same prompt again, but this time with pro, which means that it does use nano banana to just spends a little bit longer on it. And I think this one also looks good. But actually in this case, I think generating it with flash actually looks a little bit better. I think maybe this version is actually just too detailed. And it kind of loses that look of a studio Ghibli film where this one really looks to me like it came out of a studio Ghibli film. And then finally, I want to see how well it could generate images of real people when you give it a reference image. So I gave an image of myself and said, make an image of me hiking up a mountain. And the light version, I don't think it came out that well. There's just not enough detail in here. It's kind of hard to see my face. It looks a little bit even like pixelated. But nano banana 2 came out much better. So I think for any sort of image editing, I wouldn't use the light version. And I guess just in general, I just wouldn't use the light version inside of Gemini. If you're on one of the pro subscriptions, you know, you have plenty of usage. Just when you're generating images, choose flash or pro. You're going to get better results. It really doesn't take that long. But this is great for really fast generations if you need that, which is going to be really helpful for a lot of developers who are building apps that have image generation built in. Google has also released some updates to the Gemini app for Mac book. So when this got released a couple of months ago, originally, people were a little bit confused by it because it didn't really do that much. You could chat with Gemini, but a lot of the features that are available on the web version were available on here like notebooks. Well, now we have notebooks, which is a great way to organize your chats is basically like projects and opening up any of them. You can see all the chats that you've started within this notebook. You could start new chats in this notebook. And you can see your sources in here. So it's very similar to the web version. It's still missing a lot of features like gems, but at least we have notebooks now. And there's also access to Spark on the Mac app. Now Spark is currently only available for ultra subscribers. It's Gemini's agent and it's cloud based. So your computer doesn't need to be running for this to work. So now this is available in the Mac app. And you'll also see right here that you can connect folders folders on your computer. So I connected one of my folders here. So when I start a task inside the Mac app, it'll be able to see all of the files in that folder and interact with them. So this is starting to feel a little bit similar to tools like cloud co work where you can select a folder on your computer and co work can see all the files in there, create new ones, change existing ones. And I would love to see Spark get to that point where it's a lot more built out and feels like a true competitor to something like codex or co work. It's starting to get there. I just don't think it's quite there yet. It's missing a lot of features, but I'm keeping eye on it. I'm very hopeful about Spark in particular. I really loved that cloud based. So I can still access it from my phone and it now has the connection with local folders. It's sort of bridging that gap, which I think is really cool. Google has also announced additional connections and integrations with Spark and third party tools. So some of these we knew about, but here's the official announcement, integrations with Canva Dropbox, Instacart Opentable and Zill Rentals and Google task, Google Keep, and their support for custom MCPs. So when you come into connected apps on Gemini scrolling down here, you'll see some of these, not all of them yet. And here is the support for a custom MCP. So all of that is great. It's really important that Spark and Gemini connects up with more third party tools in order for it to be as useful as possible. Next, I want to talk about the AI gadget of the week. This is where I feature a physical device that either has AI in it or uses AI in some way. This week I want to talk about the Oasis one. It's this smart ring and it has a button and a microphone on it. So if you hold the ring up to your mouth and press the button and speak into it, it listens to what you say. And then it transcribes it using Whisper Flow onto your computer. So Whisper Flow is a tool I've been using for a long time now. It's a software on your computer. You hold down one button, you talk, and then it writes out what you said, really accurate and it cleans it up. This brings that same experience, but puts the microphone in the ring. And in addition to that also has this little swipe head on it. So it's like a track pad on your ring. It's pretty neat. Now I'm not 100% sure how necessary this is because Whisper Flow already works really well just by pressing a button on your computer. But I think this could be really helpful when you're in a more private situation like if you're at a coffee shop or you work somewhere with a lot of people around you, you don't want to be talking into your computer where everyone could hear you. It's something nice about just pressing the button on your ring and just whispering to it. You can literally just whisper to it. It will hear you and then it will write out exactly what you said. So I went ahead and pre-ordered this. I'll let you guys know how it is when it arrives. It probably won't come until early next year. So I'll do a full review on it when that comes. I just wanted to bring it to your attention because I know a lot of you love Whisper Flow as much as I do. Next, we have an announcement from OpenAI. They announced three new models, Soul, Terra, and Luna. This is part of their GPT 5.6 family. Currently we're on GPT 5.5. Soul is their most powerful model ever. Rumor has it. It's even more powerful than Fable. But before it was even released, the government stepped in. They were very nervous about it. So it's currently available in preview to only a select few companies. And I think we're going to get access to it later. Maybe one of those like water down versions like we got with Fable. So we'll have to wait and see. But the more interesting story here is Terra. Terra is supposed to be as good as GPT 5.5 but half the cost. Now if you just use chat GPT inside or open a GPT inside the chat GPT app, it's not going to make a huge difference for you. But if you use it through the API, you're going to see a huge difference because you're going to get as good capabilities for half the cost, which is pretty awesome. And then we have Luna, which is also supposed to be a very capable model that is very cheap or at least cheaper than the other two. So I always like to reserve judgment on these until I can actually use them myself. There's a ton of benchmarks. If you want to look at them, I never look at benchmarks. I want to see in real use how well they actually work and what we can do with them. So once I get my hands on them, I'll test them out and make a video about it. So if that interests you, definitely make sure to subscribe and then stay tuned for that. And finally, let's just do some fast rapid fire updates. So first, claw design, which is a tool you can use for creating prototypes, documents, wireframes, animations, or slide decks. This just got a very needed update. I love using this for animations or motion graphics. Similar to this where everything moves around on the screen. You'll see a lot of those in my videos. One of the frustrating things was that you couldn't export it to a video file. And now you can. They added that capability just a couple of days ago, which is so nice. Another update, Gemini or Google is now previewing Gmail live. This will give you the ability to basically chat with Gmail similar to the way you chat with Gemini live, like with a voice assistant. So that would be pretty cool. I'm kind of interested to see how that works and how helpful that might be for sorting through all my emails and answering them for me. I can see myself driving or walking, having Gemini live going and just saying, what's my latest email? Oh, here's the reply I want you to draft, you know, stuff like that. And finally, cursor, which is owned by SpaceX now or SpaceX I now, I should say, they release an iOS app. So cursor is is another super app similar to codex or the cloud desktop app, which includes co work and cloud code in there. And so this is like SpaceX, SpaceX eyes version of it. And they just released an iOS app for it, which actually looks really nice. So I hope like cloud co work catches up to that and makes there's better to kind of match that competition because it's quite good looking. So I told you, this was a huge week. We covered a lot. It's kind of funny because last week felt a little bit slow. I think all the companies were a little bit nervous about what was happening with Fable. Once it seemed like the US government was going to allow Fable to be re-released. All the companies were like, okay, now we can make our announcements about new models and new features and all that. They just kind of dumped it all on us this week. It's been pretty exciting. So if you want to make sure you stay on top of all the latest AI news, best thing for you to do is subscribe to the channel, turn on the bell notification. And then I'll see you in the next video. Thanks so much for watching and bye for now.