---
video_title: "How To Master The New ChatGPT Work (Free Course)"
video_id: mFysqIcP7So
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mFysqIcP7So
video_date: 2026-07-13T13:00:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Download ChatGPT Work: https://chatgpt.com/download/
  This video is not sponsored
  
  ChatGPT Work can handle multi-step tasks with local files, plugins, scheduled workflows, a built-in browser, and Sites. This beginner tutorial shows you how to set it up, use its core tools, and understand when to choose Work instead of a regular ChatGPT chat.
  
  Some features in this video may not be available in your region or on your plan yet.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:35 Getting Started
  1:39 Permissions and Settings
  3:33 Working With Local Files
  6:56 Plugins, Scheduling, and Skills
  10:20 Built-In Browser
  12:37 Sites and Images
  14:26 ChatGPT Work vs Regular Chat
  17:16 Web and Mobile
---
This is the new ChatGPT work. It is the most powerful tool for non-technical people that OpenAI has ever created. You can use it to automatically draft replies to emails, manage your calendar, and autonomously handle your work in a way that no other ChatGPT tool ever could in the past. But I think a lot of people are going to open this, try it once, and completely miss what makes it so powerful. But if you spend just a few minutes with me right now, I'll show you the easy way to set this up, how it's different from regular ChatGPT and some of the incredible things you can do with it. You can access ChatGPT work from the web app, from your phone, or using the desktop app. We are mostly going to look at the desktop app for this video because it is without a doubt the best way to experience the full power of ChatGPT work. To get started, use the link in the description down below to come to this page and then download the desktop app. After you sign in, your app will look like this. One of the reasons the desktop app is so incredible is because it gives you access to all three of ChatGPT's greatest tools. Two of those can be found right here. On the top left, if you click on this drop down, you can select between ChatGPT work and Codex. Codex is for coders and developers. We're not going to cover that in this video. Instead, we are going to spend our time inside of ChatGPT work, so make sure that is selected. The third ChatGPT tool is regular chat. We'll cover that in a few minutes. Next, you can come down here and send ChatGPT work a task. Before we do that, though, let's go over all the settings here. The first setting I want to show you are the permissions. There are three permissions. With this one selected, ask for approval. Anytime ChatGPT work wants to edit external files or use the internet, it will ask you for permission to do that. Those are guard rails so that you make sure that ChatGPT work isn't taking any actions that you don't want it to take. As you become more comfortable using it, you can give it more permission by using a proof for me, which will only ask for approval for actions that it detects as potentially unsafe. And in the future, you may want to give it full access, but that is unrestricted access to the internet and any file on your computer, so definitely use that cautiously. I'll leave it on ask for approval. Over here on the right, you can select the model that you want to use with this slider. If you bring it all the way over to the left, it will be faster and it will use less of your usage credits, but it won't be as intelligent as models that are over here on the right. I like to keep it right here in the middle. That changes it to 5.6-SOL medium. The more advanced settings, you can access by clicking here and actually choose exactly which model, effort level, and speed you want to use. But I like this slider. I'll leave it right in the middle, so we're using 5.6-SOL medium. Next, you can choose the project that you want to work inside of. Projects do two different things. First, they organize your tasks. So coming up here on the left, you can also see your projects over here. I'll click on the one that says Frank Bot. And inside here, you'll see I have multiple tasks that I've already started from within this project. So all of that's organized in one place. If I want to find a task that I started last week, and I know I started inside this project, this makes it a lot easier than just having one long running list of all my tasks. But projects are also a lot more than that. They actually are linked up with a folder on your computer. Let me show you an example. On my computer, I have this folder called Budget. And inside of this, I have five different files. One with my monthly budget, one with my annual budget overview, expense tracker, etc. Coming back into chatchapet. You work. I can now select where it says choose project, hover over new project, and click on use and existing folder. Now I can select that budget folder that I just showed you. Clicking on open, you'll now see it appears right here, and over here on the left. Now this task will be started inside that project that I just created called budget. But more importantly, this task will have access to all the files on my computer that are inside the budget folder. So if I ask it to use those files to put together a report on my spending, it will be able to read all of these and put together a report for me. And there we go. You can see it is now created for us an Excel file. And if we click on this, it will actually open up on the right side in this preview pane, where you can see what this report looks like. Or you can return back to the folder that we turned into a project, the budget folder. And here we can see that same report right here. So using chat, CBT work, it can not only look at files on your computer, it can also edit them or create new ones. Let me show you another example. We'll continue this one. So we have our project over here on the left called budget. And we'll start a new task in this project by clicking on this button right here. Now I will tell it using the files in this folder, put together a PowerPoint that visualizes my budget, spending, expenses, etc. I'm going to send that along and it's probably going to take a few minutes. So while we wait for that, I want to show you my favorite feature inside the chat, CBT desktop app. If you come in here and type forward slash pet, this is how you can wake up your desktop pet. Clicking on this, you see mine now appears over here on the left. Now besides just being adorable, this actually serves a very useful purpose. Because now I can leave the chat, CBT desktop app, browse the internet or do whatever else I need to do. And this will keep me up to date on how my tasks are doing. If any of them need my attention, my little pet will let me know. Here, for instance, you can now see inside the chat bubble, we have this orange icon that lets me know that the task is paused until I give some input. So let's click on this that will bring us back to chat, CBT. I can see what type of permission it needs and click on allow and now it can proceed. The PowerPoint is now finished. So just like before I can click on it to get a preview of it, or I can open it up in the folder on my computer. And coming over here on the left where we have our projects, I can expand the budget project and I see both of the tasks that we started in here together. So far, I've shown you how you can connect chat, CBT work with local files on your computer. And using that, you can create sites, spreadsheets, PDFs, documents and presentations. But what if you want chat, CBT work to have access to information that's not on your computer? That is what plugins are for. Plugins are how you connect chat, CBT work to third party tools. So you can find those in a few different places, but we'll click right here where it says plugins, hover over connect plugins, and you'll see some core ones right here, or you can click on browse all plugins to see all of them. So continuing with our budgeting example, I can type in here for instance QuickBooks and you'll notice that there is a QuickBooks plugin. This will allow chat, CBT to both view what's going on inside my QuickBooks account and maybe make changes to my QuickBooks account. All the plugins work a little bit differently in terms of what they can and can't do. Some very popular plugins include Gmail, Google Drive, and Notion for instance. So using the Gmail plugin, I can come over and create a new task. This one, I'm actually not going to start inside of any project. So I'll click on this. So it says choose project. That lets me know that we are not inside a project. And I'm going to tell it to look at my Gmail inbox. Let me know if there are any important messages and draft replies for them. And it says it now went through my Gmail inbox, found all the messages that required replies and draft replies for them inside of Gmail directly. Didn't send any of the emails for me, but I can now open up Gmail and check those myself. If I'm happy with the drafts, I can then just send them along. Now I'm very happy with the way that this worked and actually want ChatGPD work to do this on a schedule for me every single day. That's possible with this. All I'll tell it now is do this for me every morning at 8am. And now it is set up a schedule task for me. I can come over here on the left and click on scheduled to see all my currently scheduled tasks. Here's the one we just set up called morning Gmail triage. Note though that in order for this to work, your computer needs to be on and the ChatGPD app has to be open. Next, if you find yourself giving ChatGPD work the same prompts over and over again, or if it creates something for you that you absolutely love and you want to be able to recreate it in the future, you should set up a skill. A skill is just a repeatable workflow. So here, after it created this presentation for me, this PowerPoint, I've realized that I really like the way that it looks. So I'm going to tell it to turn this into a skill. So that every time I ask you to create a presentation, it will create one in this style with the same text and colors. It should then ask you for permission to install that plugin. You can click on allow. And now that skill has been installed. It's called clean blue presentation. So in the future, if I want ChatGPD work to create a presentation for me in this style, all I have to do is click forward slash and type in clean blue until I find it and click on that and it will then turn whatever we're talking about or whatever else I give it in the prompt box into a presentation that's in this same style. Before we talk about the difference between ChatGPD work and regular ChatGPD, let me show you some of the other cool things that you can do with ChatGPD work inside the desktop app. Here, I'll start a new task and I'll tell I'm looking for a bed cooling system. Find the top three most recommended and open each in a new browser tab. I'm doing this to highlight one of the coolest features I think inside the desktop app, which is their built in browser. You can see in real time as it's doing its research and opening up all of these tabs for me, all three of them right here. And this is a full browser that you can use. So I can open up a new tab and open it like that and come over to google.com and run any of my own searches. I can go to any website that I want. It will even keep you logged in between sessions. If you want to full screen this, you can click on this expand button right here. And now this is a larger browser. I can even click on this toggle sidebar on the top left. So it's really a lot larger. And even though I'm now just using this as a browser, I still have access to ChatGPD down here. So if I come over to any website or article, I can come down to ChatGPD and say something like summarize this for me. Or I can tell it to grab all the information from that page and add it to my knowledge base on my computer. I can tell it to create presentations for me using the information on the tab. And it has the full context of what I'm looking at. Let me make this smaller so I can see the original chat by clicking up here where it says restore panel with. And we can see the chat over here on the left now. And I also want to resize this to make it a little bit smaller. Now in addition to being a browser, you can also click on the plus icon and start a side task. So now this is a split view where we have one task running over here on the left. And another one running over here on the right for multitasking. I actually find this in app browser to be very useful. And I'm find myself using it more and more just for browsing the web or for doing my work. That way I always have access to ChatGPD and it can take over whenever I ask it to to help me do any of the projects that I'm working on. Another really cool feature is sites. You can find those by clicking on the left here where it says sites. These are websites that either you only have access to or you can make them publicly available to everyone. This will show you the sites that you've already created or you can start a new one by clicking on the top right here where it says create. Then you can just describe what you want the website to do and look like. You can even attach projects or plugins that can be used as a reference for when chatGPD builds your site for you. Here's an example. I was chatting with chatGPD work and was asking at the difference between regular chatGPD chat and chatGPD work. Then I asked it to just put together a site for me and here's what it made. This is my site. You can click through here and see what that looks like. Now what I can do is click right here where it says share and I can get a link that only I have access to. So it's only going to work on devices where I am signed in to chatGPD. There's a lot of useful use cases for this. You can have it create for you dashboards that get updated daily and then you can view those dashboards on your phone for instance or you can click on this drop down and make it available to anyone on the internet. I'll then click on publish and now if you go to this website right here you will be able to view this site that I created. Of course because it's chatGPD you can also use it to generate images either hyper realistic images or infographics that represent the information or data that you've given it in the task. Another tip if you have an image that you really like that was generated for you you can hover over it and click on these three dots and then click publish two sites. Now as promised we're going to talk about the difference between chatGPD work and regular chatGPD to understand the difference let's actually look at chat inside the desktop app right now as of the recording of this video you can find chatGPD chat right here by clicking on chat. That will open up this mini window where you can then use regular chat. However I've heard that this UI is changing very soon so by the time you're watching this video you may see regular chat up here or when you click on it on the left it may open differently visually it will look a little different but it will work exactly the same. The first difference between work and chat is that anything you start inside of work is a task and anything you start inside of chat is a chat. The other big difference is the tools that are available. With work you get access to a lot more than you do with regular chat. Like I've been showing you it can access files and folders on your computer. You can both use the same browser and you get those sites. The other big difference really is the purpose in using both these different tools. You can think of chat as a way to answer questions, get ideas, get explanations and just an everyday back and forth. But work on the other hand is where you should be going to get things done. It can do longer research, multi-step analysis and it will finish files for you that will automatically appear on your computer. Another way of thinking of this is what do you want out of using the tool. If you just need a helpful response that's what chat is good for but if you need completed work that's what you're going to use work for. There's definitely a lot of overlap in what they can do but choosing the right tool for the right job will make a difference. This is important to understand because one thing we haven't talked about yet are usage limits. If you click on your name on the bottom left and click on usage remaining you can see how much you can continue to use chat GPT work over the next five hours and over the next week. Once these hit zero you can't use them until it resets but that only applies to chat GPT work. Chat is a separate usage. So if you balance using these two tools it's less likely that you are going to hit your limits. You can use chat for regular quick questions or for just sending a back and forth maybe some brainstorming but once you're ready to actually get some work done and create a final product you can then switch over to work and that will help balance out the usage between the two tools. Finally let's look at the web and mobile versions of chat GPT work because they work a little bit differently. So here I'm on my browser and I've come over to chat GPT.com. Up here at the top now you'll notice that you can switch between regular chat and work. Of course accessing it on the web you'll see that you have much more access to regular chat than I currently have with the desktop version of chat GPT. But focusing in on work this will not work exactly the same way as the desktop app. Anything that's cloud-based so if you wanted to access your plugins like Gmail, Notion, GitHub, Google Drive, all trails it will be able to do all of that with no problem. However it does not have access to local files on your computer like it does on the desktop app. The mobile app works very similarly. Now when you open up the chat GPT app up here at the top you'll be able to switch from chat to work. And even though inside of this work task you will not be able to access local files the mobile app has something that the web app doesn't have. If you open up the menu on the left you can click on remote. Inside of here you'll be able to connect this up with the chat GPT app on your desktop. Once that is set up you'll be able to see all of your projects and all of the tasks that you've started on your computer. You can even start new ones and these will have access to the files that are inside the project on the desktop app. The only thing you need in order for this to work after you set it up is your computer that you're connecting to needs to be on and the chat GPT desktop app has to be open. So guess what you now know more than enough to start using chat GPT work. There are more advanced things you can do with this but you'll begin to discover those as you use this tool more and more using the tips I showed you in this video. If you want though I can make a second video showing some more advanced chat GPT work automations. If that interests you let me know in the comment section down below. Regardless I really appreciate you watching all the way to the end of this video. I hope that means that something about it resonated with you. If that's the case consider subscribing to the channel. I make simple tutorials like this all the time to help regular people get more out of AI without making it overly complicated. For now though thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.