---
video_title: "Claude Cowork Browser vs ChatGPT Work Browser (Surprising Results)"
video_id: oe0KXL7nPds
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oe0KXL7nPds
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Claude Cowork and ChatGPT Work both include built-in browsers, but they make very different trade-offs. I tested speed, task quality, form completion, shopping, full-screen use, history, autofill, and everyday browser features to see which one comes out ahead.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:22 Browser Access
  1:57 Full-Screen Browsing
  2:47 Performance Tests
  6:07 Form Test
  7:20 Shopping Test
  9:59 Browser Basics
  12:13 Final Verdict
---
Chat GPT work has had a built-in browser for months now, and it's honestly one of its most powerful and underrated features. But not to be outdone, Claude co-work just launched its own built-in browser, bringing unique features we haven't seen before. So in this video, I thought I would put them head-to-head, comparing their features, how they perform, and whether one ultimately comes out on top. Right away, one thing they have in common is that you can only access these browsers on the desktop version of each tool. For Claude, that means the Claude desktop app. And for

Chat GPT, that means the Chat GPT desktop app, the one that has both Codec and Chat GPT work in it. By the way, I'm going to be switching back and forth between these tools quite a bit, and they do look pretty similar, so it can be a little confusing. So always remember that the Claude desktop app has this sort of orange warm tint to it, and I've set my Chat GPT desktop app to have this bluish cool tint to it to make it easy to tell them apart. Anyway, for both of them, the browser appears in the exact same spot, on the side here to the right of the chat, and it's the exact same thing inside of Claude. But honestly, that's about where the similarities end. One key difference

you'll notice with Chat GPT work right away is that it lets you open up a browser at any time. So here, inside a new chat, I can click on the top right to open up the side panel, and then here's the browser. I can just type in any URL that I want and navigate and just use this as a regular browser. If we come over to Claude though, and we start a new task, you'll see that there is no way to access the browser. You first have to start a task. Once you

start a task, even if you just say hi, then at the top here, you'll notice a button to activate the browser, and then you can use this as a browser. So if you just want to open up one of these tools and browse the internet, that's going to be a lot easier to do with Chat GPT than it's going to be with Claude. Once you have each of the browsers open, you'll notice that each of them can be full screened and it looks pretty much the same. There's a button up here in chat GPT to full screen this and then inside of Claude, it looks very similar. This same button will make it full screen.

But that reveals another difference between these. In Claude co-work, once your browser is full screen, there is no way to use Claude at the same time. But inside of chat GPT work, you'll notice that down here you can always chat with chat GPT and ask it questions or ask it to navigate the web for you. So even when it's full screen, you can still use its AI capabilities. With Claude co-work, if you want to use Claude or ask it questions, you have to collapse it so that we have the chat over here on the left and the browser on the right.

So that's a little annoying, but what's more important is how well each AI works with its browser. I've already done a few head-to-head tests to compare them and I'm pretty surprised by the results. The first thing I did was test how well each of them can just open up a single website just like I'm doing right here. What you'll see is that Claude is faster at opening up the browser than chat GPT is. Chat GPT is still quick. Let's go.

There we go. But every time I've done this, Claude has always been faster. Next, I gave each of them a slightly more complicated task. I asked them to use the browser to find for me on Amazon three hiking backpacks I could put my little dog into. He weighs about 8 lb. I

want it to be under $100 and comfortable to wear and also for there to be spots where I could store my water bottles and other things. I gave chat GPT a slight head start. We see that the Claude browser has already opened and the chat GPT work one has not opened yet. And now we have the chat GPT work one open, and they're both getting to work looking for the best backpacks. So, one difference I've noticed in using both of them is that Claude likes to keep everything in one browser. Chat GPT is opening up

multiple browsers. Which you'd think would make it go faster, but let's see if that's how it actually ends up. Okay, so they've both finished now. Claude finished first, but shortly after that, Chat GPT work finished. And the total time that Chat GPT work took was a minute 22 seconds, and Claude was closer to a minute. So, definitely

faster with Claude. So, if you look at Chat GPT first, these are the backpacks that it found for me. Obviously, these look more than fine and fits all the criteria. And then, if we look at the ones from Claude co-work, these are the ones that it found. Pretty similar. I

think, you know, both of them found totally adequate products. By the way, I've run this test about five or six different times inside of Chat GPT because the first time that I did it, it took almost 7 minutes to complete that task compared to the 1 minute we just saw. And what that comes down to really is the model that you have selected. Originally, I had 5.6 Soul, effort level high, and speed at standard because that's usually what I use inside of Chat GPT. But, that took way too long,

especially compared to the 1 minute that we saw with Claude. So, I started playing around with the different model configurations. And what I discovered is that Chat GPT works much faster when I have Terra selected. The effort level didn't matter too much, but the model definitely did. And for this relatively simple task, dialing back to Terra didn't give me worse results than using Soul. It found me good backpacks just as

good as Soul did. Overall though, Claude was still a little bit faster than even Tera was, and it didn't matter whether I was using Opus or Sonnet, they were still both faster. So, it might be tempting to say that the ChatGPT browser is just as good as the one in Claude as long as you switch to Tera. But before we can make that conclusion, we have to do a couple of more tests. Next, I will ask both of them to fill out a basic form for me. I'm giving them the link to

where the form is and all the information they need to fill it out. It's very straightforward, so I'm leaving ChatGPT on Tera for this. And over here, you can see on the left, Claude in about 25 seconds is finishing it up. We're going on 30 seconds now. All right. So, now it is just finished.

That took about maybe 30 seconds. Now, over here on the right, it didn't finish it because it's asking for the last bit of information. Uh there was a final piece of the form that said you have to fill in a a poem. So, it wouldn't do that on its own. It says, "You have to give me the poem." I've run this test a

few times, by the way, and every time ChatGPT refused to submit the form for me. This time it's because it wants me to actually give it the poem that it's supposed to put into the form. Other times, though, it would say it's not allowed to submit the form without my permission. And it didn't matter whether I was using Tera or Soul, it was always the same results. Still really fast, about 30 seconds, but it just never completed it the way that Claude did.

All right, this next task is not as straightforward. Basically, there are these shoes I really want. These are them right here, but as you see, they are currently back ordered, and they won't ship out for basically another month. So, I'm going to tell both these browsers or both of these tools to find for me these shoes and to add them to the cart. And I'm specifically telling them, "I don't want to pre-order. I want

them to ship right away." And I don't think there's even any of these shoes available anywhere. So, I'm curious how it handles this task. So, 55 seconds in and Chat GPT already gave up. It said, "I couldn't add them because the official listing shows they won't ship out for another month or so." That was

it. It just gave up. So, I'm going to nudge it along a little bit. I'm going to tell it, "So, you're just going to give up?" 37 seconds later and it gave up again.

It's like not even trying. Uh let's see what Claude's doing. So, it says it's only available for pre-order. How do you want to handle that? And look, this is what I was hoping for.

It says, "You can actually buy these from the UK store and they'll ship right now or you can get a different color or you can take the pre-order or you can hold and check back in a few days." This is much better. This is a lot more thorough than what Chat GPT delivered because I could order them right now in the UK store. But let's give Chat GPT another chance. I'm going to run the same question again but with the more powerful model. We'll switch it over to

Soul and ask the same question just to be fair. Okay, Chat GPT Soul is now finished and it came up with one of the same results that Claude came up with, which is that you can order this from the UK site for shipping right now. Because I had Soul selected though, this took 5 and 1/2 minutes. And if you remember, it only took Claude about 2 minutes to figure out the same thing. So, for this task in Chat GPT, you can switch down to Terra to get faster results or you can leave it on Soul to get better results but slower. With

Claude though, you don't need to make that choice. It's fast and it's good. I'm not going to show you all the testing I've done because the results are very consistent. If I leave Chat GPT on Soul, then both Claude and ChatGPT give me very similar, adequate results. But Claude is going to be much faster.

If I switch ChatGPT down to Terra, it will match the speed of Claude, but for some tasks, there will be a noticeable difference in the results. That's a trade-off that I'm always going to be thinking about now. But that's not the full picture, because in addition to being an AI browser, both of these are also just browsers. And from that standpoint, they have a lot in common. So of course, you can open up multiple tabs with each of them. There's a URL

bar at the top. There's a button that will open the page in your default browser, like if you commonly use Chrome or Safari, so you can quickly launch it over there. Both of them can import cookies and passwords. Both browsers will also keep you logged in between sessions, so you can come back to sites later without having to sign in again. But there are a few settings here where quite frankly, ChatGPT Work pulls ahead.

So for instance, ChatGPT Work will show you your browsing history. In the Claude desktop app, you can clear your browsing data, but you can't see the history of the websites you've visited on that browser. ChatGPT also has autofill and a password manager, very typical for a lot of browsers, but Claude Co-work doesn't have those yet. And another annoying thing, if you come to a new tab on ChatGPT Work, you'll get suggestions of sites you've already visited, and if you start typing one in, it will automatically pop up. But you don't get that in Claude Co-work. It's really

annoying. You have to type in the full URL for any site that you want to visit, or the full search term that you want to search on Google. And then there are just a few little things that really make a difference. So first, comparing them side by side, ChatGPT over here on the right, I don't know if you could tell in the screen recording, just feels a little bit sharper to me. It's easier to read the text for instance, where with Claude it feels a little bit fuzzy.

Almost feels like I'm viewing it through a screen sharing app. And there's other stuff like if I hold down command and press plus inside of Chat GPT, it makes everything bigger, which is how it works in Safari and Chrome, but that doesn't work inside of Claude. So overall, Chat GPT work includes more of the features I think people expect from a regular browser. It feels like a more polished product than what we have with Claude, which is of course to be expected because it came out earlier. It just comes with some trade-offs. So

head-to-head, there's no clear winner here. It really depends on which of the factors I covered in this video that you prioritize, whether that's speed, intelligence, or just overall polish and usability. It really comes down to how you use your browser inside of Chat GPT or Claude. Either way though, you're going to be able to do a lot of the same things with both of them. So to find out more about what you can do with a browser inside of a tool like Chat GPT or Claude CoWork, check out this video I made recently. It's all about the

different capabilities that I have found for browser use inside of Chat GPT work, but you can do a lot of those same things with the Claude CoWork browser as well. So if you're curious how to get the most out of browser use, click on this video right here and I'll see you over there in 1 second. Bye for now.