---
video_title: "AI News: Fable 5 Fallout; ChatGPT Upgrades; New AI Super App and Chunky AI Glasses"
video_id: HDMHwR0IgiI
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HDMHwR0IgiI
video_date: 2026-06-20T13:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Try i10x: https://i10x.ai?fpr=paul53
  
  Google Vids Tutorial: https://youtu.be/BF4jHnafRJw
  
  Anthropic's Fable 5 got pulled offline, Snap's new AR Specs split the internet, and ChatGPT picked up a few genuinely useful updates. Plus a new Gemini Home speaker, OpenAI's Codex Record and Replay, Grok Imagine 1.5, and SpaceX buying Cursor.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:51 Fable 5 Fallout
  5:23 Snap Specs
  8:11 Sponsor
  9:49 ChatGPT and Codex Updates
  13:11 Google Updates
  17:15 SpaceX, Cursor and Grok
  18:35 Meme of the Week
---
This was a weird week in the world of AI. One week ago, the US government forced Anthropic to cut off access to their latest model Fable, and I think ever since then, the entire AI community has been holding its breath waiting to see what would happen next. But, some companies are still charging forward, and we've seen some interesting AI news this past week, including some unique AI glasses, some updates to Chat GPT that are really cool, and an update to one of the best AI super apps currently available. If you don't know who I am, my name is Paul J. Lipsky. Every week, I

release a video just like this one recapping the top AI news stories from the past week that regular people actually care about. We don't talk about benchmarks or coding. This is the stuff that's actually going to make a difference in your life. So, if that interests you, make sure to subscribe. Let's first talk about this Fable fallout. So, after my last weekly AI

news recap, I broke the story here on YouTube that the US government was shutting down Fable. And at the time, we didn't have a lot of information, but now we do. So, let me recap for you what has happened so far. A few months ago, Anthropic announced that they had created a model called Mythos. And this is so powerful, particularly at discovering and exploiting software vulnerabilities, that it would have been irresponsible of them to release it publicly. So, instead, on June 9th, they

released a weaker version of it to the public called Fable 5. It's built on the same underlying tech as Mythos, but with very heavy guardrails added. And it was good, like really, really good. What happened next though, isn't exactly clear. What we do know is that another company approached the US government and told them that they were able to successfully jailbreak Fable. That

basically means that they were able to get it to do things that it wasn't supposed to be able to do. That was part of those guardrails, those protections. So, it was able to break through those. The US government claims that they then talked to Anthropic and tried to work with them, but Anthropic refused. Anthropic, on the other hand, says, "No, that never happened. The US government

just reached out to us on a Friday and said, 'You have to close off access to Fable for all foreign nationals.'" Which basically is impossible to enforce, so it effectively forced them to shut off access to all users across the world. Anthropic also went on to say that this jailbreak was not unique to Fable. It's a capability that already exists in other public models, but the US government apparently disagrees. Since then, Anthropic met with the government, but after that meeting, Fable was still offline. So, things weren't looking too

good. However, more recently, Anthropic has said that they are very confident that in the coming days, the the model, Fable, will become available again. Now, I'm holding my breath here, waiting to see what's going to happen. And it's part of the reason I delayed this news announcement by one day, because I thought for sure that Fable would be back by now, and I could have a really good announcement for you guys that Fable is here, ready to be used. I have a feeling that I'm going to release this video, and then a few hours later Fable will be back online. Who knows? We

really don't know at this point, but I am optimistic that Fable, at least some version of it, will come back pretty soon. Now, when Anthropic released Fable over a week ago, they gave every Claude user access to Fable 5 until June 22nd as part of their subscription. Then after that, it was supposed to be a pay-per-use system. My guess is, if we get back access to Fable, they're going to extend that window to allow us to use it and try it out, because we didn't get to use it over the past week or so. But the bigger story here, I think, is that a lot of people have woken up to a hard truth. If you don't own the model, you

don't have any real control over it. One government directive on a Friday afternoon, and access to a frontier model can disappear overnight for everyone. This has sparked a noticeable push towards local models, which is when you download a model onto your computer and run it directly from there. You don't need any internet connection for it. Now, I don't totally disagree with that at all. I think local models are

the future, and is something we should be paying attention to. But, I think for a lot of people, running local models on their computer is not going to be as easy or polished as a lot of people are making it out to be. And certainly not as good as using big cloud models, even the ones that are available from companies like Anthropic, and that haven't been closed off. But, it's estimated that the best open-source models that you can download only lag behind top frontier models by 8 to 12 months. So, this is absolutely something worth paying attention to. Because it's

very possible that in a year, open-source models will have closed that gap, and are going to be good enough to run on your computer, and good enough that you're going to be happy with the performance that they're going to give you. So, if you're interested in learning more about local models, and you want me to make some beginner-friendly videos on easy ways to get started with them, drop a comment down below. Let me know, and I'd be happy to make a video like that for you. All right. Let's move on now and talk about the AI gadget of the week. This is

where I show you some really cool or interesting new AI hardware. And this week, we have to talk about the Snapchat Spectacles. These are them right here. And these are basically a computer for your face. What's great about them is that the capabilities of them look incredible.

So, you can see a demo of it right here. Someone is trying to find a place to eat. They pick a place on the map, and then it shows them how to navigate them. All this is floating in their field of view, and the coolest part is there's no external hardware. Everything is built into the glasses. The battery, you can

navigate it just by pinching with your hand, similar to an Apple Vision Pro. And so, it's all in one. The problem with this, though, is this is what they look like. They are super chunky. And so, this has gotten the internet totally divided. Most people look at this, and

they say, "There is no way I am going to wear glasses that look like this. They are huge. They look funny." And once they announced this, a lot of investors were very worried, and there was a sell-off of Snapchat stock. Now, on the other side, there are plenty people who are saying, "You know what? They don't

look as bad." This is the CEO wearing them, and maybe he doesn't have the best face for them. But if you look at other people who are wearing them, I'm sorry about the quality of this. This is the only video I could find. You can see that on this woman, they actually don't look that bad. And I think more

importantly, this is a first, or really like a second or third step product. These aren't new. Snapchat has been working on glasses like this for years. They've releases released glasses in the past, and they had developer glasses like this in the past. So, this is their next iteration on it. And the the

software, and like kind of what it can do, is incredible and really good. We just have to work on getting these glasses smaller and smaller. So, if you want, you can pre-order them. They're a few thousand dollars. Let's see. Yeah,

over two thousand dollars. But personally, I'm not going to be ordering them because I just cannot see myself wearing these day-to-day. Maybe if I still lived in New York City, I would, or San Francisco, where people are super into tech, and stuff like this wouldn't be that unusual. But, for the suburban life that I live now, I just couldn't couldn't go outside wearing glasses like this. I would feel too foolish. But, I

do think it's a step in the right direction. I'm very excited about AI wearables, and there are some that are going to come out this year that I am really keeping my eye on. But, for me, these aren't them. Next, I want to talk about some new updates to Chat GPT that you're going to hear about. But first, let's hear from today's sponsor, iTenX.

iTenX is an all-in-one platform that gives you access to all the major AI models with one subscription. So, if you come in here to the chat and click on the model selector, you'll see that you get access to models from OpenAI, from Google, from xAI, from Anthropic, and from Deep Seek, and even ZAI, if you wanted to. On the left, we have image generation, and here you can generate images using Nano Banana or GPT image, for instance. And there's video generation with models like Kling and Google VEO. More recently, they added super agent, and you can start using this from scratch, or you can use one of these templates. So, here for instance

is a marketing campaign launch kit. This uses Google Sheets, it uses Slack, it uses Gmail, and this will build a complete campaign launch kit with clear audience, messaging, channel plan, launch timeline, and draft copy. And there's other ones here for SEO content briefs, AI visibility audits, and campaign launch pack. But, you can also set up tasks yourself directly inside the super agent chat here. iTenX starts at just $16 a month with annual billing, or $20 a month if you pay month-to-month. And that gives you 7,500

credits to use for super agents, for the LLMs, and for image and video generation. But, for just $35 a month, you get access to 25,000 credits. So, if you want to sign up for iTenX, I'll have a link for it in the description down below. And thank you, iTenX, for sponsoring this video. Okay, so back to the news. OpenAI released a really nice

update to ChatGPT. There's a few things here. The first thing I want to show you is now when you open up the app and you go to take a photo, it won't take up the entire screen now. It just takes up this very small window. It looks so nice, very clean. I haven't seen any other AI

chat do this yet. For instance, if you open up Gemini, you notice it takes up the entire screen like this. Or if you open up Grok, same thing, same thing with Claude. So, the way that OpenAI does this with ChatGPT, I just think looks so clean and so nice. Another thing you can now do with ChatGPT is ask it to help you learn how to pronounce a word correctly.

So, here I asked it how to pronounce exigent, and it now puts this little microphone or speaker button next to the word, and you can click on that to hear how it's pronounced. >> exigent >> Here's another one. Here's hors d'oeuvres. >> hors d'oeuvres >> So, pretty useful. I know for myself, for some reason, I tend to pronounce words incorrectly. So, I am pretty happy

about this one. This That one's pretty neat. Next, there's been a really cool update to schedule tasks on ChatGPT. So, in the past, if you wanted to schedule a task, they all had to be date or time based. So, you could say run a task at the same time every day, or maybe once a week run a certain task. But now, they

can be more event based. So, here for instance, not really appropriate for this time of the year, but it will be helpful in the winter, I said, "When there's a lot of snow forecasted at my local ski mountain, let me know the day before." So, now it's monitoring for that. And here I say, "Whenever there is a new Christopher Nolan movie, find movie times for the film at my local theater." And now it's monitoring for that. So, this is really easy to do. You

just tell it in the chat what you want it to monitor for, and then it will add it as a scheduled task. Next, uh let's talk about OpenAI's super app Codec. They just added this really cool new plugin. If you use Codec, click on the left where it says plugins and search for record and replay. There'll be a button to add it. And now when you come

to a new chat, you can use record and replay. What this does is when you run this, it will actually record your screen. Of course, you first have to give it permission. It's not going to just going to do it on its own. But, you can see here it is now recording and I can show Codec what I want it to do for me in the future. So, I can like click

around like Okay, I'm going to chat.gpt.com and then I'm going to go to apps and then I'm going to see if there's any new apps here. And so, then I want you to do that every day for me. So, then once you're done recording, you can press stop and now it's looking at what happened. So, that's a little bit of a

silly example, but from that it will then create a skill that you can use anytime. So, then when I run that skill, it's always going to go to chat.gpt, look at plugins, and see if there's anything new. So, super helpful because now you don't have to type out your instructions ever again. You can just hit record and show Codec the exact workflow you want it to follow next time. Really awesome. Next, let's talk

about what Google has been up to. So, they released a new Google Home speaker. This is it right here. I think it looks really nice and this is built for Gemini. It comes in all these different colors. They all look really nice.

And of course, you can talk out loud with Gemini, Gemini Live. So, you don't have to use it from your phone. So, if you find yourself talking with Gemini a lot, asking it a lot of questions, using live, and you want to be able to do that without your phone, this looks like the best solution for that. This already exists, Gemini, in the existing Google Home speakers, but this looks like it will work a lot better. As for the Gemini app itself, there's always been this microphone right here where you can dictate into Gemini. That has just had a

major improvement and now works in over 70 languages. You can mix languages, so you can switch languages halfway through the the conversation you're having, and it's not going to interrupt you. It's going to wait for you to finish talking. There's also been an update to AI mode on Google Search. So, as I'm sure you know, if you come over to google.com and you click on AI mode, you

can ask a question and have an AI answer it Gemini flash answer it for you instead of getting your typical Google responses. But now you can have it monitor things for you, kind of similar to what we just looked at with ChatGPT. So here, I don't know why I keep using this example, but I said, "Let me know when Christopher Nolan releases a new film." And so now, in the Google app on my phone, it will let me know when he releases a new film. Now, I tried this out a few days ago. I would I asked it

to let me know when a trailer for a new movie I was excited about was going to drop. That trailer dropped and I never got a notification. So, I don't know if it was just like such a super niche film that it didn't pick it up, but I don't know. It's cool that it exists. Hopefully, it will work for other stuff besides my example. There's also been an

update to Google Vids. Now, not a lot of people know about Google Vids, but this is a platform where you can upload videos, you can generate videos and put them into this timeline to actually edit them. I've a whole video I made on this. I'll have that linked in the description down below, but there's been an update to this as well. You can now take your Google Slides and turn them into videos.

You could do this in the past, but now you get a lot more control. So, it actually shows you each slide of the presentation and the AI voice over that's going to be added to that slide. You can even choose the voice over here on the right and turn animations on and off. So, really cool that we get more granular control of turning Google Slides into a video. There's also been an update to Google Flow. Flow is a tool

that you can use to generate images and videos. You can, of course, do that directly inside of Gemini, but this gives you a lot more control. And if you're going to be making a lot of images and videos, I think Flow is a lot better. So, what is the update? Well, now when you choose video generation and you use the latest model, which is Omni, you can choose a start frame, an image as a start frame. You weren't able to do

that before. So, here I generated two images of this like mechanized unicorn. So, this is just an image and then I had it turn that image into this video.

Right? So, super awesome because this gives us a lot more control over the videos that Omni makes because we can make sure that the start frame, that start image, is exactly the look that we want before we have Omni turn it into a full video. And then finally, there's been an update to Pameli. Pameli is a marketing tool. You can use this to create these different social media campaigns where it will actually create assets for you that you can post on like Instagram for instance. So, once it

creates those assets for you, you can automatically publish them either into Google Ads or now directly to Instagram. Next, there's been some announcements from SpaceX. If you don't know this, SpaceX, Elon Musk's rocket ship company, also owns xAI, which is the creator of Grok. But, SpaceX also just acquired the AI coding startup Cursor. Cursor is another super app similar to Codex and Claude Co-work. So, this is the race

now. We want to see which company is going to build the best super app. Already, we have Codex, we have Claude Co-work. Uh Google has made anti-gravity. However, it really lags behind the other two. And now we have Cursor as well. And

it does look very promising. I haven't spent a lot of time with it yet, but if you want a full video on Cursor and maybe how it compares to something like Claude Co-work, let me know about that in the comments section down below. The other update is that Grok just released a new video generation model. It's called Imagine 1.5, and this produces better quality videos faster. Now, so

far in my channel, I haven't talked about Grok too much, but tomorrow I will be releasing a video comparing Grok to ChatGPT. So, if you want to know which one you should be using and want to see my thoughts comparing both of those, make sure to check out tomorrow's video. And finally, let's talk about the meme of the week. This is where I show you something funny from the past week in the world of AI. So, after the whole shutdown of Fable, a lot of people were also looking at other companies in other parts of the world outside the United States, where they don't have the regulation from the United States government. And in Europe, the only real

AI company is Mistral AI. So, there's this meme going around that they are going to introduce a model called Le Chat Ton Fat, I believe is the way you would say it. I'm not quite sure, but it's represented by this fat cat. And this went totally viral, and a lot of people started believing that Mistral was going to release a model called the fat cat, I believe it translates to. That's not true, but they are going to be releasing a new model this summer.

Yeah, so I told you this is a weird week in the world of AI from ugly AI glasses to fat cats. I think everyone's just sort of lost their mind waiting to see what would happen with Fable and Anthropic. So, if you want to make sure you stay on top of the latest AI news that matters, make sure to subscribe to the channel. I'll certainly be keeping you all updated on all this stuff happening with Anthropic. And otherwise, thanks so much for watching the video. If you have any

suggestions for things to cover in future videos, let me know that in the comment section down below and then I'll see you in the next one. Bye for now.