---
video_title: "How To Create Web Apps With Claude Cowork"
video_id: yV-c7IJjTX8
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yV-c7IJjTX8
video_date: 20260402
video_description: |
  💎 Try Hostinger: http://www.hostinger.com/pauljlipsky
  💵 Save 10% with code PAULJLIPSKY
  
  🔗 Website I Made: https://pauldoesai.com/
  
  With AI tools like Claude Cowork and modern hosting, you can go from a blank idea to a fully live website in under an hour — here's the exact step-by-step process.
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:52 Claude Cowork Setup
  1:57 Using The Prompt
  2:59 Building The Site
  3:37 The Blueprint
  4:28 Website Files
  4:55 GitHub Setup
  6:59 Hostinger
  9:42 Deploying The Site
  11:42 First Look
  11:58 Making Changes
  13:44 Outro
---
With tools like Claude Co-work and modern hosting platforms, it's never been easier to take an idea from your head and to get it on the internet in a matter of minutes. You can do this for web apps, you can do this for websites. Really, there's no excuse anymore. So, in this video, I will show you step-by-step how to get set up with your own website or web app in less than an hour. So, there are essentially two steps to this. First, you have to make

the website or the web app itself and have that coded out for you. And then, second, you need to get it on the internet. For the first part, you should use whatever AI tool you're already using, whether that's Claude, Gemini, or ChatGPT. Personally, I'm going to use Claude Co-work for this because I think it's one of the easiest ways to get some of the nicest results and to get this set up in the fastest, most efficient way possible. First, let's open up Claude Co-work and we will start a new project. That way, your entire website

site creation can live inside that project. If you need to make any changes to it in the future, you can easily come back and make those changes. So, make sure you're inside of Co-work up here on the top and click on the left where it says projects and we'll start a new project and start from scratch. Now, you can give this a name if you know the name of the website you're creating or the project or you can just call it website creation or something like that. We'll leave instructions blank for now and then you need to choose a location for the folder that Claude is going to make for you to exist. This will contain all of the

components of your website. So, I'm going to put this in my iCloud folder so that it is backed up in case something goes wrong with my computer in the future. Great. With all of that set up, click on create. And now we have our new website creation project. To make this

as easy as possible for you, I actually have a prompt for you to help you get started. You can find that at the website linked in the description down below, and then you can copy that prompt and paste it in here. Underneath here, you'll see that you can select which model you want to use. I always suggest that for most use cases, you use Sonnet, and then if you're running into issues and you need something more powerful, then you switch to Opus. I wouldn't use Opus full-time because it consumes your usage limits a lot faster. So, I always start with

Sonnet. With that selected, click on let's go, and then Co-work is going to start asking you some questions about what kind of website you want to build. This prompt I gave you tells it to go through these questions to get an idea of what you're looking for, and then based on that, to actually build out the website for you with all the files that are necessary for this to work. So, the first question it's asking me is what is the main purpose for this web app? Is it a tool, or is it a display page for content, like a portfolio or dashboard?

So, I'm going to tell it I want a web app that allows me to easily share all the prompts that I use in my YouTube videos. So, then it will ask you some more clarifying questions, like it's asking me, "How do I want those prompts organized?" So, I will tell it by video. Now, at some point in the questioning process, it's going to ask you what the visual style is for your website. You can tell it, or you can actually send it screenshots of other websites that you like to use as inspiration.

Once it's done interviewing you, it's going to outline the blueprint for you. This saves you um in case it gets something wrong, it doesn't build out the entire website until you actually approve this blueprint. So, read through this, make sure the structure and design and tech is exactly the way that you want. And assuming it is, tell it that it looks good and create it. But, if you want to make any changes, now is the time to do that. But, for me, this looks

excellent, so I will submit this along. Now, over here on the right, we can see it getting to work. It's created a to-do list for itself. It's already finished some of those things, and it's created additional files for us as well. These are all the files that are going to be necessary for the website. So, let's

give it a few minutes to work on this and finish it up, and then we'll come back and see what it's created. All right, once it's done, you'll notice that it creates for you three different files here, package, server, and index. You can see those by clicking on show in folder, and you can see all of those right here. These are what we're going to upload online to actually publish our website. Now, this may sound a little bit difficult and abstract to you, and I promise you it is not difficult at all.

So, let's jump over to my browser now, and this is where you want to come to, github.com. Now, GitHub will allow you to take all those files and put them online. If you already have an account, use the one you already have. If not, click on the top right here where it says sign up and sign up for an account. It's completely

free. I'm not going to walk you through that. It's very straightforward. Once you have a GitHub account, you'll be on the dashboard, and on the top left, you want to create a repository. Click on new here, and you want to give this a name. So,

this can be the name of your website that you've created. So, I'm going to call this one prompt library. And then we'll also give it a description as well, prompt library. And down here at the bottom, you can choose between a public one or a private one. This really depends on what you've created. If this is going to be a

public-facing website without any sort of APIs in there for things like AI, you can leave it on public. That's what I'm going to do, but there are situations where you would want it on private. I'm going to select public. I don't need to change anything else down here, and then I'll click on create repository. Now, once you're on this page, don't worry about all of this and what this means. All you have to do is click right

here where it says upload an existing file. So, here we need to upload the files that were just created for us by Claude. Now, there's sort of this weird little gotcha here where if you click on choose your files, it won't actually let you upload the folder, which is what you're supposed to do. So, instead, you can just drag and drop. So, here I have my finder open. Here are the three files

that it created for us, the package, public, and server. I can select all three and then drag all three of those in there. I can see they're here now, and then click on commit changes. So, now our files are being stored by GitHub, but it can't actually run the app, and it can't publish it to the web. For that, you need a hosting service, and that brings me to the sponsor of today's video, Hostinger. So, Hostinger

has been around for a long time helping people create websites, and with this new boom in AI, they've been doing really a lot and staying at the forefront of what people are creating with AI and making it easy as possible for people to take things they vibe coded like websites or web apps and to publish them to the web. So, I have a link for you in the description down below that will land you on this page where you can sign up for the right plan with Hostinger to be able to deploy your web app. You can click right here where it says view plans, And there are two options here. Now, I would actually go with the cheaper one, business. That is exactly what you need.

So, click under business where it says choose plan. Here is your cart. So, if you select the period, you can choose between 1 month and 48 months. But, the longer period that you sign up for, the cheaper it ends up being month-to-month. So, select the longer one if you want it to be cheaper month-to-month. And I also have

a coupon code for you as well to save a little bit of extra money. Click on the right here where it says have a coupon code and enter in Paul J. Lipsky. That will also be linked down below for you to copy and click on apply to get an additional 10% off. Then at this stage, you can also pick a free domain name for your website. So, I'm going to search

around in here and see if I can sign find something good. I'm I'm sure that prompt library is taken. Yeah, it is. So, let's try Paul's. All right, I think I found one that I like. It's pauldoesai.com.

It's available. So, I'm going to select that one. You can see it is free for the first year. Includes domain privacy. And then, I can click on continue.

Here you'll need to set up an account and then go through all the billing information. I'm going to skip ahead on that. It is very straightforward and you don't need to see all of that. So, just pause this, register, complete the payment, and then I'll see you on the next screen. Now, during the setup process, you may see some stuff like this. Just go ahead

and skip all of this. You want to make sure you land on a page that looks like this. And then click on the top left where it says home, and you're now on the H panel. The H panel is where you get everything done all in one place. You don't need separate logins. We can

create websites, you can buy domains, you can set up email all from within your one hosting or account, so it makes it very easy to manage everything. Now, to get our website into Hostinger, click where it says websites, then you'll see a purple button over here that says set up. Yours might look different, it might say individual, you might only see one of these, but either way there should be a button here that says set up, so click on that. Then we'll answer these questions. So, this website is for myself or my business.

Then click on create a new site, and then down here we'll just click where it says skip questions, cuz this is sort of assuming that you're starting from scratch, which we're not doing. And similarly, we can skip these ones because we're going to deploy a node.js web app. So, you can get that by clicking right here where it says deploy your node.js web app. Now, here you'll

pick the domain that you want to use for this. If you haven't bought one already, now's the time to do that. I've already created mine or or selected mine, so it's reserved for me. I can select it right here and click on next. Now, we will link up Hostinger with GitHub so that it can pull the information from the repo we created on GitHub. To do

that, click where it says connect with GitHub. From here you'll need to sign in to your GitHub account. Then you need to choose the repository that you just set up. So, I have more than one, so I'm going to select only select certain repositories, and I'll select the prompt library one that I just made, and then click on install and authorize. So, here it's pulling in all your repositories. You probably only have

one, so select the one and click on continue. And what's great is that Hostinger is taking care of all the rest. All the settings that you see here have been optimized by Hostinger, so it's all set up exactly the way that you want. You don't have to make any changes here if you don't want to, and then click on deploy. And now it says it is done, so we can click go to dashboard.

And then we can open up a new tab, type in our URL, and see what our website looks like. And here we go, this is what mine looks like. It looks okay, it's a good first attempt. Certainly, it's hosted well, the domain works, and it loads really fast. I think UI-wise, this can use some changes. So, let's go back

to Claude and make those changes. So, back inside Claude, I told it what changes I'm looking for my website, even sent it a screenshot of another website that I really liked and wanted it to use for inspiration. So, it took all of that and updated the files. Now, updating this inside of GitHub is very easy. You want to come to this page, so let me go back to the home page, so you know how to navigate this. Once you're on your

dashboard, click on your repository on the left. This is the one we're working inside of, called prompt library. And then here, you want to click on add file and upload files. And just drag in all the same files. They should already be updated in your computer, so opening up my finder, here they are again, and I'm just going to drag all three of them back in here.

GitHub is smart enough to know that this is an update. Click on commit changes, and that is done. You don't have to do anything in Hostinger, it's automatically going to pull from GitHub. You just have to wait a few minutes for for it to update. It's not going to be instantaneous. And then you can see what

your new website looks like. And here we go, I think this looks much better. So, this now shows the actual video that the prompt came from, the title of it. Then here are all the prompts. It's super responsive.

This one is the current video you're watching right now, so I don't have the video for it yet, obviously. Uh I really like the way this one came out. And so, if you're struggling to sort of get the design exactly the way that you want. Use screenshots from other websites that inspire you because it works really well. So, I think this is a perfect I'll have a link for this down below so you can check it out. And also,

this is the prompt that you want to use that I talked about earlier in the video. So, you can find that right here and copy it and use it yourself. So, there you go. That's how you can create incredible websites using Claude and host them easily using Hostinger. If you want to try Hostinger out for yourself, I'll have a link for it in the description down below. And let me know

what kind of websites you're building with it. Otherwise, if you enjoyed this video, make sure to give it a thumbs up and subscribe to the channel. And then I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.