---
video_title: "This Is The Genspark SecondBrain - It Remembers Everything"
video_id: FWsL5rKVfZg
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWsL5rKVfZg
video_date: 2026-07-26T13:00:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Get 10% off the Genspark SecondBrain Note: https://shop.genspark.ai/s/pauljlipsky
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored by @GensparkProduct
  
  The SecondBrain Note records meetings, calls, and ideas, then turns them into connected memory inside Genspark’s SecondBrain. In this video, I test the hardware, connect my data, and use Super Agent to turn that memory into finished work.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:30 Why most note-taking systems fail
  0:59 SecondBrain Note hardware
  2:22 Recording meetings, calls, and ideas
  3:10 How SecondBrain connects your data
  5:24 Chat with your SecondBrain
  6:32 Turn memory into finished work
  7:40 Why the system gets better over time
  8:21 Price, plans, and 10% discount
  
  #SecondBrain #SecondBrainNote #Genspark
---
This is the Second Brain Note, a new AI recording device from GenSpark. But, this doesn't just record your meetings and ideas and transcribe them. Every recording automatically becomes part of your own private Second Brain. It indexes your notes, connects ideas together, and gives you a space where you can chat with your entire Second Brain. And it all happens automatically after you hit stop on your recording.

Most note-taking systems aren't able to connect ideas between different notes. Every note is independent of all the other ones, and it's all kind of scattered, which makes the notes a lot less valuable than they could be. But, the GenSpark Second Brain is different. When GenSpark reached out to me about sponsoring a video so I could take a look at this unique tool, I said, "Absolutely, let's do it." So, full disclosure, this video is sponsored by GenSpark, but I was genuinely excited to get my hands on this to start testing it myself. So, let's start with the Second

Brain Note itself. This is a credit card thin AI recording card. They're doing a limited first release of this, and if you use my coupon code, which I'll have linked in the description, you'll get 10% off and it'll cost just $179. This thing is 2.95 mm thin and weighs just 26 g. It slips into a wallet, a

card holder, or a shirt pocket, or you can use the included MagSafe wallet. It's big enough to hold both the Second Brain Note as well as several of your credit cards. And then it snaps onto the back of your phone. You can even use it as a stand. Don't let the size fool you, though. Inside there's a four microphone

array, plus a bone conduction sensor, and it picks up clear audio from up to 5 m away. The battery lasts about 35 hours of continuous recording, and there's 64 GB of storage, enough for roughly 7,000 hours of audio. Once recordings sync to the app, the card clears itself automatically. To start recording, all you have to do is hold down this one button for 2 seconds until you feel a vibration. Then you know it's recording because there's this privacy light on the card. While it's recording, you can

tap once to bookmark an important moment, then hold it down again for 2 seconds to send the recording automatically to the app. So day-to-day, you can just carry this around with you and pull it out anytime you want to record a note, whether that's a meeting, a phone call, or just some ideas you want to get out of your head. Just make sure you get anyone's consent before you record them. Let me show you some of the ways I've been using it. First, I've been using it for in-person conversations. For instance, the other

day I was in a coffee shop in town and I recorded a conversation I had with one of my friends with his permission. It's also excellent for phone calls. You snap the card on the back of your phone using the MagSafe wallet and the bone conduction sensor picks up the call and you're speaking. And third, I've been using it a lot to just capture ideas. When something hits me mid-walk or while I'm driving, I just start recording.

Single press drops a bookmark, so the good part is easy to find later. Every single time, by the time I get back to my phone, the recording has already been transferred and turned into a clean note in my second brain connected to everything else. So let's talk about where those recordings actually go because this is really what makes the second brain note so unique. It's not a standalone recorder. It's a way to input notes into your second brain. Once the

recording stops, it automatically transfers to the app, which will transcribe them and bring them into your second brain, which you can see on the app or here on the web. You can see all of my notes over here on the left. It will automatically index them as well to better organize them for you. But the notes aren't the only part of your second brain. It's also made up of your calendar, your email, your docs, whatever sources you decide to give to it. So let's connect those up. Here

inside my second brain, we have my notes over here on the left that I recorded with the second brain note, but everything else gets added on this page right here called the feed brain. So, you can connect any one of these sources and all of these become part of your second brain. Of course, all of this is opt-in only. Nothing gets connected unless you want it to. And I think it's also worth noting that GenSpark has SOC 2 type 2 and ISO 27001 with GDPR still in progress before launch. Under the hood, everything lives

in a private file vault called personal space. So, let's start connecting some of these up. I'll start with Gmail. To do that, all you have to do is toggle on the connector you want to add. You'll see this pop-up box, so then click on connect Gmail. Then it will ask you to

sign into your Gmail account and authorize GenSpark. Once you form the connection, GenSpark will read through your inbox. And now that is done, so it's part of my second brain. You can see up here that the sync is on. So, now we can add another one. So, this time I

will add in my Google Calendar, which is what I use. So, I'll turn this one on, go through the same steps, and then finally, I will add Google Docs because I have a lot of notes already in there that I want to be part of my second brain. So, now second brain has my notes that I recorded with the second brain note, my emails, my calendar, and my notes in Doc. This is where you can begin to see the power of it because now second brain can answer questions across everything it holds. Let me show an example. If I come over here on the top

and click on home, this is where you can actually chat with your second brain. So, I'm going to ask it, "Based on my meeting notes, what topics have I been working on over the past week?" So, here you can see it pulled information from all of my meeting notes and correctly identified that I've been keeping notes about the AI tools that I've been testing for my YouTube channel. It even cites down here to the index that contains all of these notes. And here's the thing about a system like this, it compounds. One recording is a useful

note, but every meeting, idea, and decision you give it adds more context that it can connect together. A few months from now, this same question will get a richer answer. And a year from now, it knows how I work. That's the difference between a transcription tool and a memory layer like this one. And it's different from the memory in something like ChatGPT, which mostly lives inside its own chat window. This

memory spans all my recordings, my emails, and my connected tools. But to unlock its full power, let's access the second brain using the GenSpark super agent. Because now it can use my second brain to produce finished work. Watch this. I'm here inside the super agent now, and I'll tell it "Using my second brain meeting notes, name the two AI projects I worked on the last week and cite the note titles." So now it found

both projects and cited the exact meeting notes that they came from. So now let's turn that memory into something real. I will tell it to turn those two projects into a clean one-page project dashboard website. Include each project, its current status, the main decisions, and the next action, and to cite the meeting note titles that were used. And here we go. You see it built

out this dashboard for me, where I can see all the projects that I'm working on and how much of those projects have been completed, the status of each of them, the main decisions I still have to make, and the next action for both of those projects. All of that pulled from conversations with this card that I keep in my wallet with me at all times. I didn't summarize anything, I didn't file anything. I pressed the button a few times this week, and my work turned into this. Let's zoom out for a second because this is the part that really gets me. Before after a meeting, I'd

spend half an hour naming, filing, and cleaning up my notes. Now a finished note lands in my second brain already connected. Before I dig through old threads trying to reconstruct what we agreed on. Now I just ask and get an answer with the sources cited. And the longer you use it, the more useful it gets because every meeting, idea, and decision you capture gives it more to connect. You never lack enough

information, you lack the connections between that information to actually make it useful. And the second brain fixes that. So that's the second brain note and the system behind it. The note captures, the second brain connects, and super agent acts on it. If you want to pick one of these up for yourself, they are doing a limited first release. You

can get one now for $179 using the link in the description down below. The free tier includes 300 minutes of recording per month, and plus and pro members get up to 24 hours of transcription and summarization per day. Again, my link is in the description down below and in the pinned comments. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.