---
video_title: "AI News: AI Hysteria, Android AI is Insane, Codex Mobile + More"
video_id: S5VcqCD9zI4
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S5VcqCD9zI4
video_date: 2026-05-16T13:00:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Try DoMyWork: https://domywork.ai/r/paul
  
  Join the waitlist for my upcoming AI community: https://join.pauljlipsky.com/waitlist
  
  AI hysteria is going wild, Google's Android AI updates have me thinking about switching from iPhone for the first time in 15 years, OpenAI brought Codex to mobile, and there's a whole lot more to unpack in this week's AI news.
  
  Prompt of The Week: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1570YEXaOrqE1QR0R4-E6RmV733LKWoLk-oL7BzVryTw/edit?usp=sharing
  
  🔗 This video is sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:38 AI Hysteria
  2:30 Android AI
  6:05 Sponsor
  8:04 OpenAI Updates
  11:52 Prompt of the Week
  13:37 More Google AI
  15:12 Google Book
  16:29 Grok + Outro
---
AI hysteria is in full swing. Google released some insane AI updates to Android that are making me consider switching to Android for the first time in 15 years. We have a new mobile experience for Codex and AI-powered laptop by Google and so much more AI news to talk about. My name is Paul J. Lipsky and on this channel I talk about the AI stuff that you actually care about. This isn't for coders or

developers. This is for regular people who just want some helpful fun ways to incorporate AI into their lives. Every week I do a news recap just like this one. So if you don't want to miss out on future ones, make sure to subscribe. We're going to start with the meme of the week, which is where I share something that has been going viral on social media. Sometimes it's funny,

sometimes it's just interesting. And I want to start with this one cuz this is absolutely wild. There's been a ton of AI hysteria lately. These people that believe that if something is related to AI or made by AI that it is just inherently bad and they cannot see past that. And that has just been highlighted to the utmost degree this week by this post from this guy on X. His name is

Shaloms, I believe. So he made this post. It's this image and he says, "I generated an image in the style of a Monet painting using AI. Please describe in as much detail as possible what makes this inferior to a real Monet painting." You can even see down here it says made with AI. Scrolling through the comments,

there are a ton of people criticizing this, pointing out why this would never be good as good as a real Monet. But the funny thing is, this was an actual Monet painting. He just cropped into it and told everyone it was generated by AI when it wasn't. So you see some comments here. This person says, "Yes, it's Monet-ish and it's certainly pretty, but it will never hold up next to the real thing." Other people said it's harsh,

there's no blending of colors, it's nonsense, and that it's emotionless. And what's absolutely hilarious is that a lot of the comments that were made after he revealed this were later deleted. So, I think this really highlights the AI hysteria out there. How some people just believe that anything generated by AI must inherently be bad. And if they see that something was made by AI, they'll just assume it's worse than something that was made by human. So much so that they actually

trick themselves into thinking that a genuine Monet painting looks terrible. Let's switch gears now, see what Google has been up to with Android. They hosted the Android show this past week, which is their keynote. They revealed all the latest updates to Android. And this one was big on AI. It was pretty insane what

they released. So, the big one was Gemini Intelligence. This is going across all of their advanced devices, so their phones, their watches, even their glasses once those roll out. And everything will be like synced, working together, and can automate multi-step tasks. So, during the keynote, they had Paris Hilton show this example, cuz it's also available in Android Auto, where she received a text message from, I guess it's her her husband, Carter, I'm not sure. And it said, "Hey, do you want

to get dinner this Thursday at 7:00 p.m.?" And this popped up saying, "Hey, do you want to add that to the calendar?" She just clicked that. And then she said to

Google, "Hey, what was the name of that place that my mom referenced last week? There's some like nice Italian place." And then Google responded, and then she's like, "Okay, can you send a message to Carter saying, 'Let's go there.'" And then it composes a message saying, "Hey, let's go to that restaurant." She says, "Sends." And it

gets sent off. So, all of that like pretty much hands-free, and it's pulling information from Gmail, it's pulling information from her other messages with her mom, it's connecting to the calendar, and all of that all together in this really like Jarvis experience. It's quite cool. I'm pretty excited for this. Which is ironic because I don't even have an Android. I'm an iPhone guy,

but for the first time in a really long time, I'm considering switching because all the promises that Apple made to us about Apple intelligence still aren't here. We still don't know 100% sure when we're going to get those, but Android or Gemini intelligence is coming this summer. It's really cool. Another really cool feature rolling out is called Rambler. And this is very similar to a lot of those AI dictation tools out there, where you just click the dictation button and you just start talking to it, rambling, and it will not only dictate what you're saying, but clean it up. So it will

convey what you meant to say and not actually what you said. And a cool feature about this is you can first dictate it in and if you want to make changes, you just click the dictation button again and say something like add emojis to this or make this more professional and the AI will then change it accordingly. You can even use it with multiple languages, so I know a lot of people communicate in both English and Spanish. So you can switch halfway through and then switch back and it will perfectly dictate out for you both the English and the Spanish within the same message. There's a lot of other cool stuff that's coming with Gemini intelligence, so you'll also be able to create custom widgets. So this is

basically like vibe coding in a sense. You tell it what widget you want to make and it will show up on your home screen or even on your watch. You can also have it fill out things for you automatically, like it will pull in information from your photos or your Gmail or your messages to help fill in details on websites. The example they gave was a passport. If you have a picture of your passport in your photos, then it can do multi-step things. So

again, if someone messages you about dinner, it can view your calendar, it can view your other messages to see if you have other commitments, and then actually respond. So, it's pretty cool. I think this is sort of the experience that everyone has been waiting for when it comes to AI, and having just that always-on assistant that just gets you, and can do work for you seamlessly without a ton of setup. And before we get to the rest of the AI news, let's hear from today's sponsor, do my work.ai. This is a tool that replaces

your manual work. It works across 1,500 apps, and can do things like one-off tasks, recurring work, or repetitive processes. This is what the dashboard looks like. You can use chats as an AI agent. So, for example, right here, I asked it to go through my Gmail inbox, and basically triage it by pulling all the information from all the senders, and to categorize all of them. Here, you

can see a breakdown that it created of all those emails, and found what they were sending me emails about, drafted replies, and even updated HubSpot for me. Now, if you find yourself doing the same repetitive tasks over and over again the same way, then you might want to try jobs for that. These are recurring tasks, and there's two different kinds of these. The first one is ones you can set up on a schedule to run at the same time every day, but you can also run them on a trigger. So, for instance, there's Google Sheets. So, if

a new row is added to a sheet, that can create a trigger. Again, this works with tons of different apps, so all of these could be triggers that you can then have an AI agent take action based on what that trigger was. But, if the workflow still requires some human touch to it, then you want to use playbooks for that. Playbooks are like AI-enriched SOPs. You can set up forms where you can put in information. Like, let's say a new

client reaches out to you, and there's an onboarding process. You can set up an SOP for that, where you create these forms that you have to fill in with the company name and the company contact, and then an agent can actually take action based on what you put into that form. That way you don't have to manually start all these processes yourself. You just set up one of these playbooks and it's set and ready to go every time you have a new outreach for a client. So, if you want to try the AI tool that replaces your manual work, try do my work.ai. I'll have a link for them

in the description down below and thank you do my work for sponsoring this video. Let's talk about what OpenAI has been up to this past week. There are two important announcements from them. First, they released a new feature called personal finance where you can connect ChatGPT with a lot of personal finance apps. Why would you want to do this? Well, this can pull in all of your

investments for instance and show you a breakdown of it and how they're growing over time. You can see what you're spending money on and where you might be able to save additional money. You can see upcoming payments and subscriptions and get recommendations on subscriptions that you may want to cancel. You can ask it questions about your finances and get those answered. You could even have it look at your investment portfolio and tell you things like if it's balanced and how well it's doing. All of this

works by connecting ChatGPT securely with your different financial apps. I think this could be very helpful for a lot of people because there does seem to be some financial illiteracy in the United States. So, maybe something like this could help people understand finances a lot better. But on the other hand, personally, I'm very hesitant to connect my different banking accounts and investment accounts up to an AI. You know, obviously, I love AI. I talk about

a lot on this channel. In general, I think it's a good thing, but I don't know if I'm going to be connecting up my investments and my bank information to ChatGPT. That just feels like one step too far. But maybe that's just AI hysteria. The other update from OpenAI is that they have given us mobile access to Codex. Codex is their version basically

of Claude Code and Claude Cowork, if you're familiar with either of those tools. And now, if you open up the ChatGPT app, there'll be a section for Codex. And if your Codex is on your computer, the app, and running, and your computer's on and open, then you can see all your Codex projects and start using them directly from the ChatGPT app. It works really well, and it actually works better than Dispatch, which is the mobile solution for Claude Cowork. So, does this mean now that Codex is better than Claude Cowork for knowledge workers? And I think the

answer to that is still no. The way Codex is set up in general, I think it's still too technical for a lot of everyday users who aren't more technical and aren't coders. It's definitely usable, but it just has more of a technical focus. Where when you come into Claude and come into Claude Cowork, you know exactly what you're getting. This is set up for knowledge workers, people who aren't coders. So, I

think it's a bit easier to use. Now, with that said, I think this is probably the perfect time to talk to you about what it is that I'm building. So, I'm creating a community for AI enthusiasts or people who are interested in using AI to help them do things like manage your calendar, their emails, automate document creations, and slide decks. This isn't for coders or developers. This is for people who just want AI to help them run their life and make their lives easier. And the

backbone of this community will be a basically like a like a mini course in there all about how to set up AI agents like Cowork and Codex. So, we'll have some exclusive trainings by me, live Q&As, a member forum to connect with other people, all of that sort of stuff. So, if you want to get on the waitlist, I'll have a link for this page in the description down below where you can get on the waitlist. Even if you're just curious, you can join the waitlist. It doesn't commit you to actually joining the community, and I'll send you over all the details once I have them, and you can make the decision then. Again,

link for this in the description down below. But, back to OpenAI and ChatGPT, this is the perfect time to share with you my prompt of the week. This is the prompt that's either been going viral or one that I have found to be extremely helpful. And this week, I have one that I'm proud to say I actually came up with myself. So, what's going on is next week I'm going to Google I/O. This is where

Google is going to announce a bunch of their new AI tools, models, and hardware. And while I'm there, I want to be able to network. So, people ask like, "Hey, what's your YouTube channel?" I want to give them a QR code that they can scan. But, I didn't want like a boring QR code. I want it to look nice so I can

actually make it my phone's background. So, I had ChatGPT make me this. I uploaded an image of my dogs. It then turned them into this cute cartoon. And on the carpet, it added this QR code that actually works. So, now it's the

background for my phone. If people ask, they can just come in here, and I can show them the background, and they can scan it, and subscribe to my channel. So, I'll have this prompt down below. The prompt details how this works, and it requires you to upload a photo and the link that you want to use. But, you could always tell it not to use a photo if you want. So, I uploaded this other

image of me doing a ninja warrior. Let's see if it's able to do something with that. And the key with this is I want the QR code to blend into the image seamlessly while still being functional. So, here is what it made for me, this really whimsical take on the image with that QR code in the background, which does indeed work. So, you can of course change the style. I just really like

this style for wallpapers, but if you want a different style, just just tell it what style you want, and it'll be able to adapt it to what you're looking for. We'll switch back to Google because in addition to releasing a bunch of new updates to Android, they also announced a few other AI features this past week. Although, not too many because I think they're saving them all for Google I/O next week. The first update is for Google Workspace users. Soon, when you use Help when you write inside of Gmail, which is that little bar at the bottom of all your email messages that you can use to help you write your emails, they're going to be more personalized because it'll be able to pull information from past emails and from Google Drive very soon. And even use

those to match formatting and tone. So, that's really cool. I've been using that a lot with my Workspace account. Frustrated it's not available for regular Gmail users because they you guys would love that as well. So, hopefully this will eventually hit regular accounts. There's also been an

update to Stitch. If you're not familiar with Stitch, it's an AI design platform that creates interactive UIs. It's commonly used by product teams and like solo entrepreneurs and even designers who want to mock up or create the first draft of what their app or website is going to look like. But but anyway, the image generation in Stitch got a big update. So, overall the quality just looks a lot nicer, and it's going to align better with your brand. And you

can see some examples of that here. Like the old version and the new version just looks so much better. Here's another one. And here's another one. So, if you use Stitch, check out the new glow up that they gave it.

Next, this week's gadget of the week. This is typically going to be a gadget that I'll have hands-on to actually be able to talk to you about, but this week I want to talk about one that isn't even out yet. It's called the Google Book. This was built with Gemini intelligence from the ground up. So, there's ton of AI that's going to be in this laptop.

But, the standout unique feature that I want to highlight is their magic cursor. So, when you were using the laptop, if you just wiggle your cursor, it'll activate this magic cursor, and you can select anything to interact with Gemini. So, in this example, they were inside an email. So, he just highlighted the or hovered over the text for the email, and you can see that it pulls up his calendar. You could ask it to draft a reply or suggest a meetup spot because the original message was, "Hey, let's meet up." Or in this example, he hovered

it over an image, and with that, you can search for the image or create a new one or identify the style. So, I thought that was pretty neat. I don't know if these Google Books are really going to take off, but that feature in particular I thought was worth mentioning. It's pretty cool. And the very last bit of news is that Grok has gotten an update.

Now, connectors are available both on web and on mobile, so you can connect it up with your favorite apps and use them in conversations like we've had with ChatGPT for a long time now. So, those are all the AI updates from the past week. If you want to make sure that you don't miss out on next week cuz I will be at Google I/O reporting live from there with all the updates and giving you guys my takes on those. So, if you don't want to miss out on those, make sure you both subscribe and turn on the bell notification so that you get alerts when I release those videos next week about all the newest stuff that Google is releasing. Rumor has it they have some really incredible stuff coming that I'm super excited to find out about and get my hands on and will definitely be reporting to you guys once I learn more.

So, make sure to subscribe for that and then I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.