---
video_title: "How To Use The New Google Gemini (in 2026)"
video_id: UXJWm_SRauY
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UXJWm_SRauY
video_date: 2026-06-09T13:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  A complete beginner's guide to Google Gemini in 2026, covering models, notebooks, personal intelligence, image and video generation, Canvas, and usage limits.
  
  How to Create Videos with Gemini: https://youtu.be/IrA0mzZTwLo
  Master Gemini Spark: https://youtu.be/jHFPnqqGC6M
  Master Notebooks in Gemini: https://youtu.be/_DWMkNKTlF4
  
  Some features in this video may not be available in your region or on your plan yet.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:19 Getting Started
  0:46 Models
  1:29 Notebooks
  4:10 Personal Intelligence
  6:44 Images, Videos, and Canvas
  8:44 Usage Limits
  9:17 Outro
---
Google Gemini has a dizzying array of new features, tools, and settings. And it can be hard to know what's actually important. So, instead of explaining every single thing you can do with Gemini, in this video, I just want to go over the important basics. The stuff that you need to know to get up and running with Gemini and using some of its best features. There are several ways that you can access your Gemini account, but we'll start on the web.

Just come over to gemini.google.com. This will be linked with your Google account. So, as long as you're signed into Gmail or Calendar or Drive here on this browser, you'll be signed in to your Gemini account. Right here in the

middle is the prompt box. This is where you can ask it any questions or chat with it. For instance, I can ask it what's the fastest way to cook rice if I'm in a rush? Over here, you can select the model that you're going to use. There are currently three. There's

flashlight, flash, and pro. I generally recommend that you leave it on flash all the time. Flashlight is the weakest. Pro is usually the strongest model. And flash is a good all-around helpful model. That's a good balance

between intelligence and cost, which we'll talk about soon. Down here, you can change the thinking level from standard to extended. But generally speaking, you should leave it on standard and only use extended for more complex problems. With the model now selected, you can send your prompt. And then, of course, you'll get an answer from Gemini.

Over here on the left, under recents, you'll see all of your chats. Here's the one that we just started. In this section, the most recently accessed chat will surface to the top of this list. But otherwise, these aren't very organized. To organize your chats, you want to use notebooks. You can find

those right here on the left menu. To create a new notebook, click on new notebook. Here, you can give your new notebook a name. Again, this is going to be a place where you can organize similar chats. So, I might call this my cooking notebook. That way, anytime I

ask Gemini a question about cooking, I can put that chat into this notebook so I can easily find it later. Over here on the left, you'll now see my cooking notebook. Let's add a chat to that, the one that we just started where I asked it how to cook rice quickly. I'll click on these three dots and click on add to notebook and select the cooking notebook. You'll notice that it now disappeared from the recent chat section. And if I click on my cooking

notebook here, you'll find that chat right here. Going forward though, anytime I have a question about cooking, I can just open up this cooking notebook and start the chat from within here. So, for instance, I might ask it, "What's the easiest meal to meal prep?" Now, I get a great answer telling me that I should be making burrito bowls and the entire assembly line for how I should set up that meal prep. Now, I go about my day, go do some other activities, start some other chats inside of Gemini, and if I need to come back to this recipe and how to meal prep these burrito bowls, I can just click on cooking and I'll see my easy meal prep plan right here. But, let's now take

these notebooks up a level. If we come back into the cooking notebook, you'll see right here is the option to add sources. With this, you can attach knowledge sources to the notebook, things like files, things in your drive, or even website links. So, for instance, if we click on add websites, you can paste in any links here to information on websites that pertain to this notebook. Here for instance, I found a great article all about meal prepping. I'll copy down this

URL, put it in here, and I also found this great YouTube video about how to make burrito bowls. So, I will grab the link for this, copy, and come over to my notebook and paste that one in there. And if I click on insert, you'll see that those have both been added as sources. So now when I chat with this notebook, it will pull information from these sources as well as information from the web generally and information from my past chats. So it really becomes a workspace where you not only organize chats, but that also grows as you use it more. This idea of having a growing

knowledge base can also be applied to your entire Gemini experience using something called personal intelligence. To turn on personal intelligence, you want to click on the bottom here on this gear icon and then click on personal intelligence. There are really two main parts to personal intelligence. The first one is memory. With this toggled on, Gemini can learn from your past chats to understand more about you.

When this is on, then anytime you start a new chat, it's not starting from scratch. It will be able to pull information that you talked about in prior chats. Coming back into personal intelligence, you can also come into connected apps. These connect Gemini with a lot of the apps you probably already use. So with all of these toggled on, Gemini, anytime I start a new task, will be able to reference emails, things I have in my calendar, documents I have in Drive or Docs and Keep, even past YouTube videos I've viewed and photos in Google Photos.

You can turn any of these on or off however you want. But the more of these that are turned on, the more helpful Gemini is going to be. Here's an example of that in action. I told Gemini that I'm planning a 3-day road trip to Sedona and asked it to plan out the route for me. Here it put together the itinerary, but notice that it's using a lot of information about me that I didn't give it in this prompt. For instance, it

knows where I live. That's certainly something important when you're planning out a road trip. It also knows that I like hiking, so a lot of the recommendations are for hikes. And finally, it knows I like to eat clean, healthy food. So, it gave me restaurant recommendations that have healthier food.

All this information came from personal intelligence. Gemini knows all this about me because we've talked about these subjects before. What you'll also notice is that Gemini gave us these answers in this really nice format. We have pictures of the restaurant and different hikes with bullet points under them. You can click on the names of the restaurants and it opens it up in the map on the right where you can click through and see the reviews.

What's nice is that this visually dynamic response from Gemini is automatic. I didn't tell it to do this. It just understood that giving me pictures of different hikes and restaurants and putting it all on this map was the best way to help me with the prompt that I gave it. All of that just happens in the background automatically for you. Let's move on now to some of the other features inside of Gemini.

We'll start a new chat and click on this plus icon. This will open up a menu where you can activate some of the other features that Gemini has. Let's look at a few of my favorites. First, we have image generation. With this, you can just describe what image you want Gemini to make for you and it will create it.

So, for instance, I can say create an image of a future where people live in sky ships in the clouds, steampunk style. And then just a few seconds later, here's your new image. We can do the same thing with videos. If we click on the top left where it says new chat, click on the plus icon again, you can select create video. And once again, you can just describe what you're looking for. Create a video of a future where

people live in sky ships in the clouds, steampunk style. And then about a minute later, you'll have your video. >> We left the surface when the rivers turned to dust. Now, the sky is the only ocean we know. >> In the final feature I want to show you inside a new chat is this one called Canvas.

Canvas will create a panel on the side where you can work collaboratively with Gemini. It's best if I just show you an example. So, if I tell it for instance, create a story for me about a civilization that lives in sky ships in the cloud, instead of writing the response in the chat, it actually creates a story in this side panel over here on the right. Then I can come in here and make any changes that I want or even highlight sections of it and tell Gemini that I don't like this, make some changes to it. Canvas is great for writing, creating apps, websites, or slide decks. It's important to know

though that the more that you use Gemini and the more that you ask it to do difficult things like creating apps or websites, the faster you're going to burn through your Gemini usage limits. You can find your usage limits by clicking on the bottom left on the gear icon and then clicking on usage limits. Here you'll see that there are two usage limits, your current usage and your weekly limit. If either of these bars are full, you're not going to be able to use Gemini to its fullest capabilities until it resets. The current usage resets, I think, every 5 hours and the weekly obviously resets once a week.

Once you hit your limits though, you can still use Gemini, but you'll have to use it on flashlight. Those are what I would consider to be the basic features of Gemini, more than enough to get you started and using some of Gemini's best features. But if you want to take a deeper dive into some of the more powerful things that you can do with Gemini, I have plenty of videos about each specific feature on my channel. For instance, right Right is a video that goes much more in depth into how to use canvas and some of the wild things you can do with it. But in the description down below, I'll also have a video about how to get the most out of grading videos in Gemini, how to use the new Gemini Spark, which is the agent that will soon be built into Gemini, as well as a more in-depth video into how to use notebooks. So, if you're ready for level

two, make sure to click on this video or one of the links in the description down below and I'll see you over in that video in 1 second. Bye for now.