---
video_title: "AI News: NotebookLM's New Name; GPT 5.6 vs Fable; OpenAI Hardware; and More"
video_id: tgoMkQxGOVw
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgoMkQxGOVw
video_date: 2026-07-17T13:00:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the iFLYTEK AINOTE 2:
  Amazon: https://amzn.to/4pskzWk
  Official store: https://iflytek.biz/4aUzpil
  YouTube: @theainote  https://www.youtube.com/@theainote
  #AINOTE #AINOTE2 #iFLYTEK #iFLYTEKAINOTE
  🔗 This video is sponsored. 
  
  This week's AI news covers NotebookLM's rebrand to Gemini Notebook, OpenAI's first hardware product, new Google AI updates, and the GPT-5.6 versus Fable 5 usage war.
  
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:54 NotebookLM Becomes Gemini Notebook
  4:49 OpenAI's First Hardware Product
  6:42 iFLYTEK AINOTE 2
  8:28 More Google AI Updates
  12:22 GPT-5.6 vs Fable 5
  15:10 AI's Leap for Non-Technical Users
---
We got a lot of AI news to cover this week. First, we'll talk about some new announcements about notebook LM and then we need to talk about this showdown between OpenAI and Anthropic because things are really heating up and I've never seen the big AI companies act like this before. OpenAI reset its usage limits and Thropic then reset theirs. OpenAI removed their 5 hour limit but Anthropic Extended Fable 5 again is been kind of crazy. It's like a bidding war, except the prize is you. I'll break down what all of this means for you, all those notebook LM updates and we'll also talk about the launch of OpenAI's first hardware product along with a lot of other news. My name is Paul J. Lipsky. Every week I release an AI news recap just like this one where I talk about the news that non-technical people actually care about. So if that's what you're looking for, make sure to subscribe and now let's get to the breaking news. Let's start with that breaking news from Google. Notebook LM, one of my favorite AI tools ever is now no more. That's because it is being renamed to Gemini Notebook. Now before anyone panics, nothing is being taken away. Google says that notebook or Gemini Notebook will stay a standalone product and it's going to continue to focus on being a great place to do research and organizing topics. This is just a rebrand that pulls notebook LM deeper into the Gemini ecosystem. Along with a new name, they've also announced that it will be available in more places. So right now, of course, it is accessible inside of Gemini directly, but it's also going to be pulled into Google search when you use AI mode so that should be coming soon. Also about a month ago, Google gave AI ultra-subscribers a series upgrade to notebook LM. My account, because I have an ultra-account, now has access to Gemini 3.5 and anti-gravity plus a cloud computer so it can write code in the background on your sources. What that means is that it's unlocked newer capabilities. So it can output PDFs, it can output Excel files, PowerPoints, PNG images, and I can start all that directly inside the chat. It's a much more a genetic notebook, sorry Gemini notebook. The catch though was that this required an ultra-subscription which most people aren't using. Well, they've also said that that will be rolling out to all pro users on the web over the coming weeks. And the team has also said that they are adding folders to notebook very soon, which is probably the number one request from users as to what they want to see added. That way you'll be able to organize all of your different notebooks. In the meantime, there were two smaller updates to notebook that you may have missed. So first, when you come to all your notebooks and you click on these three dots, you can pin any of them to the top to easily be able to come back to them. I don't think everyone knows about that. And when you open up any notebook, if you have any sources that are inside a Google Drive, like a Google Doc here, those will automatically stay in sync. That wasn't the case in the past, but now they've added that auto sync. I think this rebrand makes a lot of sense. Google has been folding everything into the Gemini brand for a while now, and notebook being one of their top AI products, and something that stopped being a little research experiment a long time ago, it makes sense to get this new branding. And I'm actually pretty proud of the team for everything that they've done. If you don't know this already, notebook LM was originally called Project Tailwind. That's when it was just an idea that a few Googlers had, just kind of throwing this together. It didn't really have any serious legs to it at the time, but very soon they saw that this was a real product that they could have. So they started to brainstorm an actual name for it. They bounced around a whole bunch of ideas, and some of them wanted to call it Google Notebook. But they realized it was way too early for that to give it such like a dedicated name like that, like Google Maps or Google Keep, right? So it was way too early to give it that name, Google Notebook. So they just changed it a little bit to notebook LM. And now it kind of feels like it's graduating, and they're finally getting the name that they deserve Gemini Notebook. I'll probably still call it Notebook LM by accident quite a bit. And so I think like going forward, I may just call it Notebook, just to kind of make it easier, because it applies to both the old name and the new name, or I'll try to remember to call it Gemini Notebook. It doesn't really matter. What matters is that the tool keeps getting better, and pro users are about to get the best version of it yet. Next, we need to talk about this hardware product that OpenAI released this week. This week, OpenAI starts selling, right? For this, the KBD 1.0, or is it name of it? KBD, well, whatever. The short name for it is the Codex Micro. It's a physical keyboard device. They built with a company called Work Louder. So with this small pad, let me see if I can find a better image of it. Here we go. It's this small pad that sits on your desk with these buttons and this joystick and this little knob here. And you can map each of these keys to your AI workflow on Codex. The buttons can kick off different tasks, and you can flip between your pin chats, that kind of thing. What makes it kind of cool is that these buttons will light up different colors. If your Codex agents need certain attention, so like when it starts a task, when a task is running, when it needs you to approve something, they'll all turn different colors, which is pretty cool. It was marketed as a tool for Codex Power Users, but it seems like you may be able to use it with ChatGPT work. I'm not certain of that though. Regardless, it had very limited stock and is now out of stock. And I don't think it's really all that necessary. It's really more of a gimmick. But I think the interesting thing is that OpenAI is finally releasing a physical hardware product for the first time. Even if this particular gadget isn't for you, it tells you where they think things are going. AI in the real world. We know that they're working on a more mainstream product that will be more of a smart speaker, but there aren't many details on that. In the meantime, if you want an AI gadget that is available already and is actually very useful, you may want to check out the sponsor of today's video. If you follow AI news like I do, you know how quickly useful information starts piling up. So what if you had a notebook that could capture it, organize it, and help you turn it into action. Today's video is sponsored by the iFlyTech AI Note 2 AI notebook. Let's start with a meeting. As people speak, the AI Note 2 transcribes a conversation in real time across 18 supported languages, identifies different speakers, and can instantly translate across 14 languages. When the meeting ends, GPT-5 turns the transcript into a structured summary with action items. Then I can tap AI on the left toolbar to open AI aid. It lets me ask questions based entirely on my saved meetings and notes and can help schedule the next steps on my calendar. All of this inside a device that's just 4.2 millimeters thin and 295 grams. It's Guinness World Record certified as a world's thinnest e-ink tablet with a crisp 300 ppi display that's easy on the eyes. It also comes with a stylus that feels impressively close to paper, so it's great for notes, sketches, or marking up documents. I can even turn my handwriting into clean digital text. For anyone following fast-moving AI news or handling daily office work, it's a practical way to capture information, stay organized, and get more done. And because it runs Android 14 with Google Play, I can add apps and use it as an e-reader. If you want a paper like AI notebook with genuinely useful productivity features, check out the iFly Tech AI Note 2 using the link in the description and now back to the news. Besides all the updates to Gemini Notebook, Google has also been quietly stacking up updates all week to their other AI products, so let's run through those. First Gemini Spark. If you're not familiar with Spark, it's Google's personal AI agent. It works in the cloud, so it can work 24-7. You don't need a computer on. It just kind of gets things done for you across the entire Google ecosystem. It rolled out for AI Ultra Subscribers a few months ago. I have had access to it, and now it's rolling out in more countries, again, only for ultra subscribers. They've also added additional capabilities. Spark can open and edit Google Docs now. It can read comments in Google Sheets and Slides, and it is 50% faster. And the most exciting news is that it should be coming for pro members very soon. Next, there's been an update to personal intelligence. If you're not familiar with personal intelligence, come into your Gemini account, click on the bottom where it says settings, and click on personal intelligence. Inside of here, you'll see your connected apps. And so what personal intelligence does is it connects the entire Google ecosystem for you. It pulls in your Gmail, your docs, your Google Keep, Google Drive, Tess, Calendar, YouTube, Google Photos, Search Services, all of that, and connects it all with Gemini. So when you're chatting with Gemini, it's going to be able to pull from all of those sources. But now it's also going to be available inside of AI mode on Google Search. This will allow you to add invites or other meetings to your calendar directly from AI mode, and you'll get more tailored responses that work with your existing plans. It's kind of this little quality of life update, but exactly the kind of thing you would expect out of this entire Google ecosystem when you want it all just to kind of work together seamlessly. Here's another update. A lot of you may be familiar with Gemini in Chrome. That's over here on the right if you have access to it. You can click on this and talk to Gemini in here and ask questions about the tabs that you have open. That is now rolling out in the UK. So you'll be able to use that to summarize, to compare, or to answer questions about what you're looking at. For any of you that use Google AI Studio, I have some great news for you. Now, whenever you create an app inside of Google AI Studio, up here on the top right, you can click on publish. Now, in the past, when you did this, you just kind of got this generic URL. But now you can actually choose a URL. So here is the URL that they gave me. It's product description generator dot AI studio. But I can call this one like Paul J. Lipsky dot AI studio. And now I've just claimed that that is now mine. So if you go to that, you'll get access to this product description thing that I put together. But I'm actually going to turn that off because I don't want you guys using all my API credits. But the point is instead of sharing some long messy link to your app, you can have a clean, memorable AI studio address. So if you're building anything with Google AI Studio, definitely check this out and grab your own custom domain. And I also have a little bit of bad news. The rumor was that today, the day this video is going live, Google Gemini 3.5 pro was supposed to be released. But now it seems like it has been delayed. So hopefully we'll get it next week or the week after. Certainly when it does drop, you know that I'm going to be covering it inside my weekly AI news recap. So if you want all the details about it when it does drop, make sure you're subscribed. All right. Now let's get to the drama, the battle between chat GPT and Claude quick recap where we are at currently inthropic sort of recently released their most powerful publicly available model ever, Fable 5. Now we were only supposed to have access to this on our subscriptions until July 7th. That was then moved to July 12th and it has been extended again to July 19th. So we have a few more days, although at this rate, there's rumors that they're trying to get it onto our subscription permanently. Why? Well, likely because OpenAI released GPT 5.6 and it's really good. Maybe not as powerful as Fable 5, but more than capable for most of the things that we need to use it for. And it is available in our subscriptions and will continue to become available. And OpenAI is fighting hard. This past week, they got rid of their 5 hour usage limits. So if you come into the chat GPT desktop app, like if you're using chat GPT work or codex, down here you can see your usage remaining. There used to be a 5 hour limit here. That is gone and they've taken away temporarily, but it's been gone all week now, which means that we can use it more. In addition to that, even though we have a weekly limit, they keep resetting it. So it almost feels like I have unlimited access to GPT 5.6. Not to be outdone though, Claude and Thropic has done the same thing with Claude once or twice. And they even did it on the same day that OpenAI did it a few days back. So that's why people online are calling this the token wars. Both companies right now are giving away so much compute, more usage than ever at prices that definitely aren't sustainable. I mean, check this chart out right here. The true cost of one of these subscriptions. That's how much we are paying and that's how much usage we actually get access to. So this cannot go on forever. At some point, the prices are going to go up, the resets are going to stop and the limits will come back. So the smart move isn't picking should I go with OpenAI, should I go with Anthropic, it's really just picking one or both of them if you want and using them as much as you can while this window remains open. And to be honest, this whole chat GBT versus Claude debate almost really doesn't matter. Across the board, these new rollouts we've seen over the past month have seriously accelerated what we can do with AI. The productivity boost I've gotten over the past week is really felt and has been kind of insane. If you think back to December and January, during that time we saw this significant leap in what AI could do. But that leap was really for coders and developers. It did trickle down to the rest of us, but this time what we're seeing over the past two weeks, it feels a lot different. It really feels like this is a significant jump for non-technical people. First, because the AI models have gotten so good and so good at knowledge work, I now trust them more than ever with more of my workflows. Combine that with the tools that are now available to us, Claude cowork and chat GBT work are better than ever and they now run in the cloud. So that means you can fully access them from your phone. And that's what I've been doing. I have been delegating tasks to my AI assistants in a way I never could be for. And now I do it all for my phone when I get back to my computer, so much more of my work is done. It has really been incredible and the leap in capabilities from only a couple of weeks ago is quite remarkable. I am already planning a video where I'm going to be showing you some of those workflows and the incredible things I've been able to automate with the new models and tools. But if there's any specific workflows that you want me to showcase in that video, please let me know in the comments section down below because I'm making the video for you. I want it to actually help you because you need to be taking advantage of this. I think now more than ever, it is clear that if you're not using AI, you will get left behind. And I'm not the only one who feels that way. George Lucas came out this week and declared that AI is the future of filmmaking and he urged Hollywood to embrace it. He says it's inevitable and I agree with him. I don't know much about the film industry, but I see what it's doing for knowledge workers and for coding. It is inevitable. And that's where I want to leave things this week. If you enjoyed this recap, do me a quick favor, hit that like button and subscribe if you want to break down like this every single week, especially with rumors that 3.5 pro are coming hopefully soon. I'll definitely be making a video about it as soon as it drops, so you do want to be subscribed for that. Otherwise, thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.