---
video_title: "NotebookLM and Gemini Just Merged (Massive Update)"
video_id: Y-LTxr1bv9M
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-LTxr1bv9M
video_date: 20260408
video_description: |
  NotebookLM just got merged into Gemini, and it quietly turns Gemini into a real project/folder system with notebook memory, instructions, and a way better way to organize your chats.
  
  Heads up, these updates may not be available worldwide yet. Just because I have access to them doesn't mean you will yet.
  
  🔗 This video is not sponsored. Some product links are affiliate links which means if you buy something we'll receive a small commission.
---
I don't like to overhype things, but I do think that this is one of the biggest updates to Gemini we have ever seen. It completely changes the way that you're going to use Gemini moving forward. Check out what they've done. Opening up Gemini, you now notice over here on the left we have a section called notebooks. Clicking on this, you can see all of your notebooks from Notebook LM in here.

The two have now merged together. The exact same ones that you can find directly on Notebook LM itself. If you're not familiar with Notebook LM, it's basically Google's AI research tool. It allows you to create these different notebooks that are all centered around a certain topic, like I have one right here that's all about how to make chocolate chip cookies, and you can add sources from all across the web, articles, blog posts, YouTube videos, and from that you can chat with that information, and you can generate all these assets like audio overviews, slide decks, flash cards, reports, quizzes, infographics, different things like that. And now that has been merged over into Gemini. But this is more than just

being able to access your notebooks inside of Gemini. This is an entire folder and organization system. You can think of them as folders or projects. And I think it's going to fundamentally change the way that you're going to use Gemini. Even if you've never used Notebook LM before, you're going to want to set up these notebooks now because they can organize your chats. So for

instance, over here on the left I have one notebook called bouldering, which is all about rock climbing, bouldering, and you notice that when I open it up, I can not only chat with this information that's included in this notebook, but anytime I start a chat in here, it's going to be added to this notebook. So coming back into the notebook again, that chat now appears here along with all the other chats that I started inside this notebook. So I know a lot of people have been asking for months now for some sort of folder system where we can organize all of our chats. This is it. This is Gemini's solution to it, and I think it is really awesome. It's well

beyond what I ever imagined as a folder system for Gemini. Now I've been fortunate enough to get early access to notebooks inside of Gemini, so I've been testing it out for a couple of weeks, and I want to show you some of the more nuanced stuff that may not be obvious the first time that you log in and get access to notebooks, and I want to show you everything that this can do. So this is currently rolling out for users. It's available for Ultra users first, then Pro, and it's going to trickle down, hopefully eventually to free users, I'm sure, and it may not be available in all regions yet. Once it is available, you will see it over here on the left at the top it says notebooks. Just like with

gems, you can pin up to five notebooks, and then at the bottom will be your most recent notebook that's not pinned. And like I showed you before, you can always see all your notebooks by clicking right here where it says notebooks, and here you can see all of them, or choose any of them and pin them. You can rename them directly inside Gemini, or delete them, which deletes them not only inside Gemini, but inside Notebook LM as well. You can also create notebooks directly inside of Gemini either by clicking right here where it says new notebook, or clicking on the left here where it says new notebook. And this is going to look a little bit different than creating a new notebook inside of Notebook LM. When you create one inside

of Notebook LM, it immediately pops up this box where it really describes to you all the different assets that you can upload into this. But for Gemini, it prompts you first to create a name for the notebook. So for this one, I just want to create one all about working out. So anytime I ask Gemini a question about working out, I'll store it inside this notebook, kind of as a folder system. Then clicking the blue button, you can see that brings you right into the chat before you even add any sources. So it's a bit of a different

experience than starting a notebook inside of Notebook LM. But if you do want to add sources, you can do that right here by clicking add sources, and here you can upload files, add from Google Drive, add websites, or copy text, same as in Notebook LM. But if you're just interested in using this as a folder system, you don't have to add any sources at all. But what you can do is if you close this and click on these three dots, there's a setting here for your notebook, and you can turn on notebook memory, which will consider all the chats in this notebook when responding. So that's pretty huge, I think. So for example, if you come back

over to my bouldering one, I have it toggled on in here, so anytime I chat with it, I'm not starting fresh. It's able to see all the other chats and adapt the answer based on those chats. And in using this, it really feels more like an evolving workspace that gets to know you better and better the more that you use it. Coming back to the notebook settings, you'll also see instructions that tell Gemini how to respond and what tone to use when you're chatting with it inside this notebook. So for instance, I have another notebook to help me with Ninja Warrior training, and inside of this one, I gave it instructions to act as a high-level athletic consultant who helps people with grip endurance and different things if they're into Ninja Warrior. So I've been using this to help

me master all the different techniques for Ninja Warrior like devil steps, salmon ladder, and laches. I also want to show you down here on the left when you come to the all chats section, you can click on these three dots now and add any of your chats to an existing notebook. So if I add this one, let's say to this notebook for instance, you'll notice that it now disappears from the all chats section. So it's very organized. You know that if it's not appearing in here, then it is inside one of your notebooks, and that's where you have to go to actually find it. Next, if

you have a notebook open inside of Gemini and you want to actually see the notebook in Notebook LM, all you have to do is click this button on the top right that says Notebook LM. That will open up a new tab with that notebook. And what you'll notice is that over here on the left, in addition to all the sources that you've uploaded inside of Notebook LM and inside of Gemini, you will also see your Gemini chats in here as a source. So that has been brought over from Gemini into Notebook LM and will be included as a source for this notebook unless you unselect it. And in case you're wondering, this is not yet available on mobile, at least not as of the recording of this video. Hopefully

that does come soon. So overall, this isn't exactly what I don't think any of us were expecting when it came to a folder system inside of Gemini, but it does work, and it works really well, and it shouldn't really be all that surprising. After all, I heard recently that Notebook LM actually has more search volume, like more people searching for it than Gemini right now. So Notebook LM is incredibly popular, and the merger between the two of these is honestly kind of genius. In fact, a couple of months ago, I created this Chrome extension called Chat Architect.

You can see it already has 20,000 users and really good ratings, and just to give you an idea of what this did, here I have it loaded up here. It allows you to add folders, so I can add like a new folder here, and drag chats in the folders, and this was necessary at the time. I think that's why it was so popular, but I'm telling you guys, even though I'm the creator of Chat Architect, don't use it anymore. The system that Gemini built out or that Google built out for Gemini with notebooks is so much better. Not only because it's native and quite honestly it works better, but also because of that notebook wide memory and instructions. That is a total game

changer for Gemini. Now let's talk real world usage and when and how you should be using this, because there are essentially three different ways to chat with notebooks now. You can do it directly inside of Notebook LM, you can open up the notebook in Gemini and chat here, or you can start a new chat, click on the plus icon and add a notebook as a source. But I still think of Notebook LM as the place that I go to to do and store my research. I like taking all the sources that I'm looking at and throwing them in here as a great place to stay organized.

And anytime I want to make sure that either the chat or any of the assets that I generate are grounded only in the sources that I've uploaded into this notebook, I'm going to come directly inside of Notebook LM. But I'll be honest, I've never really loved the chat inside of Notebook LM. It feels slow and it doesn't feel as smart as Gemini. So when I want that extra power, I come over to Gemini now and come to the notebook here and chat with it here. And just more and more I find myself using the chat inside of Gemini more instead of the one inside of Notebook LM, mainly because it stores my chats so neatly, and it does have that memory system across all the chats inside this notebook. So it really feels like it's

growing and evolving over time. But I have to say, I love a lot of the assets that you can generate inside of Notebook LM, things like audio overviews, slide decks, and infographics. I think Notebook LM does a better job at that than Gemini, and it's a lot faster as well. So for any of those assets, I'm still coming into Notebook LM when I need those generated. And then finally, since this update, I have not come into a new chat outside of a notebook and added a notebook as a source. I can see

myself using that if it's just like a one-off quick question about a notebook that I don't really plan on chatting with a lot, but in general, I'm just going to come directly to the notebook and chat in here, because why not? It's here and it's super organized. So yeah, that's the big update, and like I said, I think this is really going to change the way that we use Gemini going forward. Lots of people have complained that there's no project system or folder system inside of Gemini. We finally have that, and the fact that it incorporates Notebook LM is really awesome. I think

though, it's going to upset some people. They're going to wish that there was just some straight regular folder or system project. But personally, I would argue that this is just as good for people who want projects and better for those who are actually going to take advantage of the new Notebook LM merger with Gemini. But what do you think? Let me know in the comment section down below. Do you think this finally solves

one of the biggest pain points that Gemini has had? Or are you disappointed and wish that we just went with the different direction with this? And then of course, make sure that you subscribe to the channel. I'm going to stay on top of all the latest Notebook LM and Gemini news and all the updates. So if you don't want to miss out on that and all the new features, make sure to subscribe, give the video a thumbs up, and then I'll see you in the next video.

Bye for now.