---
video_title: "How To Use Pomelli: Google's Free AI Marketing Agent"
video_id: DvsKFckdfE0
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DvsKFckdfE0
video_date: 20260531
video_description: |
  Pomelli is Google's free AI marketing agent that builds your brand kit, product photos, ad campaigns, and even a full website in a few clicks — here's how to use every feature.
  
  🔗 This video is not sponsored. 
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:22 Business DNA Setup
  4:01 Catalog & Product Photoshoot
  6:47 Building Your Website
  7:50 Social Media Campaigns
  10:17 Assets & Brand Book
  12:48 Outro
---
Google Pameli is a completely free tool that you can use to generate social media campaigns, product images, and even entire websites. And it's as easy as clicking a few buttons. In this video, I'll show you step-by-step how to master every feature inside of Pameli in just a few minutes. So, you can start using this completely free tool for all your business branding and marketing needs. Let's get into it. To get

started, head over to labs.google.com/pameli. Then, click on let's get started. Here is an overview of what you can do with Pameli, but I'll walk you through each of these in this video, so you can just click on let's go. The first thing you

need to do is generate your business DNA. You can think of your business DNA as a brand kit that tells Pameli what fonts, colors, and style you use for your business. Now, if you already have a website, this is very easy. You just grab the URL for it, put it in here, and it will scan that website and extract from it all of the information it needs to build your business DNA. For this demo, though, I'm going to pretend that I don't even have a website yet. All I have are three images that

I've taken of the product that I'm selling, which is this new candle, and I'm calling my new candle company Waxing Moon. So, coming back to Pameli, I'll click where it says, "I don't even have a website yet." From here, you have two choices. You can select to set up your brand DNA from a template. However, that's going to give you very generic results. So, I suggest

you instead select from scratch. Over here is where you can manually enter in your business DNA, but we're going to use the Pameli agent on the right to fill this out for us by dragging in the three images that I have of my product. So, all I have to do is find those images. Here they are on my desktop, and drag them in. You can now see that they're uploading, and now the Pamely agent is analyzing them. And now that it's done with that,

I can click on generate business DNA. So, look what just happened. It automatically filled in all these details. It found the name of my company, which is Waxing Moon. It pulled in the fonts, which are on the labels. It also brought

in the colors from the images. You can see a lot of those same colors right here in this image. And it gave us a tagline, small batch artisanal blend hand poured in California, which you can also find on the label down here. From this, it also determined my brand values and brand tone of voice and business overview. If I'm unhappy with this or it's not quite accurate, you can click on the pencil icon and make any changes manually.

Or you can just tell Pamely agent what changes you want to make. So, for instance, I can tell it I don't quite like the tagline. I want something more exciting. Here are three new options, and I really like this first one. It says, "Ignite the magic of the midnight moon."

So, I will select that one, and you'll see it automatically fills in where the tagline is. After you spend a few minutes going through all of this and making sure it's perfect, you next want to click on business details. This is where you can enter in details like the location of your business, the phone number, business hours, and any social media links. You don't have to fill in these details, especially if you don't have them, but this will be helpful when Pamely makes a website for you. So, I'm going to fill in what details I do have. Perfect. Now, make

sure you click on the bottom right where it says, "Let's go." Your business DNA is now ready. To proceed to the next step, you have to select one of these. We'll click on the one that says photo shoot. Over here on the left, you can see the menu that has just opened up for you. We're actually

not going to start inside photo shoot. Instead, I want you to click where it says catalog. Catalog will show you all the products that you're selling in your store. If you added a URL when you first set up your business DNA, it will automatically pull in the products from your website. But since I started from scratch, I don't have anything in here.

So, I can either add a product from a URL or I can add from scratch. I'll add from scratch and when I click on the plus icon, I'll see all three images because I've already uploaded these to the agent when I built out my brand kit. So, I'll select these three and click on looks good. Now, I can give this a name. So, I'll call it signature soy candle and an item description.

Perfect. And now, I'll click on create catalog item. Now, unfortunately, I only have three images of this product and that's not enough. I want more images of this product. So, I'll click right here where it says create photo shoot. This will

bring us over to the photo shoot section that we were briefly inside of before. And this is a way to do an AI powered photo shoot where you upload one image of your product and from that you can create more images all with AI. So, over here on the right, we have the photo shoot template that's going to be used and on the left will be the reference image. Our reference image was automatically populated inside of this, but we can choose the templates that we want to use. So, I can click on the pencil icon and I can choose which four images I want to use as a template. So,

I don't love this one that was selected automatically. So, I'll unselect that one and I will instead select this one. I think this will be great with the candle. But, I also like the three that were chosen. So, you can choose whichever ones that you want and then click on looks good. So, now we have our

reference image, we have the templates, and we can click on generate photo shoot. And just like that, we have four new AI-generated images of our product. If you're unhappy with any of them, you can click on edit and tell Pamelia what changes you want made to this image. But, I'm happy with all four of these. So, I'll click on this drop-down here next to save and click on add four images to signature soy candle.

That way, these will be added as product images for this product. So, if I click on save changes and then click on the left again where it says catalog, here we can see the one product in my catalog, which is my signature soy candle. And opening this up, we see not only the original three images, but the four new images as well. Armed with these new images, I think this is a good time to look at your new website. So, we'll close this out and click on the left here where it says websites. When you

first open this up, Pamelia will begin it generating your website for you based on your business DNA and the items in your catalog. And here's our new website. I think it looks pretty good. But, if you want to make any changes to it, click on the bottom right here where it says edit, and just tell the agent what changes you want in conversational English. So, for instance, I can say get rid of the button on the top right that says your link here. Great, that looks so

much better. Once you're happy with your website, you can toggle on publish and click on this button to get a link that is a URL to your website. But, a website is pointless if no one visits it. So, let's set up a social media campaign to drive some traffic to our new website. We'll open up the left sidebar and click on where it says campaigns.

This is where you can use Promely to create ad campaigns or social media campaigns. Down here at the bottom are some suggested campaigns that it can set up for you. But up here, you can set up whatever type of campaign you want. So, let's set up one from scratch. First, I'll select the product that I want to promote, which is my signature soy candle.

Here, I can select which images I want to use. So, I want to use most of these images except these two. So, I'll select these five and click on update. And then finally, you can select the aspect ratio for the platform that you're going to be posting on. I'll select 9 by 16.

And then you can describe what you want the campaign to be about. So, for this one, I'll say I'm running a 4th of July special. 20% off. First thing I'll do is put together a campaign brief for you with a title, description, a goal, and what the offer is. You can of course change any of this, but if you're happy, click on confirm. And look at that. It just

generated five different images for us that we can then use for our ads or on social media. So, this one for instance put it on the dock and says, "Illuminate your July 4th. Bring a celestial glow to your summer nights with 20% off our signature soy blend." If I like this, I can click on these three dots and download it and then use it wherever I want. If I don't like it and just want to get rid of it entirely, I can delete it.

Another cool function of this is you can click on animate. And that will generate a video based on that image. And here's what that looks like. You could see the ripples in the lake behind it moving and even some of the stars twinkling before the letters appear. So, pretty cool. And

of course, you can download that video as well. So, this was just one campaign that it made for us. But if you click back to all your campaigns, you'll see the one that we just generated and you can create other ones as well. So, you're not just limited to one campaign. You can have multiples. So, if you have one

running for the 4th of July, maybe another one running for Father's Day, and another for Memorial Day all planned out in advanced using Pumeli. There's still a few buttons in here on the left that we haven't checked out yet. So, let's click on those next. We'll start with assets. These are all the images you've uploaded into Pumeli. You can see my original

three right here. And all the images that were created with a photo shoot. You can see those four here. You can also add anything that was created in a campaign manually and those will appear here. So, it's just the asset collection of all the images that you've generated basically or added.

Further down, we have photo shoot. When we used photo shoot before, we did it through the catalog by selecting an item in here and setting up a photo shoot that way. But you can also start photo shoots from scratch by coming to photo shoot and either having it generate a brand new image for you or you can click on create a product photo shoot, upload an image, and it will be the same workflow I showed you before. I prefer to go through the catalog because I already have images of my product in here and it just makes more sense to click create photo shoot from within the catalog. But you can always use this one if you want. And then finally, we have

brand book. This turns your business DNA into a shareable guide, one that details your brand identity, from the colors and fonts to the messaging that you use. When you click on it the first time, it will begin generating it for you. First, you'll select the cover for your brand book. Then, you can choose what images you want to be included inside of it.

So, I'll select all of these ones cuz I think these look great. And these are all being pulled from the asset section that I just showed you. And here's our brand book. You can see the company name, the brand overview, the color palette, what fonts we've used, the brand voice, all of that inside of this book. This can be published, or you can download it as a PDF to share however you want. So, you can think of Pameli

almost like a menu. Give it the ingredients you have. Maybe that's your website URL or just images of your product. And from that, have it generate for you whatever it is that you need for your business. Maybe that's more images of your products. Maybe that's social

media campaigns. Maybe you need a brand book, or maybe you need an entire website. Ask it to make what you need, and it will deliver. So, that's Pameli. An unbelievable amount of value packed into this free tool by Google. But, you

know what else is free? Google Vids. This is a tool where you can generate videos using AI avatars and even AI music right into this pretty robust video editor. I think this is one of the most undervalued Google AI tools out there. I've actually made an entire video on it, which you can find right here. Most people have never even heard

of Google Vids, and the amount of value it punches is pretty remarkable. So, if you want to find out everything you can do with Google Vids, click on this video right here, and I'll see you over there in 1 second. Bye for now.