---
video_title: "Wispr Flow Got Me Addicted To Voice Prompting (Can't Go Back)"
video_id: -VYvADXIJbU
channel_name: "Paul J Lipsky"
channel_id: UCmeU2DYiVy80wMBGZzEWnbw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-VYvADXIJbU
video_date: 2026-07-07T13:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Sponsored by Wispr Flow! Wispr Flow is faster and more efficient than any other built-in dictation tool. Download Wispr Flow today (it's free!) and use code LIPSKY at desktop checkout for a free month of Wispr Flow Pro: https://ref.wisprflow.ai/paul-j-lipsky-yt-3
  
  Wispr Flow isn't just accurate voice-to-text. It makes prompting AI tools like Gemini and ChatGPT far faster and better, and here's how I use it to talk instead of type.
  
  #wisprflowpartner 
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:57 Writing Emails by Voice
  1:37 Wispr Flow vs Built-In Dictation
  2:17 Prompting Gemini
  4:06 ChatGPT and Snippets
  5:29 Voice Prompting on Phone
  7:01 Outro
---
If you're only using Whisper Flow as a super accurate voice to text tool, then you're only taking advantage of half of what makes it so incredible. Since I started using Whisper Flow, I found that I rarely ever type now. Not just because Whisper Flow is four times faster than typing, but also because Prompting is 100 times better with Whisper Flow. It's kind of a dicting. So I want to show you why that is and how you can use Whisper Flow to create better prompts and get better outputs from AI as a result. If you're not familiar with Whisper Flow yet, it's an AI-powered voice to text tool for your computer and your phone. Before I show you how it works, I want to let you know that this video is sponsored by Whisper Flow. There will be a link in the description that will get you one month of Whisper Flow pro for free. But I've been using Whisper Flow for months now on my own, so when they reach out to me about sponsoring this video, it felt like a natural fit. For instance, when I write emails now, I don't ever type them. Instead, I activate Whisper Flow by holding down one button and start talking. Hey, Jamie, thanks for sending over the lesson. I took a look at it. I think it mostly looks fine. However, I think we should swap lesson four with lesson five. I mean, six. Let me know if that works. All the best, Paul. Notice how it didn't just type out what I said. I knew I was writing an email, so it formatted it correctly for email. It also removed all those ums and us and even fixed the correction I made mid-sentence. If you try to do that with the built-in dictation, we all know how different the result is going to be. Hey, Jamie, thanks for sending over the lesson. I took a look at it. I think it mostly looks fine. However, I think we should swap lessons six with lesson four. No, I mean lesson five. Let me know if that works. All the best, Paul. Look how messy that is and how it's not formatted for email. So, Whisper Flow not only saves you time because it's super accurate, but also because it types what you mean, not just what you say. But where Whisper Flow gets really addicting is when you use it to prompt your AI tools. Here I'm inside of Gemini and I want to ask it to create a website for me, except I'm not totally certain yet what I want the website to look like. With Whisper Flow, I can just think out loud, let Whisper Flow type for me, and then Gemini will take care of everything and create the website I want. Create a one-page website for my new restaurant Luna SnackShack. I wanted to have a cabin-like feel to it with like pine trees on the page, maybe a bird. I mean a loon somewhere. Let's also include the hours of operation, which are from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day. Location is on Main Street in Longmont, Colorado, and include the menu. Let's just make it like traditional snack shack type food. Before submitting this along to Gemini, I want to point out a couple of things. First, of course, it cleaned everything up, but I also want to point out that right here the name of the restaurant is Luna SnackShack. But this isn't spelled correctly. I want to do a little bit of a plan words here where I call it Luna with two O's as in a loon the bird. So I'm just going to go ahead and change this to Luna. And what's happening in the background is that Whisper Flow notices I made that change and is now added that spelling to my dictionary. So next time I say Luna SnackShack, it's going to spell it correctly. And I didn't need to go into the settings and add that it all just automatically happens. So of course, once I'm happy with this, I'll send a long Gemini now takes over. But as for the actual writing part of it, I never have to worry about it anymore. I just think out loud with Whisper Flow. Of course, Whisper Flow works anywhere you can type. So if we switch over to chat GBT, I can use Whisper Flow in here as well. It works exactly the same and carries over all my settings and my dictionary. It also carries over my snippets. Snippets are shortcuts. You say a short cue and Whisper Flow instantly drops in a full longer block of text. Here, for instance, I've a prompt I've saved as a snippet in Whisper Flow. Every time I say Studio Prompt Snippet, it will drop in this prompt that I use to clean up images. Let me show you how it works. So here inside of chat GBT, I uploaded this image for myself. And I have this perfect prompt that I use to clean up my images and make them look nice. Instead of typing that entire thing out, I can just hold down the Whisper Flow button and say Studio Prompt Snippet. And just like that, it fills in the entire prompt and I can send that along. So notice how fast that was. Typing that out would have taken much longer. And as a result, I usually wouldn't give such detail in the prompts that I use. But with Whisper Flow, it makes it very easy both with the snippets or even just talking out a prompt that I give it a lot more context and instructions much faster than I ever could with typing. And with the snippets, the results are of course much more consistent because I'm using the same prompt every time. Where I find Whisper Flow really helpful is on my phone where it's difficult to type out long prompts. I just open the app I want to use. And using the Whisper Flow keyboard, I can whisper to it. It's accurate enough to understand what I'm saying, but no one else around me can hear me. Can you give me some good workouts for boldering when I'm at the gym and don't have access to a climbing gym? I actually do a lot more on my phone now than I used to because of Whisper Flow. It is removed that roadblock where it just feels so difficult to type on here. Now I could just talk using Whisper Flow. Even just doing simple things on my phone now like taking notes is so much better with Whisper Flow. In the past because the built-in dictation is so bad and would get things so wrong, I would never take notes on my phone. I had an idea I would just try to remember it until I got home and I can get back to my laptop to type out the note. But now Whisper Flow perfectly writes and formats notes for me and I could do it all with one hand. Ideas for future videos, one, how to prompt better using Whisper Flow, two, how to create any website using Gemini, and three, the best way to prompt chat GBT. Notice how it put it into this numbered list for me, perfectly formatted, everything is accurate, and I didn't even need to use my other hand, all with one hand. So this makes it so much easier to use my phone and work on my business while I'm on the go. So that's how Whisper Flow got me addicted to voice prompting. It's faster, it's easier and I get way better results with it. If you want to try Whisper Flow out for yourself, use the link in the description of this video to get one month of Whisper Flow pro for free. It's free for a month so you might as well try it out. I'll bet after just a few days, you'll get why voice prompting with Whisper Flow is so addicting. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye for now.