---
video_title: "FAROESTE À BRASILEIRA, COM GUSTAVO SEGRÉ | 04/09/2026"
video_id: QqsebEX4FvQ
channel_name: "Revista Oeste"
channel_id: UCBQAI1ZhurW3nbtJR-gBBZg
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QqsebEX4FvQ
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Entre para o CLUBE DE MEMBROS no link abaixo:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBQAI1ZhurW3nbtJR-gBBZg/join
  
  Programa com Gustavo Segré na Oeste. Faroeste à Brasileira: de segunda a sexta, às 14 horas, ao vivo, aqui no canal da Revista Oeste.
  
  Assista a entrevista de María Corina Machado no link abaixo:
  https://youtube.com/live/_fJtAiMQ4Mg?feature=share
  
  Assista ao Jornal da Oeste no link abaixo:
  https://youtube.com/live/XQW8bADExIg?feature=share
  
  Assine a Revista Oeste:
  https://br.revistaoeste.com/assine/?utm_source=Faroeste&utm_medium=QR_Code&utm_id=Pavinatto
  
  Acesse a Revista Oeste:
  https://revistaoeste.com/
  
  Precisa de ajuda com sua assinatura? entre em contato com a nossa equipe/
  whatsapp (11) 96059-8900 ou envie um e-mail para: contato@revistaoeste.com
  
  Assista aos cortes de Faroeste à Brasileira no link abaixo:
  https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLa6ZAwmKhIlo7YjJ9Lty57D9uFRZmDdHXAdKey:zP-94qNZ8xj3XM
  
  #revistaoeste #oeste #faroesteabrasileira
  
  Acompanhe A Força do Agro.
  https://youtu.be/sZkssSjarys
  
  Siga o nosso perfil no Instagram:
  @aforcadoagro.um
  https://www.instagram.com/aforcadoagro.um?igsh=dzhqbHYxZ296OHB0
  
  Precisa de ajuda com sua assinatura? entre em contato com a nossa equipe/
  whatsapp  (11) 96059-8900 ou envie um e-mail para: contato@revistaoeste.com
---
you you what is Brazil that is emerging from our eyes? the country goes to the front when the work has the freedom to produce, invest in your own future you help the government without the retaliation that's what is taught in my daughter, is the 5th Brazil advance that is what moves to the West when we stop simply repeating what they say and we start to understand reality the information stops to confuse and passes to this clarity this is a flag of the West, this is Brazil that I want with a free press and with a government that is minimally in the citizens life and takes less taxes a country led by people who defend the constitution and respect the three powers legislative, executive and judiciary each has its own function independent of itself a country that has faith and joy to live this Brazil is majority of the people who live here this is Brazil in which the West believes this is the country that the West is helping to build this is my Brazil, this is my Brazil if you believe in this Brazil, the West will do this part of this Brazil do this part of the West the West after the Brazilian children do not know how to do basic matters and about 30% of the population can not interpret a single text is this the country that you want? the West magazine refuses to accept this reality the West, because Brazil, in which we believe, will not be defended by who is the West what Brazil is and that is suffering from the anti-Our eyes the country goes forward when the West works has the freedom to produce and invest in its own future without the help of the government without paying it is the 5th Brazil advance with a strong business the vigorous industry begins to open and the service sector has constant expansion with the freedom of understanding and does not fear to say this is heard that is why this is the real movement and visible to the eyes this is the country that the West is helping to build this is my Brazil if you believe in this Brazil, this is the West do this part of this Brazil do this part of the West the Brazilian never paid so many taxes this is the country that you want? the West magazine refuses to accept this reality just because Brazil, in which we believe, will not be defended by who is the West the assassin of women has a new record this is the country that you want? the assassin because the country that we believe will not be defended by who is the West the assassin is the West the assassin is the West after all, this silence of the term is a respect that was lacking when you ask for a minute of silence and our SETF is dead so these seconds that provoke the simulation of silence represent my opinion about what is happening in the SETF I have no chapel today, I have no sheriff's recording I have no star of the sheriff too because I am doing a program like the Brazilian citizen I like the Brazilian citizen not like the sheriff of course, those who know me know that I am exactly the same as before and outside the program's screen but even so, it seems important to me that in respect of what is happening in our republic that this program today begins without recording without the chapel and without star and before putting the bench, the present, the bench I will manifest my opinion about what is happening sad, sad, what is happening here in our loved Brazil who is involved, who is involved? Brazil has reached an institutional situation that should worry about any citizen independently from the left and right by reading the memorials I took to the inside of the inquiry in the four seventh and eight, the famous inquiry of the fake news material against its own colleagues, André Mendonsa and he asked the providences to the president of the Supreme Edson Fakín we are talking about the inquiry to open the office in 2019 when in the office of the president of the SETF directly delivering memorials to the relatories without a star to the right, I know you the SETF clearly declared the constitutionality of this inquiry careful, but one more question continues to be read where can a exceptional inquiry be expanded because there are few that today accept this inquiry as something really legal moral, ethical, not it now it reaches the minister of the Supreme itself precisely after André Mendonsa turned the public, the elements directly involved to the minister reading the memorials and the new borca this is the approval of retaliation and the proof is that the inquiry of the inquiry was being taken by the minister of André Mendonsa because it is not made one hour for another it was already ready this time that André Alexandre de Morais present yesterday was ready it was not made in the closing of the courts but there another movement appeared Gilmarmendes proposed that delegated the federal police let us work on the cabinet of the Supreme Ministers by calling the risk of interference in investigations what a risk the federal police why the federal police that invests the minister could be in some way interfering in investigations but the federal police that invested in the past already Bolsonaro and the accused and legally of the eight of the January no, there was everything good everything can be discussed but I hope that it will take care of a independent investigative, it will be applied to all not only when the investigation begins to promote the integrity of the court sorry as the president of the Senate another interesting press of the Vial Colombre before the charges over dozens of impeccable crimes against Alexandre de Morais responded after a meeting of three hours in the House of Alexandre de Morais remembering the period of the resources of the Flávio Bolsonaro to abortion and that the thing is to apologize to the Colombre, sorry something does not pay the other invest in the film invest in Flávio invest in the abortion but we must also invest in the 131 million of the contract with the office of the Morais' wife in which Morais had a direct participation the messages, the meetings and the apologize made by the bank every answer you know, apologize the right state does not work by compensation if your side did then we do not invest in my the debate entered criticized selective actions according to him and demanding investigation semplindage wonderful so I do not need a blind date for anyone neither political nor bank nor prosecutor nor minister of supreme nor son nor brother nor friends of president Lula for finally reaction and five days for Morais, my wife, Sagoné, director, general and Patodonal to press in the statement five days politics is in poor republic is in danger the majority of the history and the fact is five days so be careful, don't worry take a week's end take a fair now we wait for institutional consequences because not a space and a price cannot replace the statement and finally we arrive at the congress especially a sign gentlemen you did not have the rights to produce videos telling Brazilians what happened because we already know what happened you were the rights to act within the constitution to fiscalize, convocate, invest, to release and when it is legally legal use the instruments to replace the constitution with the hands of you of the Senate I saw many videos of senators telling me what is the truth or reading the morals including the laws of the Andre Mendoza any person in Brazil is knowing that ask me what I do for those senators who make videos on social networks looking for likes if you support Andre Mendoza what do you have to do with the other? do you agree with what you do? because they are voters voting from the state who represent make a CPI call authorities to explain the facts as a senator Carlos Viana who convocated the moral agenda analyze the questions that are in the minds and that is in the minds in the minds of all the impistensions but they take decisions and they take responsibility because they assist a constitutional crisis of the size that we are living and then record a video and say sorry and that is not the being a mandate and comment the mandate that you should be being Brazil does not need to destroy the Supreme take care we need to preserve the Supreme but the Supreme is true not a valid business and precisely that is why you need to prevent a Senate that any minister is confused with the own institution and reinforce that no one and repeat, no one should be above the law when no one knows who invests the investigator who controls the controller and who judge the judge the republic begins to lose its dreams Brazil does not need men to accept institutions they need institutions very above the men now we thank your audience your company and now we will present our guests today journalist Reis Taver producer Arena Oeste a dear audience Gabriel Dissol, welcome thank you very much, good afternoon my colleagues good afternoon audience a special program you mentioned in your editorial at the moment sad for Brazil sad for the institution for the Supreme Federal Tribunal for the Brazilian population to have to accompany this desemoralization for those who should moralize the country we will talk a lot about today but sad for today but sad for today men who assume women who assume this responsibility to tranquilize the country here Marco Osmel thank you I would like to say that this would be the deputado there is much more courage than many police officers and we know these guys who were elected by the people they have courage they need to be in the deputados no those who are already here will be voted to be and I will not be able to think very well about the political because we need to do something I don't want to be more deputado bomb bomb senator who is immoral he is an injustice do something we can't do anything you have to do following our program today, journalist and employee Thiago Parijandro, thank you very much thank you, thank you, thank you thank you today in the Gabbria de Sosa the first time with me João Belude Ali, Arthur always with the dollar bill normally we come and take the money I come very happy to the west but today I come sad because I know I will have to say later we come with a lot of hope and we see that more than we walk the imprension showing everything that is happening that is broken with ministers that are involved with this they do not reflect the reality when the candidate of the right gave a few races these numbers reflected quickly now we can not understand these pesquisas just understand why the bop does not exist anymore what we need is more boop not so much boop now it is a police case I'm sorry but what is happening is very strange it is very serious does not give to do let's do it no, the politicians have to make a campaign today and see what we are going to do to solve this trick there if not everyone will lie because from yesterday it is clear we are no longer in democracy no more, no more, no more I think the lawyer he knows everything in the economy a wonderful person Louis Sarge, the owner of the dollar Secretary, Secretary, Secretary the question is how the financial market interprets all this the people who are in the background they just want to earn money but in fact, Secretary when everything is in the background it comes up and the dollar is falling because the financial market is in the face the great chance of Brazil to have a big change change that can start now in October because Brazil does not have more than 4 years of power suddenly this crisis the population will agree and that partner that is in demand will vote against the law and the favor of a change will present a better future because there will be a change even in the economy which is what interests the financial market although the moment is very expensive it generates an opportunity and the opportunity is hope that's why the dollar is sold in the house of 5 reais and 12 cents Now it's incredible you have a huge institutional problem when we are living and we are living in the same world and how is it possible for hope but what is the hope of change the crisis can wake up the population the desire of change that is, to take away the power of the power the output of the power of the power is a better perspective for economy and that's why the financial market is so the crisis is the opportunity of change maybe if there was no crisis the law would be related the vote would be falling the dollar going up how is it going to happen because there is a change of hope to complete the banking he is always here, he is always here and he is always accompanying us and illuminating us with his beauty the white is only a beautiful land but it's because you know you think it's beautiful women, you think it's beautiful but it's beautiful the young man is in the place of the monster and he said he will be back in October and he is here illuminating us as he said with his knowledge and his beauty do you remember the whole day, one more time this story, as Gabriel said and it's clear that something will happen there is nothing to do with it if the dictatorship will be re-credited or if it will be a crime or if it will be a crime we don't know, but something will happen what I mean is that it's a coordination of the opposition in the sense of the law will not be legal we are talking about legal disputes and it's a dispute of political disputes so the political need to leader this movement the opposition has to give clear rights to his group and that's what makes that law allow me to come out a bit of protocol in the day of the poor who is being here but they can improve Petriga's baleia says something on the account of the law we have three beautiful and a good one i have taken the coffee to try to follow this tragedy that's happening in our country there's only one two Three, four, I, and a little boy, I don't know what to say. Oh, I'll leave. Clarify here, because if we don't, we'll be in doubt. What? I'm out. Luis Arthur, João, I, Thiago, or you see the account. Answer politically. You say, no, R, I want to open four and I lost three. You can. And today this week we have this cousin. It's a week. No, no. But today we should go to a lot of people. We have to put all of them. But how do we have a lot to put in duplas, again, duplas? Silmar Mendes and Lula, for the meeting, coincidentally, after the meeting, Lula does the pronouncement and the Gilmard says that the police have to leave on that day. There, Andrea Rodriguez and Paulo Gone, who are together there in Crencados, in Borca. And then there are Alejandro de Morais and Vivian Barce. And how is the TPN going up? I'm going to talk about here. There are no two. There are two. There are two. Ah, then come back. I'm back. Come back. Come back. Who deserves the first execution of the week? First, Gilmard Mendes and Lula, then we go to the congress. Hugo Mote gave the name. Third, we go to the PFA and the prosecutor General of the Republic, Andrea Rodriguez and Paulo Gone. And fourth, the House of the biggest economic success of Brazil. Alejandro de Morais and Vivian Barce. So repeating to not get confused, the candidates in duplas for this week, the first execution, Gilmard Mendes and Lula, first option, second, Hugo Mote, David Columbre, third, Andrea Rodriguez and Paulo Gone, and fourth, Alejandro de Morais and Vivian Barce. And today's highlights. And I would say that one of the most important matters, the Minister of Education, Fakhine, withdraws the Minister of Independence from the Inqueries of the Faking News and promises to end the debate with the investigation. What is not clear and we are going to debate with the bank, what the investigation is, and I want to finish the debate. Second highlight, Lula plays the case of Morais in the costs of Fakhine and points open讲es .ads P baby, the Masters of Management of central-team instagram. The President of the Federal Supreme Council, Edson Fakhine, desperate in due inquiries with the House of run則 P baby, the although perhaps he revift. drunk. Minister of the Andre Mendonza. Morales had accused colleague Mendonza of abuse of authority and impropriety of administrative and crimes of responsibility to post-questionate your action of Mendonza and investigations involving Vancomaster and Alfredo is doing that. So let's take advantage of the fact that he determined that the prosecutor will give the public and Mendonza to be in the case of the case in five days and decide whether or not the intention of internal attention in the CTF. And now we can assume that that photo in the emblematic of the ontan in which Alixandro Morales is being arrested, on the side of Gil Marmendes the one who was there, the Sanin is interpreting that when we go there and I will open the comments with that reflection. It is not casual. João, I start with you. It does not seem casual. Gil Marmendes is meeting with Lula and makes a contract with the delegates who are in the CTF for investigation. Lula is meeting with Gil Mar and he mentions that he needs to be investigated and that the responsibility is not here, but there is everything there. But there is also the prosecutor Gerardo Paulo, who is even in the investigation of the bank master. He cannot, the PGR can not manifest through Paulo Gone about what he thinks as an institution that is happening. He is investigated. Then he will see the column. It will be about three hours with demorals. In the house of demorals and when you leave and go to the congress, equip the 131 million and then you will see the record. People, I think it is a play in this that no one is outside. Only the tendency that is on the other side. Well, this gray, the level of absurd is so large. This photo has a very large history. It will be portrayed in the books of history, right? And this is the gargallered of them. So we have the column that you put very well. They are very facts, but they are making it possible to turn narrative into this false balance. Between what Andremendom is doing, because it is simply understood by his paper to investigate. With what the moral is doing, with what the faquin does, it is totally another universe, another thing. Andremendom is complying to his paper. What they say in the debate is that they will put an impeachment of Andremendom. Because what the moral is doing, and it was more humane, obviously, it assumes that he has a parallel pf, a parallel federal police, together with a relative without signature, right? The more one of the more sad things that the moral is doing, but it also also shows the act of despair, right? Because in this act of despair, with Andremendom, if he plays in the fire, the flower of Theodaciraciraciraciraciraciraciraciraciracir gift a certain point score glitches and Gameichi Makoyoko, Andremendom, This situation is vital, the circumstances of Fяхin馬, the absurd and legal and the moral extremists try to in five days, in Mendon, in Amorais, the chief of the P.F. André Rodrigues, which is an absurd conclusion, he already deals with the jury and what is not, which is the exception. So, something will happen, what is, we don't know, see the secret, now you say, in the case of the case, in the case of the Lula, there was, before, the meeting of the great bankers in Brazil with Lula, also with Flávio, then, in the case of these cases, if the Lula, he shows despair, even said that he, he used to come to the garage, the surprise, and now, after this, this question, he is entering the press conference, he can see, he is trying to show effort, so, yes, he is in despair, he is calling everyone, in the preparation of the jury's members, to say, come together here, to the fire, a lawyer, Gilmás called Lula, come to the fire, also nobody will leave, without being locked, now, compete, the opposition, understanding, coordinate, give a light, because he is taking it, he is all broken, he is, he is starting, the impeachment would already be a good first step, even for, because remembering that, Gilmás is one of them, the moral, everyone there, there are almost everyone, and Andrea Mendón is, maybe, no, there is a, at some point, there, the other way around, the top, and not even talking, not even talking, then, it would be, a first gesture, to deflagrate an older operation, which would be, immediately, the stage of the false-tiles, characters, Andrei Rodrigues, the case, Gilmarmendes, and now I ran, the third one that is there, in the report. Topfool? Topfool. No, no, no, Gilmarmendes, Andrei Rodrigues, and the PGR, the police, and immediately, by the scene, they can go back to the hotel, they say, it will not be a prison, but it comes out, it comes out immediately, the scene can do this, but the Colombian, he sequestrated the scene, he is using the same as the scene owner. Yes, well, then, Andrea Mendón, you should do something, he has already made it, asking the passage of the morals, but it is an unprecedented thing, there is no unprecedented thing, in Brazil's history, what is happening today, in this TV, there is no history, there is no history, there is never something similar. Luis Arturo, would you like your opinion? Sir Greco, you are making a song in your editorial, in the program's literature, right? Who will investigate the power? What power will investigate the power? And other words, who investigates, who will investigate who is investigating, if all the power is involved, I commented yesterday that the lawyer bought the whole republic, he bought PR, bought the senator in the Senate, bought the federal Supreme Court, with a contract of 131 million reais, bought a meeting with Lula through Guidumântiga, bought a journalist in a press party, he thought of everything. If you have all the power of your brother, who investigates? Who will be exempt to investigate? And then Andrew Mendoza trying to meet the system, and obviously the system would react. The decision of Morage asked to investigate, Mendoza obviously is a retaliation. Morage is for everything, he realized that the house is on the other hand, he tried to go to the contract. And then you are right. I will give a vote of confidence to the lawyer. The lawyer was entering to the story as the worst Supreme President, as the most weak Supreme President, and as the most inexpressible Supreme President. To take the attitude, he may not be more inexpressible. It is still more weak, and worse, he may maybe change these two things, but let's be fair. And inexpressible, he is not more. Now he came to the front line, he pushed for him to investigate, he said, no, no, no, in the corner of the fake news, in the end of the world, he can't get it. He took Morage, and in some way he took Morage, he took Morage, now, what interests is to know, after five days, if he will put a full vote, and then, we will find the truth about what the 10 ministers think. Maybe they will not be able to say anything, because they are involved, now we have Morage to vote on himself. I think not. I did not get it. I should not. The Gestopholi day, I will be able to participate, being that he was sitting, he is not there, he should not. And others more. Now, what to do to vote, we will know the truth, what they think about everything that is happening. Only one thing can't happen in the Supreme. Everything is over. In pizza. It can't. But then we have to do this. On September 7, I will be sitting here, sitting in this same place, doing a Brazilian party, and showing to you, especially that it lives inside, everything is happening here for you. In the palace, in the manifestation of the 7th and 7th of September, and after I have my word, I am in the middle of the people. I am also complaining. My father is there, 89 years old. He said, I am the same as being a rowing chaser, that he is not using, obviously. But, the symbology, if you stay at your house, sitting in a movie, when the republic is burning, sorry, you are accomplishing this incendiary. You have to go out on the street to complain that we are here, to call what we are wanting, to Brazil. I have a comment here, that I swear to you, that you are looking for any steps, that says, read my request, to be a face. But, I have to look up there, put it here again, and I will be attentive to see what your request was. We try to look up, but when you say, read my comment, I do not have, how to find it. It is very common, we are with almost 12 thousand hotels, we are accompanying, in that first half, now we need to help with it. But, all of us that we can read, we will be beautiful. Here, mention the caravan, Carval, we are going to the cabin, of course, this is going to be the fourth time with him, in the Metropolis program, but the agenda of the cabin is also exploited, so, but he promised that, he will not know when, but he will, and Ronaldo Flamengo, he will keep sending a hug to the white river, he will ask me, if I would give a couple of things, and I said, yes, of course, I do not have any. And we are going to the likes, 3,500, with 12 thousand hotels, with 3,500, the likes are very few. So, please, help us to develop. I read comments, that you like, and that we represent, we think about you, but, help us develop, my Instagram is news in ShadowBomb. It is strange, when I am not in ShadowBomb, but it is news in ShadowBomb. So, if you want, and do not follow me, follow my point of view. I will give a strength there, because every time, I have less followers. We will do a whole piece, and we will return to the sequence with more questions and comments, from Gabriel de Souça, from Thiago Parigiene. The men changed. The care of health, of appearance, longevity, performance, and quality of life, left the job well, and today men have been very improving their self-esteem and their sexual performance. And all this big change of behavior, opens space for new opportunities of business. It was in this scenario that was born in the U.S. a network of medical clinics specialized in masculin health. In our clinical body, there are doctors with more than 20 years of experience, specialists who have already helped in helping thousands of men in Brazil, with clinical protocols developed and validated by the network experience. Now, all this in the hall is ready to reach your city and region, through the U.S. Franquias. A opportunity for entrepreneurs, investors, and also professionals of health that want to invest in a market that grows every time. Franquias and the U.S. support completely from the plantations and throughout the whole business. And the model has a payback projected in even three months. The U.S. is ready to expand through all Brazil and you can be in front of this expansion in your city and region. If you want to know if your region is available, now, we are with a very special condition for you that the U.S. company is just to connect or send a WhatsApp from 0800-591223. 0800-591223. Clinical Upman A number 1 in the School of Massacre. Gabriel AdiSosa Your comment on the retired faquim the Ministry of Mindfulness of Inqueritavusquinhos that should not exist. I think that, before everything independent of what happens in this new decision of faquim that is united everyone to talk and then take some attitudes. I think that independent of that will have the Minister electing to install a good supermotrubional bridge in the federal. This is the most clear evaluation because everything that the U.S. did, that he asked the federal police to enter the law and the Constitution has a base and I will bring here some tricks I have prepared. But the Ministry of Immunities accused U.S. of practicing crimes that through an instrument that he is having responsibility abuse of authority and administrative property. What he is accusing is that the State of Morais is doing for fear of the 4.7.8.1. So, basically, it is always a precedent that is happening and, as I said, the attitudes of the Ministry of Immunities and the Ministry of Immunities are in the laws in the Constitution. Because we are going back to the first chapter of all this series that is happening. Suggest where after the Ministry of Immunities turned the rule of the federal police and what it says in the report of the federal police has two tricks here for me that are definitors and that disassemble any document, any inquiry, any accusation that came after that. The first the federal police did not make any attempts to investigate the investigations. Morais says that the Department of Immunities is investigating and in the report of the federal police it is written did not make any attempts to investigate the investigations of the magistrates or the Ministry of Public is written in the the federal police that is not investigated. It is only the exposition of the facts that was when Andre Mendoza asked to see what this network of influence of the lawyer with the other people who can attend members with a function and now there is a second trick. This first trick was in the page five. Before, the point was the truth about the interrogation of a protest with an vague anxiety between our tells it at a moment we know only where he went. However, actually I am a man who has been to the past. That is, it was not investigated at all. It was not exposed at all. That is, there is more things inside this bar. If Andrew Mandon had been badly-intentioned, he would prolong these alleged investigations and then they would go up the chair there in front. But what he did and he wrote this in his bedroom, considering everything we had mentioned here. First, the meeting was opened on the open of the public's prosecutor's office. That is, the PGR was instigated to be positioned. On the 17th, he was forced. Before the information was presented by the police, the director showed him regardless of what the investigation was about by the public's prosecutor's office, or regardless of what the prosecutor said. Because the prosecutor is being arrested in what was exposed by the federal police. The unilaterally innocent people took the prisoner to the supreme court. Come on. If he was leaving tomorrow, in the attempt to put Andrew Mandon within the inquiry 4781, besides the evasion of the investigation, he said that Andrew Mandon was investigating and should take the prisoner. But he is writing, inegri, that the unilaterally innocent people took the prisoner to the supreme court. The court is about to analyze the evidence. The court is about to recognize the evidence of the legal and juridical evidence of the new illegal elements by the police authority. That's what Andrew Mandon's share of said. He is not trying to investigate and he simply has new facts and he is about to state that there are members of the legal and juridical, who need to be analyzed by the account of their functions. He simply took the prisoner. He asked the police to do so. So he shows the sentence of the attempt to put Andrew Mandon within the inquiry 4781. He simply has no basement. First, if we analyze the federal police report, the firm that there is no need to deepen the investigations against the magistrates or members of the public. And then, he is still talking about things to be analyzed. And from these witnesses that can be found, Andrew Mandon went up to the court. So there is no commitment, there is no substantive intent to put the legal and juridical and legal evidence that he is committing to today. And besides that, he has done a great job but moreover, the director of the federal police in which a morat is taken as a base. It is a report that does not have a conclusion of no one, the federal police even destroyed by a legal law before he came here, which is weak, as far as the circumstances are concerned. But he was already ready. That is what he calls attention. Olegiande de morat is aware of what Mandon was doing. And that is why he had already prepared this to enter with a contract. Now, we cannot avoid the comment of what Alixán de Morais, who is totally out of the box, does not react. He seems to be one. This brigade already knows what the personality of Morais is. He will never recall. He will always double triplicate the post. He will always do this. This is the personality of the people. He has noticed that he would not have understood. He has noticed. He has noticed. He gave 12 metric. The court of La Goa said that he was already in the 7th of September, but he was taking a search and he was already looking for a job. And the day he would be the right person to be concerned about money. The day after, he was not locked. The 7th of September is locked. It is locked in the second. No, it is locked in the national. The court of La Goa said, no, no, no, it is locked. It is locked. And it can be that there is nothing. But if we do not do anything, I do not have the guy to look at my children and that day on the 7th of September, when he was burning the public, he was watching a movie. He does not give. He does not give. Even if he does not give, he does not give. He does his part. In the city you are watching. And when you said, Murais is a very critical person. And he will take a bread stick and put it inside an inquiry to take the focus of the question. Why does he not respond to any of his comments? Only if you ask, you have to respond, he prefers to attack. But let's see. The Fakhim, which is in my channel, the Edson Fakhim is the Fakhim. I have a problem with this Fakhim. He did very well, to travel in this sense, to remove this question of the moral of the inquiry. And today I see him as a director of the school. A director of the school. He took a student here. He is a student who has a daughter linked to the biggest corrupt of Brazil. And he is with another student here. And if he is wrong, he can have a administrative error within a process of accusation of a friend who is involved with the corrupt. So this is the question of a million dollars. He will punish who? Here I will respond to the question. What I think will happen. The difference is 31 million. Brazil has recently been a country that is putting an accuser to forget to punish the criminal. You see, the case of Dino, wanting to break the fundamentalistic sources, ending with the fundamentalistic that he ends up with investigative journalism. The case of Lula, in La Vajata, is a whole-of-the-art manipulation for a administrative question. And there is a case that no one says, that is the case of Kleines. The Kleines' head in Minas Gerais has been arrested, Adelio Bispo. And the Kleines' head turned second to Adelio Bispo. Today he is arrested. He is passing by the wrongs within the military prison. He suffers the risk of death. And it is more unjustly. To help him to arrest a guy who tried to kill a president of the Republic, then a candidate. In my opinion, as Ben said, the fight has to end. And that is the one who falls. Androids, Rodrigues, Goner, O'olumbre, Morais, and Tofouli. The independent powers are friends. And to the end of Brazil, we have a Dino-Dombre. In my opinion, the Fuckin has three sides. He puts Morais, he proposes a renounce, I don't know, he gives me peace in the sense of taking a corrupt from the state. Or he proposes a Dino-Dombre to the case of a master. It is a possibility. The process serves pizza for everyone and the people. There is to the street. Or the worst of all. He can simply, as that team, bad, who takes a knife over the knife, to hit the crack of the team, he can simply expulsate the two. It is automatically, right? It can't expulsate. It could happen there, or impeachment. I don't know what the juridical power is. That the Fuckin has, in relation to the two ministries as president of the Côtegos, would be friends, even to help with this. But he could eliminate the two, take out the STF, and so we would have a big loss. Because without the... the André Mendonça, and without the Fucks, which is the... the Fuckin's friend, we would be fuckin. We would be fuckin. But we still agreed to do it. So, take care of it. Everton Seberk said, who is sure to be referring to... Obviously, take the job of the people, because none of us is sure to do very... very long. But Gabriel D.Souza, here, report, here, journalist, not a reporter, journalist, magazine magazine, and the producer of the Norwegian newspaper that leads us to the dear, and admired, to the top of the world. So, put it there, Gabriel, you have the social network, Gabriel, so that everyone can see it. There are a lot of people watching. Let's put it in all networks. If you are ready. Gabriel. Jorna, how is it? Jorna. Jorna. Jota Huigini. Okay, is it 4? Yes. Is it 4? It's the Instagram of Guri, as Everton says. And Maria Gonzávez says, it's for Jorna. Jorna. No, Jorna, you are in the wrong place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Jorna is part of our audience, Canyoteira, and leave Jorna there, because Jorna is here, and he wants to learn, he wants to understand things that all media traditional is not explaining. But I had asked the president of this T-Fed son, Fakim, so we told you about our audience, what is Fakim? He said today that there are many people. The gravity of the facts, involving crisis in the court, does not authorize the fatal. Fajaspas. According to him, the aspirations must respect the constitution, the legality, the due process, and the constitutional guarantees. Without citing Andrea Mildonza, Fakim declared, there will be Fajas again. The facts are being assorted, and that the president will follow the pre-present procedures of law, Fajaspas. The minister also reinforced that, again, we will open Fajas, without a authority, this constitution is above, without a power, this is above law, Fajaspas. The manifestation of the post-PJP, the Paulo Gone, that is to question the demands of Mendenza, in the case of Master. Let's go up to what Fakim said. There. The facts are being assorted. This presidential will follow the pre-present procedures of the state, by constitution and legislation. We will do what is right, in the time and in the form that the legal order exists. The institutions of the republic need to be preserved, especially at the moment of greater attention. Without a authority, this constitution is above. Without a power, this is above law, and without any circumstantial interest, it can be overpowered by the state's state of democratic rights. The gravity of the facts is not an authority, but paying attention to the personal rights of the 17th century. No interests is that they have killer rights and social interests. demonstrate certain and urgent of three methods of our gesture. The adoption of a ethics code, the end of the inquiry of the fake news and the modernization of the justice system. What are you waiting for? Who will you... Man, it's more than one talking. And for the rest of the month I'll be recording. But here it's a bit complicated. I'll go. Or do you say... The ethics code is a kind of conduct. There is no penalty if no one of the guys is willing to buy this ethics code. There is no code code. What code is ethics? You say how many instruments I made a contract of 131 million. And that didn't answer how he said the questions that he sent to the market. What ethics code is? The only thing worth it. But it should be done. We're going to finish with the ethics code. No, it should be done. At that moment he was finished with the ethics code. Oh, yes. We're going to talk to you. We're going to finish when we're going to finish. I had to finish seven years ago. I shouldn't have started. And now, if I'm wrong with all the respect, we're going to finish with the ethics code. We have to demolish this ethics code. It's being used by Andrea Mendoza to seek people and to condemn people who, many times, don't have anything to do with it. That's what we have to do. Do you propose that we take a drop of water? In the return, we analyze this discourse without feeling and feeling. And we'll see that Lula also said that it's a collusion. They're talking about everything and everything is talking about something very similar. The feeling that this community has organized and the hotel is organized. The script is ready. Each one says something. We'll see each other in the next one. There are people who spend the whole day waiting to rest. But when the night comes, they lie on the bed and the sun doesn't come. But the head continues working. Then you turn to one side to another, watch the clock. And when you finally get sleep, it seems like it's almost time to wake up. Then the next day comes the result. Sing, write, difficulty to concentrate and that feeling that the body has tired of truth. If you recognize this situation, you'll know the brain. Your formula, the re-unit, melatonin, melissa, paciflora and valeriana. And it was thought to make part of your routine. Know a natural option, test the brain, a guaranteed satisfaction. And if it doesn't work, we guarantee your return money. How many do you know this option, watch the Alixenery's support? What I was worried about was that in the first days of the brain, I've already tired a lot and without interruptions. I always had difficulty relaxing the sleep at a very long time. That tired, heavy, heavy, and irritation came from not sleeping well. Serenity helped me sleep. Profoundly, in the first steps. Listen, when a night is bad, start to repeat. It's not just the time of sleep that weighs. The next day is also felt. Less rest, more tired and that feeling that you needed to have tired better. That's why if you take a nap at the sun, go to the night in the warm or the wake up tired, give more attention to your routine. The brain was developed to make part of this moment of care with rest. Know a natural option, test the brain, a guaranteed satisfaction. And if it doesn't work, we guarantee your return money. You have 70% of discount and still take our five present diagnosis. 0800 25 23. That's it for night rest and better days. I think I'll be right now. Let's start with you now. You're right. The young Cleber of SDF. Let's go. Let's go. Five days for the parties to announce the ministers, André Mindon, Alexandre de Morais, the general prosecutor, Paul Goney, and the general director of the Federal Police, André Rodrigues. Today is September 4th. Or five days, or even the 9th. Do you remember what you have on October 4th? They are. Yes, sir. That's, he will give five days for him to be manifested. Then he will take another five days to analyze if he did something, he will take more days. And more days, and more days, he will choose. That's the next week. That's it. It was what we already mentioned here. The minister, Edson Fakim, he has no musculature to take a decision. His alternative is to always sit on top of more bureaucracy. It's not more institutional, it's not more juridical. The question now is what I commented. It's street rule. Alexandre de Morais bought a street rule with everyone. We talked about the street rule later, but they have this influence and this threats outside of the Supreme Court. For everyone who has a job with him. Sorry, here, the term is not right. No, I have to say. He has to talk about it. He is having a meeting with Morais and they are already losing. That's true. And then, Fakim, I would like to bring you here a different phrase. Fakim said that he can't find details. Let's see what happens when he has been a few years ago. Take another one, talk more about it. The minister understood what is being strapped with the base in which he sent. Who said that? He was the judge of the minister's office Alexandre de Morais when he was in that blood prosecutor against everyone and said to the minister, yes, that's a warning. This is a warning. This is what you put a legalization and a legalization warning for a decision. The minister was choosing, he was investigating that Morais has to talk to the minister and that he is committing a abuse of authority that he is investigating that he does not know if he is the investigator's role. We'll just go back to the time. The minister himself created this precedent. What is he complaining about? He created this precedent. Now that he is exposed, now he wants to go back to work with the law. And neither the law is working because he instrumentalized now, again, the inquiry of the end of the world. So everything is wrong. So, Alexandre de Morais wants the president and now, as he says, he is exposed, he is desperate and is attacking for everything he is attacking. Today is a day. Today is our 20th of May. But we are happy with everyone here. They comment on the talk of the president Senado Aviel, Columbus, about the possibility of a request of impeachment against the minister, André Mendonça and the firm has voted for the president to be so, it's not a party. The president is not a party. It's the side of the good or the bad ones. There is no party. Or you choose the side or you choose the other. We defend our positions and respect the position of the other. But man, you can't stop the war with a wall. There is no way to stop the war with a wall. The column said that after three hours of humor. I know. João. I'm a little boy. Today, it seems like a crazy fool playing food for the bombs. Counting stories and no one takes it seriously. As you said in the introduction of news, he said, my goal is to end the entire fake news. What prevents my Lord, Fakinha? You have to end it. In prison. In prison of the office. So he said, two or five days passed by André André Mendonça, Goneimoraes and Mendonça. As Gabriel Mendonça said, he will push a little forward. Fakinha will do what? I'm not convinced yet. He is the one on the other. But five days passed by. This is Fakinha's objective. He is dead, he is not a leader. He is not a legitimate leader. But this is evident by his manifestations. And by the current of his pairs, in the federal tribunal. And all these values he says are the guidietic code. And even the guidietic code he said, would not apply the own supreme. The Senjota can't do anything against the supreme. They want to keep up with the good and evil. And they will say, to make the others do the same. And that's the story. Every judiciary, the ministerial public, the federal police, manifests themselves as a institution against their leaders. You can't do anything with you. Along with a group there, a association says, you're not a leader. We will not follow your orders. Because you don't have legitimateities. You have to leave the cargo. How do these people remain in the cargo? And for Fakinha, they have the expurdence of their own morals. Look, 48 hours. Make the press look, make it clear, make it clear, because it's very clear. That already operates. Even in the line of our 20 discreet states, they are speculating. Look, the column that is for the impete is the indomitable. So put it on the planet. Put it on the indomitable. If we want to see these voters voting, not the secret vote, absolutely the canal that they normally do to the president. They are elected by the people, but in the meantime, the vote is secret. So the Senate has to control the volume. No one is more aware of the Senate not doing counter-pays to the judiciary's power. Remembering that the senators of the opposition are very cool in speech and in the records. But come. The Supreme Court is in the same way as the Senate. The Senate, the basic Seniors, the street, and then we talk. We talk. We come here, a group of 20 senators assists the game of the Supreme Court. We come here in the cabinet of the morals to talk to the morals that he can't do. With Fakinha. Don't do anything. If they say, they do it just like the government. The multidão moves by symbols. The government says, buy an article, take the regiment, and you won't change anything. You have to do the symbol, because the population is tired of voting, you elect, you are a goalkeeper. Now the Senate. But not internally, you get a certain candidate or a Senate. So, leader, they have to leader. Here, and you know, there was a vote after the whole of the U.S. and the U.S. would like to know if Fakinha can have... You know, you have to... Carlos Viana, live with us. And you know, after we read your question. We do declare the United States in conjunction with the individual but inside the Senate showing our concern as the Brazilian thing is happening. Because what we are transmitting to the Brazilian people is that we are interested in today only the electoral issue. We are not devidately worried and responsible about what is happening in the country. I am inviting the senators to be here on Tuesday. The 15th, 10th, 15th, but those who really want to give an example to the country because and we open the explanation. There are the questions that have to be discussed. The positions have to be put. I, with all this sincerity, this moment that we are passing that behind me, I have already warned there in the NSS when I said to you, prepare this. If you are a mess, I will see you. I said, prepare this. The sea will be returned. Now, to the front, it was in the midst of this year. Now, to the front, we will have many turbulence on our way. And the turbulence is happening. Now, who is going to the front in the command of this bar called the Federal Senate? Do you have to have the ability to have a command of a way in which we put the interests of the Brazilian population above our interests? Is this what Senado has to do and the Brazilian Constitution does not even force us to build the Constitution, does not force us to do it? This case, if I have to do it, I have a position before the decision to plan our test. I have the ability to do it. I just wanted to make a request at this moment, my lessons. It is a moment. Look, Senado needs to take a position because he represents a independent power. We are with the political mentality in Brazil these last years of the subprime of the Federal Federal. There have been so many monocratic decisions, there have been so many decisions in the supreme, asking for the work of this independent house constitutionally, so many presidents who passed and who delivered the key to the Federal Supreme Court, and we will not seek to today, today, who commands this house, are the supreme ministers decisions. We have to work with our role with independence, with courage, the opening of a impeachment process depends on the Supreme Court of the Federal Supreme Court, it is a decision from the president of Senado. If the president of the Senado does not want to open a investigation that the majority supports, because today the majority supports even without the assinatures, he needs to leave the command to explain why and especially the denunciations involving his name. If the president has not left the CDI, but he has a meeting with the Federal Supreme Court with his own investigation. No. I have talked to him in the plenary quickly, on the day he made the statement, even I put the conversation position, I put the whole effort to find and clarify, and put my point of view to look at the president of Senado. I want a conversation with him, between two people of Benx and Respeton, but two people who have to fulfill their role. Because the president of Senado is leaving to desire the Brazilian population, he is leaving to fulfill the role. In the middle of this crisis, who understands decisions, who understands to follow and if necessary, even read it so that we can re-equilibrate the powers, re-equilibrate the institutions, guarantee the investigation, guarantee transparency for the population, we are ours. If new laws have to be made so that we can prevent, from anyone who is being interfering in the investigation, it is the Senado, the National Congress, who has to respond. There is no desire for the Federal Supreme Court. We are in the rest of the other power. It is time to take our new independence and Senado to be a protagonist of this power that today the population has given us. So, what was the last session of the plenary? In the last session of the plenary, which I implemented and wanted to talk to him. And there, in the DEDA of the CPMI, we can't talk. Even the reunions have been very scarce. They are increasingly isolated within the thought of it. Why? There is a satisfaction between the leaders themselves that is happening. Thank you, Jett. Very well, the Senador Carlos Viana. I like the speech, but I hope that when the president of the Senado has already given the name, it is not the president of the Senado. He has called me, he has called me. And then we are going to solve, we need to solve, which is also the same. It seems to me that the initiative is very interesting and convocating the Senadores who want to participate in this part of the Brazilian history, which in the third party is already there. Let the campaign go, man. The bar is getting fire. It is not to do campaigns, it is to solve the bar. Let's go to a quick interval, in the comments of Luis Sartur and Chego, let's add, before the comment, what Lula said. What Lula manifested above all that is happening. Let's go back to the second. Now we are going to talk about Red Seal. The panels that do not need to look and bring ease of health to your house. Let's look at these images. Red Silver panels are the solution for your day to day. Why do they do all kinds of food? In a healthier way and without using no type of oil, replaced with a material more adherent, another resistant that does not damage. Promotes a desalty of the food and does not loose residues. They are sophisticated, leves, forts and a elegant design. The perfect combination for your kitchen. Do not need oil, do not burn and go in all your own. Buy now, by what is the code with up to 64% discount. 12 parts are already 72 reais and 25 cents with free free. And present the kit with 4 silicone utensils to leave your house even more complete. The other 30 days did not like it. Receive your money back. Here is the guaranteed satisfaction. Buy now, by what is the code, or prefer the monthly message in the WhatsApp. 11, 9, 7.5, 1.8, 7.04. In the next video, we will be making a video with a lot of information. Please see the link in the description, please subscribe to the channel, and change the notifications. We wish you all the best, good luck, good luck and bye, bye, bye, bye, bye. See you in the next video, bye, bye, bye, bye, bye, bye. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. Be careful. What is the crisis? The Brazilians are worried about the tower. Leonardo Di Capro arrived. Was that the one who saw our Titanic? Just asking for the ginger. Was the one who the beauty Hollywoodiana will be enough to hide the Brazilian lobby? The people in the waiting room more see the money going out of the fridge. So, come to the room with us tomorrow at 8 o'clock. Let's go to the bathroom. Two comments that were on the drawer. And it's not the drawer of the STF with the senators. And you know, the glass was asking, what the hell is this? The whole team, the Brazilians, would like to know if the fact that there is time to remove the sand and the condenser. And the Senate can do anything? So, he should submit the plenary. As the Supreme Court of the Federal Government, the citizens were putting up all of them. So, he would submit the plenary, but he would be able to eliminate the fact that he would be able to do it. If someone had a minimum of duty, but certainly I'm not going to do it. And who would compete to do this balance there? The STF is the Senate. Here in the competition. The StFF is the one who is pressing the volume and making funny speeches, putting up the same balance, the financing of the film, the Dark Horse. And with all this happening, the Moraes, Andre Rodrigues, Gonevi, Gonevi will be able to do this in a process that he doesn't want, that he is sitting at the level of... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... He is... And he was king, that I spoke about him and Igor Nixon, sending Andre Mendons to those who have even made use of me. So all these things sat up here and it was the Department of SAAA, and this was Léchlaw J presidency, which comes from Léchlaw J Yeah, and all these things here, J Okay, thank you very much and, all this forward has already been sent to the EU for public support. On behalf of the cabinet, of the StF, the bark ministry of Sunfíned Son will announce it he FX minority populace, and defendingsed that magistrate, I am the judiciary question that I will amend on the moral, in a liberal era and even the press of selective evasement. Let's hear that babo-sera. And I have a concern with the Republic President. It is to try to make the forced supernatural so that the Brazilian society does not lose hope, faith and credibility in institutions that are responsible for guaranteeing the functioning of the democratic system of the Brazilian and the right state. If you do not have solid institutions and working, democracy will be very vulnerable. And that is why there are some people who try to be, who try to desmonalize, when in the background, in the background, any democratic country, any country of strong democracy has institutions that guarantee its functioning with a lot of competition. I am with the Saudades. I am with the Saudades. I am going to have the Saudade in the house of the Saudade. This person cannot do anything to solve this question. He has to be the vice-procurator. He does not have the capacity to live to solve, nor to manifest. Luis Arturo. You are going to write a saying, Faquim, Dulula and Carlos Viana. Faquim is lost. Everything he did not expect in this presidency, he fell into a bomb like this in his school, the biggest crisis in the history of the Supreme Court of Federal Security. So Faquim, do not be too inventive. No, pause the week that comes in the plenary and solve the problem. Do not be afraid of you trying to solve it, you will not be able to promise to end the war in Fiquinhius, because he ended up today. It is true that if you do not want to be impolite with the president, then you do not support everything in the plenary and they decide. Right? Don't be angry with the society. Dulula, Dulula in silence was great. He was in silence. He started to talk about why? Because obviously the society is covering his position and to desesperate from his campaign, the name of Dulula is revealed by Alexandre de Morais. So, when more the battle is over, to Morais, more votes, Dulula will lose. So, for him to speak, he is being pissed off in obvious eyes. Of course, he will say what? You who hugged with all the effort, now that we have explored, I just make a warning that we will not let fall in the forgetfulness of the case of Dulula. We will not let fall in the forgetfulness of the case of Dulula. What I worry is that the case of Dulula also will be the hands of Andre Mendoza. And then Andre Mendoza is clear now to defend himself from Morais. Then he gets angry, Mendoza dies and the case of Dulula is forgotten. When, in fact, he had to know the truth about Dulula before returning to the grave. If not in the day, nothing is discovered in November, what the line has done, what he left to do. And when the Viana's case is invoking all the senators of the opposition to the party this summer, I think the guy is still very clear. The second party is September 7th, the population in the streets. This party, the senators of the opposition, the Senado pressing, and in the fourth, the Supreme Plenary decides. So, the week that comes, the most important of this year. Now, interesting. Gabriel commented something, a few years ago, if one of my memories was in the break, or if it was in the program. So, I will repeat it again, if it was in the program, we will repeat it again, if it was in the break, we update. If Dulula wins, and nothing of this is resolved, not years that comes, in 2017, even in September, assumes the presidency of the two CTFs, leaving the Morais. Alessandro and Morais are representing the CTF, Dulula, the president of the country, placing four ministers. I don't want to go back to Argentina, no, I will stay here. And we will defend Brazil, and in the second party, with a very good talk, Luis Arthur, everyone has to be in the streets. If you don't take the good of the sofa and you don't go to the streets, don't complain after the country is in a mess. Because, even now, it's not shown, but it's coming. You know, when we see that, we know a little bit of economy, we are already seeing the atmosphere that is coming. It will come a lot of serious problems in the economy, not years that come, if there is no reform in this fiscal system. So, take care of that. And in relation to that, Luis Arthur said, from a little while, we will be bringing updates from what is manifesting Roberto Lushinger, that social, friend, I know, there, what is Dululina, second, he has given the message, which was a little more than that, but it is a problem of the reign of the wife of Dululina. The little one that is well-tempered, I saw that it is a big thing. It is a big thing. It is a big thing. I eat a little bit of the meat. It is a lot of things, everything is involved here now. But, fuck, fuck, I can't, I can't, I can't, sorry, I'm sorry. It is a little bit of the color, but no one will remember here, that he is offering the Rio. We get to see the players, dominate, but he will do what he wanted with him, he will do that there. He will be hit. I think, even the slightest, this is a more calm guy, hit him, he does not discurses. That question, that force of discursion that he reached there now, it is certainly not going to happen absolutely nothing from his part. Someone will have to go to the wall, as Luis Arthur did well, played a full game and let them decide. In fact, he seemed more like the jamiro card there, in that announcement that he made. In relation to the column that was also cited here, he points, right? Everyone is attributing the money question, the lawyer for me, but nothing is spoken of the film. I'm sure of the cheque of Brazil with these guys who defend themselves from crimes. Not talking about me, I did not steal. They also said that they stole the ball. The question is that no one can steal. The cargo that you occupy is remunerated. You do not have to steal. The old one, as they did, then the own little one, linked to the NSS box, now it's there, your favelula. The fact that the carlos viana has everything to do with this issue. The carlos viana has everything to do with this issue. The carlos viana presidied to be committed and necessary brilliantly on the side of the gas park, which is already seen from the floor. That's why I say that he has no candidate today for the president. He has a vice president. Not once in the story, the president had a vice president who has the technical knowledge of the post of the post of the providenciar and the post of the providenciar is like the gas park's offering. So, even if you like the lula, you're lying. The lula has no vice president with the knowledge of the post, as Flavio has. And then, speaking of the lula, he is the real bico doce. He says everything that the people who heard, but does everything in the empty spaces, so that nothing happens. Why did he change the director of the PF by Andrei? After the luego of the recruitment of the Luxinger Roberto. That's how he doesn't interfere with anything. Why does the son of him not come to the public as well? Explain the relationship of his woman, the only lula called Picareta in the national journal. Do you know that she already forgot Roberto Luxinger? She doesn't have anything to say about it. And to finish, I just wanted to leave a message for you. You can't like Flavio. You can't like the right, you have the artist. The chat is very important that we pick this people, because it's the union that will make Brazil win this game. This is the left and right, everything is fine. We have our side, but you have to understand that even if you like the lula, even if you are not a pet, you are buried. Are you the favor of what is happening? Are you the favor of what is happening in the case of the morals? The lula never accompanies. He takes coffee with the lula. So you don't say anything, no. It's in the constitution that the powers have to be harmonious and independent. But the harmonious isn't taking the whisks, which is not taking coffee, it's not taking the other one, you don't have anything to do with it. The writer of your wife. That's not the harmonious that is written there. So you like the pet, but you sustain your life with lies. You sustain your life, giving it to the gope. You sustain your life, stealing. If you do that, it's fine. You do the lula that is on the right side. Now, no, you change, you reflect, even if you don't like Flavio. And that's Flavio entering. If you go right, I guarantee that he will be the other side, who doesn't go to the pan for that, and he will be the same. That candidate. The editor of the intelligence, the federal police, used by the Minister Alexandre de Morales, the director of the fake news, presented the use of artificial intelligence in his elaboration. Analysis carried out by the JAPT and CLOUDs, they put out a 75% and 73% respectively of artificial intelligence participation, citing repetitive patterns of language and structure. Not so many other models, such as Gemini, Y, and GROC, they discarded a regularity of characteristics of the Reds are institutional technical, with probability of 5% and 15% respectively in each case. The tools were evaluated, or even the document, with a specific approach. But the results are not considered definitively, the authority of the only independent competitive standards. There is also nothing wrong. If today most of the local intelligence users are artificial, this is not a concern. The concern is that they include in the interest of the small ones less than 24 hours later, with a loud voice, which I do not know how many pages there are, attributing the data as a form that does not sustain. Attributing the data, we will give the names of the boys to the Minister of the Andremendonsa. So, we are all waiting. Let's see what the fake does. Today we have two people who can solve this wall. The fake and the alcohol. The alcohol is not going to be a porcarina. We already know. Why? He reacts after finding three hours with the food. So, we already know where this street goes. There is no exit. This street is not exit. The only thing is fake. Now, we depend on the fake, it is a little disqualified. Depend on a person who is here, if you are concerned with a very strange code, it is very strange. But let's go to the Intervales Repair. On the way back, there is editorial. Do you remember the NEs Carneiro? So, tomorrow, the NEs would do 89. And we will hominate the NEs in the editorial of today. So, do not go out there, pay attention, because I am with health, especially intelligence. And the future vision that has NEs Carneiro. Let's go back. Many people know the importance of the NAC to specter. Many times, people suffer with a renewed. Everything is worked, the region of the NARIS, the lack of air, the bronchitis, the asthma, the NAC. The power to specter, to solve the wall that we call catarge. Do a cleaning on the respiratory wall. Now, beyond that, it acts in our figs. They stimulate your body in the production of the glutatiana, which is responsible for expel all the toxins that overcarregate our figs. This is the NAC. There is the power to clean the figs and all the respiratory wall. I want to make a invite to you to start using this supplement, now, for the Lírios, 0800-787-720. Now, because there is a promotion of the price, and you still earn a premium creatine of the present. Now, 0800-787-720. Red Silver is the most sold panels in Brazil, and does not need oil. Press the attention on the images of the little time, with a super promotion. Red Silver panels are the solution for your day-to-day. Because they make all kinds of food, in a healthier way, and without using any oil. Revealed with the material, before the current, another resistant that does not burn. Promotes a desalty of the food and not loose residues. They are sophisticated, levy, strong and have an elegant design. The perfect combination for your kitchen. Red Silver is 0, 0, 0. A lot of technology goes on all kinds of fagons, and the less price in Brazil, the attention. Because the complete kit, the complete kit, the complete kit, the complete kit, the complete kit, you can take out 12 parts of 72.5 reais and 25 cents. And not to go there. You still gain from the present this game of fagons of the Asinox investment Red Silver and 4 need. Ah, we will deliver it to your house. And today you do not pay the price, so take advantage of the run. You can ask for through the QR code that is appearing or still send a message to WhatsApp. 11 9 7 1 8 7 0 4. M. J. M. Genaro said that the director of the Pablo Marçal ended up being homologated by the TC. He's released to conquer. Ah, take that there are debates for people who are so tired. Do a lot of things. Marçal in debate is incredible. He has intelligence, speed, response and fast. And he takes any tramp. So what good? He's a little bit more about the way he's been authorised. But we're talking about Robert Luzinger. A show, Robert Luzinger. Ah, talking about the show. Today João is going. He said that today João and Bianca are going to the Quattrino because we have a show called Secret Romantic. Oh, there. The young Gabriel was already with his girlfriend when he sang a new opera. Luis Artur Nogueira was already in the Quattrino. He was already in the front. He was not in the front. So the phone is 11 9 9 7 1.5 11 51 there are still some places. If you stay in São Paulo, or come from the inside São Paulo. So you see in the Quattrino we're going to sing all together. There's a guy who already has a guy who is able to be with me or can be so much so important to be happy. Speaking of Robert Luzinger, the friend of Lulinha, Duca Reca, the NCC and as he had even taken pictures of the president Lula, he was finally able to show up on Instagram. We have what she says. And we open the doors. He will not transform a Jewish thing where the public debate is going. But let's leave here a little from what he said, the director of the Federal Police, two points. Robert Luzinger, had a science of receiving research and research people not to scan the NCC, they were trying to hide the social challenges. Then he continued taking the card of feminism. Oh, those hot dogs. No, no, learn more. Open. As a media, it is like the view. The other men are going to be the victims. The parents of my own family, historically submet in women, a kind of a moral parallel. Robert Luzinger, and as you have seen, he tried to defend his job. Open. For me, Duca Reca, I always had a very clear proposal to defend the need of revision and modernization of the norms of an visa, related to the derivatives of cannabis and Yucca Navigio. And finally, the firm continued to preserve my family, my life, my weight. I have a certain identity that causes dreams to be threatened with responsibility to the facts, proofs and due to the falsehood of the anti-scientific. Well, I want to know, John, do you speak what she says? Yes, here, the problem is the problem for her, they are not the facts, they are pointed to her, but yes, she was treated as a machist, a misogynist. All these false-signos identitaristas, the orcs, are created. She explained no matter what she did, she was left with the anti-scientific, the orcs, misogynist, and everything else to try to gain support from the population. What is very clear is that Lula spoke in the press and expressed her, which is unknown. I don't remember the expression, was trans-bekeiro, but Lula chose this way. So, her critics should be directed by Zalula. She was the one who said the bad thing about you, Lula, who is incredibly always when we see someone on the floor, she forgets some people, because she is a machist, that's what Lula says. Lula says things like that. Other people said that she always has a molite, I will use this molite to try to cover her and explain it to her, and there was a lot of that she didn't even have the support, it was not even that she was the Lula, right? She had a function that I was confused with the house. So, I think she is free for a while, do you know? Here he says Julio Livalda Figueredo, when Fora San Paola, one of my programs will be known, I will sing. Of course, you have already come. The games are also possible in my show, but I can't sing anymore, because she defend me. Luis Arturo, inside these words of Roberto Luchinger, who you brought to the stage, she says that she didn't know that resources came from frauds, which already characterized that the caretaker is a fraudger. Will the caretaker be with that information of Luchinger? Luis Zé, I have defend here, the caretaker is among them, because Robert Luchinger said, clearly, for half of the lawyers, that he never authorized that he asked his name to do business in the Parasite of the Planalto. And he did. So, Roberto, who is lying? You are Luchinger. Why did you not re-report Luchinger? The messages, revealed to you to the show, you used Luchinger's name, right? He used to warn things in the Switzerland, you know? Luchinger said he never authorized to use his name. The Luchinger said, the father of Luchinger called Pylantra, said he never had spoken with you, he had a lot of photos with him. You can explain a little better you Pylantra, you don't agree with this, you don't talk about Lula, that's why you don't process Lula. Process Lula called Pylantra, right? And photos, what did you find out about the cell? Fick Lula. Do you have any fetish or do you want to show the power, you have proximity with power? How much more Roberto? How much more? Take a heart with Lula, who knows you take a great service to Brazil? I think she won't be a cat. She is trying to find out what Pylantra was. But it was Pylantra who never saw Lula and she knew that she saw it. The Lula's friend made the business with Kareka and she is in the electronics, we will not forget that. So, your question about Roberto what is Lula? With Lula by the justice by Brazil. This is the phrase on the Robert Luxinger today. And after he was called Pylantra, by the master chef of Pylantra in Brazil, he was born Lula from Silva, simply with nervousness and he paid the photos, but I expected Roberto to be there, that he was there. In his depictions, as you had in those videos, telling Dedo on the face of the right, defending Lula before he was called Pylantra or in a minimal video with transparency of what you think of this lady who was called Pylantra, condemned in three instances, descondened by a lava jato that was described anonymously. I think you are a bit more humorous, let's go back to that spot that I found very interesting, he used it in defense. So I will ask GPD. GPD, what is the relation of the humorous guy? That he can use too? Use? Or answer? Look, this is the exclusive of the Brazilian Faroeche. This is the answer. Answer. The relation, the humorous guy was a counter-attack client and he parallelly maintained a personal channel communication with the minister himself. This is different from saying that humorous and vulgar were socials, that existed a clandestine society or that humorous received the propina. You see that it is exempt, right? I found evidence of the public enough to affirm this as a fact. But also I think it is difficult to sustain before the revelated material that was mentioned. A deal of dozens of millions, a participation of morals in the minute, communication directly between the minister and the minister, more asked to vote related to the investigations. And then I would complete his request. He was angry. I don't know if he was angry or not. I will leave tomorrow, I will leave after that question that he doesn't want to respond. We have a hot dog in the bench. You know? We have a hot dog in the bench. I forgot that now that there is a hot dog. What is open? Open the hot dog. You think it was commented on the bench over this case of the Roberto, but we also have to bring what she said before she was exposed to the suburb she had in the bench. We already said here. At the first moment, before that, everything is exposed, she said, she won't fall alone. So that's what she will say. You need to take the Brazilian law. Why? You need to take the Brazilian law. Because we are a single. I and the law, we are a single, who decides until the first line says that Roberto took care of the law. He said, who? Who? Where are you? She responds, I don't want the cargo anywhere. Where I am in my society. I can do what I want. I want to go out and go out. So, it shows this access to the book that many companies have and it seems that certain people have facilitated the exchange of other people. The law says, Manu Beige Paroberg, when he can articulate that meeting with the Ministry of Health, that Roberto will be there and then have a minute of contract, but that won't go forward. That is, there are several evidence that maybe a traffic of influence then is being consumed, but of course there is nothing definitive. But the facts and the provas are not the facts. Very well. So, let's try to add a little editorial today, which is dedicated to Flavia Pais da Silva, who was who suggested this editorial. If you have a suggestion for the program or for the editorial you feel like going in my Instagram, which is already open, if I say I like it, go to Beige, it will have a great conversation with me and then he will go to me, going to the information and the function of this suggestion and considering that tomorrow, on September 5, it would be the anniversary of famous, famous, famous, brilliant, brilliant, in the career. So, this editorial is dedicated to Flavia and also the function of the deafness in the career. And now, it begins. In 1838, Nacia, in Rio, Branco, in Acre, one of the most singular characters of the Brazilian political policy. In Es, Ferreira, Carneiro. Orfa, where Pai, a child, knew the poor, worked and found the study and the way to change the teachers, also the mathematics and physics. But Brazil would know that man mainly for 15 seconds. Barba, Marcante, Boisfort, a great speed to speak and an unforgettable name. Many people laugh. In the history of the imitate, almost like a natural electricity. Maybe, we have commented a mistake. We all confused the way with the context. And that does not mean that it was not right at all. It was not right. It was not right. It was not right. It was strong. It offers economically that many of us are not necessarily defending today. But it was not easy to ask that they continue scaredly to do so. He asked what project we have for Brazil? Why do we waste so many talents? Why do not education be so young, prepared for science, mathematics and technology? Why is a rich country not a strategy to defend? How to guarantee energy and technology? And mainly where is the project of Brazil for 20 or 30 years? We are in 2016 discussing names. Lula, Flavio, Sema, Cayado, Direita, Peraí. Everything is fine. But what is the project for Brazil? What is the project for education, for security, for technology, energy, defense, infrastructure, responsibility, physical, sovereignty? We can record answers that Néas would give. But we need to recover the questions. And there is another deeply in what he said. Today we have research qualitative, marketing, networks, socials and candidates trying to discover what will be produced more in the more developed Néas said that in what he believed. Do you like it? In 2002 that character has been ridiculed and became the most voted in the election. We were talking about 24 years ago. He obtained 1 million and a half votes. The caricature had survived to the caricature. And maybe that's why that his videos continue circulating on the internet decades later. Because we continue to discuss the same issues. We don't need to transform the issue of the new issue. We need to understand where it is going. Where it is going. And recognize the courage of someone who tried to think about Brazil in the next election. In October, when we get our representatives we should ask a different question. Not only what the candidate promises to me, what Brazil and this candidate will pretend to be our children. Because the campaigns end, the political and political challenges are very difficult to get. We can discuss many answers maybe not a big mistake had been the root of his questions. He gave 15 seconds to talk and some of his questions still wait for a answer. My name is Nes. What health do you have? João. How do you say that? Nes was a man in front of his time. He was a genius. And this marketing strategy. We'll put it in 15 seconds. From the fact that he founded the Prona which ended up getting very famous at the time. And as we said before, he was a figure that really caught attention. He was a very big guy with a very big eyes that the guy talked about in the background of the time. But he was very intelligent. He gave the name. He was a very educated and intelligent person. He always did it in the first place. He had so much academic experience to know and explain the concepts. He always came to those false concepts that you radicalized. And he had a nationalist not liberalism. He had a nationalist of Brazil's defense. He was marked by the question of the bomb atom. That was the question of Brazil. And he was really listening to the question of the defense. Brazil had a very big loss and it was a very rich character and as well as the very false person from this point of view we really had a very repressive loss. Very, very grateful to the comments here on the chat. Now, in my opinion, so much information many important matters have been forgotten. But for this matter, it does not end when he leaves the hands. In this case, he does not forget and continue to cover the answers. See you there. The West does not forget and continue to demand answers. Collaborate with the resistance of the West. Sign and cover with us. There is missing the break now because I felt a little past that I am in the back of this culture. Is it? So, the last break. So, the last break. The company is for you. You have money in banks, invest in shares or in other markets that I sell daily. Now you can act with security in the market of precious and joy. With Jim Capital, you will increase your lucros in diamond, high value and joy in gold. With returns, monthly fixes above the media. Enter in contact with the central of the understanding the SAP is the 08004998 or scan it, which is called here on the screen and is directly connected immediately. For you who are sensitive and rigidized to the articulations, you have no idea that your body no longer has strength before has a great novelty for you. Another creatine 5.0 from FMATS. It is a formula that is a synonych in the strength and in the thinking of the muscle mass that helps to contribute to give more strength and disposition with your day to day. And there is also another creatine 5.0 also offers support to health of the articulations. It is a complete care with the articulation of the card line, also lubricating the articulations to give much more mobility. Want to enjoy the time? Now, 0800 02588 22 and guaranteed. 70% discount and it is present for you. A edition box and also a Pro 9. And now, on the time of the day, 0800 0258822 Captain, the wind is blowing Put on the flashlight Ok, good afternoon until we are back. This is the tomorrow. Good, this man's very good make fishing and the water showed a revelation in your action, right? Yes. At any time I took the money or the money or my father's money. But today is the day you already know that the magazine is going to release another edition. And the director of the magazine, our dear White Westerner, is here to comment a little about the edition number 338. Good afternoon, White. You're welcome. Thank you, I'm with you. I'll put the money on the head. I'll put it on the head. The magazine was good. It was good. It was good. It didn't even take off the hat. And then a real love. You're welcome. Thank you. The secret is that you can't be about the other subject, right? And I was written by Augusto Nunes and Cristian Costa and they show you... They talk about this exchange of messages, right? They talk about the interlocutors, they were going to join the campaign and they combined the next negotiation. And there's a lot of ambassador in this report which is very interesting, both what happened on that day, what's happening, how is the climate in Brazil from then on? And how the ministers are even behaving. So it's... It's amazing. And there are many articles that complement because obviously this issue doesn't work. So I, Gene Asber, he writes, talking about Paulo Gone, the general prosecutor of the Republic and Andrei Rodrigues, director of the P.F., who also is in what he calls this confraria of the Vorkaro. Flávio Gordon remembers the history of Roberto Mantovani with whom Morá had a discussion on the airport of Roma and that he calls for the Roberto Mantovani. So he remembers this story, he says now is more proven who is the bandit. We have Adalberto Piotto, also about this subject, Alejandro Garcia, Rodrigo Constantino, in the Pala Reinkel, so who are our readers? They have a very general vision especially what is happening. With each of the reporters explaining to their viewers about this subject. About this subject? I'm getting several points of view. Because the general prosecutor, the chief of the police, Piotto writes about the Lula and the Morais, how is that? And a connection between them, and how you are currently, with everything that is happening, with the Vorkaro. So Alejandro Garcia speaks of the two presidents of the Senado too, who could have avoided a lot of things, especially this authoritarianism that we all see in the Supreme Court. So each one takes a look. That's it. The family of Mantovani was in the square once singing to me. I talked to him and to the wife. And they avoid making comments, of course. But they mention that it was nothing that was mentioned, that they lamented that they did not have the images of vulgarness to show the truth. So it is another persecution for a family that only manifested a public critic to one of the ministers. The same way that the person who came in and criticized Flavio Dino, and also took problems there. So we are in a situation that is really, you do fundamental to have comments and opinions as we have here with those who write in today's review. So, but there is something else. We also have, of course, about other issues, because if there is one more, Sara Pérez is talking about Brazil is the country of taxes. So there is a rise that was made by the Institute of the Civil and Mercado asked by the West to show that since 2023, until the beginning of this year, 46 were created, 46 measures, tributaries were implemented or, in short, modified. And this shows the record. Every time bigger, than a government that likes it. Very well. So if you are not yet signed from the West's review, I do not know what you are waiting for, because here in the West's review you will have information with objectivity, analysis with a lot of critical journalistic and, above all, information that many times do not know in other media. Thank you very much, Branca. But speaking about victims of the Minister Alexandre Morales, we have a depot of Eduardo Tagliafero. Can you put it on the screen? Guys, what are the two hours of my mental health? I like to lie down, I woke up to take a shower, and I feel like a absurd, just an absurd, that Alexandre Morales asks to include Andrea Mendonça in the inquiries for abuse, property, etc., etc., etc. This man never assumes what he does. He is true, now he is accusing Mendonça and never explains his situation. The money of Viviane, Avian, helicopter, the persecutions, he puts everyone as a criminal, and what he commits, he hides. He does not give more, he is intolerable, or Brazil, or the people who have already given it. He has already given it, the autograph is correct, it does not give more. The problem is that we can do more than we do. We have the hand to do this, and we need to do this, we are senators, who press the money, they go to the house of the Columbus, they do a hunger, they are the current, they have to do it. If the senator who you vote is not doing the job, and he is the candidate, he is good for not running the risk, because the Senate of the next government has a greater responsibility than Brazil is the republic, and we could have a little before but it is fundamental that we put in the federal Senate that they have competent and courageous, and that is the same for the people today. What do you think about the comments of Eduardo? I think that what bothers me is not the noise of the ruins that I am used to. Even in the chat, he is talking about it, it is okay to engage, but it is the silence of the good, because all the people who are raised against the Brazilian political system, they suffer from repression. You said in the UNESCO, we have a president right because I did not know that it was a right. We did not see a right government that is not a Bolsonaro eating for two years of the pandemic. So, the UNESCO raised against the system as the well-known said the President of the United States was elected, he was elected, he was elected, he was elected, he was elected, no one is elected, everyone is very calm with this. The mandate now representing this change that recently came to the protocol an impeachment, that there is no impeachment, the Senado while Morais is with 150 people. So, if we don't move this year, we have a chance to make an impeachment in the U.N. to put the President without having to impeach with his vote, but what else? But we are very calm. On September 7, the change of this change again, it was the World Cup, it was the music of the party, it came to the world because it was the biggest in Brazil, it was the pro-election and we hope that things change here, because as Segra falou, the country is going to be more than four ministries called by Lula, will be insurmountable. And then I will be elected here and it's easier to go in the future because it's not a bad country because I will be better than to try to get in the future after a decision of this. This is the year of change and this is the year of elections. All year round, we think that this election is going to be very bad. And it will be very bad. And it will be very bad. And we are seeing a dark news. In the worst election, no one wants to enter because you don't know what is coming is a bad news. Do you want to comment on Eduardo Taglapher? Or can we show it to anyone? Quickly, Segra falou, he is in Italy because he would have learned his name. Tallya Ferro was drunk from the evolutions of the Togas who showed that he wanted to close the protest. But that the territories only found journalistic publications. But entering this wave of what Brazil can become if Lula wins for the election, it's a scenario that has a catastrophic impact. Let's imagine. Lula summed in 2023. What is happening with the economy now? Are the companies or are they talking or are they going to leave? What is happening with the consumer market? Are they in the plant? Are they going to be able to more sustain themselves? And now, besides that, the government still wants to pay the end of the scale 6x1. And I'm not playing the social merit. This discussion is necessary. You are not going to be able to buy the election. From all this time of the year, you will still have to have a productivity. You will increase the costs and the price of the increase. And then Lula comes. If he is a candidate, he defines practically half of the next federal tribunal, the federal tribunal. Which are four ministers. Outside of the election, if he is a candidate, he is forming and we have a relationship with the people of the world, with the four of October. Because the scenario is there. We have a relationship with the people of the world. Last minutes, we will do this in Brazil. The last and most important thing. The system denounced by the poor and the poor. The government's government has been in the control of the current government. The UNICAN DOS ETF, Gilmar Mendes, is the only president in Lula. We have nothing good there. In the conversation of Gilmar Cobromb, the most support of the government of the federal police, and the fact that there is a failure of the Ministry of Justice and the lawyer's desire to give the union to the crisis. Gilmar also tried to have the federal police to react to the orders of André Mendonça and the legal and legal measures. And the election was not applied. The second minister, Gilmar Mendes, a corporation can run justice to try to suspend these determinations. The conversation happened before and he decided to withdraw from the PFF's report that re-sign the information about the relationship. The banks of the Anioborcaro with the authority of all the expenses especially the Lychandro Imorais. On the same day, Lula also joined the president of the Supreme Court, to try to deal with the crisis in court. Gilmar Mendes is the decan of the Supreme Court. He is not the president of the Supreme Court of the Federal. But I now want to do meetings with Lula and talk about the name of the Supreme Court which I think is not the minimum disrespect to the court. Not that the court is a supreme president. But Gilmar Mendes, the manager of the government, should talk about the president of the Republic. The president of the Supreme Court is the federal court. In the afternoon, you do meetings outside of the agenda with Lula and it seems to me that it is a political articulation and it should not be the supreme minister to make political articulations. You are thinking that in this discussion and I don't know, I don't know what I'm talking about. Is it a execution? It is execution. Is it a execution? Yes, it is. It is a execution. No, but today it is a different way to have a execution. But we can do it. We can give you the famous ones because it is only in Lula. Let's go to the Supreme Court of the present day. And who won? Who won? It is a little box. And the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court will stop. Hey! Hey! Hey! The richest man in the country of Brazil's lawyer. It is a supreme minister. Yes, I am the prime minister of the Vivian people. 41% Hugo Mottai al-Columbria 27% Andrea Rodriguez in Paulo Gredis 17% and Gilmar Medesilula 15%. Anyway, we are here at the end of the week. Thank you, Luis Arturo. Thank you, Segre. Thank you all. $5.12. If you have 30 seconds, you want to comment on Gilmar Medesil? No, just thank you, Segre. As you said, September 7 is fundamental. Brazil can't lose this opportunity. Segre is one of the most powerful generals for our political class. So, the court has come from a court. Thank you, Gabriel. My colleagues are in the court. And that's what the Supreme Court said. In the beginning, the election of the Wallachian Djemora turned into a rule-free rule. Now, the court has not fallen in the armadilies of Wallachian Djemora from this political activist and Supreme Court. And it's only a constitution that comes to do. Thank you very much. Thank you, I'm always a pleasure here. Even a black day, it was very pleasureful. And they follow me on YouTube. I'm Brazilian, intelligent. Instagram, water, underline, Paris Giante. If you're a candidate, it was stolen. I'm calling you in box. I have a lot of paths to recover your money. Thank you, our director. Today, Larissa was absent. So Victor Salinas is occupying the place of the direction. Fernandinho, thank you very much for today too. Thank you all. And thank you all for coming. This weekend, we're going to reflect on Brazil we want. And on the second day of the whole world, a young, young, and young, a young, and young, but also on any part of the city where you are in love. We have to manifest, we have to know that we are in this agreement with all that pale-headed. And it's never that we fight for Brazil that we want. We will have it. We will have it, despite all that political and judiciality that is in another phase of love, we will have Brazil that we deserve. Thank you very much to all. And we will see you on the second day. Here in Farocha, Brazilian, telling you everything that is being stolen, in the manifestation of the 7th and 7th. That's all. Good weekend and until the second. See you later. Bye.