---
video_title: "When NOT to Accept a Victory"
video_id: mdZHneJbaTs
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mdZHneJbaTs
video_date: 2026-05-12T22:28:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Support the channel and grab one of the most beautiful science/history books you'll ever see: https://mdsh.io/9xjjuo89gd Use code RATIONALITY10 for 10% off. Thank you! 
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Steve breaks down the moment a MAGA debater conceded — on camera — that DOGE never delivered its $2 trillion promise, then immediately asked for credit anyway. Isaiah Martin refuses to let the concession slide, holds it up to the light, and stacks every retreat Scott makes until Scott is standing on nothing. The "participation trophy" line alone is worth the watch — Isaiah turning the right's own snowflake rhetoric back on a Trump voter asking for credit for failure.
  
  This one's a masterclass in what to do when your opponent gives you ground. Most people pocket the win and move on. Isaiah doesn't.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Episode 1: How to Beat Someone Using Only Their Own Answers: https://youtu.be/7noGU2Zf9U0
  
  Episode 2: How to OWN Someone With THEIR Argument: https://youtu.be/3SyP57Z_mtU
  
  Original: 1 Democrat vs 20 MAGA Republicans (ft. Isaiah Martin) | Surrounded: https://youtu.be/8xFMnQ931qQ
  
  Isaiah Martin's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@isaiahrmartin
  
  @jubilee  @isaiahrmartin
---
Did we cut two trillion dollars? No, we didn't. I don't think it's necessarily a failure, right? Does Trump have to be perfect in everything that he wanted to? Wait a second. You tried to do it. So I guess you want to participate in Trump, you don't? Okay. A Trump supporter has just conceded on camera the doge failed to deliver on its central promise. So this Magaman needed a new defense. Does Trump have to be perfect in everything that he does? Now most people would take that concession, pocket it, and move on. After all, you've won. Your opponent just admitted the cuts never happened. So why press the point? Here's why. In a debate, a concession that goes unnoticed might as well have never happened. And a concession that's given strategically, quietly, casually, in passing, is designed to be buried. It's designed to let the person giving it move on to safer ground before anyone in the audience registers just what they gave away. Well, what you've just watched is someone who refuses to let that happen. Wait a second. You tried to do it. Instead of accepting the win and moving on, he milks it. And by the end of this exchange, his opponent is buried under the weight of his own emissions. I'm trying to outline Trump. Tried, right? He ran. He tried. And he saw. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. We're back with Isaiah Martin, a former congressional candidate who went on Jubilee surrounded to debate 20 Maga Republicans. Now, we've already watched him refuse every distraction that April threw at him and pin her to the one question she couldn't answer. Did you get your $2,000 dose check? And we've watched him beat Martin with his own argument. So why did you go and put tariffs on a country that we had free trade with? What gets better than free? But today's exchange teaches something different. It's not about refusing distractions or turning someone's argument against them. It's about what you do when your opponent gives you ground and who's watching when they do it. Because here's the thing about debates like this. You're almost certainly never going to change your opponent's mind. They're not walking away as a doge skeptic in this case. That was never on the table. The audience is the whole game. And a concession that goes unnoticed by them might as well have never happened. Isaiah's opponent this time is Scott. And Scott has a problem. He's here to argue against the claim that Doge was a complete and total failure. And he can't. Doge promised $2 trillion in cuts. It didn't. In fact, government spending actually went up. So Scott concedes the indefensible quickly and tries to steer the conversation somewhere more comfortable. The trouble for Scott is that Isaiah won't let him. Every concession that Scott makes, Isaiah catches. Holds up to the light and ensures that everyone is blinded by him. Oh, you're heinous. I'm sure it's not that healthy. And by the time that Scott's retreated from weak up spending to the core of it was good to at least he tried, he's standing on nothing. And he knows it. I mean, I don't know what you want me to like say the right. That's where we're heading. Let's get into it. It's Scottie. Nice to meet you. How are you? Yeah, Scottie. Come on now. Honestly, I can't start off like why was Doge even on this honestly when we also the prompts I went what the heck? Why nobody talks about Doge anymore, right? I think we both can agree, right? That I do think Trump shouldn't be spending those things on the Department of War, right? Should he spending all that money, right? But Democrats did the exact same thing. And when you look at Doge, the core of it was good. We're trying to get rid of government spending. That was the whole point, right? And so when you look at your prompt, can you say your prompt again one more time? Right. But before Isaiah has said a single word, notice that Scott is already building his escape routes. He dismisses the topic, insisting that nobody even talks about Doge anymore. Nobody talks about Doge anymore, right? He throws in a preemptive two-quake, complaining that the Democrats did the exact same thing. Democrats did the exact same thing. And then he lands on the position he's going to retreat to for the rest of this exchange. The core of it was good. And when you look at Doge, the core of it was good. Yet none of these are responses to anything that Isaiah has said. Let alone the prompt. And it's because Scott already knows he can't defend Doge's results. So he's preloading softer positions to fall back on. He's conceding ground before the fight has even started, hoping that by the time that it does, the expectations are low enough that he can survive. And then he asks Isaiah to repeat the prompt. Can you say your prompt again one more time? Which is interesting in itself, because it tells us that he wants the audience to hear the words complete. And total failure. And think that sounds extreme. That sounds unfair. And if it does, he's already halfway home, right? That was the whole point, right? And so when you look at your prompt, can you say your prompt again one more time for me? That was just a complete total failure. Complete and total failure. Now can I look at you and say, Doge is a complete success. No, I can't, right? But your rhetoric when you say that prompt, right, is totally misguiding for us, right? What are we supposed to say to that, right? And sure enough, the moment Isaiah restates it, Scott makes his move. He concedes that Doge will be the first to be able to defend Doge's results. And he decedes that Doge wasn't a complete success. And I look at you and say, Doge is a complete success. No, I can't, right? But say that again. No, I can't, right? But frames that it's a problem with the question, not with Doge. But your rhetoric when you say that prompt, right, is totally misguiding for us, right? You know, all this misinformation raises a question that I've been sitting with. If civilization collapsed tomorrow, how would we even start rebuilding it? Which is why this book has been on my desk all week. This is the book, the ultimate guide to rebuilding civilization. And it's exactly what it looks like, a thick, gorgeous hardcover that catalogs the ideas, systems, and inventions you'd need to reconstruct the modern world from scratch. 400 pages, 180 topics. We're talking agriculture, engineering, medicine, electricity, sanitation, the real tested accumulated knowledge that actually built civilization. It's the Bible of human discovery. No revelation required. The whole thing is hand illustrated by hungry minds, a team of over 50 artists, scientists, and developers. And I have to say, every spread looks like it's across between an engineering manual and a Renaissance manuscript. It's the kind of book that you open for five seconds and emerge 20 minutes later, having learned how a printing press works. For me, it was the building section. I'm a history nerd. I will visit every castle within 20 miles of me at any given point. And this section just had me. It walks you through cement, mortar, bridges, roofing and tiles, water supply, and sewage. The actual nuts and bolts of how we built the world around us absolutely loved it. But here's what I didn't expect. The longer you spend with it, the more you notice things that feel intentional. Symbols hiding in plain sight. Patterns that reward the kind of person who looks twice or everything. In fact, hungry minds themselves describe the book as containing hidden riddles, calling the whole thing a magic artifact. And honestly, finally having it in my hands, I can see why. It manages to both be educational and something you actually want to display. So if you're hungry for knowledge, the kind that build our world, scan the QR code on screen or use rationality 10 for 10% off that check out. Thanks. With that, back to the show. Maybe after I've went for another chapter or two. But your rhetoric when you say that prompt, right, is totally misguiding for us, right? See what he's doing. Isaiah's claim is that Doge was a complete and total failure. If Scott accepts that framing, then he's finished. He has no defense. But if he can shift the debate to whether the prompt is fair, he's suddenly defending something much softer. He doesn't need Doge to have succeeded. He just needs complete and total failure to sound like an exaggeration. And if he achieves this, then the core of it was good becomes enough. It's a trade. Give up success, which is frankly indefensible, and buy good intentions, which is much easier to stand on. Because it means nothing. Now watch what Isaiah does with it. What are we supposed to say to that, right? And now you did say, right? It said poison point 1% that we're saved in. I don't exactly know the numbers that they have said or anything, but we're supposed to cut government. Spending right. Isaiah ignores the attack on his question entirely. Doesn't defend it nor acknowledge the attack at all. Instead, he asks the simplest question he could possibly ask. What was Doge supposed to deliver? And that question is doing all the work. Scott just conceded that Doge wasn't a complete success. Fine. So what was it supposed to achieve? What were the promises? We're saving the result. You see, Isaiah is refusing to let Scott skip past the concession to say for ground. He's planting a flag right on top of it and saying, stay here. Explain this. And by driving at results, specific measurable results, he's pulling Scott out of the vague good intentions territory he's trying to retreat to. He can't hide behind the call was good when someone's asking for numbers. And Scott can't. He admits he doesn't even know the numbers. I don't exactly know the numbers that he's conceded that Doge failed and he can't even describe what it was supposed to do. Now, can I look at you and say, does this a complete success? No, I can't, right? Now, the best strategic concessions have a plan behind them. You know what you're giving up. You know what you're retreating to and you've got the data to hold that position. Scott has none of that. His concession isn't strategic. It's ad hoc. And all it takes to expose it is a simple request for numbers. And on the exactly know the numbers that they have said or anything, but we're supposed to cut government spending right? Did it? Did any government's fun and get cut? Did it? Did it? Wait, is it? Any government funding get cut? No, because you then spent more than what you've got. 0.1%. You cut 0.1%. Then you went and bought private jets. You retrofitted another Air Force one. Okay, that's the point of work. So it's almost like that's a wash. And by I remind you, the national debt is set to increase this year by $2.3 trillion. Now, this is brutal. Scott tries to take control by asking whether any spending was actually cut. Any government funding get cut? This isn't a random question. It's his foothold. If he can establish that some cuts happened, even small ones, he's got something to stand on. He can say, see, doge wasn't a total failure. It did something. It wasn't perfect, but it wasn't nothing. But Isaiah doesn't let him. He answers the question plainly directly and then does something crucial. No, because you then spent more than what you've got. 0.1%. You cut 0.1%. Then you went and bought private jets. You retrofitted another Air Force one. You re-enacted part of work. He lists specific things. The administration spent money on the wiped out whatever savings doge supposedly delivered. Private jets, a retrofitted Air Force one, renaming the Department of War. And each one of those items is driving the cost of Scott's concession higher. And then Isaiah drops the number that sales it. The national debt is set to increase by $2.3 trillion this year. I remind you, the national debt is set to increase this year by $2.3 trillion. So far, then, Scott has conceded that doge wasn't a complete success. Hoping he could bury that admission and move to friendly aggrand. In response, Isaiah hasn't just refused to let him bury it, he's turned it into the centerpiece of the exchange. Loaded it with figures, weighed it down with specifics, and made it impossible for anyone watching to think that Scott's concession is anything other than a forward mission of failure. The national debt is set to increase this year by $2.3 trillion. Okay. So, what is that? So, by the way, $1 trillion, you say the $500 million debt. That's like paying money right? So, Scott's response to the $2.3 trillion figure is to try and shrink Isaiah's examples. A $500 million debt against a trillion dollars. A serious growth. That's paper money. It's nothing. And on the surface, that sounds like a reasonable point. The scale difference is enormous. But notice what he's actually doing. He's minimizing, arguing that because Trump's waste is small relative to the debt increase, it doesn't count. Which is a bizarre defense of a program whose entire purpose was to eliminate waste. It's a trillion dollars, and you say the $500 million debt. That's like paying money right now. So, that's what I'm saying. So, the peanuts on the budget that you cut is literally already been absorbed by other things. If you made $50,000, this would be the equivalent of celebrating a $50 situation. I mean, so look, let's talk about what's happening in this country. Is that you guys ran on cutting $2 trillion. Then it turned to $200 billion. That's nowhere close to being reality. So, that whole situation was a failure. If we're talking about doge as itself, it didn't happen. Isaiah flips it. He takes Scott's own, it's insignificant argument, and uses it against him. If the cuts are so small that they're like celebrating $50 on a $50,000 salary, then what exactly are we applauding? If you made $50,000, this would be the equivalent of celebrating a $50 situation. Scott wanted paper money to make the spending look harmless. Isaiah uses the same logic to make the cuts look pathetic. I have a paper money right. But he's not done. He lays out the retreat clearly. You ran on $2 trillion. It then became $200 billion. And even that didn't happen. You guys ran on cutting $2 trillion. Then it turned to $200 billion. That's nowhere close to being reality. He's tracking each shift of the goalposts, showing the audience exactly how far they've moved. And by the time he says it didn't happen, he doesn't just mean doge failed. He means the promise itself evaporated. This is what happens when you milk every concession instead of letting them slide. They stack up, become obvious and insurmountable. So that whole situation was a failure. If we're talking about doge itself, it didn't happen. It did happen, right? We had Elon. What do you mean it didn't happen? It did happen. Right now. This is where Scott's defense reaches its thinnest point. He's no longer defending what doge achieved. He's defending the fact that it existed. We had Elon. That's the argument now. We had Elon. What do you mean it didn't happen? It did happen, right? Not here's what we cut. Not here's the savings. Just it happened. It was real. There was a guy. Don't cry because it's oversmile because it happened. Yeah. And I was like, fuck that. Isaiah's response is sharp. He refocuses on the only thing that matters. Delivery. He didn't deliver on what you promised. I notice you, not they, not Trump. You, he's making Scott personally own the failure. You don't get to distance yourself from this. It didn't deliver on what you brought me. Exactly. No. I can agree with you. Right? Did we cut two trillion dollars? No, we didn't. Did you cut 200 billion dollars? Trump tried, right? He ran out of this. He saw how bad Biden was at the government spending. Right? And he failed. Right? He tried and he failed. I don't think it's necessarily a failure, right? When you try, like, does Trump have to be perfect and everything that he does? He wouldn't even get to, no, he doesn't have to be actually perfect, right? Appreciate the speed of this unraveling. Scott concedes the two trillion dollars. And so Isaiah immediately escalates. Did you cut 200 billion dollars? Did you cut 200 billion dollars? Well, Scott doesn't even attempt to answer. He jumps straight to, but Trump tried. And Isaiah meets it with a drum beat. He tried and he failed. Trump tried, right? He ran out of this. He saw. He tried and he saw. Over and over. Every time Scott makes another concession, Isaiah stamps the same verdict on top. He tried and he failed. By the time that Scott lands on, does Trump have to be perfect in everything that he does, he's resorting to the Navarna fallacy, treating Isaiah's criticism as a demand for perfection. Does Trump have to be perfect in everything that he does? He's pleading for mercy. Isaiah doesn't give it. He points out the perfection isn't even on the table. Trump didn't achieve a fraction of what he promised. He would even get to, no, he doesn't have to be actually perfect. It's brilliant, right? Remember, Scott opened this exchange by complaining that complete and total failure was an unfair prompt. But your rhetoric when you say that prompt, right, is totally misguiding for us. Well, Isaiah has now flipped that entirely. He's asking whether Doge delivered a fraction of what it promised. And it didn't. So his prompt wasn't unfair. If anything, it was damn generous. He doesn't have to be actually perfect, right? But it's the whole point of it. But he didn't even do it. Because government spending increased the government spending more money than they did last year. That's according to the Treasury. Isaiah blocks the retreat again. Government spending didn't just fail to decrease by $2 trillion. It increased. Scott has spent this entire exchange retreating from complete success to the core of it was good to at least he tried. And now Isaiah is telling him that even at least he tried doesn't hold. Because the thing he was trying to do went in the opposite direction. Isaiah's very claim is that it failed. Doing the opposite of one's intention is a total failure. There's nothing left for Scott to hold on to. Government spending more money than they did last year. That's according to the Treasury. Well, okay, like, okay, break that down there. Okay, no, but break that down, right? But why is the government spending going up? I mean, I'm just telling you because of the whole idea with the go cut spending in the United States federal budget, that did not happen. You didn't happen. You're spending more. I mean, I don't know what you want me to like say. Scott is exasperated. He's putting his hands up telling Isaiah he doesn't even know what to say. That is a man who's run out of ground. Every concession he's made, Isaiah has milked. Every retreat, Isaiah has followed. Now Scott is standing there in total surrender. Acting is if it's somehow Isaiah's fault that he has nothing left to say. I don't know what you want me to like say. I want you to just say or is done. I just want you to say. Fund the beginning is just dumb. That can be your argument. That can be your argument. All you want to talk about. And all of us that can be your argument. All you want that doesn't change. But it doesn't. Was a complete and total failure. Scott can't defend doges results. He can't defend its promises. He can't even defend the attempt. So again, he attacks the question. Rather than address whether doge failed, he dismisses the argument as absurd without actually engaging with it, calling the prompt dumb. You decide to fund the beginning is just dumb. He's gone from arguing to complaining. Notice he even circles back to his opening move, insisting that nobody wanted to talk about doge in the first place. The same dismissal he tried before Isaiah had even spoken. He merely wants to talk about. Oh you, and all of us that? None of us. He's returning to where he started, having gained nothing and conceded everything in between. Isaiah, once again, doesn't take the bait. He doesn't defend the prompt. He just holds the line, telling Scott that he can call the prompt whatever he likes. It doesn't change the result. That can be your argument. All you want. That doesn't change the effect. But it doesn't. Was a complete and total failure. The substance is untouched. Scott's feelings about the question don't affect the answer. That doesn't change the effect. But it doesn't. Was a complete and total failure. And you're here to make me. Or if it was good. And the reality is, is that it's real. We wanted to cut the beginning right? Wait a second. Wait a second. Wait a second. You tried to do it. So I guess you want to participate in trophy. The participation trophy. That is devastating. It is the exact language the right uses to mock the left. You didn't earn anything. You just want credit for showing up. 500 issues that have demoralized our society. Number one. Participation trophies. Rewarding people for being losers was the beginning of our downfall. Oh, is that harsh? Sorry I didn't consider your feelings. And Isaiah has thrown it right back at a Trump supporter who is literally asking for credit for trying. You complain about snowflakes. You mock safe spaces and participation culture. And now you're the one asking to be congratulated for not delivering on a single promise. The irony is beautiful. So I guess you want to participate in trophy. So did Biden cut you want to participate in cutting cover? You want to cut government spending? What was the Scott's last move? And it's a classic did Biden cut spending did Obama did Bush. Is a Biden cut cover is you want to cut government spending? You want to cut government spending? He's trying to normalize the failure. If no president has ever succeeded at this, then do just failure isn't special. It's just how government works. And if everyone's guilty, then nobody is. But Isaiah stays on the trophy line. You want to cut government spending? You want to cook bush? You guys are Nazis man. You're freaking Nazis. He's refusing to let Scott drag it into a debate about other presidents. That's a different conversation. This one is about doge. This one is about what you promise. You want to cook bush cut government spending? What is the problem? Republicans want less government control. That's the whole difference between you. In two Democrats want bigger government control. In 2016, can you tell me around, you don't got to be perfect, what the deficit was in this country. Can you tell me what that number was? Like the national debt? Yes, the deficit. No, the deficit budget deficit in this country. No, actually, no, tell me. It was around the $500 billion range. $460. 2016. Okay. That number is now 2.3 trillion. Isaiah does something brilliant here. Instead of engaging with the two quo quay, he goes on the offense with data. He asks Scott a simple question. What was the deficit in 2016? Scott doesn't know. So Isaiah provides the answer himself. It was around the $500 billion range. $460. 2016. Then he drops the present figure. That number is now 2.3 trillion. That is an explosion. One that happened largely under Republican governance. Isaiah isn't just defending the prompt anymore. Oh no, he's building a broader indictment. That number is now 2.3 trillion. 1.8 trillion on the deficit. One that's the bad attitude. Yeah, because you guys went and signed in 2017 the task cuts and jobs act which ballooned the deficit. It continued. It was a long piece of legislation. It continued throughout Biden's presidency. Okay, yep. That same thing. You just went and approved literally to extend those same tax cuts to now add 3.4 trillion dollars to national debt. My whole point about why I'm talking about this is because do's did not go and do the thing that it promised. It said that it was going to cut spending. It didn't happen. I think that you can serve it as to just own up to the fact that it was a failure. Scott asks to break down the factors ready to blame Biden. It's 1.8 trillion on the deficit. But Isaiah is ready tracing the deficit explosion to a specific piece of legislation. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed by Republicans, extended by Republicans with the so-called big beautiful bill and responsible for ballooning the very deficit the doge was supposed to address. Scott has tried to make this about both sides. But Isaiah has ensured that the world knows that it's about one side and he's got the receipts. Isaiah just states it plainly. Doge didn't do what it promised. Own it. That's all he's been asking for this entire exchange. And it's exactly what Scott has spent every second trying to avoid. I think that you can serve it as to just own up to the fact that it was a failure. Okay, say. As you've been voted out. Thank you. Scott gets voted out and he never did own it. From the very first moment he was building escape routes. By the end, Isaiah had blocked every single one. You want to cook a government spending? You want to cook bush? Cook-a-cook-a-cook-a-my love cook-a-cook-a- So what do we take away from all of this? Well, in most debates, concessions are treated as wins. Your opponent admits that they were wrong about something and you move on to the next point. You pocket it. You feel good about it. And you never bring it up again. That is a mistake. Because a concession that goes unexploited is a concession that gets forgotten. And a strategic concession, one that's given quickly, casually, on purpose is designed to be forgotten. It's designed to let the person giving it retreat to safer ground before anyone notices what they just admitted. Isaiah shows us how to milk it. When your opponent concedes, don't pocket it. Press him. Ask the follow up question. Demand the specifics. Make them sit in the admission they just made and build on it before they can escape. Scott conceded the doge wasn't a complete success. Most people would have taken that and moved on. Can I look at you and say, does this a complete success? No, I can't, right? Isaiah asked, okay. So what was it supposed to deliver? Scott didn't know. Isaiah listed the spending's that ate the savings. You cut 0.1% then you went in bought private jets. You retrofitted another Air Force one. You're reading. That's not like, so it's almost like that's a watch. Scott tried to shrink those figures. Isaiah used his own logic to make the cuts look pathetic. If you made $50,000, this would be the equivalent of celebrating a $50 situation. Scott retreated to at least he tried. Isaiah turned it into a participation trophy. He wanted to cut. Oh, okay. Where does that wanted to? Wait a second. Wait a second. You tried to do it. So I guess you want to participate in trophy. Each concession became the launch pad for the next one. Each retreat got more expensive. And by the end, Scott had given away so much ground that he couldn't even remember where he'd started. I mean, I don't know what you want me to like say the right thing. So the next time that someone concedes a point at an argument at work online, at the dinner table, pay attention. Ask yourself, are they conceding because they're being honest or are they conceding because they want to move on? If it's the latter, don't let them stay on it. Ask what follows from what they've just admitted. Make the concession earn its way. Because as Isaiah showed us, a concession isn't the end of an argument. It's the beginning. If you cracked 200 million out of it. Sean tried, right? He ran. He tried. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor HungryMinds. You can get 10% off this incredibly beautiful book by clicking the link below or scanning the QR code on screen. Thank you.