---
video_title: "How to SHATTER an Echo Chamber"
video_id: bpbCqgJs3bQ
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpbCqgJs3bQ
video_date: 2026-02-17T22:39:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  She came to prove "the left" calls conservatives Nazis. When asked to name just one politician who's done it, the entire argument collapsed. This is the simplest way to destroy the "Everybody Knows" argument—and almost nobody uses it. In this breakdown, I reveal the exact technique Adam Mockler deploys to systematically dismantle a confident Trump supporter on camera. No counter-accusations. No shouting matches. Just one type of question that makes echo chamber certainty crumble on contact. Watch the moment a passionate activist can't finish her own sentence. Watch what happens when someone finally asks "Who specifically?" And learn why you don't need better facts to win these arguments—just the willingness to ask what nobody else does.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  The @jubilee debate: https://youtu.be/gWHxRuD57ig
  
  @adammockler's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@adammockler
---
Which leftist politician, can you name one? I think you're moving the goldpost. No, no, no. Can you name one leftist politician who is called Trump Hitler? I... it's every single... it's like enough. So you shouldn't be throwing this out when no leftist politicians have actually called Trump Hitler? That was the sound of a worldview colliding with reality. You see, a young conservative, Sadie, is about to build her entire argument on the absolute certainty that the left calls conservatives Nazis constantly. Specifically Nazis. It's a feeling that she holds deep in her bones, a conviction strong enough for her to travel and confidently state it on camera, knowing it will be filmed and shown to millions. But when asked for one specific name, just one, she can't produce it. I... it's every single... it's like... What you're about to witness is forced specificity, and it is extremely effective against people who have been inoculated by their echo chambers. The mechanism is simple. Whenever someone makes a vague claim, they say the media says the left believes, the right believes, etc. You simply ask them to identify a single individual or entity who did it. Because they, though, like random unhinged people, this forces a binary outcome. Either they produce specifics, which moves the debate from vague vibes to specific facts that can be verified, or they fail to provide specifics, which reveals that their claim is based on an impression they absorbed from the atmosphere, not on evidence they can actually provide. In this interaction, Sadie will try the first, but forced specificity will reveal that she was running on the second. When they're calling Trump Hitler, they're calling... Who's there, JD Vance? But this failure to name a source is actually the least of her problems, because once Adam exposes that she's operating on feeling rather than facts, he pushes deeper. He asks her a fundamental question about reality, and her answer is... Honestly, shocking. Wait, do you think the 2020 election was stolen? I don't know. You don't know. I don't know, because I'm not... And honestly, this proves my point. Why hello my fellow apes. I hope you are well. We're watching Adam Mochler, a political commentator who specialises in street interviews, facing off against Sadie, a Trump supporter who approached him with some very heavy accusations. This is from a Jubilee-surrounded episode. Adam Mochler versus 20 conservative college students, and it pertains to his claim that... Trump is causing a rise of fascism in our generation. And today, we're going to be learning how to deal with the everyone knows argument. We watch Adam refuse to accept vague collective nouns, force specific attributions, and ultimately reveal that when you strip away the confidence, there is often nothing underneath but repeated talking points. It begins with a claim about assassination. We're talking about Charlie Kirk's assassination. But since we're in the realm of echo chambers, this one stumped me. Trump says Venezuelan airspace should be closed. Now, depending on the outlet, this story is framed in completely different ways. On the left, there's a tendency to immediately question the legitimacy of the operation. And on the right, the tendency is to simply state what Trump has done with no further context. And I couldn't find a single headline that mentioned the legality of the declaration. Don't you need to uphold the constitution of the United States as president? I don't know. So if you only read right-leaning sources, you might not realize that this move is illegal. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. There are website and app designed to make reading the news easier, and more data-driven. Every day, they pull in thousands of articles from all over the world and organize them by story, with each one, including visual breakdowns of political bias, reliability, and ownership to give you a clearer sense of how the news is being framed. Returning to this story, ground news offers more than just headline comparisons. Right away, you can see that it's being covered by over 700 outlets with the political balance almost perfect. 31% left, 31% right. Yet the framing is completely different. They even show, bullet by bullet, how left-leaning and right-leaning outlets are presenting the event. And above each headline, you can see the same insights for every specific outlet. That is what makes ground news essential. It doesn't just tell you what happened, it shows you the different ways that outlets try to shape your view author. And honestly, those factuality flags alone are indispensable. Right now, you can get 40% of their vantage plan at ground.news slash rationality. Or by scanning the QR code on screen. Your subscription supports this channel and helps you spot the spin. Thanks. Hi, Sadie. Sadie and Esther, how are you? So I want to touch on your forceful suppression of the opposition as defining fascism. So in my understanding, I think that the leftist party is assassinating conservatives. So we're talking about Charlie Kirk's assassination. We're writing engraving on the bullets, catch fascist. Sadie opens by referencing Charlie Kirk's assassination. And to structural floor lies in her phrasing that the leftist party is assassinating conservatives. I think that the leftist party is assassinating conservatives. Notice the language, not a person assassinated someone, not an individual committed a crime, the leftist party as any unified entity, as if there's a basement somewhere in Washington where Democrat leadership convenes to plan murders. She's treating the left as a monolith. Millions of people with a single intent, a single action. Ingraving on the bullets, catch fascist. I think that shows more of the fascism over here. Can you define what you mean by leftist party? Adam attacks the structure of the argument itself. When he asks what she means by leftist party, it seems like a minor clarification request. It's not. He's refusing to let that vague collective noun stand unchallenged. Because if she can't define who is doing the action, she can't maintain the accusation. You can't prosecute vibes. You need a defendant. Can you define what you mean by leftist party? Because I think that conservatives are very good at individual responsibility. And when you're placing the blame on an entire party because one, 22-year-old dude killed somebody, which is obviously tragic, then what do you mean by leftist party? Adam names the tension directly, and he can do this because he understands conservative values. Conservative champion individual responsibility. Conservatives are very good at individual responsibility. It's a core value, one of the load-bearing pillars of the entire ideology. But Sadie is blaming a collective for the actions of an individual. She's doing the exact thing that conservatives claim to reject. When you're placing the blame on an entire party because one, 22-year-old dude killed somebody, which is obviously tragic, this puts her in a bind. She either has to abandon her argument or abandon her principles. She can't keep both. And the question still stands, who specifically is the leftist party? What do you mean by leftist party? Yeah, so we have Kamala Harris calling Trump supporters fascist, Biden calling Trump supporters fascist. When you have these big leaders calling individuals fascist, and then that is getting tagged on to conservatives as a whole. So I think that the leftist party is actually very good about saying one thing about one person, and then this is getting spread to everyone. All right, so Sadie provides names, Harris, Biden. Good, that is what Adam asked for. Kamala Harris calling Trump supporters fascist, Biden calling Trump supporters fascist. But notice what else happened? The claim shifted. The original accusation was assassination. Now it's calling people fascist. The leftist party is assassinating conservatives. The leftist party is actually very good about saying one thing about one person, and then this is getting spread to everyone. She realized that she couldn't defend the assassination charge by naming party leaders because Biden didn't shoot anyone. Harris didn't pull a trigger. So she pivots the charge to rhetoric. She answers the who question, but changes the what accusation to make it fit. This is moving the goalposts. It's a fallacy. When someone shifts the criteria off their argument to avoid being wrong, she thinks that this saves her point. Actually, it places her head on the guillotine block. Saying one thing about one person, and then this is getting spread to everyone. So back to what I'm saying about Charlie Kirk. So when Charlie Kirk got assassinated, saying, catch fascist, I think that's a very good, good example of fascism. Sadie returns to Charlie Kirk's assassination, but she still can't connect party leaders to the act itself. So Adam Schiff's strategy, he moves to principles. I think that's a very good, good example of fascism. And then you want to talk about this? Can I ask you, is your position that people in power should not be calling the opposition party fascists or Gestapo or Hitler? Adam Schiff's from attribution to principle. He asks her to commit to a moral standard that people in power shouldn't call their opponents fascists. Once she agrees, she's locked it. Is your position that people in power should not be calling the opposition party fascists or Gestapo or Hitler? That's really... And there it is. The moment she says yes and affirms the position is the moment that Adam is ready to move. That is when the blade is released. Sadie commits to the principle. She thinks she's condemning Biden and Harris. She doesn't realize that she's just condemned Trump. Donald Trump, Donald Trump called Kamala Harris and Joe Biden a fascist. A dozen times throughout the campaign trail. He called him Gestapo and only one politician has called Donald Trump Hitler and it's JD Vance, his vice president. Adam applies Sadie's own principle to her own candidate. The rule that she just agreed to, that people in power shouldn't say these things, now cuts against Trump. He called Biden and Harris fascists a dozen times. We must defeat Kamala Harris. I use that term because you know what that term means, right? Communist. She's a Marxist communist fascist. He called them Gestapo. And here's where the blade twists. The specific rhetoric that Sadie was attributing to leftists, the Hitler comparison, actually came from JD Vance, Trump's own vice president. Adam has used her own moral way to crush her own argument. She built the guillotine, he just dropped the blade. One politician has called Donald Trump Hitler and it's JD Vance, his vice president. And which party has that stuck to? That stuck to conservatives. Fascism has stuck to conservatives consistently. You have all this violence on college campuses saying that we're going to, they're calling turning point target practice USA. Sadie realizes she's lost the who did it point. So she shifts the frame entirely. Now it's not about who made the accusation. It's about the fact that it's stuck. Which party has that stuck to? That stuck to conservatives? She can't prove you said it. So she makes the damage the proof. She cites threats against TPUSA. Target practice USA. Trying to regain more high ground. And notice the pronoun, they're calling. That vague they is back. It's doing a lot of lifting. They're calling turning point target practice USA. That's messed up. Hosting photos of us with red X's on our face with dots on our neck. So how are you to say? Who's day though, like random unhinged people? Adam validates the grievance. That's not okay. He says, but he isolates the actor. Who's day though, like random unhinged people? By forcing her to identify they, he's separating the actions of random extremists from the organized political platform. He's preventing her from blaming the left as an institution for the actions of unhinged individuals. His forced specificity is relentless. Who's day though, like random unhinged people? Do you think unhinged people are just going to fall back? Random unhinged people? Do you think unhinged right wing supporters exist? Absolutely. I think there's someone both sides, but that's why I'm saying you can't say forceful suppression of the opposition is tagged only on to Trump because that's coming from the left side as well. Sadie conceits both sides have unhinged people but tries to maintain an equivalence, a false one. But look at how far she's retreated. She started by claiming the leftist party is assassinating conservatives. But the leftist party is assassinating conservatives. She has now been forced back to the claim that random unhinged leftists make threats. Random unhinged leftists. Random unhinged leftists. That is a significant downgrade because you can't draw an equivalence between random crazies on Twitter and Trump, the president of the United States, who is not only continuing to use fascist rhetoric but escalating it from the highest office in the land. She is comparing apples to institutions. Because that's coming from the left side as well. Okay, let me ask you then. I'm going to ask you the same question that I ask, when Donald Trump sent a true social post with three names in the post and two of those names have been indicted over the past month, is there any analog to the Biden administration sending out open posts to the Attorney General, Merrick Garland, and asking people to be indicted? Adam leaves the random crazies level entirely. He elevates the debate to institutional action. Not what one anonymous account tweeted but what the president of the United States did with state power. When Donald Trump sent a true social post with three names in the post and two of those names have been indicted over the past month, he's challenging her to find an equivalent to Trump's direct interference with the DOJ and he's betting that she can't find one. Is there any analog to the Biden administration sending out open posts to the Attorney General, Merrick Garland, and asking people to be indicted? I'm honestly, I'm not completely knowledgeable on what exactly happened. Okay, so Donald Trump, an honest admission of unfamiliarity and actually this is more defensible than pretending to know but it reveals something important. There's an information gap here. Sadie knows about campus slogans and Twitter beefs, the cultural skirmishes. She's terminally online, but she's unaware of major actions taken by the president regarding the department of justice. She knows the vibes. She doesn't know the facts. I honestly am not completely knowledgeable on what exactly happened. Okay, so Donald Trump has spent the past nine months in office trying to consolidate power among every single institution. Not just by appointing loyalists, but by trying to target law firms that are democratic. Universities act blue, which is the main fundraising pack for the Democratic Party, has recently been, invest, like they're investigating, trying to sue them because they want to take down any mechanism that helps the Democratic Party. Let's talk about universities. Is that for us? Adam is laying out a pattern of authoritarian consolidation using state power to dismantle the mechanisms that allow the opposition to function. But Sadie hears universities in Adam's list and latches on to it like a life raft. Let's talk about universities. She cannot debate the DOJ targeting or act blue investigations because she doesn't have the facts. But universities, well, that is turning points home to her. She thinks that she can win there. She's trying to drag the conversation back to terrain that she knows. Let's talk about universities. Is that for us? Wait, is that for us, at least suppressing the opposition party? When you're trying to- I don't know if I'd exactly say forceful suppression. He's using this. He's using this. Because like we were saying, when you were attaching the term fascist, you're talking about Nazis. You're talking about specifically Nazis. Sadie tries to narrow the definition of fascism to mean only Nazis. She's moving the goalposts again. But this time on the definition itself, not the evidence. A definition, mind you, that is so restrictive that it would exclude almost any modern comparison. Ironically, in fact, Mussolini's Italy arguably couldn't even be described as fascist under that standard. If fascism is defined solely as literally 1940s Germany, then nothing can ever be called fascism again. Specifically Nazis. And when they say oppression- Not just Nazis. I'm saying specifically for what I'm saying. The suppression of the opposition, when they're calling Trump Hitler, they're calling conservatives- Who's they, JD Vance? Adam redeployes the Vance card. Every time Sadie uses passive voice, complaining that they're calling Trump Hitler, Adam feels in the subject. And the subject, as he has established earlier, is JD Vance, Trump's own vice president. He's using the fact from the first segment to interrupt her flow, and the callback lands. Who's they, JD Vance? I'm sorry, leftist. When the leftist- Which leftist politician can you name one? Once again, Adam forces specificity. He asks for one. Not people online, not pundits, not the media. Leftist politicians, elected officials. He's challenging her to produce a single piece of concrete data to support a world view she's been asserting as obvious fact. Which leftist politician can you name one? I think you're moving the goalpost, too. Wait, no, no. Sadie accuses Adam of moving the goalposts, and the irony is staggering. She's done it three times already. The leftist party is assassinating conservatives. First, shifting from assassination to rhetoric. The leftist party is actually very good about saying one thing about one person, and then this is getting spread to everyone. Then from source to effect, which party has that stuck to? That stuck to conservatives. Then narrowing the definition itself. When you're attaching the term fascist, you're talking about Nazis. Now she accuses Adam of the very thing that she's been doing throughout. I think you're moving the goalpost, too. Wait, no, no. The problem for her is that Adam hasn't changed his position. He's been asking for specificity since the first minute. His goalposts haven't changed. Sadie just keeps missing them. The truth is, she reaches firm moving the goalposts as a shield because she feels cornered. In her mind, the fact that everyone knows leftists call Trump Hitler should be enough. Being asked for a specific name feels like a trick because she cannot access the file in her brain. It doesn't exist. I think you're moving the goalpost. Wait, no, no. Can you name one leftist politician who is called Trump Hitler? Adam refuses the deflection, restates the question. One name that is all he's asking. Can you name one leftist politician who is called Trump Hitler? It's every single, it's like, and his where the pressure finally breaks her. Sadie's worldview is constructed on the feeling that the left calls conservatives Nazis constantly. It's ambient, it's everywhere, it's obviously true. But when pressed for a specific source, a specific human being in power who actually said it, she draws a blank. I, it's every single. Her stammering, it's every single, reveals that she can't finish the sentence because there's no fact to retrieve. The vibe hits the wall of reality. Her inability to complete the thought exposes that her belief is built on repetition, not evidence, on atmosphere, not attribution. She absorbed the certainty without ever checking the source. I, it's every single, it's like, no. So you shouldn't be throwing this out when no leftist politicians have actually called Trump Hitler. Adam drives it home. If you can't name the source, the accusation doesn't stand. You can't accuse millions of people if you can't name one who did the thing. When no leftist politicians have actually called Trump Hitler. And you're throwing out the term fascism. Ah, and here we have another fallacy. The you do it to response known as Tukoku. It's when someone deflects criticism by pointing out that the critic has done the same thing. But here's the crucial difference. Adam hasn't made vague attribution claims. He's been citing specific actions, truth social posts, act blue investigations, institutional targeting. By trying to target law firms that are democratic, universities act blue, which is the main fundraising pack for the Democratic Party. Adam names his sources. Sadie names feelings. And you're throwing out the term fascism. Is saying the election was stolen when it wasn't fascism? Wait, do you think the 2020 election was stolen? Adam presents a concrete test case. After proving that she can't name her attackers, he tests whether she can acknowledge basic reality. The 2020 election, the ultimate litmus test for the epistemic capture, he's been diagnosing. If you can't affirm that the election was legitimate despite every count, every audit, every recount, every certification confirming it, then the problem isn't your information. It's your relationship with truth itself. Wait, do you think the 2020 election was stolen? I don't know. You don't know. Her admission, I don't know, marks the second collapse. She cannot admit that it was stolen because it's factually indefensible and she's on camera. She cannot deny it because that portrays her tribe. So she retreats to performative uncertainty, strategic agnosticism. The shield I don't know allows her to avoid both the lie and the heresy. I don't know. You don't know. I don't know because I'm not, I'm not honestly this prism I've listened closely to that sentence. I'm not in power to find out. You don't need power. You need Google, courts ruled, audits completed, recounts finished, certifications signed. The information is publicly available. It was investigated more thoroughly than any election in American history. But Sadie frames ignorance as powerlessness rather than choice. And honestly, this prism I've as if knowing the truth requires authority, not access. As if facts are classified documents only the powerful can read. This unintended reveal perfectly captures the authoritarian epistemology that Adam has been describing. Truth isn't something you discover through evidence. It's something conferred by those in charge. I don't know because I'm not, I'm not honestly this prism I point. Trump is causing a rise of fascism in our generation. I would never say that you're fascist, but I think there is a normalization of an ideology where people are denying elections. Adam ties it together. He doesn't get angry. He gets analytical. He uses her confusion as the evidence itself. The fact that a passionate, politically infused, articulate young person doesn't know who won a heavily documented election. That is the normalization he was warning about. I don't know. You don't know. He converts her defense into his proof. Her uncertainty isn't a counter-argument. It's exhibit A. But I think there is a normalization of an ideology where people are denying elections. You don't even know if the 2020 election was stolen. This is in America. The 2020 election was now stolen. And just like that, the exchange ends with Sadie Unable to provide a single specific example. This is what echo chambers do. They make you certain. They make you confident enough to debate in front of millions. And they leave you completely unprepared. For the moment, someone asks a simple request. Show your work. I... It's every single... Sadie came with conviction. She left without a single name. He asked her to confirm who won the 2020 election. She wouldn't. I don't know because I'm not... And honestly, this proves my point. This was the first time her beliefs met real opposition. And they crumbled on contact. Specifically Nazis. Not just Nazis. I'm saying specifically for what I'm saying. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Including today's sponsor, Ground News.