---
video_title: "How to Debate Someone With No Principles"
video_id: 04t7LZthGoc
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04t7LZthGoc
video_date: 2026-06-05T18:06:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Steve breaks down the debate where Emily Wilson called an ICE shooting "justified," then spent ten minutes building her entire case around one principle. It sounded airtight. Then Dean Withers asked her to apply it just one more time, and the whole thing came apart.
  
  The collapse is something else. The moment Emily realises she's trapped is genuinely uncomfortable to watch.
  
  Steve walks through exactly how Dean got there: where the burden of proof actually lands, the moment the goalposts start sprinting, and the single question that left her with nowhere to go. If you've ever watched someone confidently argue themselves into a corner this badly, you know the feeling.
  
  This is one of the cleanest examples you'll see of a principle holding up right until it gets tested, and what happens when it finally does.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  MAGA Woman Faces Off Against Young Progressive Man (ft. Dean Withers & Emily Wilson) | Face Off: https://youtu.be/k-5V80gXg1U
  
  Dean Wither's channel: https://www.youtube.com/@deanwithrs
  
  @jubilee  @deanwithrs
---
Let's go ahead and focus in on one of the three citizens who has been murdered by ICE and that will be Alex Pretti. The shooting is justified. So Emily, tell me, what is the legal standard that authorizes an LEO, an engage in the use of lethal force ending the life of an American? You're gonna go to a protest with a gun? That's why you ended up dead! Now that right there is a principle. The rule is, turn up to a protest with a gun, you get shot. And that's on you. It's a principle that violates the second, fourth and 14th amendments. But it IS a principle. And as the saying goes, a principle is not a principle until it costs you. Okay, condemn Kyle Rittenhouse. And Gwari's not dead. Or, you know, abandon the principle, the second it applies consistently to your own side. Gwari's not dead. Why hello my fellow Apes, I hope you are well. Today we're gonna learn one of the most useful skills in debate craft. How to take your opponent's view, break it down into his underlying principle, and then test whether the principle is real. Welcome to Face Off. Now we're going to do it by analysing an episode of Jubilee's Face Off, a format where two people debate four claims. One clock, no interruptions. On our protagonist side, we have Dean Whivers, a liberal political commentator and debater who has built a reputation for taking these formats apart with patience and precision. On the other side, we have Emily Wilson, a conservative media personality who has built her platform on confident, known nonsense pronouncements about the cultural left. We have a video of Serena Williams upset over a con plant decor. Notice her first instinct was to pick it. Certain groups have more instincts in town than others. The question on the table is whether ice was justified in shooting and killing Alex Pretti, an American citizen and nurse at a protest. Emily has arrived with a verdict pre-installed. Probably better off without him. Dean has arrived with something quite different. I am going to tell you what that legal standard is eventually, but before I do, I just am trying to determine why you think it's okay, man's life was ended. Before we get to truly test the principle, however, we're going to see the goalpost stance all around the field, doing everything they can to prevent an own goal from being scored. The clock starts now. Let's go ahead and focus in on one of the three citizens who has been murdered by ice, and that will be Alex Pretti. So first, you made a very bold claim. A man lost his life, a mother lost his son, a father lost his son, a hospital lost one of their nurses, and I think the world lost a good man. And your takeaway is, that's quite the expression on Emily's face, don't you think? As Dean lays out the human cost, the mother, the father, the hospital, the nurse, she pulls a small but unmistakably-disgusted expression right as he says, the world lost a good man. The world lost a good man. And your takeaway is, it's a tell. Before Dean has expressed his point, before any standard has been articulated, she has already decided that Pretti is not a person worth grieving. That's her conclusion, and it's locked in. Everything that follows is going to do the work of justifying. And your takeaway is, we're better off without them, and that the shootings justified. So, Emily, tell me, what is the legal standard that authorizes an LEO and engage in the use of lethal force ending the life of an American? Dean's move is a clean one. He refuses to argue at the level of abstraction. Emily has made a claim that carries enormous moral weight. That an American citizen's killing by a federal officer was justified. And that the shootings justified. Fine, if that's the claim, then there has to be a rule that makes it true. Justification has to rest on a standard, not a feeling. So Dean does the simplest, most devastating thing you can do to someone defending an outrageous verdict. He asks her to name the law it rests on. What is the legal standard that authorizes an LEO an engage in the use of lethal force ending the life of an American? I don't know, go ahead and tell me. Oh, oh boy, it has happened already. With just one simple question, Emily's defense has already collapsed. She has declared a shooting justified. She has nodded along to the suggestion that the world is better off without that man who was killed. And when Emily asked what makes it justified, she has nothing. No statue, no standard. I don't know, go ahead and tell me. I don't know shit about. She's reached the verdict without ever consulting the law. The order of operations is clear. She started with the position and now she's scrambling to find scaffolding underneath it. It's a clear instance of post-hoc rationalisation. Working backwards from a chosen conclusion to fabricate a justification that fits it. Her verdict is fixed. Her reasoning is getting recruited afterwards to defend her. I don't know, go ahead and tell me. If you don't know the legal standard that justifies a shooting, then why the hell are you sitting here saying this shooting was justified? Here's a story where you would expect the facts to just speak for themselves. Trump threatens to cut off all US trade with Spain over refusal to use military bases in Iran more. You see, Spain declined US military use of its bases for strikes on Iran. Trump threatened a full trade embargo. So we're going to cut off all trade with Spain. We don't want anything to do with Spain. And so Prime Minister Shanz has responded with three words. No, to war. Simple, right? And yet, ground news shows 442 sources covering this story. 61 left, 62 right, and 109 centrist. With framing so different, you'd be forgiven for thinking that they were reporting from separate planets. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. A website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data driven. Every day, they gather thousands of news articles from all across the world and organize them by story. With each coming, with visual breakdowns of reporting bias, reliability and ownership, to give you a cleaner sense of how the news is being framed. Let's return to our story. And you can follow along at ground.news slash rationality. The Hamilton spectator, leaning left with high factuality, leads with Sanchez as the protagonist. Spain's Shanz has stands firm on opposition to war in Iran despite Trump's trade threat. Warning, the conflict risks playing Russian roulette with millions. One courageous leader holding line against Washington. Then there's WLT report far right with low factuality. Breaking. President Trump cuts off all trade with Spain. Trump is tired of being treated unfairly. And Spain's PM is of course dismissed as their leftist PM. No geopolitics, no alliance considerations, no nuance, just a victory lap. And your own news, centrist, with very high factuality, simply reports no to war. Sanchez reaffirms Spain's stance on Trump's Iran campaign. No heroes, no villains, just what happened. Same of them, three completely different stories. And without ground news, most people would only ever see one of them. If you want to start seeing the full picture for yourself, right now you can get 40% off ground news's vantage plan at ground.news slash rationality. Or scan the QR code on screen now. You'll be supporting independent media and, indeed, this channel at the same time. Thanks. If you don't know the legal standard that justifies a shooting, then why the hell are you sitting here saying this shooting was justified? This is the burden of proof landing exactly where it belongs. And it's worth slowing down on because the principle is going to govern everything that happens in this conversation. The burden of proof is the rule that says that if you make a claim, you are the one that has to support it. Not your opponent, nor the audience, but you. You have to support it. If I tell you, for instance, that there's an invasion at the border, I don't get to demand that you disprove it. I am the one who showed up with the word invasion. So I'm the one who has to produce the army. The bigger the claim, the heavier the burden. And Emily's claim is enormous. She is not merely expressing dislike for pretty and his politics. She is insisting that a federal officer ending his life was justified that the killing was lawful, correct, and that the world is improved by his absence. Remember that not. Your takeaway is we're better off without them. That is one of the most serious moral claims a person can make about another human being. The burden attached to it is correspondingly massive. And Dean is making sure that she owns it. If you don't know the legal standard that justifies a shooting, then why the hell are you sitting here saying this shooting was justified? The shooting is justified because we see who they are. All the information comes out of it. Oh, he was the love same with the woman that got you. Look at what has happened to the question. Dean asked for the standard that justifies lethal force. Emily's answer is we see who they are. We see who they are. That is not a standard. The inquiry has been quietly relocated from what did this person do to warrant being shot to what kind of person they were. Those are not the same question. And notice the casual side. Same with the woman that got you off. She's referring to Renée Good, another ice-shooting victim, and Emily is waving her off in a half-claws. Two human beings, two killings by federal agents, and she is bundling them together as if to say, don't even bother humanising these people. It's worth noting that this kind of dismissal always arrives as a gesture, never as an argument. Oh, he was the love same with the woman that got you. Oh, he was the love in front. First of all, everyone was worried about him. You see the text coming out? Oh, we're worried about his mental health. He couldn't go to work anymore. He wasn't able to practice as a nurse. Still no standard. Still no criterion. We're now deep into the details of Preti's personal life, his mental health, his employment, his career as a nurse. And yet, none of these are a lethal force criterion in any jurisdiction on Earth. You can be a distasteful person and not deserve to be shot. Emily bless her is such an example. You can be struggling with your mental health and not deserve to be shot. You can be unable to work and not deserve to be shot. The fact that Emily is reaching for these things tells you that she's extending for a character indictment and hoping it lands hard enough that Dean won't ask for a principle underneath. And clock the velocity. She's firing off claim after claim. Texts mental health, employment, his nursing license. None of it is sourced. None of it is verified. All of it is delivered in a rapid burst designed to overwhelm faster than it can be checked. That is a gish gallup. It's a well-known technique that is extremely popular among bullshithers. The point is volume. There is no way that Dean can possibly respond to every claim, especially under this timed former. He wasn't able to practice as a nurse. This whole thing of every time someone dies. The Democrats act like they're this amazing person. It's just not true. They even had to Photoshop the photo of him to make him see normal. So the public would react to him better. What does that even mean? Right. So apparently if a photograph of a dead man is photoshopped after his death, that somehow retroactively justifies the federal agent who shot him. That is, and I want to be clear about this, a complete non-sequitur. It does not follow. The image editing decision made by media outlets stays after a killing, has nothing to do with whether or not the killing itself was lawful at the moment it occurred. I mean, ask the question directly. If outlets had run an unedited, high-resolution photograph of Pretti, would Emily suddenly conclude that the lethal force was not justified? Of course not. Which means this entire complaint is doing no analytical work. It's atmospheric. It's there to make you feel that something shady is going on around the victim so that by the time anyone gets around to asking whether the shooting was justified, you've already decided somehow that he was the kind of person who probably had it coming. So the public would react to him better. He was, why are you going to a protest? If people love you and care about you and you're a normal productive citizen, you are not going to interfere with ice protests, okay? Oh my word, we can't get through a sentence. Another non-sequitur. And a fairly remarkable one. The premise here is that loved, normal, productive citizens don't go to protests. Which would be news to, let's see, Martin Luther King, the suffragettes, every civil rights marcher in history, and while we're at it, you know, the Maga crowd that showed up on January 6th, many people who attend protests often do so to protect the people they love. Productive citizens attend protests because productive citizens are the ones whose lives are disrupted by bad policy. And protest is one of the mechanisms by which to push back. The picture Emily is holding up here, that participation in a protest is itself evidence of personal failure. Is a principle she's renting for the duration of this one argument applied selectively to one protest to defend one shooting? It isn't something she actually believes. She would not apply this to the Maga Capitur attack. And you're a normal productive citizen. You are not going to interfere with ice protests, okay? Especially when they're getting death threats up like 5,000%. Okay? Yes, you went in to stir up trouble. You're mentally ill. That's why you can't be at your fucking job or with your friends anymore. Your family doesn't give a shit about you. Or else you wouldn't be at a ice protest because you're not a productive citizen. Now comes the full pile on mental illness, unemployment, social isolation, family, and strangeness. Every available negative attribute is being thrown onto pretzels' corpse. And each one is being implicitly offered as a reason that the shooting was fine. So let's actually run with the implications because they're grim. Is legal force justified against the mentally ill? If so, how did they determine pretty was mentally ill? Do ice agents have superpowers all of a sudden? Is legal force justified against people who can't hold down a job? If so, did the ice agents only shoot pretty once they were told he was out of work or something? Is legal force justified against people whose family don't like them? Because if so, I would be quite impressed to find that Emily's family break bread with her. Notice her first instinct was to pick it. Is legal force justified against people who attend a protest in a climber where there have been threats made? And notice, threats made by whom exactly? Because the death threats that Emily is referencing did not come from pretty. So her logic appears to be, if enough hostile rhetoric exists in the air around an institution, that institution is then licensed to shoot the people who show up to protest it. Again, would she apply that to January 6th? When capital police were being threatened, beaten and crushed in doorways, did the level of threat against the institution justify lethal force against every protestor in the building? I doubt so. She has no principles and Dean is going to prove it. Your family doesn't give a shit about you, or else you wouldn't be at a ice protest because you're not a productive citizen. And other than that, when I see it, I'm like, it's justified. Guess what? If I thought someone was going to harm me or my life, I would choose me over that. And finally, after a prolonged character assassination, we get the closest thing to an actual standard. And it is a generic self-preservation instinct being offered as a justification for a specific state killing. I would choose me over that. This is a statement that everyone agrees with in the abstract, but it is not a legal standard for the use of lethal force by federal agents. The question isn't whether self-defense exists as a concept. The question is whether this shooting met that standard. Emily has not addressed her. So Dean is now sitting on a buffet, mental health. You're mentally ill. Family. Your family doesn't give a shit about you. Employment. You can't be at your fucking job. The photoshopped image. They even had to photoshop the photo of him. The protest attendance. The girl's you wouldn't be at a ice protest. The abstract self-defense appeal. I would choose me over that. Every thread she spun out is pickable. And he could pull on any of them. What he chooses to do next, though, is far more surgical than that. I would choose me over that. So to clarify your claim is, I have no clue what the legal standard is that justifies an L.E.O. to shoot and kill an American. But I think Alex Pretty was mentally ill. Therefore, I think it's okay. Right? Disciplined. Rather than pull on any single thread of what Emily said, Dean takes the entire pile and compresses it into a single sentence that exposes the operative logic underneath. He's asking her to treat her own ran as an argument. Because that's what it has to be if it's doing any justification at all. He's translating it into a claim and handing it back to her to defend or disarm. No, I'm asking you. What is that's not what I do? What's the legal justification at it? Go ahead and please educate me and tell me. But I think it was justified, yes. Wow. Just uh... Wow. Wow. That is a remarkable moment. Confronted with her own reasoning, restated cleanly, she rejects it. And then immediately demands that Dean tell her the legal standard. Please educate me and tell me. So to get this clear, she is certain of the verdict. She just doesn't know the law that produces it. The conclusion is locked in. The justification is something she's hoping Dean will provide her with. That is how post-hoc rationalization works. The answer is fixed and you go shopping for a path to it. Principle reasoning runs in the opposite direction. It is a cult member's modus operandi. A bay first, justify if at all, later. Please educate me and tell me, but I think it was justified, yes. Well don't worry, I'm watching the clock. I am going to tell you what that legal standard is eventually. But before I do, I just am trying to determine why you think it's okay, a man's life was ended. This is phenomenal stuff. Dean knows precisely what she's trying to do. She wants the legal standard so that she can retrofit her position to fit it. The moment he hands it over, she's out of the water. She latch onto whatever language he provides and pretend that that's what she always meant. The whole time. So he doesn't hand it over. He keeps it in his pocket and tells her, calmly that he's keeping it in his pocket. I am going to tell you what that legal standard is eventually. What this does is force her to keep articulating her reasoning in her words with no escape hatch. And for us, the audience watching, that's the part that becomes excruciating to sit through. Because every additional sentence she produces dicks the whole a little deeper. Dean is just refusing to throw her a shovel. But before I do, I just am trying to determine why you think it's okay a man's life was ended. So I asked you why you think it's justified. Then you went on a three-minute rant about how he's mentally ill and was at that protest when he shouldn't have been there. So to clarify, you think that his death was justified. His murder was justified. His execution was justified because he was mentally ill. He wasn't perfect like the Democrats say. CNN Photoshopped his face and he was at a nice protest, right? Carification used as a trap. Dean lays out every element that she's offered in order and asks her to confirm that this is the case that she's making. And it's a trap because there is no good answer. If she says yes, she has openly committed to a character-based justification for a state killing. Mental illness and an unflattering photo as grounds for execution. If she says no, then she's just spent three minutes saying nothing relevant and she still owes him an actual reason. And you know, it's worth pausing on Dean's recorability. He has reconstructed every element of her rant from memory, in sequence with no notes. He is tracking the entire dialectic in his head or staying composed enough to land it cleanly. That is not a common skill. Most people in a life debate lose half of what the other person has said immediately. Our boy Dean, however, is holding it all and using it as ammunition, right? I think it was justified because of his actions. That is why. Those are other things on top of it which led to this point. But yes, in my eyes, it is justified. When someone changes the criteria for evidence or success to avoid admitting that they're wrong, they're moving the goalposts. And that is what we're seeing here, folks. Suddenly, it's about his actions. Everything else, the mental illness, the family, the Photoshop, the protest attendance, it's been demoted to other things on top. Those are other things on top of it. All of which she introduced, all of which she spent minutes defending. All of which is now quietly walked back and really framed as garnish. Now, this is exactly what Dean was trying to engineer. By refusing to accept the rant as a justification and forcing her to confirm it as an argument, he made her a bad name. That's all he had to do. She dropped the character stuff because, said straight as a thesis, it is indefensible. Persuasion had nothing to do with it. And the only way that Dean got her to that point was by insisting, politely, patiently, on clarity. You can consider that. Check. Those are other things on top of it, which led to this point. But yes, in my eyes, it is justified. Perfect what actions. He accepts the retreat without comment, not needing a victory lap or stating that she's changing her position. Instead, he simply asks her for the specific actions, which forces her to plant the new goalposts in the ground clearly. Because if the justification is conduct based now, then there has to be a conduct. And whatever she names next is what the rest of the conversation is going to be tested against. Perfect what actions. What actions? When you're going out of your way to go to ice protests, harass them from doing their job. You're on camera. If you wait for a while, if you even look like you have a, he went with a gun, did he not? Did he not have a load of gun? Okay, we've got a concrete standard. The thing that Emily believes makes lethal force acceptable is this. He brought a gun to her protest. Lock it in. That is the principle. That is the rule that she's just put on the table. Now, before we go any further, it's worth pausing to know that this is almost certainly not a standard that Emily actually holds. And to ponder it, we can consider, again, the capital on January 6. Many of her people were carrying weapons. 72-year-old Lonnie Kaufman was sentenced to 46 months in prison for bringing a small armory of guns, ammunition, and Molotov cocktails to Capitol Hill the morning of January 6, 2021. And I would wager with good money that she does not believe that federal officers were entitled to shoot them on site for the offence of being armed in proximity to a protest. But she doesn't see such inconsistencies yet. She thinks that she's landed somewhere defensible. She thinks that she's found the firm ground. What she hasn't clocked is that Dean has been listening to every word of this with one specific name already loaded in the chamber. Because the moment you say bringing a gun to a protest justifies being killed, every analytical brain immediately pulls up the same case file. A certain Maca darling who brought a rifle to a protest and shot three people. But Dean is going to let that one sit in the chamber a little longer. He went with a gun, did he not? Did he not have a loaded gun? Yes, he did have a gun on his holster. But you should know that in accordance with the second fourth and 14th amendment, merely being in possession of a firearm just not authorizing L.A.O. to literally shoot and kill you. So once again, Alaska, what actions did he engage in that justified the shooting? You said he was harassing them. How is he harassing them that justified then literally killing them? Dean's first priority is the legal cleanup. Possession of a firearm is not on its own a lethal force trigger. The second amendment protects the carrying of it. The fourth restricts unreasonable seizure of your person and the 14th wraps the whole thing in due process. None of that gets suspended because a federal officer feels uncomfortable. So Dean is saying, even if we accept everything that you've claimed, the legal threshold for an officer putting a bullet through someone's chest sits at conduct, not possession. And he drags her right back to the word she's used, harassing and asks her to cash it out. What did the harassment actually consist of such that the proportion of response was death? How is he harassing them that justified then literally killing him? Okay, it's on video. You've seen the video and I've seen the video. That's what happened. You're going out of your way out of protests. He's been at many other protests. All these people are at every protest. They're known to harm people. They're harassing people. Probably online talking about killing ice agents. You're going to go to a protest with a gun and a cop sees it as you're harassing these ice officers are getting threatened every day. Dude, it's not even a Republican thing a downgrading. It is a common sense thing. It is a common sense thing. Right, there is too much to chew on here. Dean asked a specific narrow question. What actions did Priti take the warranted lethal force? And what comes back is a smoke screen. We're told that he's been at many other protests that all these people, whoever they are, are known to harm people. He's been at many other protests. All these people are at every protest. They're known to harm people. She insists that Priti was probably online talking about killing ice agents. Probably online talking about killing ice agents. Probably is doing a lot of work. None of this is sourced. None of it is tied to anything that Priti actually did in the moment he was shot. And another word that's working hard is harassing. They've harassed you, babe. It's a soft elastic word that can be stretched to fit any protests that you want it to. All of a sudden, filming an officer is harassment. Standing too close is harassment. Yelling is harassment. If harassing is the threshold for getting shot, then the threshold is whatever the shooter wants it to be on the day. This is not a standard anyone would seriously endorse if it was stated cleanly. Dude, it's not even a Republican thing, a downcracking. It is a common sense thing. As for her appeal to common sense, that's a fallacy. The move of declaring a claim self-evident in order to skip the part where you have to defend it. Common sense isn't a standard. It's a label you stick on a position to make it look pre-approved so that anyone who questions it can be dismissed as unreasonable rather than engaging with it. Regardless, here's the thing about appealing to common sense. You've just committed yourself to it universally. If it's common sense, it applies to everyone, which means she has now locked the door behind herself. It is a common sense thing. I would never, yeah, CCW's I understand. I would never bring a gun. Any to any Trump rally, anti-truck, that is just not, it's just not a smart thing to do. That's why you end up dead. Okay, condemn Kyle Rittenhouse. And that, my fellow apes, is checkmate. You felt victim to one of the classic blunders. Emily just finished telling us that bringing a gun to her protest is the act that gets you killed. And she has explicitly extended the rule across all of the political spectrum. Dude, it's not even a Republican thing, a downcracking. It is a common sense thing. It is a common sense thing. Trump rally or anti-Trump rally, it doesn't matter. Bring a gun to a protest, you end up dead. And that is apparently fine. So Dean does the only thing he needs to. He keeps the action fixed and changes the actor. Same protest scenario, a firearm, different political color. Kyle Rittenhouse, 17 years old. AR-15, walked into a protest in Kenosha, shot three people killed two. By Emily stated principle, the common sense one, the cross-partisan one that she just emphasized, Rittenhouse is exactly the case the rule was built to cover. He's the cleanest possible application of her own rule. And Dean knows that she can't follow through. He knows she's not going to condemn Rittenhouse because Rittenhouse is a movement icon defended by congressman, hosted at Mar-a-Lago, paraded as a folk era. The substitution test is rigged in the most beautiful way. You see, her stated principle commits her to one answer, yet her tribal loyalty demands another. There is no escape route that preserves both. It just doesn't exist. She has to abandon one of them on camera, live in front of millions. And we get to see which one she chooses. Okay, condemn Kyle Rittenhouse. Kyle Rittenhouse? I don't... what? Condemnum? Okay, I condemn him. I don't know. The stammer is the total collapse. It's the cadence of a person who seconds ago was speaking in confident absolutes about common sense and what the world is better without. And who is now suddenly lost in her own logic, pulling the frankly typical but boring, mega ignorant response. Kyle Rittenhouse, who you want about? I've never heard of them. Did you know that there was an illegal gambling operation going on just down the street from where you live? No. It was a legal government. What is it? I don't know about that. But then she owns the concession. Okay, I condemn him. I don't know. Notice how performative that is. It's reluctant and it's hedged. And that's almost certainly deliberate, because as it stands, if she's ever asked about this clip in the future, she has the deniability built in. She didn't really condemn him. She was confused. She didn't have the full picture. The I don't know is insurance masquerading as ignorance. I condemn him. I don't know. He brought an AR-15 to a protest, remember? Dean isn't letting her drift. He pulls her right back to the rule she established. Rittenhouse went to a protest with a gun. By her own common sense logic, his shooting would have been justified. He brought an AR-15 to a protest, remember? Yeah, that's insane. I think that's insane. I'm not, I'm not supporting Kyle Rittenhouse. I think that's not. That is actually quite the clever response from Emily. She's condemning the act in the abstract, or carefully refusing to condemn the person, or to say that what should have happened to him as a consequence. Her grandma is subtle, but effective. She hasn't said, Kyle Rittenhouse is insane. She said, that's insane. That's insane. The action floats free off the actor. And notice what she still hasn't said. She hasn't said that Rittenhouse deserved to die. She hasn't said the world would be better off without him. She hasn't said his family should have raised him better. All of the language she lavished on Pretty, none of it survives contact with her own in-group. I mean, whatever happened to it being a non-partisan principle, huh? I'm not, I'm not supporting Kyle Rittenhouse. I think that's not. So you think that the cops would have been justified in shooting Kyle Dad? Dean once again strikes at the principle. He's asking her to apply her own stated standard, the lethal force standard. The one she affirmed for Pretty without hesitation. The one she said wasn't a Republican or Democrat thing. The one she described as common sense. Either the principle holds or it doesn't. Either bringing a gun to her protest justifies cops shooting you, full stop or it doesn't. Dean has set up the cleanest possible test. Same action, more dangerous weapon, different politics. That's it. If she says yes, she's consistent. If she says anything else, the principle she's been hiding behind evaporates. So you think that the cops would have been justified in shooting Kyle Dad? Maybe. I don't know. If the actions were different, maybe. Maybe. Really? Just a maybe. Maybe? Maybe not. Maybe fuck yourself. The principle that produced an ironclad justified for Alex Pretty produces a mere maybe for Kyle Rittenhouse. Same rule, different answer. Special pleading. Call in the open. When someone applies standards, principles or rules to others or exempting themselves without justification. And we've got to highlight the escape that she dives for. If the actions were different, maybe. Wait, what actions? Two seconds ago, the action was bringing a gun to her protest. That was the rule. That's it. You're going to go to a protest with a gun. He went with a gun, did he not? Now suddenly, there's a second tier of actions that matter. Actions that Pretty apparently performed and Rittenhouse evidently did. She smuggling in a new criterion to rescue the verdict. And she's doing it on the fly post-hawk because the original criterion just convicted her own sight. These goal posts have moved again. Haven't they? Give us a break, Emily, please, for crying out loud. I don't know if the actions were different, maybe. I think if you're going to go with a AR-15 and you get shot by a cop, I don't think it's that weird whether you're Kyle Rittenhouse or whatever his name was. Why just a maybe? I mean, this is your defense for Alex Pretty. So why is it it was totally justified if it was Alex Pretty, but it's maybe justified if it was Kyle Rittenhouse. Basically, what I'd suggest you say in order to stand by your principle is and I quote, Kyle Rittenhouse should have been shot and killed. Well, I'm not going to say he should have. I don't know. Maybe. Maybe he just said maybe he was in a better situation. She says I'm not going to say he should have. That is the entire game right there. Well, I'm not going to say he should have. She's openly refusing to own her own principles. She simply declines to follow it where it leads. As said at the beginning, there is a saying, one of my favorites, even a principle is not a principle until it costs you. The idea is simple. Anyone can hold a position when holding it is free. The real test is whether they hold it when it isn't free, when the rule forces an unwanted verdict, when it indicts someone on your own side. When the case it lands on is the one that you would really rather skip. Emily has revealed time and time again that she has no principles, only enemies, but she's not done. Maybe he was in a better situation, but also he probably wasn't threatening to kill ice agents and cops. He was probably more supportive on their side. And also what he shot, did he kill people? The gun at the protest, the principle she stated minutes ago, the one she said was not a Republican thing and not a Democrat thing. Dude, it's not even a Republican thing, a Democrat thing. It's gone. Vanished. It's not even a factor in her analysis anymore. She has quietly swapped it out for an entirely different criterion. Yep, that's right. She's moving the goalposts yet again. This time she's given us the real ones. Seems probably more supportive on their side. Their side. That is the true variable. But here's the thing, even that doesn't actually save her. Because Rittenhouse wasn't supporting the police. He was a 17 year old kid who showed up to a volatile protest with an AR-15 and inserted himself into a public order situation the police were trying to manage. They didn't want him there. He wasn't an asset. He was an unpredictable civilian with a rifle, making a tense situation more dangerous. By any definition of supportive of the police, he's a worse fit than almost anyone in Kenosha that night. And also what, he shot, did he kill people, right? Okay, so you also just made another suggestion there that Alex pretty threatened to shoot and kill a cop? That's not true. What's your evidence for that? No, that's not what I'm saying at all. I'm saying I don't know Kyle Rittenhouse situation. It was a big story. I don't care. It's I don't know what happened. This is as exhausting as it is hilarious. One simple question. That's all it took. She assured us that pretty threatened to shoot and kill a cop. Dean asked for a receipt. And she folded. That's it. I don't know what happened. I don't think he's a bad kid. And God he's not dead. I don't think he should be out shooting people. I know it was self-defense. If it's self-defense, great. That guy, well, it was itself, is he defending himself from the situation he put him in? Like here's the thing. At the end of the day, that situation he's in is 100% avoidable. You can go into all the aspects of it. I don't care that that happens to him. I think it was very stupid to be there. There's a reason it doesn't happen to me because I wouldn't put myself in that situation. And neither would you either. It's a very stupid situation to be in. It's not that it's really not that complicated. Avoid dumb situations. Just how far can she fall? After the threat allegation collapsed, after the principle was quietly switched out, after every concrete claim got walked back to, I don't really know, what's left? Life advice. Don't put yourself in dumb situations. Avoid dumb situations. That is where the lethal force standard has ended up. Just it was stupid of him and stupid people get what they get. She is happy that Pretti is dead. She smiles when Dean says that her side thinks the world is better off without him. We're better off without them. And that the shootings justify it. But she wraps written house in sympathy, hedges, and I'm glad he's not dead. He's not dead. At this point, it is crystal clear. The standard isn't the gun. The standard, the only standard that explains every single one of her judgments is which side you're on. And she has now confirmed it across every layer off the argument. The principle she stated, the exception she carved out, the threat she invented, the position she swapped, and the life advice she retreated to. The relevant factor was never the gun at the protest. It was, as Dean is about to put it plainly, political affiliation. It's really not that complicated. Avoid dumb situations. Wait, Emily, this doesn't make any sense. Because earlier you said, the world is literally better without Alex Pretti because he brought a gun to a protest. Now you're saying that you don't think that Cal Rittenhouse is a quote-unquote bad kid, regardless of the fact that he brought a gun to a protest. So what it seems like is that bringing a gun to a protest is not the relevant factor here that leads you to the conclusion that Alex Pretti was terrible and we're better off without him. And Cal Rittenhouse is not a bad kid, but rather political affiliation. That is the cold arithmetic of what she's actually laid out end to end. Dean is stating her own words back to her. Pretti brought a gun to a protest and the world is better off without him. Rittenhouse brought a gun to a protest, killed two people, and he's not a bad kid. Same action, two verdicts. One variable left to explain the gap. So what it seems like is that bringing a gun to a protest is not the relevant factor here. This is what a principle looks like when it gets stress tested and it fails. A real standard is something that survives the substitution. You state it, you swap the names, and the verdict holds. Because the verdict was tracking the action, not the person. Emily Standard didn't survive the swap. It didn't even survive the question. The moment the same facts were attached to her political team, her principles dissolved into hedges, shrugs, and I don't know. In any case, you know this, uh, I have never met this man in my life. I don't know how Rittenhouse situation. It was a big story. I don't care. It's I don't know what happened. He's my brother adopted. Well, I know it was self-defense. Dean got it out of her by calmly tracking the dialectic and refusing all distractions. That's it. That's all it took. But it's easy as it sounds. It isn't easy to execute, and he absolutely deserves credit for it. If we ever meet, Dean, first pine is on me. So what we've seen here is the difference between a principle and post-hoc rationalization. A principle generates the conclusion. Post-hoc gets recruited to defend one. And the way you tell them apart is doing exactly what Dean just did. You hand the person a structurally identical case from the other side, and you watch what happens. If the standard holds, it was a principle. If the standard evaporates, it was never doing the work in the first place. Game over. It's really not that complicated. Avoid dumb situations. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Ground News.