---
video_title: "Yes, I am Desecrating this Grave"
video_id: yfv53-ZJtbI
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfv53-ZJtbI
video_date: 2026-06-15T17:00:18+00:00
video_description: |
  I might be sitting on the actual heart of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Yes, the heart. Here's the story of the most radical literary family in history — and how it ended up under me 200 years later.
  
  --
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
Why hello my fellow ape, so I hope you are well. This is absolutely awesome. First of all I'm sitting on it and that sounds blasphemous and that is the point. Because this is full of literary and philosophical genius, let's say. And also an absolute middle finger to any kind of establishment. First of all, you may have heard of Mary Shelley. She wrote Frankenstein and she wrote it by the way when she was just 18 years old. I'll come back to her because the family lineage, it's amazing. And especially from a humanist, because I'm a humanist event right now. From a humanist in an atheist and a rational point of view, I think you'll appreciate it. So her mother was Mary Wastoncraft and Mary was a big deal. What she did, as she wrote a book known as The Vindication of the Rights of Woman, 1792, it came about three years after the French enshrined in their constitution, the all men get equal rights, men meaning all humans. The thing that made it so amazing is they did it in such a way as not to reference Christ or God explicitly it was by reason. So three years later she publishes this work, The Vindication of the Rights of Woman, absolutely critical for women's rights, for women participating in society equally. Incredible stuff and this is Mary Shelley's mother. Unfortunately, she died pretty much immediately after having a young Shelley. But father was known as William Godwin. And he was a political philosopher and a novelist. He was famous for promoting atheism. He was fighting against the institutions of the time. He championed personal freedom. All things that I love, stuff that you probably love. He offered a book known as Political Justice. Absolutely incredible guy and didn't care for conventions, just like, you know, Shelley's mother. They were known as a power couple because of this. And a lot of people did not like them at all. Now Shelley, when she was young, she ran away with a poet known as Percy Bischelly. Hence her name. If you know anything about me, you'll know that I absolutely adore Percy. I think Percy is one of my greatest heroes. He wasn't perfect. None of them are. Let's stop doing that to people by the way. But he was absolutely incredible. When he was young and he was in Oxford, he nailed to the doors of his institution. He nailed there a letter which contained his essay on the necessity of atheism. Got him in a lot of trouble as did the way in which he went around it. But anyway, this poor bloke, he went away and while he was away on holiday, he died. He died at sea and they burnt his body on the beach. But they say that they plucked his heart out to give it to Mary. It's a bit weird and actually it's probably more likely that it was a liver because of the way that preservation happens during, you know, fires. But Mary held onto it for all of her life and now it might well be here. So I might be sitting on the heart with Percy Bischelli who, you know, 200 years later has inspired me and Mike for it. Let me know if you want more because I'll be happy to.