---
video_title: "The Edgelord Defense That Caved Into \"The Edits\""
video_id: 4c7DFocJJq0
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4c7DFocJJq0
video_date: 2026-07-14T19:00:17+00:00
video_description: |
  Everyone assumed there was some clever point underneath the provocation. There wasn't. Piers pushed exactly once, and what was hiding under the act turned out to be embarrassingly small. Watch the moment it gives way.
  👉 Full breakdown: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEyO2x6egos
  
  --
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
Hitler was a penifile and kind of a pagan. It's like, well, he was also really fucking cool. So, you know, time to grow up. We're not, we're not children anymore, am I right? Am I right? Am I right boys? While equating Hitler was cool with being a grown-up, disagreement automatically reads as childish. It's a way of rigging the conversation so that the most natural response, moral revulsion, is dismissed as unsophisticated before anyone can voice it. And what do you mean by Hitler is very fucking cool? Because I think he's very fucking a monster. Oh, oh, yes. And that's a clip. I think he's very fucking a monster. Do you hear yourself? Yeah, I do. I mean, can we all grow up? We murdered 12 million people. What is very fucking cool about that? Tell me. The edits, it's just cool. The uniforms, the parades, the, it's cool as a guy. You look at World War II and it's fascinating and it's interesting and it's compelling and it's cool. Now, we're shrouding as douchebag no longer available. Nick reaches for a different tool. This is a modern Bailey fallacy. Here's how it works. Someone makes a controversial claim. Then retreats to a more defensible position when challenged. The Bailey is the bold controversial claim. The territory you actually want to hold. The Mott is the fortified fallback position, something much harder to attack. When pressed, you retreat to the Mott. Defend it successfully and then act as though you've defended the Bailey. To give you a quick example, someone says all men are toxic. That's the Bailey. When challenged, they retreat to, well, some male behaviors are problematic. That's the Mott. Hard to argue with that. But notice what happens. After defending the Mott, they carry on as if all men are toxic was never the issue. Nick is doing exactly this. The Bailey is Hitler was cool in a political and moral sense, an endorsement of the man and what he stood for. It's like, well, he was also really fucking cool. But when Pierce pins him to the specific reality, he murdered 12 million people. What is very cool about that? Nick shifts to the Mott, I just mean the Asphetics, the uniforms, the parades. The edits, it's just cool. The uniforms, the parades, the, it's, it's cool. It's a more defensible position who can argue that World War II footage isn't visually striking. But look at what this Mott is actually doing. It's not neutral ground, framing Nazi history as fascinating, compelling, cool, treating genocide as spectacle is itself a normalization move. The Mott doesn't have to be innocent. It just has to be easier to defend. Nick acts as though answering the aesthetic question answers the moral one. It doesn't.