---
video_title: "The Christian Revival Is a Lie. Here's the Proof"
video_id: 1oz2Zl4cxk0
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oz2Zl4cxk0
video_date: 2026-03-26T20:16:47+00:00
video_description: |
  If you enjoyed this video, please consider checking out my political channel. We're so damn close to 100k subscribers! @WoodfordStephen 
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  The Bible Society's "Quiet Revival" report collapsed today — retracted after YouGov confirmed its survey sample was riddled with fraudulent respondents. For over a year, this data was cited in Parliament, celebrated by church leaders, and repeated across every major outlet. Nobody checked the methodology.
  
  In this forensic breakdown, I expose exactly how a fatally flawed opt-in survey manufactured a religious revival that every rigorous dataset — the UK Labour Force Survey, the British Social Attitudes survey, Pew's own longitudinal research — was simultaneously disproving. But the data scandal is only half the story.
  
  The more revealing question is what the revival narrative was actually *for*. I'll show you how Christianity is being adopted not as faith but as a civilisational brand — and why the movement's most celebrated converts keep openly admitting they don't believe a word of it. Hirsi Ali, Dawkins, Sargon of Akkad: three figures, three confessions, one pattern. When the loudest voices promoting a religious revival are political operatives and self-declared non-believers, you're not watching a spiritual awakening. You're watching something else entirely — and this analysis will show you exactly what.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
There has been a tremendous renewal in religion, faith, Christianity and belief in God. The moment you're in it, the moment you're in it. The quiet revival is a pretty good description of what's going on. It almost sounds like it's downplaying it. Religion is experiencing a revival. Even as we speak, you feel that. Oh yeah, I can measure it. I've been measured statistically. There is, if you listen to certain people, a great awakening underway. Do you think there's more persecution of Christians now? Or do you think there's a revival of Christianity in the United States or is there both? Both. Christianity, battered, mocked. Left for dead by the secular West is surging back. Young people are filling the pews. Young men, especially, the progetal sons are returning. Headline after headline confirms it. A Bible Society report claims that church attendance among 18s, 24-year-olds in England and Wales has quadrupled. Pastors are weeping with gratitude. MPs are citing the numbers in Parliament. And across the Atlantic, in the United States, the story is even louder. Conferences that look like revivals. Politicians who sound like preachers, influences, baptising their audiences in the language of Scripture. It is, by all accounts, a miracle. There's just one problem. It isn't true. And the strangest part of this story isn't the data. It's the people being held up as proof of the revival. You keep admitting, on camera, that they don't actually believe. In April of 2025, the Bible Society published a report called The Quiet Revival. It was based on two UGov surveys and its headline findings was explosive. Monthly church attendance among adults in England and Wales have risen from 8% to 12% between 2018 and 2024. Among 18 to 24-year-olds, the increase was even more dramatic. From 4% to 16%, more than a fifth of young men in that age bracket were reportedly attending church at least monthly. The report travelled everywhere. The Guardian cited it. Sky news covered it. Conservative MP Danny Kruger waved it in the House of Commons as proof the Christianity was far from finished. And here in the UK, Madam Chair, I'm encouraged there's a report from the Bible Society in Theos recently called The Quiet Revival. Which demonstrates that actually quietly we are seeing new growth of our faith here in the UK. Church leaders embraced it with the fervor of people who have been waiting decades for good news. The Bible Society, together with UGov, have put out this survey based on 13,000 respondents. And the data is in. I think a quiet revival is a pretty good description of what's going on. It almost sounds like it's downplaying it, looking at some of those statistics. And nobody checked the methodology. It's a very robust study. The Bible Society surveys were conducted through UGov's opt-in panel. A pool of 29 million registered users who volunteer to take surveys in exchange for points redeemable for prizes. This is not then a random sampling. This is not the gold standard. This is a self-selecting population financially incentivised to complete questionnaires quickly and move on. Pure research centre, which uses address-based random sampling across tens of thousands of households, has explicitly warned the opt-in surveys are vulnerable to bogus respondents who answer with minimal effort to collect rewards. One researcher has even demonstrated that large language models can be programmed to take opt-in surveys using multiple personas that evade fraud detection. So the methodology did not produce a finding. It produced a flattering fiction. And how do we know this? Good question. Because every rigorous data set tells us the opposite story. The UK Labour Force Survey, which randomly samples 20,000 households every quarter, shows that Christian identification among British adults fell from 54% in 2018 to 44% in the summer of 2025. So not rising, but falling. And not by a little. Among 18 to 34-year-olds, the very demographic the Bible Society claims is flooding back to the pews fewer than 28%. Now Identify is Christian, down from 37% in 2018. That is quite a difference. The Revival Report says that this group quadrupled in church attendance. The National Household Data says that they are disappearing. The British Social Attitude Survey, a probability-based study conducted by the National Centre for Social Research and widely regarded as the gold standard, shows the percentage of adults who both identify as Christian and attend church at least monthly declined from the age of 18. The probability declined from 12% to 9% over the same period. Among young adults, monthly attendance hovers between 6% and 7%. Below, pretty pandemic levels. Even YuGov's own data contradicts itself. The British Elections Study, which YuGov has run since 2015, using a more rigorous, longer-tudial panel, shows the share of Christian churchgoers in England and Wales, fell from 8% to 6.6% between 2015 and 2024. The Bible Society's commissioned survey using the same polling firm claims the opposite, an increase from 8% to 12% over a slightly shorter period. YuGov managed to contradict its own numbers. This is not a finding. This is a commission delivering what it was paid to deliver. As a David Voaz, one of Britain's most eminent sociologists of religion, calculated that if the Bible Society's numbers were accurate, they would imply millions of new churchgoers who had managed to be, in his words, very quiet indeed, not to say invisible, to have escaped everyone's notice. A local Anglican Rector did the math for his own parish. If the survey was right, he should be seeing 180 young adults at Sunday services. He is not. Humanist UK has called for the report to be retracted. The Bible Society refuses. Whoa, hold up. Future editing Steve here. Good news, everyone. Good news, everyone. This morning, after a year of refusal, the Bible Society has officially retracted the report. Yeah, YuGov informed them that the 2024 survey sample was faulty, causing the chief executive off the Bible Society to admit that their revival narrative can no longer be regarded as a reliable source of information about the spiritual landscape in Britain. And YuGov has now confirmed what the data always suggested. The survey sample, in their own words, contained a number of respondents who we can now identify as fraudulent. Their anti-fraud systems had failed to activate. The numbers were never real. Yeah, sorry, Christians. Cooked. Anyway. Oh, no. Anyway, last week. But what about America, the country whose vice president declares it is a Christian nation whose government invokes God at every press conference whose conservative movement has made the defense of Christian heritage its central organizing principle. It is one of the most sinister, most unsubstantiated lies that does not come up against any sort of academic scrutiny. This idea that founding fathers were a bunch of enlightenment, common law deists. The reason they hate it is because if they, the reason they must say this is that if we actually go back to our Christian roots and we go back to where we once were, it's America's best hope for revival. Surely there, at least the numbers tell a different story. No, they do not. Religion is experiencing a revival. Even as we speak, you feel that. Oh, yeah, I can measure it. It's been measured statistically. The new research center published a 2023 to 2024 religious landscape study in February of 2025. It found that 62% of American adults identify as Christian down from 78% in 2007, though the rate of decline has slowed. By December 2025, Pew followed up with an even more targeted analysis. Religion holds steady in America. Its findings were unambiguous. In 2020, 71% of Americans told Pew that they identified with a religion. In 2025, the figure was 70%. As for monthly religious attendance, 33% in 2020, 34% in 2025. Daily prayer, 48%, then 46%, importance of religion, 45%, then 43%, flat. This every measure, for half a decade. Pew stated it plainly, there is no evidence that any birth cohort has become significantly more or less religious since 2020. Young adults remain much less religious than older Americans. Today's young adults are less religious than young people were a decade ago. And yet, the media reports kept coming. The revival narrative was irresistible. And really good news Christianity seems to be on the rise. Pew observed that the pattern was systematic. Findings from opt-in surveys, claiming a revival received far more media attention than a result from random population samples that contradicted it. In December of 2025, political scientists John Curtis published a briefing paper through Natsen explicitly concluding that the British Social Attitude Survey did not replicate the Bible Society's findings. In three weeks, the paper has received zero media coverage. So if the revival is not real, if the data is flat, the surveys are flawed, and the rigorous evidence points nowhere near a spiritual awakening, then why exactly are people looking at when they say they see one? Do you think there's more persecution of Christians now? Or do you think there's a revival of Christianity in the United States or is there both? Both. The answer is in plain sight if you stop looking at the church attendance and start looking at the conference stages. The only thing that is truly served as an anchor of the United States of America is that we have been, and by the grace of God, we always will be a Christian nation. That was the vice president of the United States, speaking in December of 2025, at turning points, USA's America first. An annual convention for young conservatives in Phoenix, more than 30,000 attendees, the line drew the loudest applause off the entire speech, louder than immigration policy, louder than economic promises. The crowd roared for the declaration that America is, was, and always will be, a Christian nation. And by the grace of God, we always will be a Christian nation. That was not a church service. It was a political rally at which the vice president also told the crowd that they no longer need to apologize for being white. In the United States of America, you don't have to apologize for being white anymore. That the Supreme Court had wrongly expelled Christianity from public life, and that religious liberty itself is a Christian concept. Even our famously American idea of religious liberty is a Christian concept. He described the purpose of the Trump administration as ending what he called a 50-year war on Christians, and called it the war they were proudest of ending. But over the last 50 years, there has been a singular focus, a war that has been waged on Christians and Christianity in the United States of America. And let me say of all the wars that Donald Trump has ended, that is the one we're proudest of. So notice what happened. Christian identity was deployed, not as theology, but as territory, not as worship, but as belonging, not as a relationship with God, but as a relationship with power. And this is the pattern. Every where you look, the loudest voices promoting the revival are not theologians, they are political operatives. But perhaps the most revealing evidence that this is not a spiritual movement comes from the converts themselves. Because the most prominent figures cited as proof of Christianity's resurgence, keep telling you, with remarkable gander, that they do not actually believe. In November of 2023, Iron Hersey Ali, a former Muslim, a former atheist, and a long time associate of the New Atheist movement, published an essay titled Why I Am Now a Christian. It was treated as a thunderbolt. One of the world's most prominent atheists had found God, revival, confirmed. Except read the essay. The reasoning is almost entirely geopolitical. Harass Ali identified three threats to Western civilization, authoritarianism, Islamism, and what she called woke ideology. She concluded that atheism was, in her words, two weak and divisive doctrine to fortify us against our menacing forces. She turned to Christianity, not because she encountered the risen Christ, but because she needed a civilizational operating system, robust enough to fight a cultural war. She chose Christianity, the way that one chooses a weapon for its utility, not its splendor. To her credit, she acknowledged a personal dimension, that she had found life without spiritual solace, difficult. That is a human and sympathetic mission. But the framing of the essay was strategic, not spiritual. She needed a story that could mobilize the masses, and Christianity, with its institutions, its texts, and its tradition, had the infrastructure. So this is not so much a conversion, it's a strategic alliance. And the challenge of Islam and the message of Islam to Western civilization can be counted and should be counted with the message of Western civilization, which is essentially Christian. Now I'm going to tie this thread, but first let's pick up a few more. Consider Carl Benjamin, better known online as Sargon of a cat. He spent the better part of a decade as a new atheist, if you will, on YouTube. Yet, at the ARC conference in London in 2025, he discussed his evolving views on faith, now describing himself as agnostic, but pro-Christianity. He supports his wife, taking their children to church for what he calls cultural grounding, and has stated that Christianity must be preserved because it is the traditional religion of the West. So he does not believe, he does not worship, he does not pray, he attends, for the culture, for the tradition, for the brand. I've got to the point where now my wife is like, right, so we're going to take the kids church, and I'm like, I don't want to, but I'm going to have to. And then there's Richard Dawkins. I call myself a cultural Christian, I'm not a believer, but there's a distinction between being a believing Christian and being a cultural Christian. So, you know, I love hymns and Christmas carols, and I sort of feel at home in the Christian ethos, I feel that we are a Christian country in that sense. The author of the God the Lusion, arguably the most famous atheist of the 21st century. Speaking on LBC, in March 2024, he declared himself a cultural Christian, while simultaneously insisting he does not believe a single word of the Christian faith. His motivation was explicit, he was, he said, horrified to see Ramadan lights on the streets, the once displayed Easter decorations. His cultural Christianity is not faith, it is an aesthetic preference deployed against Islam. Roddreya, the conservative commentator, offered the perfect observation. This is like someone who greatly enjoys eating, but is glad that the country's farms are closing. There's three figures, three confessions, and each one of them is saying the same thing. I am adopting Christianity, not because I believe it's true, but because I believe it is useful. So, not faith, not revelation, not even curiosity, just utility, dressed investments. Now, here is what makes this story not merely intriguing, but genuinely significant. The people promoting the revival, the institutions, the influencers, the political operatives, are, in most cases, not making a mistake. They are not misreading the data, they know what they are building. Revival narrative itself is the mechanism. Think about what the claim of a revival does. It takes what is functionally a political mobilization. Young men drawn to conservatism through the masculine crisis pipeline of Jordan Peterson, the manusphere, and anti-woke influencer culture. And repackages it as a divine movement. It transforms recruitment into revelation. It makes a political project look like God's will. Puse data shows that religious affiliation in the US has become tightly correlated with political identity. The share of self-identified conservatives who are Christian fell only slightly between 2007 and 2023, from 89% to 82%. Among self-identified liberals, the collapse was utterly staggering. From 62% to 37%. Christianity is not reviving then, is it? It's sorting. It is becoming the house religion of one political movement. And the people streaming through the door are arriving not because they heard the gospel, but because they heard the podcast. Researchers have noted that the narrowing of the gender gap in religion, the finding that young men are now roughly as religious as young women, is not driven by men becoming more devout. It is driven by women leaving. Pue was precise. The narrowing is a result of declining religiosity among American women, not increases in the religiosity of men. The revival is an optical illusion created by women walking out of the back door, while cameras point at the men walking in the front. The pews are not filling. They are just becoming conspicuously male, which, if nothing else, should tell you something. About what kind of Christianity is being offered. The church is already too feminized, too soft, too focused on feelings and emotions and being welcoming and inclusive. All of that is coming from liberal women in these churches. No where is this merger of faith and faction more visible than at events like America fest, where the language of Christianity and the language of political conservatism have become functionally indistinguishable. Vance did not merely psych Christianity approvingly. He made it the operating language of every policy position. Age retirees. Yeah, that's honoring your father and mother. Opposing trans-health care. That is defending God's beautiful design, restricting abortion access. Well, that is the sanctity of life. Rolling back protections for gay and lesbian Americans. That is biblical marriage, telling mothers that they're meant to just be mothers and nothing else. That is God's plan for the family. Every plan for the republican platform was retrofitted with a scriptural justification. Not because the policies emerge from theology, although there is an interlinking, but it's because theology provided the packaging. He closed the speech by telling 30,000 young conservatives that while only God could promise them salvation, he could promise them close borders, safe communities and good jobs. Salvation and immigration policy offered in the same breath from the same stage to the same crowd, forgetting that, you know, Jesus was a refugee. Jesus was here right now. We should let him in. As long as he came here legally. As long as Jesus Christ came to this country legally, he could be with let him in. So once again, we see what's happening. This is not Christianity informing politics. This is politics colonizing Christianity. Following out the faith and filling the shell with its own agenda. And this brings us to the question that the revival narrative is designed to prevent anyone from asking. If Christianity is being adopted as a political identity by people who openly say they do not believe it. If the data shows no genuine increase in faith, prayer or spiritual practice. If the surveys underpinning the claims are methodologically compromised and contradicted by every rigorous data set. And if the venues where the revival is most loudly celebrated are not churches but political conventions. Then what is actually being built? The answer is a brand. Christianity as a civilization software. A tribal marker for conservative Western identity that requires no prayer. No confession. Transformation of the self. Only allegiance. A flag that you can waive without kneeling before anyone. And that should trouble believers more than anyone. Because Christianity has survived in some form or another Roman persecution, the collapse of empires and centuries of institutional corruption. But it has never been asked to survive being popular for the wrong reasons. The thing that is being called a revival is not an insult to secularists. The insult to the faith itself. To every person who actually believes that the story of a man who died on a cross and rose from the dead is not a civilizational strategy but the truth. There is an old theological concept called taking the Lord's name in vain. Most people think that it means swearing. It doesn't. It means invoking God's name to serve your own purposes. It means borrowing the authority of the divine to dress up something profane. And there's an even older warning still from Christ himself. Be aware of wolves who come to you in sheep's clothing. The revival that isn't is full of wolves. And they are not even bothering to wear the fleece convincingly. They are telling you openly that they do not believe. The revival that isn't may be the largest act of taking the Lord's name in vain in Western history. Certainly, modern Western history. And the people doing it keep telling you with a frankness that would be admirable if it were not so cynical. That they do not believe a word. So the next time you see these reports just know that it's becoming more and more of a sausage fest. And they're doing what they do best. Spinning an hour to. It almost sounds like it's downplaying it, looking at some of those statistics. It's a very robust study. Hey guys, if you're enjoying this video, I just want to let you know that I make videos like this regularly on my political chat. We're currently sat at about 90,000 subscribers and I would really like to hear 100K before my birthday at the end of May. So if you're into politics, you like videos like this and you want to help a brother out. The link is in the description. Thanks.