---
video_title: "Why Confident Liars Can't Survive This 1 Question"
video_id: 0lmsLujAYiI
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0lmsLujAYiI
video_date: 2026-07-12T18:28:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  Dave Rubin took the centre chair on Jubilee's Surrounded with the whole platter ready to go — broken cities, broken schools, broken borders. The confident cadence, the round numbers, the anecdote delivered with just enough certainty that nobody thinks to ask where it came from. It has worked for years.
  
  Then a debater named Santana sat down opposite him and did something almost nobody does: he refused to argue with any of it. Instead, he asked Dave to be specific.
  
  What follows is a masterclass in a single technique. Every vague claim gets converted into a demand for a source, a policy, a name, a comparison — and each time, the thing Dave is standing on turns out not to be there. Watch how fast a confident assertion becomes a citation nobody would defend, and how a man who has never had to show his working responds when someone finally asks him to.
  
  But the principle cuts both ways, and Santana learns that too. There's one moment where he takes the bait, makes a broad claim of his own, and suddenly finds himself on the receiving end of his own method — and it hands Dave the only clip he actually gets out of this.
  
  Stick around for the ending, because what the audience sees and what actually happened are two very different things.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Source video | 1 MAGA Republican vs 20 Far-Left Democrats (ft Dave Rubin) | Surrounded: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FwhUgO8W_Ik
  
  SantanaSpeaks4U https://www.youtube.com/@SantanaSpeaks4U
  
  Jubilee: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJjSDX-jUChzOEyok9XYRJQ
---
There were no one standing at the borders. Everybody just come right in. In many cases, yes, actually. In many cases, they were quite literally moving barbed wire fans out of your guys' information. There were videos of it. Have you ever seen the video of Bobby? Yeah, the fact that the video... Have you ever seen the video of Bobby Kennedy when he was running as a Democrat, standing at the border? He was still a Democrat. Wait, you're talking about the same one that sniffed Coke out of a toilet seat and admitted it recently. What? This is what happens when a vague claim is forced to be specific. One man claims border agents were moving barbed wire to let people into the country. The other asks where he got that from. And within seconds, the source has gone from there are tons of videos to a raging conspiracy theorist. Which is quite the journey, huh? So there were no one standing at the borders. Everybody just come right in. In many cases, yes, actually. Don't trust me on this. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. Yes, I cut my beard. Yes, it was a mistake I've lost all my powers now. I'll grow it back. It's time for Jubilee. Ah, shit. Here we go again. Yep, we're back with Jubilee surrounded. The show that we all love to hate watch. And to be fair, often learn from. The format is simple. One person sits in the centre, challenges tag in one at a time, and everyone debates the same prompt until either clarity emerges or the room collectively loses the will to live. Or, well, the timer runs out. Sitting in the centre this time is Dave Rubin. Ex-progressive, turned right wing furniture, recently and infamously funded by Russia through tenant media. Why do you take Russian money? Yeah, so... And a man whose entire method depends on never being asked where his claims come from. He has built a career on the cadence of confidence, lean forward, lower the voice, deploy the statistic, move on before anyone has the time or ability to question the specifics. The numbers tend to be unsourced. We've led in somewhere, we don't even know what the actual number is, but somewhere between 16 to 20 million illegals. We're friends of all and I'll tell you. The anecdotes tend to be borrowed. In many cases, they were quite literally moving barbed wire fence. You probably are worse than jet bush. Why the single biggest hire? And the citations, when finally pride out of them, tend to be people who you would not trust to do... Well, shall we say anything? You're citing RFK juniors? Yes, I am saying. I'm not. No, no, no, no. Or, you know, to run the country's most important health agency, which, anti-vaxxer and all, is precisely the job he now holds. Who's running HHS right now? Which he shouldn't be. But that's fine. There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective. Now, before we get to the exchange itself, let's do this Tarantino style and jump briefly to the aftermath, because Dave's own account of the debate is rather telling. On the actual friend's podcast, he described the three hours like this. I honestly believe several of them would have killed me if given the opportunity truly. And the smiling ones, apparently, were the real danger. But the ones that smile that me actually seem like the most dangerous, because they were like Joker smiles. What a snowflake. My guy, that is a lot of damage control for a debate that supposedly went well. The entire thing he was three hours, it was gross. Like, I could feel the daggers coming at me. Opposing him is Santana, a devator who comes in fiercely prepared, having read what Ruben has said, what Ruben's allies have said, and what the underlying public record actually shows. You can talk about the Langford Bill, which was a piece of legislation which would have strengthened our borders, when Donald Trump had their legislation sat down. And that is what this exchange is really about. Specificity. Dave Stremff is confident vagueness. Santana Stremff is forcing the vague claim to become specific. We're going to analyse why this method works again and again, until Dave recognises the technique and applies it himself. I'm just playing your game here. So, wait, I'm just playing your game, man. Though the thing that Dave lands on, while it might look like a win in the moment, isn't quite what he thinks it is. But I'm getting ahead of myself. My next surrounded claim is if you've still vote for Democrats in 2026, you're voting for broken cities, broken schools, and broken borders. So there's Dave's prompt. And right off the game, he's laying down the whole platter. Cities, schools, borders. It's the campaign bumper sticker, and it's deliberately vague. It's the kind of opener that's designed to be agreed with on vibes alone. If you would like to debate this claim, get to the chair in three, two, one. Hey, how are you Santana? So, can you explain a little bit about what you mean, broken cities, broken schools, broken borders? Nice. This is how you want to start a debate where the prompt is deliberately vague. Most challenges, in this format, begin by immediately delivering their strongest counter-occupied. They want to score points right away. Santana does the opposite. He insists that Dave explain what he means. And the reasoning behind this goes beyond being polite. What he's doing is inviting Dave to commit in his own words to specific addressable claims. Critically, it puts Dave on the back foot, rather than giving him something to criticize. Can you explain a little bit about what you mean, broken cities, broken schools, broken borders? Sure. Well, broken cities, I would basically, you can boil it down to crime and drug use. And I can tell you, having been in here in Los Angeles for the last 36 hours, I've seen more homeless people, more drug use, more urban decay than I've seen in the last five years combined, living in Florida. Right. So not a good start. Dave defines broken cities as homelessness, high crime and drug use. But instead of reaching for solid statistics, his evidence is a personal anecdote. And it's not even a good anecdote since he's only been in the city for 36 hours. Having been in here in Los Angeles for the last 36 hours. You know, maybe Dave just couldn't afford an Airbnb in a nicer part of town now that the Russian money isn't as plentiful as it used to be. Or maybe the Jubilee studio simply isn't in the most scenic part of LA. No shade, Jubilee. We love you guys. But setting the weak gambit aside, his argument is structurally shaky too. Homelessness isn't evenly spread. It pulls in dense, expensive metros because people without housing go where the money, the services and the other people are. Not in an empty field in rural Mississippi. And the thing that actually predicts how bad it gets, isn't crime or drug culture. It's the cost of housing. That is why the worst numbers show up in pricey coastal cities, regardless of the local crime panic. The real variable is the housing market, not the party of whoever's in office. And here's what Dave's not saying. The same democratic run cities he's calling broken are the ones generating most of the American economy. The blue voting counties produce close to two-thirds of the entire US GDP. And every one of the top economic centers, New York, LA, Chicago, San Francisco, is a blue city. So why does Dave choose homelessness as his measure of a broken city and not economic output? Well, I can tell you why. Because without cherry picking a variable with his choice, his point doesn't hold up. Living in Florida. Florida. As for Santana's response, it's sharp. He immediately undercuts Dave's personal anecdote by implicitly emphasizing that he's no expert on the matter. Living in Florida. Florida. In terms of schools, it's basically brainwashing kids and teaching them what to think instead of teaching them how to think. And then what was the third one in terms of, oh, borders is the easiest one. I mean, under the Biden administration, we've led in somewhere. We don't even know what the actual number is. But somewhere between 16 to 20 million illegals, if Donald Trump did quite literally nothing else in his presidency, just getting control of the border, I would say would be good enough. Because you don't have a country if you don't know who is in it. Now, then, we have the three points somewhat explained. LA is a broken city because it has a homeless problem. 36 hours. Schools are broken because they, the evil woke overlords are brainwashing the kids. Basically brainwashing kids and teaching them what to think instead of teaching them how to think. Whatever that means, which incidentally is ironic coming from someone who's not a Christian himself, but whose political coalition is the one mandating 10 commandment posters and pressuring publishers to water down evolution in textbooks. But let's almost beside the point. The real strategy here is the vagueness itself. Notice how so far Dave isn't committing to anything specific that you could challenge. It's pure signaling. And lastly, the broken border. Here, he does offer a specific number. But look at how he phrases it. We've led in somewhere. We don't even know what the actual number is. But somewhere between 16 to 20 million illegals. This is hedging. Dave is protecting himself in advance. If you challenge the figure, he never claimed to really know it. If you accept the figure, it stands. And yes, we can't know for a fact how many people illegally got into the US during Biden. But the best estimates are in the 5 to 8 million range. Dave probably knows this, which would make his hedging necessary should he get caught later. Then again, maybe we're giving him too much credit. He might simply not know the figure. Facts are not, after all, the currency of Mago. Because you don't have a country if you don't know who is in it. Okay, I'll throw your claims wrong. Pick which one you want to be proved wrong on. Bold, irrespected brother. This is a confident move. And as we're going to see, it's a calculated one. Santana evidently knows the facts on his side. And so he widened the offer. All three are wrong, Dave. Yuppick. He's letting Dave choose his news. This is the type of confidence that one can only project if they've actually done the reading and they know all three topics. If Santana was only strong on one of them, this would be his opportunity to direct the conversation onto his preferred terrain. He didn't do this. And so we can anticipate that he's very comfortable debating on any of the ground. It's maximum bravado. It's entertaining. And this move also has the benefit of further solidifying the burden of selection onto Dave, which means whatever topic he chooses, he is the one that chose it. He can't later complain that he was forced onto a topic that he didn't pick. Pick which one you want to be proved wrong on. Oh, let's do borders. Perfect. Of course he chooses borders. It's a strong choice. From Dave's position, it is the safest topic. It's the area where the talking points are the most rehearsed. And where the audience is most predisposed to agree. So now we get to see whether Santana's confidence was earned or whether it wasn't. Perfect. Okay. Donald Trump is absolutely the worst president on the board. First and foremost, you can talk about the Langford Bill, which was a piece of legislation which would have strengthened our borders, when Donald Trump had their legislation shot down. Wait, wait, wait. So where the borders open under Obama? Santana opens with a verifiable proposed policy, the Langford Bill, bipartisan legislation drafted to do precisely the thing that Trump claims he once done. And yet it was killed by Trump because he needed a broken border to campaign on, or at least the concept of a broken border. I have concepts of a plan. I'm not president right now. It's a strong opening because it contradicts the core premise of the Trump pitch. You cannot run as the solution if you've personally blocked the solution. And Dave notices it instantly. He interrupts, but not to talk about the bill since documented legislation is hard to spin. Instead, he deflects and he does it with the frankly boring, thanks Obama, what about us? Where the borders open under Obama. The debate has barely started and yet he is already side stepping a counter. Where the borders open under Obama or under Biden, let's try that. The borders were not open. So we did not pass the open the borders. Santana doesn't bother litigating whether the borders were really open. He answers no and goes straight for the mechanism by which they allegedly were. Name the bill. Name the executive order. Name the policy. So we did not pass the open the borders. Because if you're going to blame a national crisis on a specific president, assuming that there was one, the connection between that president and that crisis has to be a thing they did. Not a thing that happened during their time in office. Otherwise, COVID is Trump's fault. Don't clip that. Listen to this crazy snowflake. COVID is Trump's fault. The drive for specificity in this case, asking for a specific piece of legislation is the method that Santana uses throughout the exchange. Every vague feelings base claim gets converted into a demand for specific evidence. And he asks for the legislation like a man who already knows the answer because there is no open the borders act. So Dave has two doors. Invent a policy or admit that there isn't one. So we did not pass the open the borders. No, it's not about piece of legislation. It's about quite literally people. So not only people without legislation. You just let people through, which is exactly what we're doing. There was no one standing at the borders. Everybody just come right in. In many cases, yes, actually. Quite the answer, huh? Dave's policy-free response is that the Biden administration just sat there with open borders. A version of events that exists entirely in the realm of feelings. Not facts. Facts don't care about your feelings. No bill, no water, no signature. The borders were just, you know, sort of opened, I guess. This again is a sign of Dave's lack of preparation. If he had done his homework, there is a stronger argument to be made here. He could have talked about the humanitarian parole expansions for Cubans, Haitians, Venezuelans, and Nicaraguan. He could have pointed to the customs and border protection one app. There's a substantive conservative critique to be made about scale and discretion. However, and it's a big one, the moment you actually name these policies, the Democrats open the border framing becomes much harder to sustain, because every one of them is a legal pathway, and what Dave's been pointing to is illegal immigration, not immigration in general. So there was no one standing at the borders. Everybody just come right in. In many cases, yes, actually. In many cases, they were quite literally moving barbed wire fence. How are guys' operations? There it is again, Santana's signature approach. He won't engage with anecdotes or vague claims. He demands Dave give him something real, something specific. But before Dave expands, let's clarify what he's presumably referring to, because it's the exact type of half-truth that we've sadly grown accustomed to from right-wingers. He's talking about eagle paths, where Texas strung razor wire along the Rio Grande, and Federal agents cut sections off it, a dispute that went all the way to the Supreme Court. So there's a small element of truth. Agents really were cutting wire, and there's plenty of video of it. But Dave's version conveniently skips two things. First, the wire sat on the US side of the river, meaning the migrants had already crossed by the time they reached it. That barbed wire is in the United States. It's already in land. And second, the cutting wasn't about letting people in. It was about getting to them to process them. So when those individuals reached the barbed wire, it is the job of the agents to detain them and protect them in the custody. In other words, the footage is real, but the story that Dave is spinning is not talking of spinning a story. Here's a story where you would expect the facts to just speak for themselves. Trump threatens to cut off all US trade with Spain over refusal to use military bases in around war. You see, Spain declined US military use of its bases for strikes on Iran. Trump threatened a full trade embargo, So we're going to cut off all trade with Spain. We don't want anything to do with Spain. And so Prime Minister Shanz has responded with three words, no, to war. Simple, right? And yet, ground news shows 442 sources covering this story. 61 left, 62 right, and 109 centrist. With framing so different, you'd be forgiven for thinking they were reporting from separate planets. This level of insight is only possible thanks to ground news. A website and app designed to make reading the news easier and more data driven. Every day, they gather thousands of news articles from all across the world and organize them by story. With each coming, with visual breakdowns of reporting bias, reliability and ownership, to give you a cleaner sense of how the news is being framed. Let's return to our story, and you can follow along at ground.news-rationality. The Hamilton spectator, leaning left with high factuality, leads with Sanchez as the protagonist. Spain's Shanz has stands firm on opposition to war in Iran despite Trump's trade threat. Warning, the conflict risks playing Russian roulette with millions. One courageous leader holding line against Washington. Then there's WLT report, far right with low factuality. Breaking, President Trump cuts off all trade with Spain. Trump is tired of being treated unfairly, and Spain's PM is of course dismissed as their leftist PM. No geopolitics, no alliance considerations, no nuance, just a victory lap. And euro news, centrist with very high factuality, simply reports no to war. Sanchez reaffirms Spain's stance on Trump's Iran campaign. No heroes, no villains, just what happened. Same of them, three completely different stories. And without ground news, most people would only ever see one of them. If you want to start seeing the full picture for yourself, right now you can get 40% off ground news's vantage plan at ground.news-rationality. Or scan the QR code on screen now. You'll be supporting independent media and, indeed, this channel at the same time. Thanks. They were quite literally moving barbed wire fence. How are you guys' situation? There are videos of it. Have you ever seen the video of the facts of the video? He presses further. Videos is a category being passed off as a source. It isn't. A video can be genuine evidence, but it can also be staged, taken out of context, or simply misrepresenting what it claims to show. Which, as we've just went through, is precisely what's happening here. Have you ever seen the facts of the video? So Santana, true to form, pushes one step deeper. Did you fact check them? Again, every time Dave produces something that looks like evidence on the surface, a story, a video, a constant assertion, Santana refuses to accept it at face value. He keeps striving for specificity. Where did it come from? Who verified it? What's the actual connection to reality? It's relentless. And so far, it is working very, very well. Bobbi, have you ever seen the video of Bobbi Kennedy when he was running as a Democrat, standing at the border? Wait, you still a Democrat? The answer, then, is no. Dave has not fact checked the videos. He never says it outright, but you don't dodge, did you check, unless the answer is no. And asked to produce a credible source for the claim that border agents were literally moving barbed wire fences to let migrants in, he reaches for batshit Bobbi. Yeah, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. Have you ever seen the video of Bobbi Kennedy when he was running as a Democrat, standing at the border? Wait, you're still a Democrat? Wait, you're talking about the same one that sniffed Coke out of a toilet seat and admitted it recently. Ah. Six-sinked. Santana immediately challenges Dave's expert, reminding us of one of his intellectual feats. I used the snort, cocaine out of the toilet seats. Now, it would be easy to cool this and add hominin, and it would be easy to be wrong. You see, an ad hominin dodges an argument by attacking the person who made it, but Dave hasn't given Santana an argument to dodge. His whole case rests on trust this guy. And when the only thing holding a claim up is one man's say so, that man's reliability is the whole game. Test him and you're testing the evidence. As for Dave's rhetoric, it is smart. When he was running as a Democrat, standing at the border, he was still a Democrat. He's trying to give the citation credibility through partisan respectability. The implication is, he was one of your guys. You can't dismiss him. And there is a real principle behind this, a witness who breaks from his own side, carries extra weight, because people don't usually testify against their own party. But that only holds if the witness is reliable to begin with, and a party label can't create expertise that RFK never had. Because here's the genuinely strange move. Dave is citing, as an authoritative source on a contested factual question, a man who by any reasonable measure is an authority on nothing. RFK Jr. is an anti-vaxer. He is a conspiracy theorist. And over the summer in an interview, you said, quote, there's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective. Do you still believe that? I never said that. So stop me. We have the clip. Please play the clip. There's no vaccine that is, you know, safe and effective. So you did say it. He has publicly claimed the O'One a part of his brain. Wait, you're talking about the same one that sniffed coke out of a toilet seat and admitted it recently. Wait, the same one that actually took a dead bear and dropped an essential part. The same one that actually chopped the head off a whale. You're citing RFK Jr. Yes, I am saying RFK Jr. Now our boy Santano is giving us some offensive. He knows the bear story. He knows the whale story. He knows the toilet seat story. And the rhythm of the delivery makes it effective. He stacks the items. Each one alone is strange. Together, they indict the person. By the time he gets to bro, you're really citing RFK Jr. said with that incredulous tone, it makes Dave's double down or the more humiliating. You're citing RFK Jr. Yes, I am saying RFK Jr. No, no, no, who's running HHS right now? Which he shouldn't be, but that's fine. Listen, when you talk about how many people do you think came in under Biden? Let's see if we're even operating on the same plane. The except number is about 10 million. Okay, so you, okay, all right, fair enough. So I'll grant you that. They say it could be anywhere. I've heard 16 to 20. But let's say it's 10. Okay, so Santana's 10 million is correct, but I figure it's worth explaining exactly what they cover. 10 million counts all border encounters, not people. So events that include repeat crossings, and many who were turned right back. Basically, the figure is higher than how many actually got it. And in raw numbers, this was, indeed, the largest immigration wave in American history. That part is real. But the share that actually crossed illegally and stayed is smaller, somewhere between five and eight million. It's significant, either way, no doubt, and understandably, seen by many as a border crisis. Meanwhile, notice what Dave slips in. They, I've heard 16 to 20. But let's say it's 10 from where, from whom, using what methodology, it's the same move from earlier, a confident sounding number from an unknown source designed to make 10 million seem like a concession. The last administration led in 20 million unknown and unvetted foreigners from all over the world, from places that you don't even know about. Ah, of course, there's the source. Trump says 20 million from a podium, Dave gobbles it down and regurgitates it as what they say. And now it's circulating in political discussion as a fact. Nobody had to define what they were counting. The number exists because it was said. One administration lost 20 million articles in. FAKE! That's the wrong number! AHHHHH! Just as Santana has a strategy, so too does Dave when it comes to finding trustworthy information. Whatever MAGA leadership says, it must be true. First, it was RFK Jr. Now it's Trump. I've heard 16 to 20 million, but let's say it's 10. Do you think that's good or fair or just, or how a country can operate? I think that when you create instability throughout the world, and then you also tell people that your country's open, then you create an actual quote-unquote crisis. Santana is doing here what he's been doing all debate. He's refusing the question on Dave's terms. Dave wants a yes or no on whether it was good that Biden let in 10 million people. But that phrase smuggles in the conclusion that Biden let them in. It's like asking, is it good that you stop hitting your wife and then demanding a yes or no answer? Would a bit of rough music stop you beating your wife? Santana rejects that premise and asks the real question, what actually drives migration? He's saying you don't get to reduce the variable to which president was in office, because there are many factors that Dave isn't considering. One of them is the decades of foreign policy that has helped create the instability that makes people leave their homes in the first place. Another is one that Santana is about to bring up. And then you also tell people that your country's open, then you create an actual quote-unquote crisis. So what did stability with Joe Biden? What was Barack Obama's nickname? Barry? Okay, that is fucking hilarious. Barricade Barry Obama. Now, I know that Dave didn't mean it like that, but my word, that is brilliant. Barry, are you serious right now, bro? Here's Santana, setting up what is genuinely a serious historical point about Obama-era deportation policy. It earned him the name Deportor in Chief, a name that instantiates his hard-line stance on immigration. But Dave just blurted out Obama's childhood nickname. What was Barack Obama's nickname? Barry? Deportor in Chief. Barack Obama had a negative immigration rate. That means that he deported more people than he led into the country. The point Santana is driving at here is that, under Obama, that Deportor in Chief, you've got the same border as today and the same broad set of laws, but a different administration and a very different outcome. There is, though, a small correction worth issuing. Net migration from Mexico specifically turn negative under Obama, not overall immigration. Now, I feel slightly bad correcting Santana on this, because Dave has come into this debate with no facts, no preparation, and the calm confidence of a man who has never had to source a thing in his damn life. But still, do diligence and all. That means that he deported more people than he led into the country. So you're for it? So you're for it, Deportor. So let the man finish Dave. Santana is trying to establish whether Obama presided over a border crisis, and what variable actually explains the difference between administrations. Dave is trying to change the subject to whether Santana personally supports deportations, an obvious attempt to switch subjects, they're red herring. This Santana doesn't accept. He goes straight back to the point. So you're for it? So you're for it, Deportor. So we can say that there wasn't a border crisis under Obama, right? The border crisis was significantly worse under Biden. Right. So Santana asks one question, was there a crisis under Obama? But Dave answers a different one. The crisis was worse under Biden. But those are not the same question. Biden was worse, doesn't tell us whether Obama was presiding over a crisis. It just avoids the yes or no Santana is trying to get. The border crisis was significantly worse under Biden. But under Obama, was there a crisis? Biden? Barack Obama did? Yes, no. Barack Obama did deportment. I think more people don't Donald Trump. So I wish Donald Trump was deporting more people. I agree. So you're saying there was a crisis under Biden? Yes. Of course. But no crisis under Obama. No, I didn't say that. There's a lot of strange evasion here, huh? Dave doesn't quite admit, cleanly, that there was no crisis under Obama. His answers, though, point in that direction. He says Biden was significantly worse. He acknowledges that Obama deported more people than Trump. But then, when Santana tries to turn that into a clear concession, Dave refuses. I'm to you, Patrick Star. Yes or no? Barack Obama did deportment. I think more people don't Donald Trump. So, and this is your idea. So you're saying there was a crisis under Biden? Yes. But no crisis under Obama. They didn't take it. I didn't say that. It's not my wallet. Because if Obama deported more people than Trump, and Obama was still supposedly presiding over a border crisis, then Trump isn't the border fixing strongman that Dave insists he is. Dave needs Obama to have been bad on the border when it helps him attack Democrats, but not so bad when it makes Trump look worse by comparison. So you're saying there was a crisis under Biden? Yes. Of course. But no crisis under Obama. I didn't say that. He was deported? Yes or no? Yes or no? He was deported. Wait, hold on. Let's do, let's do, let's do, let's do Biden. He had a negative deportation rate. Let's do Biden and Trump. No, no, no, no. Let's do the last two administrations. Just answer the question. Yes or no? I am for anyone that will close voters and the poor. I'll say no. I'll say no. That's fine. Okay. That is quite the shift. Remember, Dave is the one who brought Obama into the conversation in the first place. Were the borders open under Obama? No, Obama was useful when he could be used to imply that Democrats have always had a border problem. But the moment that Santana starts using the Obama Biden comparison to isolate the actual variable, Dave suddenly doesn't want to talk about a bomber anymore. Now it's... Let's do Biden and Trump. But why? Here's why. The comparison itself determines what conclusions you can draw from it. If you compare Biden to Trump, then Democrat versus Republican is a plausible explanation for the difference. But if you compare Biden to a bomber, that explanation disappears. They're both Democrats. So if the outcomes are different, something else has to be doing the work. And that's precisely where Santana is trying to take the conversation. He's now using Obama as a controlled comparison to isolate the variable driving the change. I am for anyone that will close voters and the poor. I'll say no. I'll say no. That's fine. Okay. So if there wasn't a crisis under Obama and there was a crisis under Biden, what happened in between those two administrations? Well, there's something that happened... Wait. Are you blaming Donald Trump for Joe Biden's border? No. What I'm blaming Donald Trump for is when he's actually campaigning for president and he's going around and to any news organization that will let him speak and telling everyone that the border's open. They're wide open. Come on in. Come on in. And he actually created something that wasn't there. Santana now puts his variable on the table. His answer is that one of the things that changed between Obama and Biden was Trump himself. For years, Trump went on national television telling anyone who would listen that the border was effectively open. They're wide open. Come in. And now we have an open, really dangerous border. More dangerous than it's ever been in the history of our country. Now, whether you think that explanation is sufficient is another matter entirely. There were multiple things happening at once. Biden removed some Trump-era restrictions. There was a huge post-COVID migration surge and countries like Venezuela, Haiti, and Cuba were experiencing enormous instability. And he actually created something that wasn't there. So when- Wait, you're blaming people coming to this country illegally. You're blaming Donald Trump, Donald Trump, who really only appeared because of borders, right? Build or wall-to-order issue. That's what he said. He wasn't a border issue when he said that, right? A slight aside, but there's an interesting inconsistency here. Dave has just said that Trump only appears because of borders, which is to say that the issue was already so serious that it launched a political movement. But moments ago, he was reluctant to say that there had been a crisis under Obama. Under Obama, was there a crisis? Barack Obama did deport him. I think more people than Donald Trump. Those ideas don't sit comfortably together. Because if the border problem was already severe enough to create Trumpism, then it's much harder to treat the crisis as something uniquely created by Biden or by the Democrats. But it wasn't a border issue when he said that, right? But then when there was a problem- We've always had a completely poorest border. Oh boy, Dave shifts again. A few moments ago, the border was a Biden-specific catastrophe. Then it was an issue serious enough to explain Trump's rise. The border crisis was significantly worse under Biden. And now it's something that America has always had, a permanent porous border stretching back through multiple administrations. We've always had a completely poorest border. Notice what keeps changing. Not the conclusion that the border is a serious problem, but the story explaining why it's a problem and who's responsible for it. The broader and older the problem becomes, the harder it is to present as a uniquely democratic failure. And that's the difficulty that Santana has been pushing Dave towards the entire time. We've always had a completely poorest border. That is very- We had a new deportation right under Obama. He created the actual desire for people to come here, because he told the lie that the borders was open. Wait a minute. Why would if America is a racist, evil capitalist country, why would these people want to come here? Bro, really, are you for real? This is one of the most egregious, obvious red herrings you will ever see. Santana is mid-sentence, laying out a causal chain, a barmer, deportation rates, perceived openness, migration flows, and Dave changes the subject to whether America is a nice place to visit. Dave is losing on the substance, and evidently, his only option left is to change the subject. Why would these people want to come here? Because it's still better than their countries. Oh, so America is pretty good. Stabilizing other countries. In a perfect world, Santana wouldn't have dignified Dave's distraction with an answer, but he does, and he pays the price for it. Dave's got your tone when he says, Ah, so America's a good place, huh? So America's is pretty good. Is delivered as if he's landing at a decisive point. He is not. Santana has not conceded anything that Dave's original argument required. He has just accurately answered an irrelevant question. But Dave acts as if he's won, because acting as if he's won is sometimes all he needs when his audience, all over Russia, is reacting based on impressions. And then Santana does something interesting, arguably a mistake. He picks up the new topic Dave has introduced and runs with it. Ah, so America's is pretty good. Stabilizing other countries. CIA, our CIA keeps destabilizing other countries. So who did over the other countries? So who did over the other countries? We're doing that right now. Now, this is, I think, at least the first time that Santana's strength becomes his weakness. He knows the subject well. In fact, he probably knows it too well, because instead of forcing Dave to sit with the evasion that he's just made, Santana chases the red herring. The better move here is to stop and say, no, you, Dave, change the subject. You couldn't name the legislation. You couldn't reconcile a barmer with your own Trump narrative. And now you're asking me whether America is a good country, which has absolutely nothing to do with anything that I've said. It's irrelevant to the prompt. Get the admission first. Make Dave own the evasion. Then and only then if you want to follow the red herring. Instead, Santana follows it immediately. And to be fair, it's understandable. It's true that US foreign policy from Cold War interventions across Latin America to the decades-long drug war has helped to stabilize some of the country's people are now leaving. That is a serious argument, and it is an important part of the larger picture. It's just not the argument he was winning a moment ago. So who did baroque? So who did baroque? Right now. So who did Barack Obama destabilize that then Donald Trump allowed into the country? And this is the price that Santana pays for following Dave down the rabbit hole. For the first time all debate Dave starts doing something that Santana has been doing to him, asking for specifics. Who did Barack Obama destabilize that then Donald Trump allowed into the country? And that's a fair thing to ask. If you're going to make a historical claim, you should be prepared to support it. The problem is that Dave quietly narrows the claim as he asks the question. You see, Santana's point isn't that Barack Obama personally destabilized one particular country, and that this single action explains the Biden-era Board of Search. His point is that American foreign policy across administrations and decades has helped create the instability that drives migration. Those are not the same claim. So the question sounds like a demand for evidence, but it's actually asking Santana to defend a much narrower argument than the one he was making. So who did Barack Obama destabilize that then Donald Trump allowed into the country? The point being is our country has a history of destabilization. That doesn't matter if it's left for the right. So who did Barack? Well, I'm just playing your game here. So if you play your game, I play it the need for people to come here. And there was no crisis, then Donald Trump not only created it, but he didn't handle it. Fair play, a strong response from Santana. After getting sidetracked, he quickly returns to his original argument. If you play your game, I play it the need for people to come here. And there was no crisis, then Donald Trump not only created it, but he didn't handle it. I'm sorry, man. Nothing you're saying is making sense here. What you want? We've got to pause there. You've been voted out. What country did Barack Obama destabilize that caused people to come here under Donald Trump? I guess you never know. Knowing he has the superficial advantage, they finish his question despite Santana being voted out. To which the latter delivers his final line and walks away. I guess we'll never know. Don't get me wrong. There's a piece of theatre, it's class, but optically, it's pretty disastrous. It validates Dave's confident winning stance. And because it's the final image the audience is left with, it carries more weight than it should. I'm sorry, man. Nothing you're saying is making sense. As for Dave's incredulity, it's part of the delivery. It communicates that Santana has nothing and is somehow proud of it. This is the clip that Dave gets to use. His audience doesn't see Santana refusing to be pinned down on a badly framed question. No, they see Santana failing to answer and then refusing to engage with Dave's question. The actual defence that a pattern across decades can't be attributed to one president is too subtle to register with viewers. What registers is a man leaving without answers. I'm just playing your game here. So, if I'm just playing your game, I just want to be like you. Alrighty, so there is much, much more to cover from Dave Rubin's appearance on Jubilee. And don't worry, we're going to get to it. What's the main metric that he made better off to GDP on employment inflation? Do you think, yeah? Listen. I don't think you do. Do you think, hold on, you say, subscribe for more. But as for this one, here's the lesson. A confident person can often sound more persuasive than a careful person. And that is precisely why vague claims are so powerful. As long as they stay vague, they can feel true without ever having to survive contact with evidence. So the way you deal with that is simple. Ignore the performance and force the claim to become something specific. What's the policy? What's the source? What's the comparison? What evidence would actually settle this? Because once a vague claim becomes specific, it has to stand or fall on something real. And that is where confidence stops being enough. Santana did this brilliantly throughout most of this debate. The man has class. When Dave said that Biden had opened the border, Santana asked which law had done it. The borders were not open. So we did not pass the open borders. There wasn't one. It's not about peace and legislation. When Dave cited videos of agents cutting barbed wire, Santana asked where the story came from and whether it had been checked. It hadn't. There are videos of it. Have you ever seen the video of the fact that you've ever seen? And when Dave tried to blame the border crisis on Democrats in general, Santana forced a comparison with Obama and exposed just how uncomfortable that comparison made him. So you're saying there was a crisis under Biden? Yes. Okay, of course. But no crisis under Obama. I didn't say that. It's not my fault. But the principle cuts both ways. The one time that Santana lost his footing was when he took the bait of Dave's red herring and ironically ended up making a broad claim himself that he couldn't immediately cash out with specifics. His general point about American foreign policy and instability has a lot of truth to her. But the moment Dave asked for an example, Santana didn't have one ready to hand. And suddenly, the man who had been demanding specifics all debate was being asked for some that he didn't have. That's the danger of broad claims. They're powerful. They're often true in a general sense. But if you make them, you need to have the receipts in your pocket. And that's why demanding specifics is such a powerful tool. It's not just a way to expose weak arguments. It's also a discipline you have to apply to yourself. Don't make broad claims unless you're prepared to explain exactly what you mean. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Including today's sponsor, Ground News. You know, I don't have a beard. I can't do this anymore. For Cubans, Haitians, Venezuelians, Venezuelians, Venezuelians. Hopefully one of those is good. And Nicaragans. That's definitely wrong. And Nicaragans. Along the Rio Grande. Grande or Grande? La Grande. They just made this up. You might even not that yellow, are they? I just like proper fucking English. Dude, I'm gonna go so far as to say that my beard actually looks good on camera. Look at the shadow. Like this really helps me out. Oh yeah. It's your name. Yeah. Whereas what I should be doing is... It's mine. Ah, it's mine. He knows the best story. He knows the whale story. He knows the toilet scene story. What? Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry. Don't worry. Just keep up with our club's next. Right, anyway, here we go.