---
video_title: "How a Reporter Made Trump RAGE-QUIT"
video_id: 1sVHAqblWUI
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1sVHAqblWUI
video_date: 2026-06-20T20:51:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://ground.news/rationality to stay fully informed on breaking news, compare coverage and avoid media bias. Subscribe through my link for 40% off unlimited access this month.
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  In a barn in Wisconsin, Donald Trump agreed to take questions from NBC's Kristen Welker. It went badly for him, and not in the way you might expect.
  
  Asked a simple question, whether people who pleaded guilty to assaulting police officers on January 6th should receive taxpayer money, Trump reaches for claim after claim he cannot back up, grows louder as the evidence fails to appear, turns on the woman asking the questions, and finally unclips his microphone and walks out.
  
  But the man melting down isn't the reason to watch. Welker is. Faced with a powerful person attacking her to her face, she does the one thing almost nobody manages in that chair, and it quietly dismantles him. 
  
  Watch closely, because the move she pulls off works far beyond that barn, and once you understand it you'll want it in your own arsenal.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
  
  Full interview: Trump says Iran ‘is not an endless war’ as conflict reaches 100 days: https://youtu.be/zYmQctYXIeM?si=VVktz98DXZ1M9vHZ
  
  The 3 Questions That DESTROYED Ben Shapiro: https://youtu.be/cCqbLZ47Nr0
---
There's no evidence. You had a bunch of dirty cops and frankly what they did was weaponization of our government. So there's no evidence of that more than a thousand people? No, no, no, this none. You know what you do? Your elections are crooked and you are crooked and Mr. Press is crooked. You're one sided crooked network, so let's call a question because I've had enough. Thank you, darling. Have a good time. A simple request. Show me the evidence. First, with a smear of someone else, then with a smear of the person asking, and finally with the sound of a microphone hitting the floor of a barn, as the president of the United States throws a hissy fit and was all the way. How embarrassing. That's a man telling you without saying it, that he lost to a basic request for evidence. Do you have evidence? Did you support that? All I have to do is look. All I have to do is look. That's not it. And I listen. And I listen to people. Why hello, my fellow apes. I hope you are well. The man unclipping his microphone is, as you'll know, aware Donald Trump. And he's arrived with two of the heaviest conspiracy claims any president has ever made. That the FBI orchestrated January 6th, and that the 2020 election was stolen. And nothing whatsoever to back up either of them. So, across this exchange, he does the only thing that he can. He says the word evidence louder and louder, with nothing ever attached. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. This tremendous evidence is nothing but evidence. No document, no date, no names, no case number, no receipts. Just the aggression turned up until he rage quits. Oh, you think Tommy was a straight cop? I'm sorry, I didn't mean to plead a guilty to assaulting police. Tommy was a dirty cop. The setting is a barn on a farm in Wisconsin, rain hammering on the metal roof the whole way through, which becomes part of his excuse on the way out. I've sat down rain all the time. I know, I've sat down the rain for an hour. I've fallen off in the rain and I've given you enough time. He's there, ostensibly, to sell a $1.8 billion anti-weaponization fund. A plan to take public money and hand it to people who call their own prosecutions prosecution. In plain terms, checks for the very people who assaulted police on January 6th. And to think, Trump supposedly represents the party of law and order. We have to bring back law and order. Now, we're potentially break down the rest of this interview, the Iran dodges, the broken promises, the farmers who couldn't answer in a separate video. Today, we're going to stay on the part that has gone super viral, because it's the most revealing stretch if the entire thing. Asking the questions is Kristen Welker, NBC's chief political correspondent and the moderator of Meet the Press. And her whole method here is one unglamour of discipline. Now, I want to be upfront about why this clip earns a full video, because it isn't Trump. Trump does what Trump does, it's her, it's what Kristen does, because she pulls off the one thing that almost nobody manages to do when a powerful man turns up and attacks the Montgomery. She doesn't defend herself. Sit with how strange that is. When Trump calls her crooked to her face and arm lengths away, every instinct says push back. But she understands what most people in her chair forget under fire. The second you start defending your own character, the question you asked is dead, which is precisely what the insult was for. They're crooked, just like your crooked, your presses crooked. Kristen, as we're about to see, never takes the bait. When she's smirred, she marks it once, flatly, briefly, no speech. To be fair, I'm not crooked. And puts the question straight back on the floor. Then she does it again and again. She refuses to make the conversation about her, which means it stays about the only thing that Trump can't survive. The evidence he doesn't have. There's nothing but evidence. Alright, so this specific exchange begins unraveling at, well, the end, with a narrow, concrete question. Should the people who pled guilty to assaulting police officers on January 6th be getting taxpayer money? Do you think anyone who attacked police officers on January 6th should get taxpayer money? I wouldn't be inclined to say so, but I have to see it. There's the question. Simple, clear and direct. Should those who assaulted police officers when raiding the capital receive massive payouts of taxpayers money? Let's see where Trump takes it. I wouldn't be inclined to say so, but I have to see it. I can tell you this. 97% of those people, you look at them. The FBI or whoever it was. Because you had a lot of crooked cops. You had dirty cops. Call me was a dirty cop. I got a lot of bulls. But there's no evidence. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Oh, you think call me was a straight cop? I'd like to think that anyone and everyone can see the lack of answer and the deflection. We are off to a great stop. Recall Kristen's very narrow, very concrete question. Should people who attacked police officers on January 6th get taxpayers money? That's it. That's the entire question. There's a factual claim embedded in it. Does some of these defendants assaulted cops? And a moral question undergirding it? Both are answerable. Trump, however, doesn't answer even one. Within a single breath, he's pivoted off the defendants entirely and onto Komi, Bolton and a vague cloud of crooked cops and dirty cops. Crooked cops, you had dirty cops. Call me was a dirty cop. I got a lot of bulls. The subject has been swapped immediately. Kristen asked about the people who attacked police. Trump is now talking about the police. And not even the police who were attacked, a completely different set of law enforcement figures he has personal grievances with. This is misdirection as a reflex. And it's what Trump does. It's what he's always done when his corruption is getting questioned. The question Kristen actually asked has evidence to refer to. We have video, we have convictions, we have names. But for Trump, there's nowhere to go on the substance. So the substance gets abandoned and replaced with a character attack on people who aren't in the barn to defend themselves and aren't the topic. He does, however, give us a percentage. I can tell you this, 97% of those people, you look at them, the FBI or whoever it was, you had a lot of crooked cops, you had dirty cops. I really don't know what he said at the end of their sentence. I don't think he knows what he said either. Which sounds substantive. But given that he fails to complete his sentence, dropping it immediately, we're equally obliged. And then the final move. You think call me was a straight cop? Sometimes the most revealing thing about a story isn't who's right. It's which outlets even tell you that there's a disagreement. Case in point, Iran stops negotiations with US, vows to completely block straighter for moves. Pretty alarming. Except Trump came out hours later calling the Iranian report false and erroneous. So, which is it? Without ground news, you'd wait through dozens of outlets just to assemble a full picture. And most of us don't have that time. Ground news does that legwork for you every day. There an app and a website that pulls thousands of articles into one place, sorts them by story, and tags each with a breakdown of bias, factuality and ownership. Every angle in one place. And this story shows you why ground news is so useful. 386 outlets have covered it. 62 leading left, 54 centrist, and 94 leading right. You can follow along at ground.news slash rationality. Take PBS news hour, which means left with very high factuality. Trump appears to dispute state media reports that Iran cut off talks. Their lead isn't the claim. It's the disagreement. They're pretty much giving you the full story. But then take a look at the Gellar report. Far right, low factuality. Iran halt ceasefire talks with US. Stated as fact. Their opening line is f*** them. Destroy them. That's the journalism. No quotation marks, no attribution. Straight to ideological payload with no mention that the US president disputes the premise. So PBS leads with the dispute while Gellar report berries the source and dispute. Same event, polar opposite relationship with the facts. Ground news puts them among hundreds of outlets in front of you so that you can draw your own informed conclusion. Get 40% off their vantage plan at ground.news slash rationality. Or scan the QR code on screen. You'll be supporting independent media and this channel at the same time. Thanks. Since Kristen wouldn't follow his obvious distraction, Trump presses it as a question demanding an answer. It's a trap disguised as a question. If Kristen engages with it, she's suddenly the one defending James Comey's record. And the original question about violent offenders and taxpayer money dies in the corner. The burden will have been flipped. He was the one being asked to justify a position. Now, if she bites, she'll be the one having to justify someone else's career. You think Comey was a straight guy? Comey was a dirty cop. No, no, they had FBI assaulting per assault. Listen to me. They had FBI agents ushering them into the building. They had FBI going into the building. Those people walking around, they're looking always in this way. They weren't and they were being ushered into the building. There's no evidence. You had a bunch of dirty cops and frankly what they did was weaponization of our government. Kristen is doing the job correctly here to the great frustration of the president of the United States. She refuses to chase the Comey squirrel. She refuses to let the topic drift onto the FBI's general character. She just keeps walking the conversation back to the same fixed point. The people who pled guilty to assaulting police officers. That's the anchor and every time he tries to float off into a new grievance, she reels the line back in. And notice what Trump does in response. When she won't meet him on the terrain, his conspiracy grows. Now it's not just that some protesters got carried away. Now there were FBI agents physically ushering them into the building. They had FBI agents ushering them into the building. Now there are unnamed operatives telling them, go inside, go into the building. They had FBI going into the building. The cast of villains expands every time the pressure increases. He's throwing everything at her in the hopes that she will cease asking for evidence. Then Kristen delivers the line that should in any honest exchange end the monologue. There's no ushered into the building. And she says it twice, calmly, flatly, a plain statement of fact delivered without theatrics. There is no evidence of that. At this point, Trump could if he actually had evidence, smirk and say, ah, Kristen, let me give it to you then. But he doesn't because he can't. His response to there is no evidence is to simply repeat the claim louder and then escalate the framing around it. They would be ushered into the building. Because apparently for him in his ilk, repetition is a substitute for proof. Then comes the magic word weaponization. You had a bunch of dirty cops and frankly what they did was weaponization of our government. See what he does. He labels the institutions corrupt and with that one move, every piece of contrary evidence is preemptively dissolved. It's label and dismiss. Guilty please. That's the weaponized DOJ. Convictions, dirty cops. Video footage. Oh well, that's part of the operation. Education's a lie, judicial systems a lie, the news is a lie, money is a lie, everything's a lie. The framing is designed to be unfilifiable because anything that would falsify it can be relabelled as further proof of the conspiracy. All of a sudden accusations require no evidence. Evidence against the accusation is itself evidence for the accusations. And the questioner asking the proof becomes by implication part of the apparatus that she's failing to expose. You had a bunch of dirty cops and frankly what they did was weaponization of our government. But so there's no evidence of that more than a thousand people in the guilty. No, no, there's none. You know what you do? Try looking at the tapes one time. Would you take it off the tape? Look at the tapes one time. But 172 people did plead guilty to assaulting police officers. You know why they plead guilty? Because they told them they were going to jail for 15 years if they didn't. Should they? They plead guilty because they were frightened. They went down, they were ushered into a building. Many of them were arrested without even going into the building. Kristen makes her cleanest move of the exchange here. Rather than getting drawn into a debate about what the videos do or don't show, she picks up on the one piece of ground that can't be hand-waved away. The guilty please. Over a thousand of them. 172 specifically for assaulting police officers. These are adjudicated outcomes. Not mere allegations, not media narratives, not the deep state's version of events. People stood before a judge and said, yes, I did this. And they did so because the evidence was overwhelming. Most people who are guilty do not plead guilty unless they have to. This should be a very difficult fact to swat away. But as seen, Trump has a massive advantage. He's a conspiracy theorist. And so all evidence gets reabsorbed as confirmation. At this juncture, he pivots. Try looking at the tapes one time. Now that's an intriguing move, isn't it? And again, it's very common among the conspiratorial. Let's analyse what this phrase is actually doing. It's gesturing our evidence without ever producing any. He could say which tapes. He could tell you specifically what's on them, allowing you to triangulate. He could specify what they supposedly prove. Yep, he doesn't. He's got emotions and vibes. That's it. The suggestion that proof is out there somewhere, obvious to anyone honest enough to look it up. And if you don't see it, then, well, that's on you. The burden has been silently transferred from the person making the wild claim to the person asking about it. And when Christian refuses to be deflected and brings the plea back into the room, the next move is quite revealing. 172 people did plead guilty to assaulting police officers. Why they plead guilty? Because they told them they were going to jail for 15 years if they didn't. The police themselves have been reframed from evidence of guilt into evidence of persecution. They didn't admit it because they did it. No, they admitted it because they were coerced, which means conveniently that every single one of those thousand-plus admissions is now repurposed as further proof of the very conspiracy he can't otherwise substantiate. Yet here's what the framing leaves out. You can't plead guilty to assaulting an officer in federal court just because you're frightened. Before a judge accepts a plea, the law requires a factual basis for it. The defendant has to stand up and admit under oath what they actually did. And the court has to find that the admission is backed by evidence. A plea isn't an instant win on its own. You can't just walk into a court and say, yes, I've committed a crime if no one can find any evidence of one. I'm a killer thing. I'm a killer thing. I'm a killer thing. And in these cases, the evidence was really thin. A lot of these people even filmed themselves. But the brainrock machine is running on all cylinders. The convictions are the weaponization. The police are the coercion. The cops are the dirty cops. The agents were the ones doing the ushering. Every fact that would normally count against his conspiracy has been converted into confirmation of the conspiracy. There is no possible piece of evidence the Christian could put before him that wouldn't be instantly recategorized as part of the plot. Many of them were arrested without even going into the building. Now, Trump's reasoning here appears to be that if they didn't go into the building itself, they are there for innocent. That is a non-sacritor. The legal question is what they did, where they were, and which statue they were charged under. Not simply whether they crossed the capital's doors. For instance, did they assault or obstruct police officers? Did they enter and remain in other restricted grounds? So we'd be okay with them receiving tax payer dollars? Precisely and straight back to the subject matter. Bravo. Many of them were arrested without even going into the building. So we'd be okay with them receiving tax payer dollars? The people were destroyed by dirty cops and by weaponization. Many of those people should be compensated. Now, with that being said, as I understand it, the weaponization fund was going to set up a group of people, people that could be picked by anybody, fair people, smart people, and they will go on an individual case basis. Okay. Now, I don't know what's going to happen with the weaponization fund. I love the idea because people like you, the fake dirty press, the crooked press, people like stupid Biden, he's not smart enough to know what's going on. But people that surrounded him, surrounded his beautiful resolute desk in the Oval Office, what they did to the lives of people, they destroyed people. They sent people to jail who did nothing wrong. Now it's just getting awkward, huh? And it's all because Kristen reankered her calm question, whether Trump is comfortable with taxpayer dollars flowing to January 6th defendants, a clean fiscal question with a clean fiscal answer. This is the closer she gets to an answer in the entire interview, and it's worth slowing right down on, because the obvious answer based on what he just argued is, yes, they should be compensated. He's just claimed that they were innocent, so then yes, would come out as sounding noble. Let's hear again who's receiving the money in his version. The people were destroyed by dirty cops and by weaponization. Many of those people should be compensated. Kristen asked about people who pleaded guilty to assaulting police officers, but by the time Trump answers, these people have vanished and standing in their place are people destroyed by dirty cops. Same defendants, the police, the assaulters, the convictions all still exist. He hasn't disputed one fact about them, but the group has been renamed and the renaming does all the more work. Cutting checks for a violent mob is indefensible, but restitution for the persecuted is a duty who could object. Hold on, you're against compensating innocent people whose lives were destroyed by a corrupt government. What kind of monster are you? This is effectively question begging. The whole answer rests on the one premise he spent the entire interview failing to establish, the prosecutions were illegitimate. Pull that premise out and he's given you no document, no name, no ruling to hold it up. And his answer is in plain English, yes, people who pleaded guilty to assaulting police officers should receive taxpayer money. That's what he said. He just made sure never to say it in those words. Then there's the fund itself and how he champions it. He was going to set up a group of people, that could be picked by anybody, fair people, smart people, and they will go on an individual case basis. Now, I don't know what's going to happen with the repensation fund. I love the idea. Fair people, smart people, he assures us. This is a man proposing to move $1.8 billion of public money and he cannot tell you who decides by what criteria or whether the thing will exist or all. It's his fund, compensating the people he just cast as victims. So every safeguard rests on one word that he supplies himself. Fair people. And then he continues his tirade, now listing who the enemies are. Because people like you, the fake dirty press, the crooked press, people like stupid bite, he's not smart enough to know what's going on. But people that surrounded him, surrounded his beautiful resolute desk in the overlaufe. In one breath, the roster of villains grows from dirty cops to the press at large, to Kristen personally sitting an arms-length away, to Biden to an unnamed cabal. And that expansion is the engine of the hoanza, the bigger the conspiracy, the more victims it manufactures and the more natural the compensation sounds. The fund needs the plot to be vast, so the plot obliges. What they did to the lives of people, they destroyed people. They sent people to jail who did nothing wrong. It just, it just be very clear. There's no evidence of what you're saying. But, there's a lot about Todd Blanch. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. There's tremendous evidence. There's nothing but evidence. The election was rigged. It was a dirty election. The word evidence is doing, well, strange work here. Kristen says there's nothing, which would be his cue if he had any to produce it. The moment to back the claim and with it, lay a foundation under the entire fund. Instead, we get... I mean, I don't know what about Todd Blanch. I'm a tremendous evidence. There's nothing but evidence. So we get three escalations and across all three, not one specific. No document, no witness, no case, no date. If you only listened to the cadence, you'd swear that he's working through a list. But there is no list. There is only the claim that a list exists, restated with greater passion each time it's doubted. Now, that's a conversation that can't go anywhere. So Kristen moves to push the interview forward. She can see the impending meltdown, the toys being thrown out of the pram. And so she moves onto Todd Blanch. But the Trump tantrum isn't over. I mean, I was about Todd Blanch. Listen to me. He's chasing the argument because there's no evidence said flatly left unanswered sounds like what it is, a verdict. So he has to rewrite it before the conversation moves. And the only tools available are repetition and authority. But Evan's presumed to be a wonderful law. She names the venue, the court, because evidence isn't a feeling. It's a category. It lives in filings, in exhibits. It's in sworn testimony. It gets examined, challenged and ruled on. And the brutal part is that Trump's own team already took these claims to court. More than 60 times and lost virtually every case. Frequently before judges that he appointed. So how does he respond to being shown the scoreboard? The election was rigged. It was a dirty election. Yeah, he restates the conclusion. The claim has become its own supporting evidence. It's a perfect circle. And there's no way into it from the outside, which is rather the point. It was a dirty election. And it's happening again right now in California. It's happening right now in California. Right now it's looking, look at what's happening. What's the evidence to that? It's four days in California. It's not the drop in fast because it's a rigged election. Let me tell you, it's four days. And they aren't even close to coming up with it. That's how they can have the vote. You know why they're doing that? Where is the evidence that 2020 was rigged? And Trump simply refuses to engage. Instead, he yanks the conversation to California. A fresh allegation, a new state, a new grievance. The moment the 2020 conspiracy is about to be pinned down. The claim he's had years to substantiate and hasn't. That election was rigged and it was stolen. He conjures a brand new conspiracy from a different election. This is the cheapest and most reliable escape there is because it hands the interviewer fork. Chase the California claim and the 2020 election dies unanswered. Or stay on 2020 and the California claim stands unchallenged. But fine, let's bite. What is the evidence the California is rigged? It's four days. That's the entire case. Four days have passed and counting continues. Therefore, crime. Except that counting that continues for days is not a deviation from California's process. It is California's process. It's a common process. Universal mail in voting, signature verification, a statutory window that explicitly allows postmarked ballots to arrive and to be counted after election day. The delay he's presenting as a smoking gun is written into state law. He is pointing out a system doing precisely what its rules says it must do and calling the rules the crime scene. But then Kristen spots something genuinely awkward for his narrative. At the time, the Trump endorsed Republican was actually ahead and slipped only because mail in ballots used mostly by Democrats get counted last. Everyone knew that would happen. He's alleging fraud in an election his own side of performing surprisingly well in. And so what does he do? He revises reality on the spot. Four days. In California it's not there. They're dropping fast because it's a rigged election. Let me tell you. He doesn't reconsider the verdict. He edits the facts. Doing well becomes dropping fast on the spot. Because the result was never what decided whether the election was rigged. That was settled before a vote was even cast. This is how Trump's whole movement functions. His winning proves the system works. His losses prove that it's rigged. It doesn't even matter if his side performs well. He hasn't won yet. So he'd rather call it rigged. None of the proof that Kristen keeps asking for could ever materialize. You can't falsify a verdict reached before the votes were it. Now despite the fall meltdown, Kristen's response is the one that Trump's entire method is at least equipped to handle. That's how they can have the positive. You know why they're doing that because it's that simple. Trump is selling a mystery and she answers with the instruction manual. Against someone whose whole act depends on events seeming sinister. One of the most devastating things you can say is actually there's a boring explanation. And it's a publicly available one. That's how they can have the positive. You know why they're doing that because they're cheating on the election. What do you have evidence to support? All I have to do is look. All I have to do is look. And I listen. And I listen to people. And let's see what happens. So that's not evidence. Do you think it's appropriate that they have the votes? All right. So first, clock what just happened to Kristen's explanation. She handed him the procedure. This is how California counts. And he swallows it whole and regurgitates it as motive. You know why they're doing that because they're cheating on the election. The explanation gets digested by the conspiracy rather than dending it. Rather than the counting process being counted as the answer to his suspicion, it becomes the method of the crime. But Kristen asks anyway, do you have evidence to support that? And this time, instead of an intensifier, we finally get to see what's at the bottom of the well. All I have to do is look. All I have to do is look. And I listen. And I listen to people. There it is. We've got the answer. After a lot of evidence and tremendous evidence, after nothing but evidence, there's nothing but evidence. Drill down far enough and you hit bedrock. And the bedrock is this. He looks and he listens. All you have to do is take a look. Perception, feelings and hearsay. The grand evidentiary vote that he's been gesturing out, the whole interview turns out to contain gut feelings and some unnamed people who tell him exactly what he wants to hear. Making it worse, he says, as if the really good evidence is on its way. Kristen's counter, in contrast, is straight up a call out. And she's right. And Republicans would know that she's right if she was targeting a Democrat. I look and I listen is trust me, bro. That's a nice argument, Senator. Why don't you back it up with a source? My sources that I made it the fuck up. The heaviest charge that you can level in a democracy deserves more than that. That's how they count the votes. You think it's appropriate? That they have an election. And five days later, they're nowhere close to picking the vote. Stain local officials acknowledge they are slow. They're urging the votes to be counted. That's how they voting. They're crooked just like you're crooked. You press his crooked and meet the press his crooked. To be fair, I'm not crooked, but let's... Really? Well, you play right into their hands. Let's continue. You're either crooked or you're stupid. This is the moment just before Trump waddles away. And you can see why. Every exit he's reached for, she's closed. Comey, she didn't chase. The tapes never specified. The coerce please story. She answered with the convictions. California, she answered with the counting manual. And here she hands him the boring, administrative truth, one final time. California is slow because that's how California counts. A procedure not a scandal, which is precisely why it's useless to him. A procedural answer concedes that there's nothing sinister left to explain. So, slow gets overwritten with crooked. And then the label and dismiss starts traveling. From the officials to Kristen to her press to the program he's currently sitting on. They're crooked just like you're crooked. You press his crooked and meet the press his crooked. Notice that between do you have evidence and your press is crooked, we've received how many facts? Oh yeah, zero. Not one document, name or number has passed his lips. Well, other than the 97% that he gave up on mid-sentence. 97% of those people you look at him. Because he's out of moves. All interview, he's deflected to other places and other villains. And she's declined every detour. So the deflection turns to her. The person asking. Indeed, the ad hominin is the final tactic. He reaches for it when the substance is gone and the question still won't die. She refused to argue about California. So now the plan goes that she will have to argue about herself. Except she doesn't. She won't. She's a journalist and a good one. But let's get to it. Really? When you play right into their hands. Twice. The question stays on the floor where she left it. And his response, accusing her of playing into their hands, gives the game away. If she defends a different view to him, she's labelled and dismissed as crooked. If she simply isn't convinced by his view. Well, then she's a sheep playing into the Kobo's hands. Head, he wins, tails, she loses. As for Trump, he's annoyed. He wanted the rest of this interview to be about whether NBC is biased. And instead, it's still about the evidence he doesn't have. Everything's a trick. Everyone's crooked. Everything that is except the one claim that he's been asked to support. When you play right into their hands and you're either crooked or you're stupid. You play right into their hands with this rep. You know that these elections are rigged. Your network knows that they're rigged. You know that I won an election in a landslide and I got 94% bad press. But Mr. President, why I got that? Because you have no credibility. But you've never presented evidence that it was rigged. Let's keep talking about Todd. You have more evidence. There's more evidence than ever presented. Let's start with the most slippery of Trump's sentences. His insistence that she knows the elections are rigged. No longer content with claiming the 2020 election was stolen, he's now claiming that she knows it was and is deliberately hiding it. You know that these elections are rigged. Your network knows that they're rigged. You know that I won an election in a landslide. It's an absurd double bind. If she pushes back, she's lying. If she lets it pass, she's confirming. Oh, and note the one hard number in all of this that he's given us. And I got 94% bad press. Asked all interview for a single figure about the election, the only statistic he can summon is about his own coverage. No data for the fraud, precise data for his grievances. And what does he do when Kristen calls him out? You know why I got that? Because you have no credibility. That's right, another ad hominin. She has no credibility, she has no standing to ask. So the question was never legitimate. So he owes it no answer. Label and dismiss. Disqualify the questioner and the demand for evidence is meant to evaporate with her. It doesn't. She implicitly asks again. But you've never presented evidence that it was rigged. Let's keep talking about Todd. You have more evidence. There's more evidence than ever presented. Oh, so there is evidence. And he makes out with it all the time. But you never see it because it goes to a different school. As has Kevin. With who? She goes to another school. Again, this is Trust Me Bro Nonsense. There's more evidence than ever presented. Let's talk about elections in this country. You went to a world like a third world country. Your elections are crooked and your crooked. And Mr. Press is crooked. And so is ABC and CBS and CNN. You're one sided crooked network. So let's go all the quits because I've had it all. Thank you, darling. Have a good time. Mr. President, let's please, I travel all the way to Wisconsin. I travel all the way to Wisconsin. I travel all the way to Wisconsin. I've given you enough time. You ought to straighten out your press because you know what? A country can never be great with a dishonest. You travel all the way to Wisconsin for the same idea. And then he waddles away. Then he waddles away. So before we go too far, let's not allow Christen's quick quip to slip us by. Because again, he did 60 plus times. And he lost. Yet he boulders his straight pasta anyway, which is its own kind of answer. As for the roll call on the way out, it ever expands. The elections are crooked. Christen? Yeah, she's crooked. Meet the press, crooked. ABC, CBS, CNN. They're all crooked. Facts are crooked now. He is denouncing the entire industry of American broadcast journalism into one of its microphones on its airtime. By his accounting, the only honest thing left in America is the claim he can't support. Then the waddle. He leaves through the very exit that he's been carving. Crooked networks arrive just before, let's call it quits. Because the insult is what gives him permission to go. Basically, if the interview was an ambush, then walking out is a principled stance. That is his spin. That's how the Maga movement is painting this. But for those who actually watch this segment, the framing is this. She asked for evidence. He had none. He left. Let's call it quits, because I've had enough. Thank you, darling. Have a good time. Now this is quintessentially Trump. Darling can be used condescendingly. And that's how he's using it here. It's one final demotion on his way out. Not Miss Welker, but the word, and more importantly, tone, that he would use on a waitress when he wants the bill. A last attempt to shrink the journalist who just beat him into a minor inconvenience he graciously tolerated. And as for his closing defence. I've sat down right now. I know. I've sat down right now. He sat in the rain, my dudes. He gave her an hour of his time. You know, as if the question of whether the FBI orchestrated January 6th can be settled by attendance. He showed up. What more does she want? Evidence? A country can never be great with a dishonest. By his telling, of course, and by the Maga movement telling, that's what this exit is. Him bravely standing up to crooked journalism. His hissefeat promoted to civic duty. And with that, the man who insisted a female president would be too emotional, unclips his microphone and waddles out of the barn. Because the journalist asked him to show his work. Travel all the way to Wisconsin for the city of California. Doesn't Trump's interview melt down remind you of something? I'm not inclined to continue in an interview with a person as badly motivated as you. As an interviewer. So I think we're done here. I appreciate your time. All right. Well, thank you for your time. And for showing that anger is not part of American political discourse. Now, Mr. Shapiro will say goodbye. So what does this whole exchange actually teach us? Well, in most conversations, when someone insults you, the instinct is to defend yourself, to push back on the smear, to explain that, no, actually, you're a serious person with a serious record. Set them straight. It feels like the dignified move. It feels necessary. It's a trap. The moment you start defending your character, the original question dies on the floor. You see, in 97% of cases, that was the entire point of the insult. To drag you onto the terrain of your own integrity so that the demand for evidence or whatever it might be, quietly slides off the table. Defend yourself for 60 seconds and the question is gone. The bait worked. And this is especially effective when there's a time constraint, which is what happens with interviews and publicized debates. Kristen's discipline is the antidote. Don't take the smear personally. At most, market ones, flatly, briefly, no long speech. Return to the question. If they pivot, ask the question again. To be fair, I'm not crooked, but let's get to it. Really? Well, you play right into their engine. Let's continue. Keep the original demand sitting between you both, until they either answer it or make it visible to everyone watching that they just can't. The president of the United States claimed the FBI orchestrated January 6th, where a journalist asked for evidence he deflected and distracted. When she corrected him on the facts, he called her crooked. He called the press crooked. He called the network crooked. And then he unclipped his microphone and stormed off. Have a good time. So should you find yourself asking a hard question, and then the person you ask you to attacks you personally, be it at a meeting across the dinner table, perhaps in front of a camera, set aside the impulse to defend yourself. Don't explain. Put the pressure back on what caused the attack. And watch what they do with it the second time. Because as Kristen showed us, the attack on the questioner isn't a rebuttal. It's a admission. But I have to see it. You look at it. Try looking at the tapes one time. Look at the tapes. All I have to do is look. All I have to do is look. And I listen. And I listen to people. So sad, darling. It's so sad. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view. And an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel, including today's sponsor, Ground News. Please do check them out. 40% off their vantage plan. Thanks.