---
video_title: "How to BREAK a Nazi's “BEST” Defence"
video_id: vEyO2x6egos
channel_name: "Rationality Rules"
channel_id: UCqZMgLgGlYAWvSU8lZ9xiVg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEyO2x6egos
video_date: 2026-01-21T16:01:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Go to https://piavpn.com/RationalityRules to get 83% off from our sponsor Private Internet Access with 4 months free!
  
  To support us on Patreon (thank you): https://www.patreon.com/rationalityrules
  
  There's a rhetorical trick that lets extremists say the most horrifying things while never having to defend them. Say something vile—if people approve, you meant it; if they're horrified, you were "just joking." It's called Schrödinger's Douchebag, and it's almost impossible to counter. Almost. In this interview, Piers Morgan does something we rarely see: he finds the kill switch. He doesn't debate Nick Fuentes. He doesn't argue history. Instead, he plays a video message from Danny Finkelstein—a man whose mother was arrested at ten years old, whose grandmother was starved to death, whose family was sent to the gas chambers. Suddenly "Hitler was really f*cking cool" isn't an abstraction anymore. And when Nick can no longer retreat to irony, when the "just joking" escape hatch slams shut, what comes out of his mouth is something he can never take back. Three words that reveal everything the tactic was designed to hide. This breakdown shows you exactly how the trap was set, why it worked, and what it exposed about the man who walked into it.
  
  To support us through PayPal (thank you): https://www.paypal.me/RationalityRules
  
  To visit the DEBUNKED card game website: https://www.debunkedcardgame.com/
  
  To follow Steve on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RationalityRules
  
  To tweet with Steve on X: https://twitter.com/RationalityRule
  
  --
---
Me, me, mom, me, mom, like we're, you know, I don't even know who this person is. Why is this person talking to me? This old British guy is saying me mom got killed by Hitler and his aunt. Because he doesn't find it funny when you say Hitler's very fucking cool. I don't care. In three short words, I don't care. Nick Fuentes drops the act. You see, figures like Nick rely on a specific tactic to smuggle extremism into the mainstream. It's called Shrodinger's douchebag. The term describes someone who sincerity is determined retroactively by the audience's reaction. Say something extreme. If people approve, you're meant to. Everything I said in that clip is true. Including that blacks need to be imprisoned for the most part. Uh, yeah. Yes. If they're horrified, well, you were just joking. I would never lay a hand on a woman unless she deserved it. No kidding. But see, that's a joke. That's a total joke. I would never raise my hand to a woman. I wish she had a common in which case, in which case, meow, psh, psh, psh. The statement exists in a superposition of sincere and ironic until observation collapses it into whichever is more convenient. The goal is perpetual deniability. But for figures like Nick, the tactic serves a darker purpose, spreading genuine ideology while never having to defend it. Irony is so important for giving a lot of like cover and plausible deniability for our views. That's what these people don't understand. And usually it works perfectly because how do you argue against something that might be a joke? But in this clip that we're about to watch, the defense collapses. When confronted with the specific human reality of a Holocaust survivors family, Nick can't retreat to just joking. He's already on record. And rather than scramble for cover, he reveals the one thing the strategy is designed to obscure. He simply does not care about human suffering. And if you think that that's as far as it goes, then stay until the end. You'll watch him try to deny what he's already shown you. No one is in favour of genocide. Why hello my fellow apes, I hope you are well. Nick Fuentes recently appeared on Peers Morgan's Uncensored, likely expecting the usual dance. He says something shocking. The host gets outraged and Nick clips it for his followers as a win. Now, Peers Morgan is an interesting character. We've covered him on the channel before. He's often criticised, rightly I would add, for platforming extremists in a way that normalises them, giving them the exact spotlight they crave. You could even argue that much of his content functions as a gateway to the very ideas that he comes to challenge. But in this case, we get to see him use his skills and yes, they are skills for good. You see, Peers did something different here, something that reveals a blueprint for neutralising troding his douchebag. He introduced moral gravity into a conversation Nick was deliberately keeping weightless. He played a video message from Danny Finkelstein. A man whose family history turns Nick's edgy humour into concrete horror. And in doing so, he demonstrates that the winning move against this tactic isn't a better argument. It's removing the ambiguity the defence depends upon. Today, we're going to watch exactly how this intervention works. We see how stripping away abstraction forces the troll to choose between looking like a fool or looking like a monster. It begins with Peers giving Nick exactly enough rope. I want to play you two, two plays. One is where you talk about Adolf Hitler. Hitler was a penifile and kind of a pagan. It's like, well, he was also really fucking cool. So you know, time to grow up. We're not children anymore, am I right? Am I right? Am I right, boys? Am I right? Let's go. He was also really fucking cool. Even in this short clip, the mechanism is being assembled. Nick isn't just making a statement, he's insulating it against criticism before anyone can speak. Look at the specific framing he uses. Time to grow up and we're not children anymore. So you know, time to grow up. We're not children anymore. Am I right? He's preemptively framing any moral objection to his praise of Hitler as a sign of immaturity and appeal to maturity that shuts down objection before it starts. By equating, Hitler was cool with being a grown up, disagreement automatically reads as childish. And then there's the callback response. Am I right? Am I right, boys? He's not waiting for a counter-occupied man. He's securing tribal buy-in before one can arrive. It's a way of rigging the conversation so that the most natural response, moral revulsion, is dismissed as unsophisticated before anyone can voice it. Am I right? Let's go. If you're in the UK, like me, then you may have noticed that the government has decided to become your digital shaperun. Age checks like facial recognition and credit card checks are now required for some adult sites. Those educational anatomy videos that you enjoy at night, well, now you're being asked to upload ID just to prove that you're allowed to watch them. Let me be clear, age verification, in principle, is fine. But handing over a passport or a face scan to a third party website just to access legal adult content isn't safety. It's a data breach waiting to happen. This is the same government that loses laptops on trains, the same institutions that get hacked regularly. And now they want to build a database on exactly who watches what. That is not protection. It's a surveillance honeypot. If EPN doesn't break any laws, it just keeps you out of the blast radius. And this is where private internet access matters. Their no log policy has been tested in court multiple times and independently audited by Deloitte. Basically, even if an authority came asking what you were doing online, PIA doesn't have the data to hand over. They've built their system so they literally can't spy on you. That internet access lets you browse privately and avoid handing over sensitive personal data just to use the internet like an adult. Two clicks and you're just another anonymous user again, the way it should be. Right now, my viewers, you get an exclusive deal. 83% off, just $2.3 per month. Plus, four extra months free, with a 30-day money back guarantee. Within over 30 million people who already use PIA, with servers in 91 countries, all 50 US states, unlimited devices, P2P support and strong privacy protections. Go to PIAvpn.com slash rationality rules and stop accepting the surveillance heavy internet. Whether you're working, researching or just enjoying some legal adult downtime, private internet access keeps it private. Thanks. Am I right? No, he was also really fucking cool. You regret saying that? Saying a fact? No, no, that's absolutely true. See what he does here. Nick immediately reframes the opinion as an objective reality. But notice what saying a fact actually implies. It's not just that Nick believes this. It's that moral disagreement isn't legitimate. If you object, you're not making a counter-argument. You're simply failing to see what's obviously true. And watch Pia's here. He's not expecting a retraction. He's letting Nick dig his own grave. Get him to commit on camera. Then hold him to it. No, no, that's absolutely true. You think Hitler was very fucking cool? Yes, I do. One of those... And I'm tired of pretending he's not. Alright, there's the double down. The phrase, tired of pretending, is doing heavy lifting. The phrase everyone else in society, as performative liars, and positions Nick is the only one brave enough to speak the truth. And I'm tired of pretending he's not. It's also an invitation. Viewers who agree get to feel part of an exclusive club that sees through the act. The move treats the most extreme statement imaginable as self-evident, dismissing shark as social theatre, and offers no explicit argument to refute. Just the posture of courageous honesty. And I'm tired of pretending he's not. Well, to be honest, this is the problem you see. It's a bit like when you just say, I'm a racist. You're a racist, you think Hitler's cool, but you're not anti-Semitic. If you're a Jewish person watching this, what are they thinking? I'll tell you what they're thinking, because I've got a friend of mine called Danny Finkelstein, who, when he heard I was interviewing you, he's a Times journalist in the UK, very eminent journalist here, and author. He wrote a book about his own family's experiences at the hands of Hitler and Stalin, because he also told Tucker Carlson that you admire Stalin. But let's just take what Danny said here. Now, notice what Pears does here. He reintroduces moral gravity into a conversation that Nick is deliberately keeping weightless. He doesn't argue with Nick about history. He doesn't debate definitions. Instead, he does something more devastating. Up until now, Hitler has been an abstraction, a mean, a symbol of edgy rebellion. It is how Hitler friday, and that abstraction is essential. Shrouding his douchebag only works when consequences stay theoretical. The just joking escape hatch requires victims to remain faceless. But Pears, or more accurately, Danny Finkelstein, is about to take that option completely off the table. Let's just take what Danny said here. As you're interviewing Nick Fuentes, you might try suggesting to him that he reads my book Hitler style in Mum and Dad. It's called Two Roads Home in the United States. Since he says he's on team Hitler, you might like to ask him about the fact that Hitler arrested my mum, tried to starve my mum to death, did starve my grandmother to death, sent my great aunt to the gas chamber, my great uncle, my cousin, my grandmother on my father's side, ended up being one out of seven children, the only one that survived the war. See, I'm asking whether he wouldn't rather be on team mum rather than team Hitler. The abstraction is gone. Hitler is no longer an internet aesthetic. He's the man who starved a grandmother and sent a great aunt to the gas chamber, and Danny isn't finished. See, I'm asking whether he wouldn't rather be on team mum rather than team Hitler. And as for celebrating Stalin's birthday, well, Stalin took my father, sent him to a state collective farm, sent my grandmother and my, to state collective farm, sent my grandfather to the Gulag. You might try asking why he doesn't celebrate Dad's birthday rather than Stalin's. Nick praised both dictators as Joseph Stalin's birthday. Oh, I'm a fan. You're a fan of Stalin's. I was an admirer. But he's fewer her Friday. It is Hitler Friday. Danny's family was destroyed by both. The symmetry is deliberate and devastating. More than Stalin's. He may all be a big joke to him, but he complains that he was 18 when someone tried to cancel him. Well, Stalin and Hitler arrested my mum and my dad when they were 10 years old. So perhaps he might like to reconsider his joke. And there is the knockout blow. Yes, I know Nick's people ain't going to give a shit. But bear with me. Ex-Persian narrative, cancelled at 18, placed right next to children arrested by totalitarian states. The comparison doesn't just undermine Nick's self-pity. It reveals the obscurity of equating social backlash with state terror. But you can see Nick chuckle through Danny's message, even shrugging as it wraps up. He doesn't care. Let that land. For any audience member who still recognizes more of reality, which is most people watching, this is a problem. Thicklstein lists the cost in human terms. Mum, grandmother, great uncle, cousin. He restores the gravity that Nick has been working so hard to remove from the conversation. And he exposes the false equivalence, Nick probably didn't anticipate having to defend. But he complains that he was 18 when someone tried to cancel him. Well, Stalin and Hitler arrested my mum and my dad when they were 10 years old. This should be an impossible position. The edgy human defence only works when the victims are theoretical. When they're specific, named and listed in front of you, the irony should evaporate. But that is only true if you accept certain moral premises. The individual suffering matters. The empathy is non-negotiable. The irony should collapse in the face of pain. Nick's entire rhetorical identity is built on rejecting those premises. So the question isn't whether he can escape this moment. Its whether peers will let him. So, perhaps he might like to reconsider his joke. See, that's the reality of your joke. So I haven't ascertained you whether you are joking. When you say the Hitler was very fucking cool. Are you joking or do you actually think he was very fucking cool? The most generalist call. Genocide call. Monster of the last 150 years. All right. This forces a choice. Joke or sincere. He's testing sincerity, collapsing deliberate ambiguity and enforcing accountability for meaning. Shroding his douchebag thrives on never having to commit. Just joking when pressed, speaking truth to believers. irony is so important for giving a lot of like cover and plausible deniability for our views. Forcing clarification is a cross-examination tactic and peers execute it cleanly. And appreciate the framing. The most generalist call. Monster of the last 150 years. Peas isn't trying to convince Nick of anything. Of course he's not. He's re-anchoring the audience, breaking the spell of irony and signaling where the moral line actually is. After minutes of Nick treating the Nazis as really fucking cool, Peas is reminding everyone in the room what they're actually talking about. The most generalist call. Genocide call. Monster of the last 150 years. Yeah, the thing is my generation works as done with the parole clutching. And notice what Nick does here. He dodges the question entirely. He doesn't answer whether he's joking. Instead he pivots to a red herring, focusing on generational differences to avoid the question at hand. He frames the moral horror of the Holocaust as mere parole clutching, using loaded language to dismiss serious ethical objection as hysteria. My generation works as done with the parole clutching. He's trying to drag the conversation back into the abstract to generations and attitudes because he cannot stay in the reality that Danny Finkelstein just created. We're just done with the parole clutching. You know, maybe then your generation hasn't gone through what Danny Finkelstein's family went through. So maybe the parole clutching has a way to go for families whose family members. Oh my gosh. Peas isn't having it. He anchors the conversation right back to Finkelstein. Oh my gosh, we got all that. We, you know, me, me, Mom, me, Mom, like we're, you know, I don't even know who this person is. Why is this person talking to me? This old British guy is saying me, Mom got killed by Hitler. There it is. Contempt is the point. He's indifferent to what most accept as a moral. He cares about the performance, the provocation. Me, me, Mom, me, Mom, like we're, you know, I don't even know who this person is. Nick compresses a grave specific testimony into caricature, stripping it of dignity and regasting it as irrelevant noise from a stranger. The accent mockery is incidental. The core move is minimization through impersonation. He's not arguing that Finkelstein's claims are false or absurd. He's asserting something more fundamental. This person has no standing with me. I don't owe engagement. Why is this person talking to me? He refuses to answer. Not because he's stuck, but because engagement itself would concede standing. Nick has already made his position clear. He will not accept moral testimony. He will not grant relevance. He will not treat empathy as an obligation. This isn't Nick cornered. It's Nick rejecting the rules entirely. He isn't a brave truth teller. He's just cruel. Chocking. I know. This old British guy is saying me, Mom got killed by Hitler and he's a fine guy. He's fine by me. When you say Hitler's very fucking cool. I don't care. This doesn't flinch. He leans in. Uses his own visible revulsion to keep pushing, drawing Nick further into the spotlight. The more Nick reveals, the less ambiguity remains. The plausible deniability is gone. No more just joking. No more you're taking it too seriously. Nick has made his values explicit. He's no longer playing defense. He's signaling to his audience that empathy itself is weakness. That moral testimony deserves nothing but contempt. Hitler was structurally implied from the beginning is now stated outright. I don't care. If I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. That's fine. You don't have to care. But he does care. Does that guy care about America? Does that guy care about me in my country and my family? No. And here's the pivot. Nick challenges Finkelstein standing to demand anything of him. He's asserting that moral obligation requires reciprocity. Why should I care about him if he doesn't care about me? It's irrelevant to whether mocking the Holocaust is defensible. But that's the point. Nick isn't defending his position. He's rejecting the premise that he owes a defense. At all. Does that guy care about America? Does that guy care about me and my country and my family? See how he flips it. He reframes the entire exchange around moral authority. Within his framework, relevance is conditional. Only those he recognizes as part of his in-group have standing to make claims on him. He's not diverting the argument. He's declaring that Finkelstein doesn't qualify as someone who's suffering. He's obligated to acknowledge. Does that guy care about me and my country and my family? No. He cares what you, a prominent conservative in America, has to say about Adolf Hitler. And what do you mean by Hitler is very fucking cool? Because I think he's very fucking a monster. Oh, no. And that's a clip. I think he's very fucking a monster. Do you hear yourself? I mean, can we all grow up? We are back to the beginning, aren't we? Nick Mox peers his phrasing and returns to the same framing from the clip. Can we all grow up? Time to grow up. Can we all grow up? If you're her Friday, it is Hitler Friday. Psh, psh, psh, psh, psh, psh. He's not retreating. He's reasserting. The line positions him as above moral outrage. Reframes critique as childish or performative and signals to his audience that he refuses to accept moral evaluation from outsiders. And it's worth noting that for viewers who are already aligned with Nick, that lands exactly as intended. I mean, can we all grow up? I do. Can we all grow up? Immurder 12 million childbush. Immurder 12 million people. What is very fucking cool about that? Tell me. Uh, the edits, it's just cool. The uniforms, the parades, the, it's, it's cool as a guy. You look at World War II and it's fascinating and it's interesting and it's compelling. And it's cool. Now, we're shroding as douchebag no longer available. Nick reaches for a different tool. This is a mutton Bailey fallacy. Here's how it works. Someone makes a controversial claim. Then retreats to a more defensible position when challenged. The Bailey is the bold controversial claim. The territory you actually want to hold. The mut is the fortified foreback position. Something much harder to attack. When pressed, you retreat to the mut. Is it successfully and then act as though you've defended the Bailey? To give you a quick example, someone says all men are toxic. That's the Bailey. When challenged, they retreat to, well, some male behaviors are problematic. That's the mod. Hard to argue with that. But notice what happens. After defending the mod, they carry on as if all men are toxic was never the issue. Nick is doing exactly this. The Bailey is Hitler was cool in a political and moral sense, an endorsement of the man and what he stood for. It's like, well, he was also really fucking cool. But when Pierce pins him to the specific reality, he murdered 12 million people. What is very cool about that? Nick shifts to the mod. I just mean the asphetics, the uniforms, the parades. The edits, it's just cool. The uniforms, the parades, the, it's, it's cool. It's a more defensible position who can argue that World War II footage isn't visually striking. But look at what this mod is actually doing. It's not neutral ground. Framing Nazi history as fascinating, compelling, cool, treating genocide as spectacle is itself a normalization move. The mod doesn't have to be innocent. It just has to be easier to defend. Nick acts as though answering the aesthetic question answers the moral one. It doesn't. It's fascinating and it's interesting and it's compelling and it's cool. And you know, we're just tired of saying these kinds of things. We want to talk like real people and give our honest opinions. And then we, and then we literally get an old Jewish guy from England who's going to say, oh, it's not very funny, mate. Me mom, and it's like, shut up. Like, you know, no one is in favor of genocide. So let's just get that out of the way. We're not in favor of a Holocaust or genocide. Shut up. Contempt as dismissal. Nick Denai's Finquistine standing reduces moral critique to noise and signals allegiance to his in-group. In the wake of defending Hitler, mocking a survivor and telling that survivor to shut up, Nick offers this. No one is in favor of genocide. It's not meant to be coherent. It's tactical hedging, a line that exists for plausible deniability, something to point you later if needed. I said I don't support genocide. Quasible deniability for our views. Given Nick's framework, there's no contradiction. Moral obligations are tribal, not universal. Praising Hitler, dismissing Jewish suffering and then claiming to oppose genocide all co-exist because the victims were never granted standing in the first place. The statement isn't undermined by what came before. It simply operates in a different moral universe. It's the ultimate proof that, for Nick Fuentes, words have no meaning. They are just tools to survive the moment. Do you think Hitler was very fucking cool? Yes, I do. One of the... And I'm tired of pretending he's not. So there it is. That is how you dissolve Schrodinger's douchebag. Pears didn't out- argue, Nick. He didn't debate history or definitions. He collapsed the ambiguity, forced commitment, and let the cruelty speak for itself. By reintroducing moral gravity, by making the victim specific, named and undeniable, he took away the just joking escape hatch entirely. He murdered 12 million people. What is very fucking cool about that? And when Nick couldn't retreat to irony, he revealed exactly what the strategy has been hiding all along. Not edgy humour, but genuine contempt for human suffering. And then we literally get an old Jewish guy from England who's going to say, oh, it died very funny, mate. Me mom, and it's like, shut up. Now, will this change Nick's audience? Probably not. Almost certainly not. His followers watched the same interview and saw a win. Their guy owning the mainstream media, refusing to bend. For them, the cruelty isn't a bug, it's a feature. The in-group signaling, the rejection of standing, the tribal morality. It all lands exactly as intended. But that's not who this technique is for. It's for everyone else, the broader audience watching in good faith. People who might have seen Nick as just a provocator or dismissed his arguments as edgy jokes. Pears made it impossible for them to maintain that fiction. He forced the ambiguity to collapse in front of millions of people. And what was left was undeniable. The strategic ambiguity, the in-group signaling, the Martin Bailey retreats, the rejection of standing. It's all visible once you know what you're looking for. Next time you see it, it is all your see. You've got to give Pears credit for that, at least. Anyhow, as always, thank you kindly for the view and an extra special thank you to everyone who supports the channel. Including today's spun.