---
video_title: "I'll never use n8n the same......"
video_id: s96JeuuwLzc
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s96JeuuwLzc
video_date: 2025-12-10T16:46:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Get 67% OFF Hostinger’s n8n self-hosting AND an extra 10% OFF with code NETWORKCHUCK: https://hostinger.com/ncn8n
  
  N8n just got stupid powerful. In this video, I show you how I wired Claude Code (and other AI terminal tools like Gemini CLI) into my n8n workflows. N8n can now spin up full-blown AI agents, use skills, and keep rich context across multiple steps…. All from a single node.
  
  🔥🧠 Check out our N8N COURSE on NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/n8n_academy 
  
  
  RESOURCES / LINKS:
  
  📃 Guide / Walkthrough: https://github.com/theNetworkChuck/n8n-claude-code-guide
  
  ⚡ My video on why Claude Code is so great: https://youtu.be/MsQACpcuTkU 
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  
  0:00 - Intro
  0:24 - Requirements
  2:50 - Super Simple Setup
  4:33 - Basic Execution
  7:55 - Sessions
  9:52 - External Interfaces
  12:54 - Architecture Shift
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by Hostinger
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  🎓🎓 Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  🌐🌐 Use the MOST SECURE Web Browser, NetworkChuck Cloud Browser: https://browser.networkchuck.com/
  
  🧠🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
  🆘🆘 NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  
  “n8n + Claude Code: The Most Overpowered Automation Stack”
  “How I Connected n8n to Claude Code with Just SSH”
  “Turn n8n into an AI Orchestrator with Claude Code”
  “Use n8n to Control Claude Code Agents Over SSH”
  “n8n Automation with Claude Code: Full Setup Tutorial”
  “Build an AI IT Department with n8n and Claude Code”
  “Claude Code + n8n Workflows: Headless AI in Your Automations”
  “How to Use Claude Code as an AI Terminal for n8n”
  “Maintaining AI Sessions in n8n with Claude Code (Session IDs)”
  “Slack + n8n + Claude Code: Talk to Your Homelab from Anywhere”
  “Using SSH Nodes in n8n to Run Claude Code Commands”
  “n8n and Claude Code for UniFi Monitoring and Network Checks”
  “Run Multiple Claude Agents from a Single n8n Workflow”
  “Build an AI-Powered NOC with n8n and Claude Code”
  “Why I Almost Quit n8n…Until I Added Claude Code”
  “Gemini CLI, Claude Code, and n8n: AI Terminal Superpowers”
  “How to Use AI Terminal Tools Inside Your n8n Workflows”
  “Self-Hosted n8n on Hostinger: Claude Code Integration Guide”
  “Turn Your Terminal AI into an API Using n8n + SSH”
  “n8n + Claude Code Automation Ideas for Your Homelab”
  
  #n8n #ClaudeCode #automation
---
How I use NAN has changed forever because now I'm using NAN with Claude Code. I mean, look at this. NAN is executing Claude agents workflows skills. This is what I've been missing and I almost stopped using NAN because while it's good, Claude code is more powerful. I talk about it in this video here, but when I realized I could combine the two, oh my gosh, I unlocked a superpower. So get your coffee ready, let's go.

Okay, so how in the world am I getting this Innate N workflow to use cloud code? And by the way, I'm actually able to maintain a session as well, just like you would talk to it in the terminal. I'll show you that here in a bit. Now here's how I'm making that happen. You need three things. You'll need an innate N instance,

an AI terminal tool and coffee. That's just the rules network. Chuck Coffee. Now for the AI terminal tool, you can use CLO code. That's what I recommend, Gemini, CLI and maybe Codex is kind of janky.

Keep in mind that CLO code does require a pro subscription Gemini CLI will be free with limits. And if you're wondering, Chuck, why are we even using AI in the terminal? Watch this video right now, it's amazing. Now real quick, if you don't already have an NAN instance, you're going to need one and I highly recommend you self hosting this on a hosting your VPS. Why? Two reasons. First, it's on sale right now,

I can't believe you can have an entire home lab in the cloud for this price. And with these specs you can run NAN in a lot of other stuff. Two, you can set this up in about five minutes hosting your makes this stupid easy. Seriously watch this. I'll go to hosting.com/and see an eight N put in coupon code network junk and

magic will happen. Create a root password

and then boom, you're done in eight N right here. Seriously, just do it. It's what I use and thank you to hosting if you're sponsoring this video and making it happen. Now, before I show you how NAN can connect to cloud code or any other AI terminal, and it's so easy, first we got to answer the question, where do we install our AI terminal tool? Where do we put cloud code?

And the answer is, wherever you stink in one, it can install anywhere, right? All these AI terminal tools can install to any Linux-based machine that includes Mac, that includes Windows of WSL, so you could install it alongside an a n on your hosting, your VPS. You can install it on a Raspberry Pi if you want. Or for me, I have it installed on a Ubuntu server in my server room here at Network Chuck Studios. I'm doing that because I like cloud code right next to my stuff, easy access there next door neighbors. Now here's the secret.

Here's how they connect you ready for SSH? That's it. We're going to use the SSH node on N eight N to log into our server and run Claude Commands. I know what you're thinking, Chuck. It can't be that simple.

I tried to make it more complicated. I created my own HTTP wrapper and it worked, but still, SSH was the simplest, most elegant solution and I felt like if I'm going to show you guys how to do this, I'm going to give you the best way and this is the best way. It just is. And I know you might have some doubts like does it actually work Well, yeah, it does. Let me show you now real quick, if you really want to learn NAN and Claude Code, we just launched two new courses on Network Chuck Academy.

Well actually I know for sure the NAN course is ready. Claude code is coming soon. So if you're ready to dive deep and you want to learn it, well check it out. Link below. So here we go. Let's get your super simple SSH node set up working.

Now here at NAN land, I'm going to create a workflow blank slate. We'll start with a basic trigger and then we'll add one node, our SSH node, just search for SSH, there it is, and we'll have the execute command action. That's all we got right there. Why do I have this? This is all we needed. First,

let's go ahead and jump in there into the SSH node. Just double click it. And if you've never done this before, you'll first need to set up credentials, connect to a server. I'm going to add a new one right now. Click that drop down, click on create new credential and put in your info.

I'm going to use a password for this. You can use a private key if you want for me. My IP address is 10 77 point 14 point 30. That's my server in my server room right over there. If you're hosting cloud code or GEM and ICLI on your hosting your VPS, you'll want to put that public IP address there and then throw in your username and password and click on save. It's going to save it, try and connect.

If you see connection tested successfully, then you are good. I'll exit out. Actually, I'm going to rename that so I can know what it is. I'll call it AI terminal. Now let's try our first command right here in the command box.

We're going to test it first with a very well known command to make sure your server works we'll just type in host name just like this. It's going to tell us our server's name, ready, set, execute step. And there it is. My server's name is Pop Os. What's yours?

I felt like Steve from Blues Clues. Now we can test our AI terminal command. I'm going to start with Claude. I'll change host name to Claude and I'll do dash dash version to get the version of Claude. We have installed a good way to test that ready, set, go.

And it works. You should see something like this in the standard out the version you have installed. Now you might be like, Chuck, that didn't work for me. I hear you. There's actually a few reasons why that might happen and it has to do with the way NAN interacts with your server via SSH.

I experienced probably every one of those scenarios and I documented everything in a link below. For sake of time, we're just going to move on.

Okay, we know our cloud command works. Now let's actually use it. So we'll type in CLO and we'll do dash p dash P is for print. This puts Claude in headless mode. And that's what's great about these AI terminal tools that can run in headless mode, meaning we can ask them something and just walk away.

So let's say why do pugs look so weird? And let's see if it works. Ready, set, go. So right now we're using NAN to remote into our server and run a cloud code command. And then Claude gives us our answer. That's pretty cool,

but you might be like, okay Chuck, we just asked AI to do something and it told us what's so special about this. Well, we can get crazier. Lemme show you three reasons why this is amazing. First context, watch this. I'm going to change this command.

I'm going to CD or change directory into another directory first. Actually the directory of this video we're working on right now where I keep my scripts and everything, we'll do ampersand, ampersand. So we can run two commands at once and I'll say, Hey, is this video going to be any good? Let's go. And there's the answer. This is going to be good. Now,

how did it know this video is going to be good because it has the context. I work in cloud code and cloud code works in my local directories, my local files. Giving N eight N access to cloud code gives NAN access to a super powerful context filled agent. It's kind of like if you could connect N eight N to your chat g bt like the gooey version with all your memories, that's what we're doing here except way more powerful. And guess what?

All that context, all those tokens we just spent, and yeah, that cost tokens already paid for. This is my subscription. And the third reason, this is amazing skills and agents. What do you mean watch this? Let's change my prompt up.

I'm going to put cloud in dangerous mode and I'll say use your unified skill, which is right here, by the way, on my server, I've got a unified skill that tells Claude everything it needs to know about accessing my unified environment. And I was told to do three things, check the wifi, check the network performance and check my security. Deploy three agents, one for each task. And then it's kind of hard to visualize this. So I created a dashboard with cloud code. Here it is.

Now let's watch this magic happen. Ready, set, go there, it came in, there's my prompt and it's launching three agents all working on my wifi, working on my network, checking things out. And what I love about this is that N eight N, he's now just the orchestrator. Things are simple here. The complexity lives here in claw code.

And by complexity I mean it's just marked down files that describe how to access things. It's python scripts. Look, it's running Python right now and it's done. Let's see the result. Oh dude, my memory's high on my switch and my UDM pro, I actually didn't know that.

This is super helpful. I wanted to call me out. I think some smart home stuff all in the same network.

What do you see in this To do that would've been this insane. A n workflow would've taken me hours and hours to do, but here it's just a cloud code prompt. Sure, I had a skill there, but cloud code made that skill and this would've taken a ton of tokens. This is a token heavy process, but it's cloud code. I have a subscription.

I don't care. I hope you're seeing this because any n canal effectively connect to everything I do already. All the workflows I'm building, all the processes I'm designing, it can connect to it and use it. But hold on. What if you want to talk back to it like cool, give me all that wifi info, but what if I want to say go ahead and fix it? How do we do that here?

It seems kind of just like one and done. No, we can resume a session. Watch this.

So Claude and all these AI terminal things, actually most things operate like this. They operate off session IDs with cloud code. We can actually use our own session id. We can specify one. Let's do that right now. So first I'm going to generate a UU id,

that's what they call it with a code node. So I'll click on code node here, it'll be JavaScript and I'll have all this below. It's just a little function that'll randomly generate a U Id like this. And then with our command, let's actually change it up a little bit. We won't ask about the wifi or we'll just say, use your unified skill to see how many, actually no, Claude can actually intelligently use the unified skill without me telling it to. I'll just say how many access points are up right now

and then I'll do dash, dash session, dash id and we'll pull in that UUID that we created. So now our command looks like this and actually let's remove that extra space here. Awesome. So we're pulling in that variable from that JavaScript code node. Let's test it out. Ready, set, go. Oh look, it's using my unified skill.

It's so cool, man. I already answered three are up. Cool. Now we're going to add another SSH session. So actually we'll pin this data.

Actually we'll pin everything so it stays there. We'll copy this SSH node or duplicate it, connect it up

and we'll change one thing here. Actually we'll change a few things. First, we'll change our prompt and we'll just continue the conversation being like, why is one of them down? So that would not make any sense out of context. Why is one of them down? Whatcha talking about?

But if we're resuming the conversation, it'll be fine. We can do that with the dash R switch to do dash R and then we'll specify that same session ID from our JavaScript node, just like that. Try it out. It's executing. Let's see if we can see things happening.

There's a prompt that came in. It's using our unified skill and boom, it knew exactly what I was talking about. We resumed that session. Are you seeing this? We just gave NAN and freaking pot of coffee.

This is so overpowering. We have context. We've got the power of the terminal Claude skills. And by the way, Claude code handles context way better than NAN does. Now, I was trying to think about like, okay, this is cool, but what could I use this for? And I came up with this idea,

centered it around this whole session ID business. I love this so much. So I quickly threw this workflow together and what this enables me to do is use my phone and Slack to talk to Claude code wherever I'm at and not just send one message and get a response, but have a conversation until I'm done. Check this out. You got to see it. I'm so excited about this. Alright,

ignore all my testing, but check this out. I'll tag NAN test and simply ask it. Deploy two agents to battle it out over which is better. Nano or neo VM research contrast Compare. Give me a solid answer and I got to keep the response under 2000 characters.

I ran into an issue, but we'll see how it goes. And we're going to watch it on the side here. Ready? Set. This is all from Slack. There it goes.

And there's the answer. It says, Neo of M is awesome. Let's ask about something else. So let's respond to it. I'll say, but what about make YouTube videos about hacking and eight N and all kinds of fun things? And I'll say,

yes, I want to, or no, I'm not done yet, so keep going. And there it goes. Isn't this amazing? I can make a video about this very battle. I love this so much.

I should use both. I love this. Alright, I'm going to respond with true to end that, but just think about that. I could be out and about and have this idea, oh, I want to research this or I have this thought or I need to check on this one thing. Open Slack. Ask.

And for those of you using Claude code as your digital assistant, which I'm going to make a video on soon, this is a game changer. I'm talking to you, Daniel Mesler, and we'll look into end real quick to show you what I'm doing here. Here's the initial message that Slack sends me and it sends me that dropdown to say if I'm done true or false, that simply goes to an IF node. If I say false, I'm not done. It'll loop through launch another clog command with the dash R with that same session id. And of course when I say true, I am done. It's done.

It'll end the workflow. Or I can check in with my nas, see how my stuff server is doing.

Look at that. Oh my gosh, how cool is this? Oh, oh, yikes. I got some work to do actually, let's have it investigate that.

I didn't expect to find an issue during this. Well, that's awesome though, right? Also terrifying,

okay, NAN plus clog code or Jim and ICAI or code X, whatever it is, it's overpowered. The next video in my N innate N series is going to be about taking it further and deploying an IT department, but I'm like, hold on, I discovered Claude code and now I realize how amazing this is and I want to use that more. But then I found a way to use it with NAN. So now I'm designing my IT department with NAN as the Orchestrator orchestration and Claude Code and Gemini CLI and Codex as the actual IT department. Now, I love this because it's so simple.

It's just SSH and a few clever things with managing session IDs. But man, just the slack thing alone is super cool. Now I know what you're thinking like Chuck, well what about NAS AI agents? You can still use those. You can have the AI agents that you have inside N eight N call Claude code. It can develop prompts on the fly.

The killer part about Claude Code is that it can deploy multiple agents on the fly, whereas N eight N, you're stuck with the agents that you actually put into the workflow. But my idea is I have like a billion. I had to take a walk yesterday and just jot down ideas in my journal. I had so many. I'm curious where you're at. What do you think about this idea?

Are you going to try this For me? This solves my problem. I love being in the terminal. I love having everything, every file on-prem, on my server, on my laptop, and now that I have an eight N controlling cloud code as the orchestrator, I keep everything. I want to keep local, enabling a n to do what it does best and what Claude code does best.

So I want to hear from you. I want you to give it a try, try it out, and then come to me with some ideas. I've got a million, but I want to hear yours too. Comment below. Anyways, that's all I have.

Actually, no, that's not all I have. Again, if you do want to learn more about Claude code and skills and then also N eight N and how to use all the cool features of NAN, we'll have two courses coming out on Network Check Academy. They're probably already out. Check it out. Link below.

I think you're really going to like them. No, I know you're really going to like them. Anyways, that's all I got. I'll catch you guys next time. Hey, you're still here at the end of my videos. I now pray for you. My audience.

I know it's kind of weird. If prayer is not your thing, that's okay. Actually, I would love for you to stay, but you can click off the video. That's why I put this at the end. So let's go ahead and pray.

When I pray for you and your life, I dunno where you're at. I dunno where you're at with God or anything, but it doesn't matter. I'm going to pray for you. So let's go. God, I thank you for this person on the other side of the screen. I just thank you

that they're here, that they're subscribed to me and they're watching my channel and my videos. Thank you for that. And I thank you that they're passionate about tech, about automating with AI and doing cool workflows. And I pray that this video would ignite in them a passion to just keep going. That ideas would just flow into their mind right now that they would, if there's anything blocking them mentally or spiritually or just anything that's got them stuck, that this video and the ideas that are coming with it will just open up a new flow and stream of just awesomeness running out of words. Lord,

bless them indeed right now. I pray that you'll bless their careers, that they would grow in their careers. Let them find joy in what they do,

and I pray blessing with their families that they would be grow strong and be healthy and that you would give them time with their families and let that time be sweet. Let that time be rich and help them to balance their life and their time.

And I pray for their moments after this video as they go about their day, that they would be empowered to avoid distraction and do the things that are really important. Help them to study and work and do good things. Lord, I pray ultimately that they will one day just know the joy of knowing you that all these things right now, money and the pursuit of riches or stature, it's fun, but ultimately knowing you is the best thing. It's got to just pray blessing over them, and I thank you for them. It's your name I pray, Jesus. Amen.

Anyways, I've been recording for like five hours straight. I'm tired. I'll catch you guys next time.