---
video_title: "THIS new standard changes how I use AI."
video_id: EOPo7yL86vE
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EOPo7yL86vE
video_date: 2025-09-23T19:17:07+00:00
video_description: |

---
Humans and AI don't speak the same language. And that's a problem because for AI to be actually useful, it needs access to our tools. I mean, literally, we use different interfaces like you and me. We're humans, right? Right. And we

can use things like Slack. I can click things, type things, send messages. But poor Claude here, he can't do that. So, what can we get it? Well, let's zoom out for a second. Why do humans have gooies?

Well, because you can't code, can you? A program like Slack or Facebook or Instagram, that's all code. And the way we interact with that code is through a graphical user interface or a guey. That kind of abstraction helps us to be able to use computers. But hold on, doesn't AI love code? Forget the guey. Just give

it the code. That'll work, right? No. While AI does love code, it's not going to have access to that code. It can't just connect to Slack servers and start coding. But hold on a second. What about

APIs? Yes, programs use APIs to talk to other programs all the time. That's what they are built for. Like check this out. I can pretend to be a computer and I can talk to the ClickUp API, my task manager. Watch this. I just made a task.

Problem solved. Give AI API access. Ain't going to work cuz you still need to run code to interact with an API. Most LLMs don't have access to run code. And even if they did, look at this API documentation. Thicker than my coffee

mug. Okay, then we have to give up. We can't give her AI tools. But we can. There's a new kid on the block named MCP or the model context protocol. MCP is

the guey for AI. The good news, it's a standard. This unlocks so many things for us with AI and giving it tools. So, we can connect Notion, Slack, Obsidian, or Kali Linux to our LLMs like Claude and it can do cool stuff. I talked a lot about this in my recent video. You

should go check it out. I'll see you there.