---
video_title: "The Dark Web EXPOSED (FREE + Open-Source Tool)"
video_id: _KzObeom88Y
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_KzObeom88Y
video_date: 2025-11-17T19:17:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Start your free ThreatLocker trial (no credit card required): https://www.threatlocker.com/networkchuck 
  
  At DEF CON, I met a dark web researcher who built “Robin”, an AI-powered Tor scraper that finds the real parts of the dark web faster than anything else. The dark web is notoriously unreliable; it’s slow, full of honeypots, and constantly changing. But Robin uses AI and Docker to automate OSINT, analyze sites, and export real intelligence. In this video I’ll show you how to set it up yourself, and teach you techniques to safely investigate the Dark Web.
  
  
  🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy! We just finished our new CCNA. Come check it out: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  
  RESOURCES / LINKS:
  
  Full interview with Apurv: https://youtu.be/KxfAW8wPDX4
  
  📃 Guide / Walkthrough: https://github.com/theNetworkChuck/dark-web-scraping-guide
  🧠 Robin GitHub: https://github.com/apurvsinghgautam/robin
  
  Check out Apurv:
  Twitter/X - https://twitter.com/ASG_Sc0rpi0n
  LinkedIn - https://www.linkedin.com/in/apurvsinghgautam/
  Website - https://apurvsinghgautam.me
  
  Designer of the Robin Logo - https://github.com/Tanq16
  
  
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  
  0:00 - Intro
  0:27 - Why is the Dark Web so hard to scrape?
  2:25 - Ad
  4:32 - Install
  8:47 - Running the Tool for the First Time
  11:49 - Stay Safe on the Dark Web
  13:50 - This is a Real Job!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by Threatlocker
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  🎓🎓 Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  🌐🌐 Use the MOST SECURE Web Browser, NetworkChuck Cloud Browser: https://browser.networkchuck.com/
  
  🧠🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
  🆘🆘 NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  
  “AI Tool That Scrapes the Dark Web (How It Works)”
  “Dark Web Researcher Builds an AI Scraper Named Robin”
  “Using AI to Explore the Dark Web Safely”
  “How to Scrape the Dark Web with AI + Tor and Docker”
  “Inside the Dark Web: AI vs Fake Sites”
  “90% of the Dark Web Is Fake — Here’s the Real 10%”
  “ThreatLocker Zero-Trust Explained by NetworkChuck”
  “Testing Robin AI for Dark Web Threat Hunting”
  “Building an AI Scraper for Tor Sites”
  “Defcon Dark Web AI Interview with Apurv”
  “How Threat Researchers Use AI on the Dark Web”
  “Installing Robin AI (Full Tor + Docker Tutorial)”
  “Protect Yourself from Dark Web Threats with Zero-Trust Security”
  “Dark Web Automation with ChatGPT and Llama 3”
  “The AI That Finds Criminals on the Dark Web”
  “ThreatLocker Explained: Stopping Malware Before It Starts”
  “Dark Web AI Scraper Setup and Safety Tips”
  “How Hackers Hide Their Tracks on the Dark Web”
  “Becoming a Dark Web Threat Researcher (Real Job Guide)”
  “Exploring the Dark Web Safely with AI and ThreatLocker”
  
  #DarkWeb #AI #CyberSecurity
---
So I met this dark web researcher at Defcon like you do, and this guy, he's legit, he actually infiltrates the dark web for a living. But he told me about this problem he has and we all have this problem. It's hard for him to find actual real stuff on the dark web until now. He built this AI tool that will search and scrape the dark web for him. What that sounds awesome. And then he goes, here you go, Chuck. Play with it.

So get your coffee ready. Let's go to the dark web. Most of the dark web is fake. Yeah, that is true. And most of the time there are law enforcement people controlling it or either massively present on those forums.

That's a problem. You may have not known that and when you go there it looks kind of real, right? Spooky scary, but what is that? But it's all for show. Most of it is law enforcement honeypots, but there is real stuff.

Why is it so hard to find? Two reasons. Whiteboard time problem number one, the dark web is run by onions and that makes it stink in slow and Beatrice just broke one of them. What? Yes. Watch this. So on the clear web,

which is what you're using right now, you have a direct connection straight to the website server on the dark web. It's different. Every website you connect to is going to be connected through a series of onion relay servers. Now this is great because it helps keep you in the website you're visiting anonymous. What's not great is Beatrice operates one of these onion relay servers on a spare raspberry pie in her mom's basement and her mom just unplugged the power.

Now we have a rotten onion. This connection was already slow and then Beatrice just broke it and you're disconnected. That's why surfing the dark web is so painful. But then think about a dark web researcher like Apurv. He has to conduct a ton of different searches on the dark web, trying to scrape a ton of websites, but it's slow and these connections break, the.

Circuit does break, so you have to recreate the circuit, then restart your script. So all those things come into play when you are scraping that web. And problem number two is a crazy one. Criminals are kind of paranoid and that makes 'em harder to find. For example, Apurv said that some websites are only operational like two days a week and you never know which two days they are.

The connection breaks anytime, like you never know. For example, there is a dot any website, it is up let's say two days a week and you don't know which two days. Sometimes you have to keep restarting your entire workflow. Making it almost impossible to find and search and scrape these sites. So that's a problem. When you visit the dark web,

you think what you're seeing is real, it's not. But to try and find the real stuff, it's crazy difficult because the dark web by design is kind of clunky, which is why Apurv built a tool, a tool that takes a six to eight hour research marathon and gets that down to about a 30 minute stroll in the park. This thing is kind of crazy. You got to see it. But first, let's get our coffee ready for an ad break. Now,

real quick, before I show you how to scrape the dark web with ai, that's a crazy sentence. I want to tell you about something that Apurv and I discussed during our interview how threat actors actually attack you. Here's what Apurv told me. Cyber criminals on the dark web aren't just selling drugs or selling credit cards. They're selling exploits tools that abuse legitimate software already running on your network right now. Microsoft Word,

PowerShell apps you trust every single day. That's your mistake that on you, it's really hard to stop this with traditional antivirus. Why? Because these tools are allowed to run. Your security is saying, yeah, that's Microsoft Word. Of course you can open that,

but what it doesn't see is that word just called PowerShell and executed a ransomware payload. Yeah, that can happen and that's where Threat Locker comes in. This video is sponsored by Threat Locker. I love them. Thank you.

And after talking to a per about the attacks, what they do makes a lot of sense. Threat Locker is a zero trust endpoint protection platform. And here's what they do and I love this. Nothing runs without you explicitly allowing it to run. And if you do allow an app, like let's say you do want to run Microsoft Word because you have to, threat Locker has a thing called Ring Fencing To control what an app is allowed to do, let's say a word is allowed to run, but with a ring fencing I can create a policy that says word cannot call PowerShell period.

So even if a threat expert does exploit vulnerability like Felina, which does weaponize word to launch PowerShell threat Locker just says Nope, blocks it. Now it's not detecting malware, it's not trying to catch it, it's just simply saying that behavior's not allowed here. The portion around it stops it before it even starts. And here's the cool part. Threat Locker has a learning mode.

It watches what your network is already doing and then builds policies automatically and then locks everything down, which saves a lot of time in that initial setup. You're not starting from scratch. It learns from what you do first. Plus, if you do need help monitoring threats, they have a cyber hero, MDRA team that watches for suspicious activity 24 7 and responds for you. Now, threat Locker is offering a free trial, no credit card.

If you're serious about security, especially after seeing what's on the dark web in this video, you need to check this out. Head to threat locker.com/network Chuck to start your free trial or check that link in the description below. And seriously, thank you. The threat locker response during this video.

They do make videos like this possible. I wouldn't be able to do this without, you know all that cool editing. Think these editors cost money. I have to feed my editors. Thank you threat logger. Alright,

back to the dark web. I don't know about you, I got to get my hands on this. I need to experience this for myself. You're probably the same way, right? Let's play with this tool ourselves. Okay, here's the tool.

It's called Robin. It is based off that one piece character. I've never seen the show. Should I watch one piece? I dunno. Let me know below.

It seems kind of long now. The secret sauce of Robin is that it uses AI to search the dark web to research it and make it easier for you and me and a perf. It does this in a few cool ways. First, it'll help you query, you type in something. It'll make your something a bit better, like look what it did here.

Then it will scour the dark web using multiple search engines and look at all those results over 900. It'll then use AI to identify the real sources, the real stuff, reducing that list from over 900 to just 20 verifiable real results. It'll then scrape those 20 sites and then use AI to tell you what it found and even the next steps on how to continue your research. This tool is amazing. Now to run Robin, you'll need two things. First, Tor,

this will actually be a package we'll install. Don't worry, I'll walk you through it. We'll also need Docker. If you don't know what Docker is, I'm excited for you. Go watch this video.

Mind blown. Now we're going to run and install Tor and Docker on Linux-based machines or Mac, so Linux or Mac. Now don't worry Windows folks, I'm right here with you. You can run Linux on Windows with WSL, the Windows subsystem for Linux. I'm not going to walk through installation here, but I do have a video here about how to do that. Alright,

let's launch our terminal. The best place in the world Home suite home here in WSL Land. I will launch Ubuntu. First thing we'll do is make sure Docker is installed. We'll do docker dash ash version. If you don't see that, install Docker.

I'll have a link below. Next we'll install Tor with the pseudo A PT install tor. Now if you're on Mac, it's going to be brew install Tor. That does require you to have Brew on Mac. Again, I'm not going to cover that here, but I will have a link below.

Now you probably notice that this is very command line first, meaning you'll use this tool via the command line, but don't worry if you love a gooey, we're going to have a gooey for you. You'll see that here in a moment. Let's stall tour, which is kind of exciting. Oh wait, wrong pseudo password. Embarrassing. There we go.

Yes. Now normally if you wanted to use a GUI to explore tour, you would use a Tor browser like the Onion router browser. I think Brave has a tour mode or you can use the Network Shot cloud browser to Safely Browse tour. And now with Tor installed, we're going to clone the Robin GitHub repo. I'll have a walkthrough below, but we'll just grab that URL, get back to our command line.

We'll type in GI Clone and then paste in that URL just like this. Ready set go. It's cloning it. Cloned coffee break and then we'll CD into that folder it just made for us called Robin and we're there. Now if you're like Chuck, I have no idea what just happened.

We use the tool called GI to essentially clone or copy the tool Robin to our computer so we can use it and then we jumped into the folder that it created. Now confession, normally when I make a video, I've installed a tool before and I played with it. This one I have not. So I'm actually discovering this with you in real time. I'm pretty stoked.

Now we're about to build our Robin Docker container, but before we do that, we'll need to set up our API keys. Now remember, this tool is going to be using ai, but which ai? Well, it's up to you with Robin. You can use Chad, GBT anthropic or even local models like Llama 3.1. Now for me,

I'm going to try using Chad GPT, which will mean I'll need to add an API key for Robin to use. And normally you'll put your API keys safely and securely inside a dot env file. We're going to do that right now. Don't worry, it's not too bad. I think Apurv has an example file for us. Yes, there it is.

Is a Dov example. If I cat that file or look inside of it, type in Cat NV example there it's that's simple. Notice we have a slot for Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, and even just putting your alama base, URL, I'm going to put an alama and OpenAI. So what I'll do is I'll copy the example file NV example into a new file name to do nv, just like that. Now it's nano dot env.

And now we can add our keys into this new file. I'm going to add open AI and then I'll put in my alama base URL, which I always forget what that port is. Lemme check it real quick. There it is. Alright, control X, Y enter to save.

Now we're going to set up the Robin Docker container. Now currently it's not on any repo and you're not going to find it on docker hubs. So we're going to build that docker container right now. The command will be pseudo docker build dash T, which is us naming this container, Robin. And then we'll do a space T to tell it. Hey, look here for the docker files.

Ready, set, bill. This gets me every time. I love it. Oh, keep going. There's nothing like sipping coffee and just watching things happen in your terminal. It's my happy place. Some people like the beach. This is it for me.

Dang. Apurv. You got a lot of stuff in this thing. Yeah, there's beautiful soup. That's a tool you'll normally use to do web scraping.

How big is this thing? Oh, it finished. I was scrolled up like a dummy. Now with one command we're going to run the sucker. Apurv already has a docker run command for us. Just going to copy that.

Get back to my terminal and paste it in here. Alright, running our docker container now. Okay, notice first it's connecting to the tour network. It's connecting to the dark web handshaking, connecting. It's being so social now.

It seems like it started my web app before it fully connected. Let's go see if our web app works. We'll go out to local host or 8 5 0 1. Okay, cool. It seems to be working on the left here.

We have our LLM choices in the middle. We can just search for stuff, but I don't think we're connected just yet. I guess we can try it. Let's try searching for ransomware.

That's a good sign. That means it's connected to Chad GBT. It refined my query, but I don't think it's actually surging. Yeah, nothing's really happening. I'm going to go up here and click on stop at the top. Oh, look at that.

Lots of weird things happening. Let's stop that. I think it needs to wait. We'll give it time to bake.

Okay, I made some progress. I just had to wait for a moment. Tour is janky. Let's test it out now. Let's try ransomware. Okay,

refining query. Okay, are things happening? I don't know.

Oh, did you see that? It found 910 results even more than Apurv filtered down to 20. Now it's scraping those sites. This is so exciting.

Oh, it's done. Or it's generating a summary. Do these are actual links? Let's try one.

Dude, even my browser's having problems with tour. Come on and get me to the good stuff. Let's go, dude, this has taken forever. Let's keep looking at our investigation here. I found the builders crypto, RCM, Conti, darknet Army Forum, RCM claims. Easy $500 per hit.

And then we've got some info here and then next steps, monitor that forum, profile some threat actors and even some other search queries we can try. We're going to do that. Let's check on our tour browser now. Oh, we're almost there. I'm going to grab that link one more time to test it out.

We're in. Let's go. Okay, bad link. Apurv did say that. Sometimes it does give some bad links, but I think we got one. Oh,

that worked. Okay, let's keep investigating. Let's do Conti. We'll do another search.

634 results filtering down the 20 and scraping the content now. Okay, let's see what it found. Whoa, look at this dude. They've got cryptocurrency addresses. Doge, L-T-C-B-T-C-X-M-R. That's nuts.

Threat actor info. Dude, this thing is crazy. Now we can also click on download right here and download a markdown file of our summary so we can throw that sucker right into our obsidian vaults for research. Now hold on, before you get crazy, we need to talk about safety. Now I just gave you an extremely powerful and dangerous tool.

I know you're wanting to search right now. You're wanting to go nuts. Tell you what, while your thing is sitting there waiting to connect to the tour network like mine did, let's talk about safety and what you got to do to protect yourself when you're doing this. Remember what a perf said, the. Entire thing of being safe while doing this, it's really important I would say.

So here are the rules. Use VPN plus tour. So for example, scraping, you definitely want to do VPN and then tour so that your ISP can't see or you are accessing tor. But in many countries, tour is considered like, okay, they must be doing something illegal. So that's why you want to go through PN.

So they can't see where you're going to. Do not try to access illegal marketplaces or site selling bad stuff. Stuff you know don't need. There are drug related stuff, CS a related stuff, power hacking, killing stuff, all those things, right? Yeah, that stuff really exists on the dark web and you really don't need it.

That's why Apurv wrote this tool in a way that will put guardrails in for himself and for you. So if someone searches for that, definitely even if you go on the website, you search for that, you'll get the result as I showed in the prompt, I do have written that. Okay, do not show me not safe for work. Just be careful. It's not foolproof.

I've not tested it. I don't want to get my hands with that. So that is a disclaimer, which I put it on the GitHub also. Please take a purpose warning. Seriously.

Please don't search for those things. You'll get into trouble. That is a big thing, especially in us. If you search any csam related stuff and you have something saved on your system, you are in big trouble that is full illegal area that you're going into. Even if you do it mistakenly, they will not listen to you. You are in trouble.

You will get arrested. So it's always better to not search for any of those things right to jail right away. Don't download suspicious stuff. Really just don't download anything from the dark web rule of thumb. No.

Ow I actually heard I hit myself with my ring. Now, by the way, this entire thing I've been showing you, researching the dark web, it's part of a real job, a threat researcher. That's what Apurv does. But the reality, it's not that easy to find things in the dark web. This tool does make it easier, but it's still pretty stinking hard.

But also it's a real job and that's kind of cool. Apurv told me a little bit about what that entails though. If you want to actually find real things in the dark web, it's not as easy as a really fancy searching tool that does some cool stuff. It's also a waiting game. For example, when we do get those good results from the tool Robin, that's just the beginning. Fingers crossed,

you'll eventually find a forum and you'll get in there and you'll just wait. You got to be patient. A perf told me it takes a long time, days, weeks. You have to stay there, build trust. And not just that, you have to kind of go undercover like an undercover cop.

Basically you create accounts that are not tied to you or your company or whatever organization you work for. Like sock, puppet accounts on forums, telegram, even for telegram, you have a burner phone number. Okay? Sock puppet accounts with burner phones. But don't make this beginner mistake.

A lot of beginners I would say, when they try to create these accounts, they put recovery email as their main email cannot even think about. Okay, I can say something related to me. And listen, if you're actively talking to threat actors, you got to be on your game. If you adopt a persona, remember it. Don't break character. Make it real consistently use.

It. If you're actually talking to them, that is a different ball game. You have to be very wary of what you say to the threat actors. New name, new me, new everything. The way you talk, the accent you have and you want to make sure you remember those details you create. Because as you get into those forums, these dark web criminals,

they're not dumb. They're anticipating cops getting in there or researchers coming in and they're looking for the signs of inconsistencies. And also if you're doing multiple personalities, keep track of those things. Have a habit of note taking because you don't want to combine two different personas into one. All these small things do matter.

But even when you're on your game and you remember your sock puppet identity and you're living it, it still takes a while and you might just be waiting for that next link that takes you to the more real form where the real guys are. Or it might even be a telegram link, a private telegram chat. A lot of people think you go to the dark web and boom, you're just going to hit that site where all the criminals are hanging out. No, so many dark websites, dark web websites have been taken down, marketplace has been removed. They don't make it easy to find them yet.

They do have to advertise the fact that they are around because that's how they get customers. So they are discoverable, but they're careful and you have to be patient. I honestly can't believe all that we just described is a real job. If you do this job, comment below and if you want to do this job, comment below. You're probably wondering, Chuck, why are you showing us this?

This is a way to search the dark web. It's dangerous. I'm showing it to you because of this reason. Actually two reasons. One, education.

I want you to be able to research security threats like a threat researcher would so you can defend against them. Education and knowledge about the threats we face is how we defeat them. And second, it's just a really awesome tool. You can try to search for your own data. See if you are on the dark web, put in your email address, maybe your name. Just some fun things to try.

A dark web researcher gave me his AI tool and I just gave it to you. Think about that. You know how the ability to use the same tools a real threat researcher has on the dark web, and that just sounds awesome and scary. So be careful. Okay, so most of the dark web is fake. We know that Now, oh, by the way,

that Secret Hotel suite meetup I had with Apurv in Vegas during Defcon, that was a whole interview. And what you saw here was just a peak behind the curtain if you want to see that full thing. I've got a video right here. We talked about some stuff like ransomware as a service and how threat actors get caught with dumb Instagram mistakes. It's pretty nuts.

You don't want to miss that. So listen up. Here is your homework. Test out the tool, search for your own email address, search for your name. See what's out there.

Get a feel for what it feels like to be a threat researcher. Comment below what you find. I mean, only the safe stuff. That's all I got. I'll catch you guys next time. Hey, you made it to the end of the video.

You may have noticed that at the end of my videos I'm starting to pray for you. I'm a man of faith and a lot of the things I do here on YouTube, they're fueled by that. In fact, all of it, every video I make here, I hope is going to somehow improve your life by either getting you excited about it, learning a new skill that you can add to your resume. And it's Jesus that drives me in this. No, I totally understand that.

My followers are going to have a bunch of different beliefs, but if you'll allow me, I would love to just pray for you and your life and what you're doing and that's it. So real quick, I know it's going to be kind of weird. You got this YouTuber guy praying for you. Embrace the weirdness. Here we go.

God asking in your name that you bless this person behind the screen who's watching this video right now, I ask in your name that you would let them take the content of this video and first not do anything bad with it, but also let it make them excited for it and give them some amazing skills. Unlock new things for them, unlock new job opportunities. Bless their careers. God, I ask that this will make them go down rabbit holes to find amazing things to play with and tools to play with and skills to learn that will make their resume awesome and help them land that next job or help them to land that next razor or get that next promotion. Go before them and make their path straight. Lord.

And I ask that you just bless their families, their families, be blessed. I know this is the big why for many of them as to why they're doing all this studying and learning. Lord bless their families and let them be blessed by their study and their hard work. And Lord, ultimately I pray they find their satisfaction and their identity and you and that they'll know you. One day. I ask this in your name,

Jesus. Amen. Hey, I really appreciate you letting me pray for you. And that's it. I'll catch you guys next time.