---
video_title: "THIS Is Where the Internet Lives"
video_id: v477fvbj3rk
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v477fvbj3rk
video_date: 2025-09-08T14:40:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Check out Equinix and learn more about how they power the internet: https://eqix.it/4gioy31
  
  What if I told you the world’s biggest companies don’t use the internet like you and me? Instead, they connect directly to each other inside some of the most secure and connected buildings on earth. Today, we’re going inside one of those places, the legendary Dallas infomart and Equinix DA11, where billions of dollars of equipment, AI GPUs, and the backbone of the internet lives.
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - Intro / The Internet Lives Here
  0:40 - Why Getting Inside is SO Hard
  1:30 - The Dreaded Man Trap
  2:18 - We're Not Allowed to Walk Alone
  3:04 - Finally Entering the Data Center
  5:26 - What's Hiding in Those Server Cages?
  7:30 - Cooling & Power
  9:15 - The Generator Yard (Heartbeat of the Building)
  9:47 - Bypassing the Internet
  13:47 - Equinix Fabric
  17:06 - The People Who Make it All Work
  
  
  
  🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by Equinix
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  ➡️NetworkChuck membership: https://ntck.co/Premium 
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  Check out my new channel: https://ntck.co/ncclips 
  
  🆘🆘NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Learn Python: https://bit.ly/3rzZjzz 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  AFFILIATES & REFERRALS
  ---------------------------------------------------
  (GEAR I USE...STUFF I RECOMMEND)
  My network gear: https://geni.us/L6wyIUj 
  Amazon Affiliate Store: https://www.amazon.com/shop/networkchuck 
  Buy a Raspberry Pi: https://geni.us/aBeqAL
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  fast and reliable unifi in the cloud: https://hostifi.com/?via=chuck
  
  
  Inside the Equinix Data Center: Where the Internet Lives
  
  Touring the Dallas Infomart: One of the Most Connected Buildings on Earth
  
  How the World’s Biggest Companies Bypass the Internet
  
  Equinix Data Center Tour: Security, Cooling, Power, and Connectivity
  
  This Is Where the Internet Connects (Equinix Infomart Tour)
  
  What Really Happens Inside an Equinix Data Center
  
  Equinix DA11 and Infomart: The Beating Heart of the Internet
  
  How Data Centers Keep the Internet Running 24/7
  
  Touring the Fortress That Powers the Internet
  
  The Internet’s Secret Crossroads: Equinix Infomart Tour
  
  Behind the Scenes at Equinix: Security and Connectivity Explained
  
  Dallas Infomart: Why It’s One of the Most Important Internet Buildings
  
  How Equinix Fabric Connects the World’s Clouds and Networks
  
  Equinix Data Center Security: How They Protect Billions in Equipment
  
  Inside the Internet’s Infrastructure: Equinix Data Center Tour
  
  The Dallas Infomart Story: From Tech Mall to Internet Hub
  
  Cooling and Powering AI Workloads at Equinix DA11
  
  How Equinix Keeps the Internet Online During Outages
  
  Meet the People Who Run the Internet (Equinix Data Center Tour)
  
  Exploring the Future of Data Centers with Equinix
  
  #Equinix #DataCenter #Networking
---
What if I told you the world's biggest companies don't use the internet like you and I do? They have a direct connection to each other. They're neighbors bypassing the big bad wild internet. And they do that here. This is where the internet lives. This is the

Dallas info Mart. 1.5 million square ft of data center goodness. 8,700 strands of fiber. Multiple internet exchanges.

Over 140 networks peering at terabit speeds. It's one of the most connected buildings on Earth. In fact, if you're watching this video from here, your packets are likely going through this building right now. So, let's try and get in there. Get your copy ready. We're

going to go play inside a data center today. It's going to be kind of crazy. Look at all these timestamps. We covered a lot. Let's go. Yeah. Go into the

Infomars. Now, getting inside a data center is hard. Security is intense. They got multiple layers of protection, and it makes sense. I mean, they're protecting billions of dollars worth of equipment and a large chunk of the internet. You can't even get past

reception without A being a customer or B being invited. Thankfully, we didn't have to social engineer our way in there. Putting on a hard hat and a vest and pretending we're important. Although, I'd like to try that one day, actually. Ethically, of course. But

today, we're invited. Or I use my YouTube powers to ethically hack with my influence. Go with that. That sounds way cooler. But seriously, Equinex invited us out and made this video possible.

Thank you, Equinex. So, this is actually one of their data centers and this is one of their people, S. >> Hi, I'm Sal Gonzalez, senior manager of global technical sales. Been with Equinex 24 years here in Dallas, Texas. >> I tricked Sal into letting us follow him into the data center. Now, after me and

my team signed in at the first checkpoint, supplying our IDs, getting a fancy name tag, we then encountered the man trap. >> Not just anyone can go into a data center, you have to have access, key card, thumbrint, and go into a man trap or person trap. This is the fanciest one I've ever seen. Come on in. It's a trap because once you arrive inside, both doors have to be closed before the other one opens. Then you have to authenticate

on this side too to open the door and now we can get to the data center. Now, this prevents a very popular form of physical security hacking known as tailgating or just following someone in, grabbing the door before it fully closes, which is kind of what I did following Sal in, but he let me. But normally that does curtail this quite a bit and it's hard to stay under the radar when you're awkwardly standing next to someone waiting for them to open the second door. Becomes a bit obvious what you're doing. This man trap, like most you'll encounter, is a security measure ensuring only authorized individuals enter secure areas. Now,

once in, we're being watched at all times, not just cameras, but we had to be escorted everywhere we went. I couldn't even go to the bathroom without S. I also couldn't get coffee without Sal, so I beg for coffee, and he took me to the break room, which is actually kind of fancy. They had fancy seltzer water. Coffee was just okay. I should

probably help them with that. Why don't I sell my coffee to data centers? I've got to write that idea down, actually. Now, at this point, we're still not in the data center. I don't hear that sweet, sweet sound of worring servers, but we're about to be. But first, we

encountered yet another door that required another badge and fingerprint. This place is secure. But why that extra door? We already authenticated, right? Yes, but there's layers. You see, as a

customer at that data center, you are only given access to your stuff, the floor your stuff is on, and the cage your stuff lives in. Yes, there's another area that requires another badge and another fingerprint. It's insane. But then we saw this. As we were walking through those doors, I saw a customer wheeling in a massive rack of servers.

>> And here's an example of a customer that is bringing in a fully loaded rack. >> That's an AI customer, isn't it? >> Do you recognize that customer? It's Gro or Grock. I'm not sure how to say it.

They are an AI company and those racks were dripping with LPUs. Oh, I was kind of freaking out. I couldn't stop smiling. And we actually had to ask permission to even mention that we saw them. And that's what's so cool about being in this data center. Major

companies, companies that we rely on for core services, they're here. This is where they put their stuff. This is the internet. When we're asking AI a question, it's answering it right there. When we like a video on YouTube, actually, go ahead and try it. Hit the

like button. Watch. You're going to make that server smile. Ready? See, there it went. This is the internet. I need to

calm down. Little coffee break. Now, getting back to security. I looked at a lot of server racks as we walked by cuz I'm always curious what people have. But what I didn't see was any indication of what company these servers belong to.

And that's by design. Just walking past these racks, if you happen to notice a company you're familiar with and seeing what servers and and networking harbor they use, those are some trade secrets. And then Equinex takes it a step further. Notice the lights in this place. They're blue. Why is almost every

light in the Equinex data center blue? It makes it colder in here. No, that's not true. There's two reasons they have that. One, it's just fun. RGB. We do it

to our gaming machines and they do it to data centers too. The theater was supposed to be kind of a nightclub. You got black walls, blue lights, video games in the conference rooms. The second reason is that it's kind of secure, or at least it used to be. Having blue lights made it harder to read the labels of the people's equipment in the cages. If you happen to

know that a customer used F5 and you're a competitor, hey, I might want to use F5. They're using Cisco, I want to use Cisco. I want to have a competitive edge. And I kind of like that. Just another subtle form of security. And if

you're new to security, stuff like this is key. multiple layers, defense and depth. Don't rely on one solution, one method to secure your stuff. Use multiple layers. Now, one thing I want to point out that company Grock, which by the way is not X AI Grock, it's this Grock. They're wheeling in racks of

servers. Back in my day when I was a networking systems engineer, we would be assigned a rack in a data center and we'd have to bring all of our stuff with us to that rack and then rack it and stack it ourselves. I still have scars from the cage nuts. Look. But when you're working with Equinex, it's common to have all your stuff preconfigured and they do the rest. Now, look at these

cages. This is something I wasn't used to. When I would walk into a data center, I would just see rows and rows of server cabinets that I could just walk up to and open. Most of them anyway. Not great for security. I like

what Equinex does here better. When a customer puts their stuff into a cage, usually only that customer has access to this cage. Fingerprint badge. Unless you have that, you're not getting in there. And look at these cages. Not all of them

are the same. And I thought this was so interesting because some have an open top. So in theory, I could climb that cage and get in there Tom Cruz style. I asked them if I could do that or if anyone would catch me if they weren't looking. They're like, "No, we're always looking and we would catch you within 5 seconds."

>> Security's watching. So if you want to get tackled by someone, >> noted. But other cages, they actually have a closed top and some I couldn't even see. They were in enclosed areas. >> Some customer are also not additionally just to the deck there. They actually

put the mesh underneath that as well. And it's fully enclosed. >> Top secret. I wasn't allowed in there. Still bummed about that. I would imagine

there are some crazy top secret companies in this data center. There's got to be. And it's kind of cool. If you need top secret stuff, Equinex will give you what you need. Customers can also put whatever security they want. And

unless there's some kind of crazy security issue, Equinex will not even go into your cage. This is your cage. >> Here, I'll flap it here. It's going to deny me because I am not the customer of this cage. >> Now, speaking of security, what about the people? Like the people who work

there? I actually learned that becoming an Equinex technician is no joke. This is Manny. He started as a tech over 20 years ago. >> I've been with Equinex 24 years going on 25 years in July. I'm a sales engineer.

Started as a tech for 8 years here at the data center DA1. Uh site engineer. I was on sales team. U sales engineer for eight years. So that's the combined 24 years.

>> And this is part of their interview process. They took me to this other building and they had this rack where you had to actually go through a test building cables running fiber splicing. Cool. >> Because a lot of people in the interview can talk. I got my CCNA. I promises it's

up to date. Yeah. Yeah. And then it's like they get here and they're light. You I can't even do an RJ45.

So So what I'll do is break the fiber, unplug it somewhere, and break that that circuit. >> Now, something had me wondering. I saw all these Grock racks being wheeled in. You got to know they're just dripping in. >> How in the world do they power all this?

And how do they cool it? Because I don't even keep my gaming machine here in my studio. I used to get way too hot. So, I keep it in a cool server room. Imagine an entire rack of GPUs. And not just a

rack, a data center full of GPUs. And then I saw this. Look at the floors. Yeah. Go ahead and look. Do you notice

something weird? They're not raised floors. In a typical data center, you have a raised floor. And they actually pump cool air in from the ground because, you know, hot air rises. This place didn't have that. How are they How

are they cooling this stuff? This facility we've evolved to pushing air from the side >> and the hot air is actually pushed up and out through ventilation. So typical hot air rising situation. >> This is the air handler pushing it to the side goes up to the top. It still comes back but now it's being flooded.

The room being flooded to the side. >> Now as s which is better, the raised floor or the way they do it pushing air from the side. >> We can argue to where blue are those lights. It's just a preference when it's all said and done. >> They use slab floors because it can hold more weight. Those server racks are

heavy. Now, on every floor, they have air handlers at the end of the hall that cool everything. But the power of this is on the roof. And the way they cool this data center is kind of like a gaming computer. Hear me out. It's like

liquid cooling. On the top, you have your radiator, like your gaming PC. You normally mount your radiator and the fans to the top. You'll have your water or your liquid go to your radiator, get cooled off by the fans, and they get pushed back down to your GPU or your CPU to cool it off. And as the water gets hot, it goes back up and gets cooled off again. That's what's happening here. All

these things are doing that. And what's crazy is that each one of these containers is self-contained, meaning when they want to add another one, they just airlift it in there. Boom. All in one go. They also have giant water tanks. That's kind of a buffer. In case

something fails, they got some backup water to go in and cool things off. But what if the power fails? They got a backup for that. Their generator yard is insane. >> Right. We're able to run on diesel

generators for a total of 36 hours at full load. >> What? >> Yeah. >> Everything here 36 hours. >> Yes.

>> Wow. And if for some reason we're not at full load, then obviously we have more run time >> back on the roof. It was kind of funny. Ed, hi Ed. He was very afraid of heights, but he went up there for us.

Didn't get anywhere near the edge, but I'm proud of Ed. Now, enough about power and cooling and all that. Like, that's fun. And you can go watch this guy cuz he talked about it more. But I want to talk about bypassing the internet. Let's

go there right now. Get your coffee ready. I'm already kind of hyped up today. Now, this part is actually kind of crazy and it has everything to do with that dystopian mall across the street. You'll see. But first, I want to

talk about the problem this data center and this dystopian mall are solving. Most people and businesses connect to AWS, GCP, Azure for stuff, the stuff we use on the internet cuz that's where the internet lives. And it's critical, especially for businesses because they'll often host their infrastructure up there in the cloud. But they also might have some stuff back in their data center doing a hybrid cloud situation. So that connection, dude, it can't be crappy. But often it kind of is. We're

usually connecting through the big bad wild internet, hopping between routers, connections with potentially bad latency and frequent drops. It's kind of like going on a road trip. You can't guarantee the quality of the roads. You don't control any of that and you never know when there's going to be traffic. That's the internet. That's why things

are slow sometimes. But Equinex, they flip the script on this. They help people skip the internet. And it's because they're so well connected. Remember, this is the most well-connected building on Earth. And

we're talking about two buildings, not just one. The main data center is known as DA11. It's flashy, it's fresh, it's ready to host all your crazy AI workloads. Across the street is something a bit older. This is the InfoMart, the most interconnected data center in the Southwest.

Let's go. That's DA1, known as the Infomart. It's kind of pretty though. Got that retrofuturistic feel. It's kind of my vibe. It was built in the 1980s

and it was modeled after the London Crystal Palace and it was supposed to be something like Tony Stark would think of. A technology mall where companies like IBM and Kodak would have storefronts, permanent showrooms to show off their cool stuff. But it was kind of ahead of its time and it didn't take off. So now we're left with this big, large, gorgeous building that happens to be sitting right on the middle of the internet superighway. This is one of the most critical items and pieces of the building itself is just the amount of network fibers that come in here and dark fibers that come in here, right?

This is ultimately what makes Equinex Equinex, which is a network connection hub for the world. >> Like, I'm not even kidding. Location, location, location. This thing is sitting pretty. It literally is a fiber highway because in the US, long haul fiber cable was often laid along existing rights of way, primarily railway lines and existing highways. The

Infomart is sitting right there at a major convergence of some fiber optic highways. grand central station for the internet. But this actually kind of became a problem. These major connection points, these internet exchange points were often controlled by a single large telecom company and they called all the shots dictating who could connect and at what price. But Equinex, they weren't about that. They actually pioneered the

idea of a carrier neutral data center and they said, "Hey, anyone can come in level playing field. We don't care who you are." So it kind of works like this. Let's say AT&T wants to connect at the info mark. They put a network node in there. Makes total sense. It's prime

real estate. AT&T has all the connections, but you know what? Verizon wants in too and they can. They jump in and they connect and Illumin wants in because they realize how valuable this real estate is. So now they all have network nodes there and it kind of snowballed from there. The more networks

that joined, the more valuable this building became, becoming one of the most network dense buildings on the planet. And that sentence just felt good to say. Coffee break. Okay. What does it have to do with our story though? Well,

Equinex bought that building like it's ours now and we're going to let everyone come in. This happened back in 2018. And then they have another building right next door. Then they ran a massive fiber highway underneath between the two buildings. So, if you want to connect to a network or a cloud, it can all happen right here. It's just a cross connect

away. Okay, cool. Lots of connections, but that's not all that Equinex is doing here. To see the next part, we needed secret access to one of Equinex's own cages. Now, I said a word before that you may have not caught. Crossconnect.

What is that? It's a common thing you'll do in a data center. So, let's say you and I, we start a company, Networkchuck. Coffee, of course, and we put our servers in a data center. But then we're like, hey, we want an internet connection. And let's say we go with

AT&T. AT&T will have their network stuff, their telecom infrastructure in another cage somewhere in that data center. We have to somehow get a connection to their stuff so we have internet. So we'll order one. We'll order a physical cable that will connect our stuff, our router, our switch, whatever it is to AT&T's cage. That

cable is called a cross connect. And you normally have to do this for whatever thing you want to connect to. So maybe AWS. You want to have a direct connection to AWS. You can do that because Equinex has everybody in there.

You can order a cross connect, get a cable, go straight to AWS, Azure, GCP, whatever you want. But these are expensive and they take time. You have to order these months in advance. Time is money. But now back to our cage right here is housing something that I thought was the coolest idea ever. It's called

fabric. Instead of getting a million cross connects to all the companies you got to connect to, you just get one connection. >> So this is Equinex Fabric. This is something we designed over 10 years ago. We were founded with uh internet exchange or that's how we got started where people would literally do crossconnect. So it was a onetoone

connection where they connect from one customer over to another customer and then we'd have everyone together like in a data center. So they'd be in close proximity. So we developed fabric in a way. So now you can just get that one port and you can create multiple virtual connections. So now you can have all your cloud connections. You can connect

to other service providers with us, other network service providers, uh other people like Zoom, etc. They're on our fabric. Over 3,000 other customers today. And you can connect to them within seconds now. You don't have to go and talk to someone else to get a cable connected over. You can just go connect

to them virtually and you could go anywhere from 10 megabits up to 50 Gbits. >> It already sounds cool. Let me hit it home real quick. Imagine you order a 10 gig connection from Equinex Fabric. You can virtually segment that connection however you want. Let's say you want 1

gig to AWS straight to their cage. How about one gig to Azure, one gig to GCP? Let's use two gigs for AT&T internet, maybe one gig for Verizon for backup. This is all happening at a portal. You're just clicking. You're not running

cable. How cool is that? Now, the way Fabric does this is with something called softwaredefined networking. A fancy buzzword that means you can do a lot of what we used to do physically inside software, making it super easy for us. Now, so in this rack is where all that's happening. Notice a lot of

Juniper equipment. I'm a massive fan of Juniper. Now, I don't want to oversimplify it, but it's kind of like connecting to a switch along with every other company there. You get a super fast low latency connection with security, obviously. But just sit back and think about that for a second. With

the racks of equipment you see here, Equinex is giving you access to all the major companies and cloud providers. And it's not just the companies connected to the hauntingly retro building across the street, Infomark. Major players also run fiber directly from the street from a manhole, Dark Fiber, into DA11. And major companies might have a presence on multiple floors. This is one of those rooms where Dark Fiber comes in. Look at

all that fiber. They were kind of hesitant to let us in there, but they did me a solid. >> Let me just check. I think I have extras. Let's see. Look at that.

>> And that's the theme here. Connection. connection, connection. Like most data centers, they have one room in the data center called a meet me room where all the network providers come in and they're all just sitting there in a closet huddled together saying connect over here. Equinex doesn't play like that. Like every floor is a meet me

room. Now hold on. I know what you're thinking. You're thinking about fabric and how sure they give us a direct connection to AWS, GCP or Azure right there in that data center. But what if you're trying to access AWS from another location? Like AWS and GCP and all these

guys have multiple locations in other data centers. What if your stuff lives in Virginia or Washington or New York or California? Then aren't you having to go across the internet anyway? Actually, no. You're on Equinex's stuff now.

Equinex has data centers stinking everywhere. Look at all this. Look at all these data centers. Look at this map. So, when you hop onto their network, you're on their network, the Equinex internet, and you're taking that special HOV lane. VIPs only. Now, me and

my team spent all day at this data center, two incredible buildings, and we learned like how they work, what makes them tick. But you know what? It's not the security or the power or even the insane amount of connections that stuck with me. What makes this data center run is the people. These people that were walking us around. They were humble and

awesome. They've also been there forever. Some of them for over 20 years. That tells you a lot about a company. By the way, if you want to know if a company's good, look at the tenure of their employees. So, while it was cool

walking around and seeing all the amazing things and geeking out, what was probably more fun was just getting to know these people, the people that make the internet run. Because when you get down to it, all the tech we encounter, all the things we do, there's people behind it. And normally how awesome a product is correlates how much passion the people pour into it. So when you're surfing the internet today, when you ask AI a certain question, just pause for a moment, think about S. Thank you, S, for making this possible. Manny, Brad, Ed,

and also say thanks to Ed and Jordan like right now. They were the ones who organized this whole thing and they waited forever for me to make this video and were so patient. So, if you could just like right now in the comments say, "Thanks, Ed and Jordan." It might convince them to show us something crazier for the next video. Anyways, that's all I got. I'll catch you guys

next time.