---
video_title: "Hackers infected the wrong girlfriend...."
video_id: o-8amaZBi5M
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-8amaZBi5M
video_date: 2025-11-28T15:28:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Get Bitdefender Premium Security with Scam Copilot: https://bitdefend.me/NCTWOF
  
  
  
  Hidden inside Romania is a real cyber-crime-fighting team almost no one knows about: the Draco team. These are elite malware analysts, forensics experts, and penetration testers who volunteer to hunt down cybercriminals. In this video, we go behind the scenes with Bitdefender to uncover how the Draco team helped dismantle massive ransomware groups like GandCrab and REvil, saving victims over $1 billion. We also talk about deepfakes, voice-cloning scams, and multi-platform attack chains in the next era of cybercrime.
  
  🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  
  RESOURCES / LINKS:
  
  Second Channel Interviews
  
  👤 Alex Cosoi (Chief Security Strategist): https://youtu.be/2VOFWU77CR4
  
  👤 Razvan Costache (Director of Innovation): https://youtu.be/OhyVtuYxRU8
  
  👤 Bogdan Botezatu (Director of Threat Research): https://youtu.be/EOyOplr84I4
  
  
  Read Bogdan’s Article: https://www.bitdefender.com/en-au/blog/labs/bitdefender-law-enforcement-partnership-saves-revil-victims-half-a-billion-in-ransom-demand
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  
  0:00 - Intro
  1:22 - Who is Draco?
  2:22 - What they do
  7:14 - GandCrab V2
  10:29 - The AI Arms Race
  20:49 - Why it Matters
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by Bitdefender 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  🎓🎓 Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  🌐🌐 Use the MOST SECURE Web Browser, NetworkChuck Cloud Browser: https://browser.networkchuck.com/
  
  🧠🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
  🆘🆘 NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  
  “Inside Bitdefender’s Secret Draco Team: Fighting Global Cybercrime”
  
  
  “How Bitdefender Helped Take Down REvil and GandCrab”
  
  
  “The Untold Story of the Draco Team: Cybercrime’s Worst Nightmare”
  
  
  “AI vs. Cybercriminals: Bitdefender’s New Defense Technology”
  
  
  “How Decryptors Saved $1 Billion from Ransomware Gangs”
  
  
  “Stopping Ransomware: Inside Bitdefender’s Elite Response Team”
  
  
  “Deepfakes, Scams, and AI Fraud: How Bitdefender Fights Back”
  
  
  “Real Victims, Real Wins: How Decryptors Saved Lives”
  
  
  “Inside the War Against Ransomware: A Bitdefender Exclusive”
  
  
  “The Rise of AI-Powered Cybercrime (And How We Fight It)”
  
  
  “REvil’s Downfall: How Bitdefender Exposed Their Backdoor”
  
  
  “Why 70% of Ransomware Victims Pay—and How Bitdefender Helps Stop It”
  
  
  “Behind the Scenes with Malware Researchers Taking on Criminal Empires”
  
  
  “How Voice-Cloning Scams Actually Work (And How to Detect Them)”
  
  
  “AI Honeypots: Bitdefender’s Secret Weapon Against Scammers”
  
  
  “The Dark Web Fight: How Bitdefender Tracks Cybercrime”
  
  
  “How Cybercriminals Use AI (And Why It’s Terrifying)”
  
  
  “Bitdefender’s Deepfake Detection Explained”
  
  
  “The Future of Cybersecurity: AI vs. AI”
  
  
  “Inside the Hidden War Between Hackers and Defenders”
  
  
  #cybersecurity #ransomware #hacking
---
There is an elite cyber crime fighting team hidden in Romania. They have saved victims over a billion dollars and helped dismantle criminal empires and almost no one knows who they are. Let's change that.

Our journey starts here, but Defender HQ inside this building are the members of the Draco team, I think. Can you tell me who's on the team? No, that's for safety reasons. We'll talk more about that later. But what they do is we lower on the dark web and we look at dark markets.

For instance, malware analysis, cryptocurrency investigations. This decryption tool stopped $1 billion from being paid to the criminals they infected the computer of the girlfriend of one of our most talented penetration testers. Huge mistake. We're going to dive into all that, but the most interesting and probably concerning thing I learned is when I asked them this, do you feel like you're winning the war with cyber crime? We're not definitely not stopping it. We're definitely not derailing it.

Now, what Alex just said right there is terrifying, and this is one of the biggest things I learned from talking with Bitdefender. AI scams are everywhere, deep fakes, phishing attacks, and you can't tell they're getting too good. But later in the video, Bitdefender, show me how they're fighting fire with fire. They're using their own AI to waste scammers, time to detect deep fakes. It's seriously impressive if you don't want to miss it, but for now, get you coffee ready. Let's dive into the world of the Draco team.

Now, the reason we're here, Bitdefender HQ is because every member of the Draco team works for Bitdefender, and that's important to know because they are a real malware researchers, real forensics experts that by day help keep individuals and businesses safe, but by night they volunteer to hunt down cyber criminals, fight cyber crime. It's like the Avengers without the enthusiasm. So just like Batman and Superman, they need a day job to help cover their after hours crime fighting activities, and that's the rule that defender plays. They also flew us out there and sponsored this video, so thank you. Now this is Alex.

My name is Alex Ve and I'm the chief security strategist for Bitdefender. He works with the Draco team. I think he might be the Samuel L. Jackson in this scenario, but again, he refused to tell me who is on the team because keeping their identity secret is crucial. They have made plenty of enemies who would love to know who they are.

That's why the members don't make public the fact that they are involved into this. So they keep it confidential. But what have they done to make all these cyber criminals so upset with them?

They infected the computer of the girlfriend of one of our most talented penetration testers. Now this story is crazy for two reasons. First, I love the motivation. The guy's girlfriend got hacked and he is like, you know what? We're coming after you. Now, that's not always the case.

Sometimes law enforcement reaches out to us to ask for assistance. Not. Number two, working with law enforcement is painful and slow. Criminals move fast. They see you come in, they close down shop, they change tactics, and the Draco team has to wait months for law enforcement to catch up and they have to be patient. But in this case, they didn't want to be,

and they found a genius way to take down these criminals. Now, disclaimer, they're not vigilantes. They're not Batman. They can't break the law. So instead of breaking down the doors, they found a way to break the criminal's trust.

Welcome to Cyber Criminal Enterprise 1 0 1, ransomware as a service. Ransomware as a service operates like a franchise, kind of like McDonald's. With McDonald's you have corporate who handles branding, distribution, burger recipes, and then you have the franchisees, the people who buy into it and run the actual restaurants. There was a core group that was building the infrastructure that was coding the malware and improving the malware. And then you have the affiliates who like the franchisees make sure the product is distributed to the masses or the infections are delivered to the user's computers.

And they split the money. Like 30% goes to the core group, the developers, 70% goes to the affiliates. Now, hold on, what money? Well, you see this infection they're putting on these computers. It's ransomware.

Ransomware is malicious software that will grab the files in your computer. It will lock them up to where you can't access the files and you have to pay a ransom to the affiliates to get it decrypted or unlocked. But criminals are kind of paranoid, right? Not just anyone can become an affiliate. They have to be vetted, trusted.

I heard there was even cases where they were performing tests with a lie detector, so they make sure that they're not hiring undercover police officer. This model only works if people actually like the hamburgers and are willing to pay for them, or if people's files are actually getting locked up with the ransomware and they're willing to pay to have their files unlocked. Otherwise, the franchisees and the affiliates wouldn't do this. It's that system that Draco attacked and they made it almost impossible to turn a profit. Gang Crabb was a massive ransomware.

They controlled 50% of the market at its peak, huge presence, thousands of victims, millions in ransom payments paid, but then they made a huge mistake. It got personal. The gang Crabb ransomware infected the girlfriend of the most talented penetration tester on the Draco team, and these guys hold a grudge. This was a two and a half year vendetta. Now again, crab was nasty, but it was clever. They even had tiered pricing.

The price they were asking was directly coordinated with the amount of interesting files on the drive, and there was a default $600. So if the machine was like fresh windows installation, nothing interesting there, $600. And what's crazy is you'll see a statistic that says 50% of people pay the ransom. That's not the case. It's worse.

If you talk to law enforcement, which also looks at the actual databases of people who paid, it's actually 70%. Think about that. Small businesses, families, grandmas, your grandma paying $600 and more that they could not afford. The criminals were making millions. There was a recent arrest in Russia a couple of months ago and they were filming his house. He had one Ferrari, one Lamborghini,

a helicopter. But here's the thing, what if the victims didn't pay? That's the situation. Draco created with a team of malware experts. They created what's called a decryptor. This tool is a big deal.

It can be used to decrypt the files encrypted by the gang crab. Ransomware for free problem solved right victory. They did it not quite. You see gang crab corporate, they stepped in. Every time there was a decryption tool that was released to the public, they actually modified the malware.

So now you will not be able to decrypt the new version. But then we released a new one and so on. Systematic disruption. Over the course of two and a half years, the Draco team released five decryption tools, getting crab couldn't keep up. And after five times, what happened was that we severely destroyed the trust between the affiliates and the developers, which means the affiliates moved away to work with other groups and the administrators had no people to work with them. So they just said,

we're closing shop. And they were kind of mad, like really upset. The ransomware group was actually very vocal. They were even giving interviews in the media. They had a Twitter account.

They were cursing the defender quite often. So I'm guessing, yeah, they were aware that they're provoking some frustration back there. Now, this was a victory. After it was all said and done, the Draco team helped save victims over a hundred thousand dollars. It's not bad. Not a ton.

When you compare it to the millions that gang crab gained, but the group disappeared after this. They publicly claimed they made enough money and we're moving on to something else. But that's just what they wanted us to think. They came back with a vengeance.

The next case that was interesting to look into was another ransomware group called Rebel, or also known as sobi. This group was from Russia. The name was inspired from the Resident Evil Game franchise. I just finished Resident Evil four. Amazing.

But they stood for Ransomware Evil and just like Resident Evil, they were a fan of making sequels. And the reason we started looking at this one, so to speak, why? How do we choose? The reason we started to look at this one is because it was sharing 50% of the code with Gantt grab. So basically they rebranded.

They didn't go anywhere. Are. You serious? So Gang Crab said they were done, they made enough money, we can go home now, but nope, they got greedy and they rebranded putting on a disguise and hoping no one would notice. And dude Arvo was bad.

They were responsible for several high profile ransomware attacks like the meat processing company, JBS. They disrupted the food supply chain or the oil company, colonial Pipeline and the software company, Kaseya and a supplier of the tech giant Apple Millions were paid out, but Draco, they were ready. This was another investigation that took about two years, so it finalized in 2019, something like that. And we were also able, in this case, to have another decryption tool. And this time, this decryption tool stopped $1 billion from being paid to the criminals.

$1 Billion. That's crazy. So similar to Gang Crab, they were able to produce a Decryptor tool and they just gave it to everyone for free. Here's an article they wrote about this. I'll have a link below.

You could even still download the rebuild to crypto. Let's try it out. It's an E xe. Hopefully this is safe. I'm sure it is. Yeah, here it is. I agree.

Let's see what, and it still works. And in the same way, they had affiliates distrusting Reveal Corporate. So they were already frustrated. They weren't making money. And then there was another fun find.

A backdoor was discovered in the malware that revealed that Reveal Corporate was cheating their affiliates out of money. And that was the last nail in the coffin. Dismantling that empire. Doesn't that get you hyped? I mean, that's so stink and cool.

It took four and a half years, but they helped take these guys down and not just take them down. They helped so many people saving over a billion dollars. Now getting back to the article. This guy who wrote it, I got to meet, let's zoom into his face. Bogden. Actually, he's right here.

My name is Bog Atu. I'm a director of threat research at Bid Defender. This interview was awesome. We're going to dive deep into that here in a moment. But for me, it was the time I had with Bogden outside of the interview when we went out for a few drinks and we're just sitting there chatting, getting real.

We talked about these situations, the victims of gang crab in Ville and other ransomware, and we're sitting across from each other and he's got tears in his eyes telling you the stories. This guy, he's passionate about this. And it's not just him, it's the other people at Bitdefender. It's the members of the Draco team being there. I got to feel it. It's real.

These guys are superheroes, but are we winning? Are we stopping ransomware? I mean, we're not definitely not stopping it. We're definitely not derailing it, but putting a dent, yeah, I would say that's the fair. So no, we're putting a dent in it, but it's still a huge criminal enterprise.

They're still raking in money and the Draco team proves something important. We can fight back, but of course the criminals aren't giving up. When the Draco team comes at them, takes 'em down, they change tactics. And ransomware is just one front in this war because now the criminals are using ai.

Cyber criminals can now easily integrate AI into everything they're doing, which means they can move very fast, adapt like you would not believe. And it's not just that it's level the playing field, but because being a cyber criminal, it's not easy. You have to have skills, elite skills. But with ai, that's not the case anymore. What AI brought to the table for the criminals was that it completely eliminated the gap between a junior developer and a senior developer.

So they can actually move faster, they can write better code. So we obviously have to do the same thing on this side. Now, here's what the criminals are using AI for right now. Here's a quick hit list. They can now use AI to generate better written phishing scams.

They can improve code. So the phishing scams that are happening right now, the text and the emails and the calls, you're getting the grammar's perfect and it's personal. They know things about you. You have to really sit there and go, huh, these things are really hard to spot. I asked Rovan, the director of innovation at Bitdefender, what the scariest thing is for him right now. And he said this.

So the more confident they get, the more money they lose because the education and the information on spotting scams, he's lacking and people are becoming more confident, but AI and hackers are becoming better. So that's really worrying for me. No. Matter how good you think you are, even if you're a tech expert, you can be, I know I can be tricked front before they'll even look at me. Can you transfer me just for Id not paying or anything? I don't know. I to call.

I promise I'll pay that first thing tomorrow. Hey, it's me.

Don't try anything, but I'm never letting my guard down. And then we had this stuff. Just last year. We had over 1 million of these ads detected by us at Bitdefender. YouTube channels get hacked. We get that stream jacking situation,

hijacking live streams with AI celebrities, Elon Musk, Bitcoin scams, flooding, Facebook as sponsored post. Most people cannot tell their fake and voice cloning. That's scary. We have seen voice cloning for scams, especially for scams that are trying to mimic your family members or friends. It only takes eight seconds of your voice to clone it.

Imagine that if your mom gets a call from someone that sounds just like you, Hey, I'm in trouble. I need money. Now think about how much of your voice is already out there like I'm cooked, but voicemail, social media, zoom calls. And on top of that, you bring AI and you do all these celebrate scams. It's a nightmare. This is not going anywhere good.

So here's the thing, we're kind of in an AI arms race right now. Traditional defenses do not work. Grammar checks, template detection, they don't work. Criminals adapt too fast. So how we fighting back ai, I didn't know this, but Bitdefender built an entire AI defense team to fight fire with fire. Again,

here's Ros V, the director of innovation of Bitdefender, and he showed me some absolutely insane stuff. So this is Elon Musk video. I. Just dropped like 150 milligram edible and I'm feeling suited. I'm about to design 30 new space cars and get us some Mars.

Basically, you can either upload a file or send a link for the most popular platforms out there. This is also specifically aim that manipulating people. So we have the analysis result. Yeah, it's high confidence because most of the audio is manipulated. So here we have details on which segments are manipulated, what's the confidence level and how many speakers.

And also here you have the intent analysis. So basically what are the indicators and detailed analysis? So we know that the manipulated segments contains the repetition to emphasize the intoxicated impression and making sure people believe that's really Elon Musk getting high on some drugs and stuff like that. Yeah. The first thing was deep fake detection. And let's be honest guys,

it's getting pretty hard to tell. Like this one here from Elon Musk, it's been used to scam a ton of people, but with ai, they're able to now detect this. The first thing we look is audio. We can see if it's a totally synthetic audio, if it's a modified deepfake is not just understanding why you're seeing a deepfake, but also the reason behind people showing you that deep fake. And they're doing something that not a lot of people are doing right now.

They're not just analyzing to see if it's fake or a deep fake. They're analyzing intent. We're going to show you the intent of the. Video. Satirical versus malicious. They can tell the difference.

Let's say for a short period of time, you can say that you are 100% confident that you get every lip fake, but it doesn't last that much, right? And then three days later, another generator shows up. So again, it's a constant arms race. Bitdefender improves detection. The criminals improve generation, rinse and repeat.

But detecting DeepFakes is only half the battle. They're also trying to catch these scammers in the act. This one was crazy. They have an AI scammer honeypot. They talk with an AI for 15 minutes and they still dunno. It's an ai.

If you watch my friend's Kit voa or scammer payback, you know that scam calls are a thing and they suck and they're not going away. They're just getting more powerful. They're AI powered. Now what are we doing about this fighting fire with fire? We're using ai, this AI scammer, honeypot answer scam calls and just waste their time.

So right now, Roz is actually going to call the AI honeypot and pretend to be a scammer. And this AI is playing the victim and it actually has personality. I'm. Calling about the loan application. What kind of loan are we talking about?

So you are pre-approved for a $5,000 loan. So I'm going to send you an email. My email address is mim sq@proton.me. Go ahead and send it over.

I have sent it over. Can you see the email? I don't see any image. I'm not very good with computers. Can you just tell me the account number and I'll take care of the transfer?

3 4, 5, 6 7 8 9 8 2 1. Let me just grab a pen and paper to make sure I get it right. Is that a checking or savings account? It's a checking account. So you're offering me a loan. That sounds great.

What's the total amount I'd be getting? You mentioned $5,000 earlier, is that correct? So basically it's going to. Drive the scammer crazy. No, I'm not kidding. As we're recording this,

everyone in the room is kind of looking at each other going, are you kidding me? This sounds amazing. Even down to the southern accent, you would not be able to tell every minute a scammer spends talking to AI is a minute. They're not scamming someone, but it's not just about wasting their time, but defenders gathering intel data analytics. Basically we're going to collect the intent. So if this is a scam or not,

why we think it's a scam, what are the red flags of the scam? You noticed I mentioned the URL. We're going to catch that URL and we're going to open it separately and analyze it Also for additional information of scam or malicious intent. They even found out that some scammers don't even know they're working for criminal enterprises. You have scammers that do not know they're working for a scamming enterprise.

So I love this, but again, the criminals keep evolving. It keeps getting worse. Remember how I mentioned voice cloning earlier? That's just one piece of the puzzle. There are attack scammers are running that are really hard to keep track of because yeah, we do have systems in place to kind of analyze and go, that's probably a scam.

But they found a way and it's called multi-platform scams. The next. Big thing is actually multi-touch point attack detection because you now see scammers starting a scam on WhatsApp and continuing it on your browser and then switching it by phone. So here's how it works. First, a scammer calls you on WhatsApp and builds trust and they're like, Hey, can you share your screen? They want to help you. The bank's caught on.

They got smart, so they added obfuscation. That's a hard word to say. So your banking app only shows blank when you're screen sharing. That's awesome. But the scammers adapted. They said, you know what? Don't do it on your phone.

Open it in your browser. Instead. Scammers say, ah, okay, then just going to tell the victim to go in a browser and open the banking interface. There they are. Nothing they can do.

And this is hard to detect because there's nothing to detect. We cannot detect a conversation or a scammer sending some information on WhatsApp and then calling him and then sending an email. So each of these individual acts look innocent. They don't seem connected, but they are. That WhatsApp message seems normal. The phone call chill,

you do from time to time, open your bank website. But these three things happening in a sequence, how do we track that and say that's a scam? So the next big thing is actually having all these events and correlating them to detect the scam without actually seeing the scam. Just looking at the events. The defenders got it. They're starting to learn the attack chain.

They're studying it. They're constantly gathering intel on these situations and trying to develop patterns that they can see and then stop the scammer before they complete their job. Now I want to get back to the AI team they have there because I actually got to sit down with them and talk with them. These aren't regular IT people like you and me. These are actual machine learning engineers, people going for their PhD and they are studying these deep figs.

They're developing their own models to be able to detect these things, and that does put me at ease a little bit knowing that we have a team here doing that, but also even they admit some things they can't detect. Are you guys ever tricked by ai? I'm tricked. Yeah. I'm also tricked personally and in general is that you are going home, you are watching something on social media and it just pops a rail or something and you don't really expect to see a deep fake video.

So I want to ask you a question. How do you feel right now? Do you feel like we're winning the war with cyber crime right now? I would say maybe again, when I asked Alex about this, he said, yeah, they're putting a dent in it, but it's a pretty big dent. They've saved over a billion dollars with the crypt.

They're building AI defenses with honeypots, deepfake detection, voice analysis, and the Draco team is working with law enforcement worldwide. You're a poll, the FBI, but you're still going to receive updates of a new ransomware coming out. You're going to hear about millions of people being tricked with a Taylor Swift concert ticket scam, which actually happened in Singapore is crazy. Rus told me about it, and by the way, we talked a lot more in these interviews about a ton of things. I'll have it on my second channel if you want to go check it out and you should check it out. It's fascinating,

but it kind still feels like the criminals are winning, at least it seems like they're doing a lot. So why keep fighting if we can't win? Well, because every single victim that we save is real person, and I got to hear a few of their stories.

I mentioned Bogden earlier. He wrote that article about the Rebuild decryption tool. He's actually the director of malware threat research at Bed Defender. This guy is a wealth of knowledge and he told me some crazy iot stories about surveillance, cameras broadcasting families lives just live on a stream. One of the many things that you should look out for with iot against you, the interview, but the things that stuck with me were the stories he told about the victims they helped save.

I have a lot of stories coming for from victims who were seeking out help. And what I love about this is they're not just statistics like they're people. For example, there's a PhD student on the verge of defending his thesis. Everything was ready. Years of work coming to a conclusion, and then ransomware hit.

I have this PhD student who was on the verge of defending his thesis, but he didn't have the latest version. He kind of lost one month of work in the backup was one month old and whatever he had worked meantime, got lost. An entire month of research just gone. His defense was coming up without that latest work. He couldn't defend it.

Years of effort about to be meaningless. But then that. Night, I got word from one of my colleagues that we have a decryptor and we were able to save his PhD thesis. How cool is that? That night they were able to figure it out, get the decryptor, and then save that guy's career. This story is crazier.

This very sad story of a couple in Syria. Syria was shaken down by worst and it was 2019. There's this couple who were mentioning on the internet that the computer had been infected. Well, there was no surprise in that and that their pictures had been taken hostage. They couldn't pay it. 350 bucks May as well have been $35,000.

Not much by Western standards, but a lot in terms of how much money people in Syria have. But here's what made this different. What stood apart from the rest of the cases was that those pictures were very important to the family. They had pictures of took two of their kids who had lost their lives at war. So that was the only proof of them being part of this life in the past.

They were the only pictures they had left of their children, the children that had died in the war, and that's what the criminals were holding hostage. But they were able to decrypt that information and that was personal for them. It was a very sad story. We managed to decrypt that information and we took it very personally. You see, that's what I'm talking about. It's personal. Cyber crime is personal.

As I was talking with Bogden and Raw and Alex and hearing their stories about what they're doing with Bit Defender and then what the Draco team is doing after hours fighting cyber crime. It's not just about stopping malware. It's about that PhD student getting his degree about that Syrian couple getting their memories back. It's about your grandma not losing her life savings to a voice scam. You have to do it perfectly every single day because your detections are the ones that make the difference between Honey, I'm home and honey, we just lost our life savings.

Every single day. They're standing between normal people and complete digital devastation. I know it sounds kind of dramatic, but that was the vibe when I was there. A lot of the people I talk with there have been a bid defender for over 10 years. They stay there because this is their mission.

Bogan told me this story during COVID, hospitals were getting attacked. They had legacy systems running Windows 95 critical stuff, and these hospitals had no cybersecurity budget and they were getting hammered with ransomware. Bid Defender just reached out proactively. And we reached out proactively to a couple of hospitals, provided security software for free and also expertise and SOC monitoring for their businesses to make sure that the lights stay on and that people get treated in a timely manner. Free software free monitoring, because people's lives depended on it.

It wasn't a bottom line issue at that point, and I love what Bogden said. I'm like, why do you and Ambit Defender do all this? I believe that cybersecurity should be a fundamental human right, just like the right to liberty and the right to critical thinking. It shouldn't be conditioned by money, but once you realize how much the digital life has impact on your physical life, people understand that you need to secure your digital life to enjoy your physical life. You love that. I love that so much. Cybersecurity is a human right.

That's right. So much of our lives are digital now. That's just how it's, and then I asked Bogged in the same question I asked Alex in the beginning, are we winning this war? Well, we're still here, right? Yeah, we're still here. I like that.

So here we are kind of at the end of the video, and I don't know about you, but I'm hyped. I'm like, let's go. Let's fight some cyber crime. And you might be wondering, Hey, how can I join something like the Draco team? I asked them that. Here's what they said.

Yeah, well, first of all, you need to work for Big Defender. That'll be the first, no, I mean, there are other companies out there which have similar teams, so it's not like we invented Pot water or anything. So each company has some sort of team that's working with law enforcement. They have their own cool names. Ours is Draco.

But yeah, so you need to work for P Defender, and second, you need to want to do this, and then you reach out to one of the members. So once you talk to one of the members, there's going to be a meeting or a discussion, and then it's up to you what you want to do. If you want to do malware analysis, sure, there's plenty of malware that's involved into law enforcement investigations that you can look at. Cryptocurrency investigations. Sure, there's a lot of crypto you can look at. No problem. Botnets, forensics,

anything. So yeah, go work for Bid Defender. But seriously, it was awesome going out to Romania to visit bid defender and learn about what they do. Me and my team are extremely grateful that we got to see everything we did learning and get to know these people. Anyways, that's all I got.

I'll catch you guys next time.