---
video_title: "AWS just made Kubernetes EASY (Amazon EKS Auto Mode)"
video_id: qK7uaQyjTqg
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qK7uaQyjTqg
video_date: 2025-09-24T21:44:42+00:00
video_description: |
  1/ Auto-provisions and scales your cluster with Karpenter
  2/ Automates lifecycle upgrades and patches, keeping you on the latest secure version 
  3/ Secure by default with AWS-managed, auto-patched Bottlerocket AMIs   
  4/ Core add-ons like DNS, storage, and health checks preconfigured 
  
  Let @amazonwebservices  manage your Kubernetes infrastructure while your team drives innovation. Watch how EKS Auto Mode manages lifecycle and upgrades under the hood.
  
  #sponsored#kubernetes #AWS #cloudcomputing #EKSAutoMode
---
AWS just made Kubernetes easy. I'm talking about one click to get production ready. No, seriously, one click. Do you remember the last time you tried to deploy something in Kubernetes? You spent what, 3 days just figuring out node groups? Another week tweaking

instance types because your pods kept crashing. And don't even get me started on the YAML files. So much YAML. Well, forget about all that. This is Amazon EKS auto mode. You make one click and

that's it. You're done. Traffic spikes at 2 a.m. already scaled. It

autoprovisions your infrastructure, picks the best compute instances for your workload, scales them up and down, and even keeps the cost optimized. But here's the craziest part. It keeps learning. Builtin patching your OS and nodes stay up to-date automatically even when you sleep. Oh, and all those add-ons you love so much. Core add-ons

preconfigured. DNS, EBS, CSI, networking. They just work. They just work. Networking default set. VPC, CNI,

and load balancers configured for you. Production grade security. OS patches, node upgrades handled automatically. Now, I know what you're thinking, Chuck, what's the catch? There isn't one. It's

just Kubernetes power with the life cycle maintenance grind taken off your plate. So, whether you're a solo dev or just don't have time to babysit your infrastructure, Amazon EKS auto mode takes care of everything for you so you can focus on what you do best. I want to see your comments. If auto mode could take one thing off your plate, what would you pick? Scaling, patching, or upgrades.