---
video_title: "Ethernet is DEAD?? Mac Studio is 100x FASTER!!"
video_id: bFgTxr5yst0
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bFgTxr5yst0
video_date: 2025-12-20T16:58:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Hey…just try Twingate….you'll never look at VPN the same: https://ntck.co/twingate-networkchuck
  
    I built another AI supercomputer with 4 Mac Studios... but this time it actually works. Earlier this year, I clustered 5 Mac Studios and it was 91% SLOWER. Everyone said clustering was stupid. But Apple just dropped a software update that changes everything - RDMA over Thunderbolt 5. Latency dropped from 300 microseconds to 3 microseconds. Now we're running trillion-parameter models locally at speeds that actually make sense.
  
    🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy
  
  
    RESOURCES / LINKS:
  
    Docs/walkthrough: https://github.com/theNetworkChuck/mac-studio-cluster
    Exo Labs: https://github.com/exo-explore/exo
    MLX (Apple's ML Framework): https://github.com/ml-explore/mlx
    My First Cluster Video (the failure): https://youtu.be/Ju0ndy2kwlw
    RDMA Networking Explained: https://youtu.be/fb69FyW2KLk
  
  
    TIMESTAMPS:
  
    0:00 - The $50,000 AI Supercomputer
    0:53 - What Apple Changed
    3:05 - Connecting the Cluster
    4:17 - Pipeline vs Tensor Parallelism
    7:52 - RDMA: The 100x Latency Fix
    10:02 - Twingate (Sponsor)
    11:39 - Exo Labs is BACK
    14:42 - Single Node vs Cluster Testing
    17:58 - Qwen 3 Coder 480B Testing
    19:03 - Kimi K2 (1 Trillion Parameters)
    21:09 - Stacking Multiple Models
    25:22 - Real Apps: Open WebUI + Xcode
    27:57 - Final Thoughts
    28:47 - How MLX Makes This Possible
  
  
    **Sponsored by Twingate
  
  
    THE SPECS:
    • 4x Mac Studio M4 Ultra (512GB RAM each)
    • 2TB unified memory / 320 GPU cores / 32TB storage
    • $50,000 (vs $780,000+ for equivalent NVIDIA H100s)
  
    THE RESULTS:
    • Llama 3.3 70B: 16 tok/s (3x faster than before)
    • Kimi K2 (1T params): 28 tok/s
    • DeepSeek V3.1 671B: 27 tok/s
    • Qwen 3 Coder 480B: 40 tok/s
  
  
  
  
    SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
    ---------------------------------------------------
    🎓🎓 Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy
  
    ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee
  
    🌐🌐 Use the MOST SECURE Web Browser, NetworkChuck Cloud Browser: https://browser.networkchuck.com/
  
    🧠🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
    🆘🆘 NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck
  
    STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch
  
    READY TO LEARN??
    ---------------------------------------------------
    -Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy
    -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna
  
    FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
    ---------------------------------------------------
    Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/
    Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck
    Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/
    Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord
  
  
  
  
    Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!!
  
    clustering works now. thank Apple and Exo Labs.
  
    # # #
  
  
  
    TAGS:
    mac studio cluster, ai supercomputer, local ai, rdma, exo labs, apple silicon, m4 ultra, unified memory, tensor parallelism, llm, kimi k2, deepseek, llama, mlx, thunderbolt 5, home lab ai, self hosted ai, 2tb ram, gpu cluster, apple ai
---
So, I built another AI supercomput. And this one's crazy. 1 2 3 four Mac Studios, 512 gigs of RAM each, 2 terb of unified memory. This might be the most powerful local AI setup ever built. Hold up. I've done this before. Earlier this

year, I clustered together five Mac Studios, [music] and it was kind of terrible. I expected it to run AI models like a champ, but actually adding more computers made it slower. 91% [music] slower. Everyone said clustering was stupid, and they were right. So, why am I doing this again? Well, Apple just

dropped [music] something new. A simple software update that might change the entire game. Something I was begging for. So, in this video, we're clustering again. We're going to throw the biggest, [music] baddest AI models at this cluster and see what it can do. Our goal

is to answer this one question. Does clustering local AI actually make [music] sense for us? Will it actually be fast or will it just suck like last time? Get your copy ready. Let's find out.

Now, Apple was watching me. In my last video, I [music] said this. I don't know how XLabs is going to solve that though because we're at the mercy of what hardware we [music] have and this. I would love to know what the experience would be with some like serious connectivity between the GPUs of these five Mac Studios. I was honestly pretty bummed about the performance of that cluster. I had such high hopes. [music]

I know you probably did too. But Apple listened and they did something about it. And they also sent me something. This

This setup is insane. I wasn't sure if they were going to send me this, but I was shocked when they said yes. They sent me their biggest, baddest machines, fully speced out. But hold up. My old cluster had five Mac Studios. How is

this better? Watch this. Now, these machines are ridiculous. Each one of these Mac Studios has 512 GB of RAM. RAM? That's a hard drive for some

computers. And this is unified memory, meaning the GPU can use it. So, let me put it this way. 512 GB of GPU memory of VRAMm. They have 8 TB of storage, 80 GPU cores. And if we do the math, this

monster cluster has 2 terb of unified memory, 32 TB of storage, and 320 GPU cores. This is Maczilla compared to our old cluster running M2 Max. It's not even a comparison. That's kind of silly cuz even though we have one less Mac, each of our machines has eight times the memory. So, we have 6.4 times more RAM,

we're doubling our GPU bandwidth. And this will make a huge impact, we're doing Thunderbolt 5 versus Thunderbolt 4, which is also double the bandwidth. The only thing that makes you kind of go, "Oh, that hurts." is the price of this cluster. $50,000. I know. But

seriously, think about it. What's the alternative to do something like this locally? Like if you wanted the same specs from an Nvidia H100 cluster, you would need 26 H100s, each with 80 GB of VRAM. That would cost you over $780,000. And it's actually more than that if you build out the system. We'll talk more

about that later. But the point is, this cluster is ridiculous. Okay, cool. We have these big amazing monsters, but the biggest issue we had last time was networking, the bandwidth. What did Apple do? We'll get to that. But first,

we have to actually connect them, right? That's the whole clustering part. Now, to make this work, I had to connect them via Thunderbolt and Ethernet. Thankfully, I had a spare UniFi Switch that had some 2 and 1/2 gig ports, which I desperately needed because downloading these models, they're huge. The largest one I had to download was 735 GB, and I had to download that on each of the Macs. I also had to make sure my uplink

was 10 GB Ethernet because goodness, this took forever. We're also using the Ethernet so the cluster can see each other, but it's not how they're actually connecting and exchanging information. That's where Thunderbolt comes in. I was given this very fancy diagram to connect them just so in a mesh. It's just a little meshy. Sorry, I had to do it.

Now, let's take a step back and look at this for a moment. Isn't this beautiful? I honestly think this might be the most powerful local AI setup ever built. Prove me wrong. What can beat 320 GPU cores, 2 TB of unified memory? This

cluster should be able to handle anything. And notice our asterisk here, should because it really doesn't matter how powerful these Macs are if the connection between them isn't super fast. And that's what killed it last time, the networking. Running bigger models didn't matter because [music] everything came down to a crawl. And even though we're doubling our bandwidth with Thunderbolt 5, we still have a massive networking problem, latency. But

Apple changed the game completely with the software update. That's it. Check this out.

You know what really bugs me? When the problem is actually networking. Everybody blames the networking, but this time it was actually true. When I ran these models on five Mac Studios, it was 91% slower. It wasn't the GPU, it wasn't the memory, it was the networking. It was that latency between

the connections. I mean, look at these speeds from last time when I clustered them together. It's bad. But Apple said they solved it. Let's see. Actually, let

me just show you real quick. Let's see if they did it. Don't stare at this too long. This is your sneak peek. Here's the old way.

Five tokens per second. Not great. Let's try Apple's fix.

Now, that's a lot better. 15 tokens per second. That's three times faster. Same model, same cluster. But what are they doing? How do they make it faster? It's

networking. It's always about networking. Now, the way they solved it is actually pretty simple. They just increase the speed of our Thunderbolt connections. And I'm not talking about going from Thunderbolt 4 to Thunderbolt 5 and doubling that bandwidth. No, no,

no, no. The metric we're looking at is latency. How quickly a packet or a message can go from MAC to MAC. Now, currently this latency is around 300 microsconds, which I know sounds pretty fast, but not in the AI world. And because of this latency, we were stuck with something called pipeline parallelism. That's a fun word. 10 times

fast. Pipeline parallelism. Pipeline parallelism. How far did you get? It's essentially a technique we use to split up a model between multiple systems and a cluster. For example, let's take an AI

model like the Llama 3.37DB FP16. That's some good precision. A model like this will have around 80 layers, which essentially is a series of filters that your prompt will pass through to help it respond to you. So, if you say, "Hey, what's the capital of Japan?" It might

process it like this. Each layer is doing some fancy math on the input and passes the result to the next layer. Each layer refining the answer until you get your response. Now, when you cluster this model, it divides up the layers between each machine. So, Mac 1 would get layers 1 through 20. Mac 2 21

through 40 and so on. But here's where it gets painful. It's sequential. So, for every token, Mac 1 processes layers 1 through 20, stops, sends the results to MAC 2. It'll process layers 21 through 40, stops, and then so on. It's

like a relay race with really fast sprinters, but we're not working together. We're waiting on each other. Now, pipeline parallelism is awesome because it gave us capacity. We could run large models that we can never run on one machine and run them on multiple. But what it didn't give us was speed.

Instead, we got a waiting room. But there is a better way, a faster way, and it's called tensor parallelism. I know we're getting a little nerdy. Coffee break real quick. This is the much smarter way. Instead of each Mac owning

layers and processing them sequentially, all Macs work together on every single layer. Here we're not dividing the layer, we're dividing the math. So for layer 1, Mac 1 does 25% of the math. Mac 2 does 25, 35, 4 25. When they're done, they combine the results. Now, in

theory, this is supposed to be three and a half times faster than pipeline parallelism. Goodness, that phrase kills me. So cool, let's just do that. That's the solution. We can't. Our networking

still sucks. And it's even worse with this method. Because for each Mac to work on one layer at a time, lots of communication is happening. It's like a group project. Lots of messages being sent back and forth. In fact, we're

talking two combos per layer. So, for every token, we have 160 combos happening. Let's do some math here. Assuming each message takes about 300 microconds. Now, I know microconds is this little symbol here. I just can't

draw it. I can't do it. I'm sorry. Times 160, that's nearly 50 milliseconds of waiting per token. So, because of our networking latency, tensor parallelism actually ends up being slower than pipeline parallelism, which is why we couldn't do it. All that chitchat killed

it. If only our network was faster. If only latency was solved. Well, that's what Apple did. They made it faster. And

I'm not kidding. It was just a simple software update. Apple quietly enabled in Tahoe 26.2 a technology on their Thunderbolt ports called RDMMA or remote direct memory access. This is huge.

We're in the big leagues now. We're not playing around. Now, you may have heard me mention RDMA before in a previous video talking about AI data center networking. You can watch it right here. It's what AI clusters and data centers used to talk back and forth at extremely high speeds. It's what models like

ChatGpt and Claude use. But what is it? Well, let's talk about what life is like before RDMA with our Thunderbolt 5 connections. These connections right here are essentially just network connections using good old TCP IP, the traditional networking stack. Now, that's a problem for us here because that introduces overhead, increasing latency, because every message is having to go through a few steps doing things like being processed by the CPU before it can even hit the GPU memory. And I

have no idea where the CPU and the GPU is in this Mac Studio. I'm just making stuff up. It's this traditional networking processing that's causing our latency. But with RDMA, we skip all that. RDMA is direct memory access. We

remove the TCP IP stack. Say, "Nah, we don't need you anymore. We're getting a direct connection. No more stops. A direct connection from GPU memory to GPU memory, GPU to GPU." That's the direct

memory access part. And here's what this does. This takes our latency from 300 microsconds down to three microsconds. Are you kidding me? That's 100x increase or decrease. That's a bullet train.

Direct connection. So now with our cluster, we no longer have to worry about IP addresses, TCP IP overhead, all that CPU processing. No, no, no. We have a direct connection between the GPUs with these Thunderbolt 5 ports. Direct memory access. This solves our latency

problem. And again, it was just a software update. What took them so long? Seriously, Apple, I'm sorry. I'm grateful for just it being here. I'm

sorry. Now, in theory, this sounds awesome, but does it actually work? Now, you saw a teaser already, but that was just a smaller model. What happens when we actually throw some crazy large models at it? Like the largest models available right now. Will it work? Will

it make clustering actually useful? Let's find out with the software that you all thought went away, but it's come back with a vengeance. Hey, I'm outside right [music] now. Why? because I want to tell you about our sponsor today, Twinate. Because check this out. I can't

access my lab right now on my laptop. I'm trying to connect to our cluster and it's not working. It's because I'm not using [music] Twinate. Watch this. I'll simply click connect. Authenticate cuz

it's really secure. And by the way, this is not VPN. No, no, no. This is better than VPN. [music] It's more than VPN.

Okay, cool. We're authenticated now. Let's try it again. It better work. You know what? It's still not working. I

[music] don't have access. But you're probably thinking, Chuck, wow, great ad. You tried to show us you didn't have access and tried to give yourself access with Twin Gate. It didn't work. That's by design. Twate is zero trust network

access. You can set it up. You can install it. Takes you about 5 minutes. You can use a Raspberry Pi. Whatever.

It's free for up to five users with your home network. It's a no-brainer. Just do it. But also, you have to specifically explicitly allow access. So, let's do that right now.

I'll create the resource and [music] then here's where I give access. I'm only given access to admins. Now, let's try it again. Fingers crossed. [laughter] We're in. And I'm checking on my cluster

to see I'm downloading a new model right now. Quinn coder. Oh, you're not supposed to see this yet. You got a sneak peek during the ad. Look at you.

Seriously, if you're not using Twin Gate, what are you even doing? VPN [music] is old. And if you're like, Chuck, I don't need Twin Gate. Yes, you do. You have a home lab, right? That's

why you're watching [music] my channel. You do local AI. You have Plex. How are you accessing that when you're out in the field? Seriously, just get signed up. It's free. Check the link below.

twgate.com/networkshuck. And seriously, thank you to Twinkgate for making this video possible. I couldn't do this kind of stuff without them, so [music] check it out. All right, now back to the video. And it's

getting cold out here. I got to go back inside.

Now, a lot of people thought Exo Labs threw in the towel. Even Jeff. >> Exo stopped development like 5 months ago, and even simple fixes are being ignored. So, did they give up the dream of clustering AI with consumer hardware? Nope. They're here, they're alive, and

they're working with Apple to resurrect clustering. A flashback earlier this year, I used ExoLabs to cluster my Five Mac Studios together. It was still pretty new, rough around the edges, and it's kind of an amazing software, an amazing idea because you can cluster any hardware together, but the networking, that was a thing. So, when ExoLabs and Apple both reached out to me, I said, "Hey, we've got a new update. We got a thing we've been working on, and we think it's going to solve your clustering networking issues, and they said, "Do you want in?" And I'm like,

"Dude, put up that bat signal. I'm there." So, fast forward, here we are. I have the Max. I got them connected according to our official diagram. I

installed the beta Tahoe 26.2 update. And here's the real magic. I had to go into recovery mode and enable RDMA. Seeing that RDMA enabled, that got me excited. From there, it was pretty much

smooth sailing. I installed the super secret beta version that ExoLabs gave me, which I think might be available right now. I could be wrong. I'll have more info below. But look at this. It

got a facelift, right? Before this was a CLI only tool, which I'm fine with, but now we have a native Mac app and it's gorgeous. So, here we are after a few software patches from Exo. My cluster's connected. And as you may have seen earlier in our sneak peek, we have the option of running in dumb mode. pipeline

parallelism or tensor parallelism. Just for fun, let's do it the old way once more. So, we'll select our pipeline and MLX ring. We'll select four nodes using our entire cluster and we'll choose our llama 3.370B FP16. Load that sucker up.

Now, it's actually pretty fast loading up. This is so fun. It's ready. And keep in mind, this is the dome old slow way. Five tokens a second. Around 200

milliseconds per token. Goodness, that's really slow. I can already have my cup of coffee by the time it's done. And then let's try this. This is going to be fun. Let's do tensor parallelism, but

stay on the old networking. No RDMA. Let's see what it does. Keeping in mind with this, we're having 160 conversations every token. Let's load it up. It's ready. Let's see what happens.

Yeah, it's slower, right? I mean, we're talking half as fast, which wasn't a lot, right? We're at three tokens per second. 370 milliseconds per token. This ain't great. Oh, I mean, this is

unusable. But let's add in Apple's magic. Let's enable RDMA. Tensor parallelism, RDMMA, four nodes, llama 3.37DB. Load that bad boy up. And this

is actually really fast loading up. Look at those guys go. I love this new interface they have. It's ready. I mean, look at that. That's incredible.

16 tokens a second on average. 66 milliseconds per token. They did it. Apple, you're awesome. But this is a smaller model, right? There are bigger

ones. What about DeepSeek? What about Kimmy K2? How about both at the same time? Get your coffee ready. You're

about to make this cluster sweat, I think. Let's go.

Okay, so we just proved that tensor parallelism works with RDMA. It's fantastic. Three times faster. But here's the real question. Do you even need to cluster? Like, does clustering

make sense for you? Like, why not just buy one expensive Mac? Like, one of these guys has 512 gigs of RAM. What models do we need to run that could not run on that one machine? Let's test it out. Let's throw progressively bigger

models on this thing. Let's throw all the models on it at the same time. Let's see what happens. Little coffee break. It's clustering time. I don't know why I

said that. That didn't feel right. All right. Here we have our cluster over here. We've got our metrics. Mac one,

two, three, and four. Now, I want to test all these models right here. But the first thing I want to test is kind of a tiny model. I want to see how the performance is on one Mac versus four. I'm curious with RDMA, will the performance be better? Because one Mac

by itself, it can run that model fine. Let's test it out. So, I'm just going to choose one node and I'm going to load a small model, a little baby llama 3.2 3B 8 bit. It's nothing. Launch.

Okay, it's ready. And we're rocking 147 tokens a second. Let's ask something more involved. So, that's fast. Let's cluster it.

Okay, now with four nodes clustered. It's faster. Okay, so 240 tokens a second. That's awesome. It's 100 tokens faster than a single node. Look at it go. Maxing out

that GPU across the board. Looks like I kind of lost the script some somewhere there, but it looks like we're pulling about um getting to 100 watts per MAC. So 400 watts in total. Not bad. Let's keep moving up. Let's do a single node

for the llama 3.370B FP16 because these guys can run it. So we loaded up on Mac 2. We can see it's full right there. Let's see how it performs. Okay, five tokens a second.

Not amazing. It's maxing out that GPU. Looks like 150 watts. I am changing the monitoring halfway through here because I think it's better. I'm going to use Mactop. It's still going. But notice we

still have plenty of memory on that second Mac, which is where it's loaded. All right, cool. Roughly five tokens a second. Let's cluster it. It's loaded up. Watch that memory fill

up. It's so fun to watch it over here on the screen. This is a night and day difference compared to our last cluster. It took forever. You guys have no idea how painful that video was to make.

Okay, it's ready. Okay, 16 tokens a second. Try a more uh intense prompt. And there it goes. Max out the GPUs across the board. Memory 9%

on each one. About 130 watts on each machine. This is a cluster, man. In a good way. Okay, let's move on. Let's up

the game. I love watching it. Uh the GPU uh memory go down as well. Okay, our next model. Let's do something a bit bigger. Deep Seek. Okay, I'm back. He

didn't know I left. I had to troubleshoot some stuff. I don't have a Quinn model downloaded. I thought I had Quinn. I think I have to let it download for a little bit. An [sighs] hour.

Uh but I got it working. I had to download this new model. I forgot to download. Anyways, here we go. We're going to load it up. All right. So,

first we'll do uh one node and we'll do the Quinn 3 coder 480B. It's a big one, but again, our Macs have 512 GB of RAM. Now, this is a mixture of experts model, so it should be a bit faster because it's not using all parameters all at once. Let's launch it. And keep in mind, we're building our way up to the Kimmy K2 thinking model, which is a trillion parameters. I can't even like what? Yes,

we can do that. I think we'll see. All right, it's loading on one node. Mac 2. Mac 2 is blowing up. All right, he's

ready. Explain to me if 27 tokens a second. It's pretty good. Let's cluster it up. Powering down.

Tensor RDMA four nodes. Quinn 3 coder launching. Look at it go. All right, it's ready and let's see what we got. [laughter] 40 tokens a second. Okay, so it's nearly

doubled the speed. So the story so far is clustering does not slow us down. It speeds us up, which is what we expected the first time around, right? Let's keep moving up and keep an eye on the power and stuff. We'll have that on the screen. Let's do our next model. We'll

do actually, you know what? Enough messing around. Let's go Kimmy K2. I don't think we'll be able to load this model on one node. Yeah, it's like at minimum you got to do two, which is still crazy. We only need two. Um, let's

run it on four, though. This is a massive model. 658 gigabytes per node I had to download. One trillion parameters. Let me just double check my math here. Yes, one trillion parameters.

Oh my goodness. Okay, let's load it up. Let's watch this thing fill up. Here we go. [laughter] Now, this is like the best coding model right now for uh local AI. And even when

people use cloud AI to code, they'll pay for this model on a hosted platform. It's that good. But here, we're not having to use any cloud resources. We can host everything right here locally. It's still loading, filling up those GPU tanks. Okay, it's ready. [laughter] It

used 33% of the RAM on each one. Let's ask it a question. A trillion parameters. Let's see how it goes. Whoa. So, it's thinking right now. Let's

expand the thinking. But we've got 28 almost 30 tokens a second. Oh my gosh. And it's so cool. It's thinking, right?

Like, oh my gosh, a thinking model. I mean, this is fast. How much RAM is required to run the 4bit model? Let's see. Power. We're doing like 110

watts on each one. Now, one thing I wanted to show you guys, but I just could not show you. And that's the bandwidth, the latency, the network traffic. I wanted to see that just how much stuff we're pushing. But right now, and you can see this now. Oh, this

thing's stinking. If I go to my uh network configuration, the Thunderbolt bridge is inactive. It's disabled. This is essentially ghost traffic. I can't see it. I can't monitor it. That might

change, but I did ask Apple. I'm like, "Hey, please give me a way to visualize this." They're like, "Yeah, we can't do that right now." So, sorry. Pretend it's a lot because we have to assume that, right? 160 conversations every token.

Let's have it create a Python script that can scrape websites. I mean, it's doing great. It's thinking. It's making my script now. This is local AI. Okay.

But this isn't the whole story, right? So, we've got some room. We're running the biggest model we could download right now. And we have some room. Uh, let's go home. And keep in mind, we're

going to keep this model running. We're going to load a new one. Just refresh my page so I get a fresh uh instance here. I'm going to load this one. It's beefier, meaning like it's a 713 gigabytes. It is the biggest model they

have. Um but it's only 671 billion parameters, which is so crazy. Our last cluster, we tried to run a 671B and it like destroyed everything. Now we're going to run it alongside a trillion par uh parameter model, which makes me feel accomplished even though I didn't do anything. Let's launch it. Good job,

Apple and Exo. So, now let's watch this GPU fill up. So, we're running Kimmy K2 thinking. And what's this model again? Deepseek 3.18bit 671B. Oh, it failed. I

don't like that, but I know we can still do it. I'm going to try again. Um, I had to build these scripts uh with cloud code that would reboot the cluster and reinitialize it because this happens with beta beta software. So, um hang tight. Okay, I'm back. Let's try it

again. Had to reboot the whole cluster. Let's first try and load Kim K2. I know we can do this. I know we can do this.

Okay, we're loaded. Let's [snorts] go deepsee. Come on. Let's do this. Deepseek, I believe in you. Launch. Come

on. Don't fail. Okay, we're loading. It's filling up. So far so good. I'm

getting nervous. It's almost done. I think we're at 50% over 50% on each node.h. Ah, those things are stressing.

Look at the map down here. It's like ah. Oh my gosh. 60%. Uh-oh. Did we break it?

Oh, it's still filling up. Ah, we did it. Okay. I'm I'm even scared to talk to him, though, because I don't want to break it again. But we have to talk to it, right? So, let's have a chat

with uh Deepseek.

27 26 tokens per second. Let's switch to Kim K2. And there we go. Like we're using both models. We have both those suckers loaded up. That's crazy. How much more

can we load? Let's do another one. Oh gosh. Let's load up Llama 3.37B FP16 cuz that's one of the other ones I have downloaded. And launch. It's loading.

Okay, it's it's ready now. The RAM utilization is kind of weird, right? It went up to 60% and now it's back down to 50. But I I know we have these models loaded. Let's go talk to Llama.

Wow, what a dumb answer. I just want to verify I have everything loaded up. I'm going to switch back and forth. Oh, wait. Why did it [laughter] That was my That's funny. That was my uh clipboard

from earlier because that's what I had to sneak and do to restart the cluster. Okay. And let's switch to Kimmy. Kimmy, I'm not sure how to say it. I'm also proud of Apple on XO. Y is so good. Now,

here's the thing. I can run other models, but I didn't download any other big ones. And it takes That's the longest part. I'm not doing that again. Uh, but let's just see what else do I have downloaded. I've got a few llama

variants. I mean, I'll pull up that 3.2 model from earlier. Let's just run that if we have to do something. Actually, I do have llama 3.370B

4bit. Let's load you up because we can. That's ready. Let's do another one. Let's uh grab the llama 3.2 3B 4bit. I

think I have that one. Yeah, let's load him up. All right, that was easy. So, we have one, two, three, four, five models running, but the memory usage is staying at like around 50. Actually keeps going down. I don't know why that is. So, I

think we answered the question. Clustering's awesome now. I'm running every model I can possibly run on it, and it's just doing it like a champ, and it's fast. But, okay. So far, we just been stuck in Exo's interface. What

about using real applications like coding or open code or open web UI? Like, can you use this with that? Let's find out.

All right, let's try out open web UI because this is real. It's not just benchmarks. It's not just test software. Let's see what happens. I want to use my cluster here or not my cluster, my open web UI, ai.hogwarts.studio.

I should already have my uh models loaded up here because EXO runs off of an API endpoint. Let's see. Let's find Kimmy. There it is. Let's do thinking.

We'll see if it starts to stress out a little bit. All right. Let's see what happens. Okay. Um yeah. I mean, there it

goes. It's freaking out over here. It's thinking. I mean, this is so cool. Look at this. I'm using open web UI on a

totally separate server in my server room and it's connecting to my Mac cluster running KBK to a trillion parameter model. How awesome is this? It's thinking a lot. It's very smart model. I tell you what, while it's doing that, let's go to uh this server here. I

have Xcode installed, which is like Apple's VS Code. It's still going. Okay, it wrote it. So, it finished the app. I mean I mean that's impressive what it did. That's so cool. All right, let's

try Xcode. Now I'm just going to try um looking at an existing project Daniel Misource Fabric. Let's find some code here. Let's ask it to tell us what this code does. Let's talk to DeepSeek. This is so

crazy. All right, it's going. It's freaking out. It's thinking over here. Look at that. I'll try one more. Let's try open

code. I love CLI tools to uh code and do whatever you want. Now, I should already have the cluster set up. Yeah, there it is. Actually, K2 thinking sitting right there.

Yeah. So, it's it's freaking out over there. It's doing its thing. We can see the thinking. But I just wanted to show off that we can use any of these apps.

Although, I think it has a hard time using tools with open code. All right, there we go. And then I'll switch models to Llama 3.3 and say analyze the code that was just created. Dude, it's going all out. It's making a

whole freaking website. All right, I think it's done. I'm going to try this. Oh, it's cute. It's cute. I'm going to

interrupt it. I let llama take over. Let's see while it's thinking here if I can still use open web UI cuz I think I'm stressing it out. Yeah, I'm trying over here. Yeah, it's fully stressed out right now. I think I locked it up. Okay,

we did make it cry. Let's see if the web is still responsive. Now, I'm going to chalk this up to beta software. This is a bug that can be fixed, but now I need to um tell it to die. So, I'm gonna do that now. Restart

my cluster. I don't want it to overheat in there. So, are you impressed? Like, is clustering back? I kind of feel that way. Like, I was impressed with these

results now. Sure, I'm running a $50,000 cluster, but it's a proof of concept. There's possibilities now, and we've come a long way since the beginning of this year where we just saw glacial speeds, but now it's functional. It's amazing. Now, full disclosure, Apple loaned this to me. I don't get to keep

this. I wish. But I do have it for a little bit longer. What should I do with it? You have any ideas? I've got a

$50,000 cluster. There's got to be something else I can do. Let me know in the comments below. And of course, if you want to see that last cluster video, if you haven't already seen it, it's right here. If you want to learn more about RDMMA and how AI networking works in the data center, I made a whole video about it here. No, I'm just going to put

it over here. I dive deeper into how RDMA helps us bypass all those roadblocks, those bumps in the road. Anyways, that's all I got. I'll catch you guys next time. Hey, real quick.

This just in. Just a little extra info, a little mini segment on how Exo uses MLX, which MLX is how we're running all these models. It's Apple's open source machine learning framework that allows developers like Exo to do stuff like combining this stuff. Now, here's what it says. RDMMA over Thunderbolt driver enables MLX distributed to communicate.

>> Hey, Chuck, I finished analyzing the call me back feature. Here's what I found. >> Sorry, that was Claude calling me. So, it says, "RDMMA over Thunderbolt driver enables MLX distributed to communicate with low latency across Thunderbolt 5, enabling high levels of blah blah blah blah blah." Now, what's cool is that MLX operations can run on either the CPU or the GPU. And this is without needing to

move memory around because it's u unified memory. So, seriously, shout out to the MLX team for being awesome. Exo worked closely with them on making this thing happen. And without them, this video wouldn't be possible. So, I see you MLX team. You're awesome. And you

watching this video right now. Comment below and say thank you Apple MLX team. Let's show them some love. Anyways, that's the end of your news segment. And yeah, I was reading my phone or something on this.

Hey, you're still here. So, at the end of my videos now, I like to pray for you, my audience. I know it might feel kind of weird. It is. I agree with you. But I uh

genuinely care about you guys and I want to see you succeed. I want to see you have lives of purpose and uh lives that are joyful. Um so anyways, I'm just going to pray for you. Um if you don't like that, that's fine. You can just click off. That's why I put it at the

end. Uh but let's go ahead and pray. H [snorts] Lord, I thank you for the person on the other side of the screen. I thank you that um they're here, that they're uh passionate about technology, that they are [sighs] excited for the future, and that even though AI may feel kind of overwhelming sometimes, um they can see the light ahead. And I pray that they have if if they have any anxiety over AI or the job market or what the future's going to hold that you would just ease those fears.

And if they're worried about their current job is going to go away or if they're trying to find one, I ask that you just give them peace in that you would show them the path forward because things are changing. Let's be real. Uh but God, you know what's going to happen. Uh you know, you're not surprised by anything. So, I ask that you just give us a path forward. Um,

give us wisdom. Give this this person wisdom. And I ask that you bless their family life right now. Um, everyone's got family and I pray that you would like right now I'm making this video on Christmas, so around Christmas time. So, I pray that you would fill their hearts with joy and you remind them of the importance of the people closest to them and if they aren't close to these people that they should do that now. Um, restore relationships, men,

what's broken, [sighs] fill them with peace. Uh, I saw a movie the other day. It's called That Christmas. Um, and Christmas time is like a emotional magnifying glass. It said if you're sad around this time, if you're lonely, it's going to magnify that, amplify it. If your heart's full

of joy and you're surrounded by family, it's going to magnify and amplify that. So I pray for the people who are lonely right now around this time that you would uh fill their hearts with joy and that um I'm hoping that during this season they can learn a bit of the reason why we we take this time Christmas more Christ. Um, I do believe that the ultimate joy can be found in you, Jesus. And I pray that the other person, that this person on the other side of the the screen, um, wherever they're at, they can just encounter you in some way in whatever that means, even in their doubt, even in their disbelief. Uh, it doesn't matter to you. Meet them

there. I ask this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Sorry that was a bit long one, but I feel like uh that was something I wanted to pray for you on. Anyways, that's all I got. I'll catch you guys next time.