---
video_title: "DEFCON is Not What I Expected..."
video_id: qFsj6KL8_nU
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFsj6KL8_nU
video_date: 2025-11-04T15:01:43+00:00
video_description: |
  Are you really still using VPN? It’s time for a change: https://ntck.co/defcon33
  
  What happens when you throw 30,000 hackers into one place? Welcome to DEF CON, my first ever hacker convention. From picking locks and hacking cars to meeting legends behind Wireshark and Kitboga, this isn’t just a conference — it’s hacker Disneyland. I’ll take you inside the villages (where cameras usually aren’t allowed), meet some wild characters, and show you why DEF CON isn’t scary…it’s community.
  
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  
  0:00 - Intro
  00:31 - First Time at DEFCON
  2:00 - Packet Hacking Village
  3:39 - Lock Picking Village
  6:10 - Physical Security Village
  7:36 - Car Hacking Village
  10:00 - Social Engineering Village
  10:45 - My Favorite Part of DEFCON
  
  
  
  RESOURCES AND LINKS:
  
  ☠️ Check out DEF CON: https://defcon.org/
  
  🔒Training Lock: https://toool.us/store/Red-KiK-lock-p519912395
  
  🔑 Lockpicking kit: https://toool.us/store/Necessary-Nine-Lock-Pick-Set-v2-p579851580
  
  Chris Greer (Wireshark guy): https://www.youtube.com/@ChrisGreer
  
  Jack Rhysider: https://www.youtube.com/jackrhysider
  
  Kitboga: https://www.youtube.com/@KitbogaShow
  
  John Hammond: https://www.youtube.com/@_JohnHammond
  
  0day: https://www.youtube.com/@0dayCTF
  
  Rez0: https://x.com/rez0__
  
  Rhynorater: https://x.com/Rhynorater
  
  Daniel Miessler: https://www.youtube.com/@unsupervised-learning
  
  Jason Haddix: https://www.youtube.com/c/jhaddix
  
  Talking Sasquatch: https://www.youtube.com/@TalkingSasquach
  
  Cyber Maddy: https://www.youtube.com/@Cyb3rMaddy
  
  Ali: https://www.youtube.com/@endingwithali
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by Twingate
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  ➡️NetworkChuck membership: https://ntck.co/Premium 
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  Check out my new channel: https://ntck.co/ncclips 
  
  🆘🆘NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Learn Python: https://bit.ly/3rzZjzz 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  AFFILIATES & REFERRALS
  ---------------------------------------------------
  (GEAR I USE...STUFF I RECOMMEND)
  My network gear: https://geni.us/L6wyIUj 
  Amazon Affiliate Store: https://www.amazon.com/shop/networkchuck 
  Buy a Raspberry Pi: https://geni.us/aBeqAL
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  fast and reliable unifi in the cloud: https://hostifi.com/?via=chuck
  
  
  “10 Hacking Skills I Learned at DEF CON (That Everyone Should Know)”
  
  
  “Inside DEF CON: The World’s Biggest Hacker Conference”
  
  
  “Top 10 Real Hacking Techniques from DEF CON”
  
  
  “Lockpicking, Car Hacking, and AI Scams: DEF CON 2025”
  
  
  “What I Learned from Hackers at DEF CON”
  
  
  “The Craziest Hacking Tricks You’ll Ever See”
  
  
  “How Hackers Break In (and How to Stop Them)”
  
  
  “Social Engineering and AI Hacking at DEF CON”
  
  
  “Can You Escape Handcuffs? DEF CON Training Says Yes”
  
  
  “Cloning Key Cards and Cracking Locks Like a Hacker”
  
  
  “The Scariest Hacks from DEF CON Explained”
  
  
  “AI Voice Scams and Car Hacking Are Getting Real”
  
  
  “Learning to Hack… at DEF CON”
  
  
  “10 Cybersecurity Lessons They Don’t Teach You in Class”
  
  
  “These DEF CON Hacks Will Blow Your Mind”
  
  
  “Hacking Cars, Phones, and People (Safely)”
  
  
  “The Future of Hacking: What I Saw at DEF CON”
  
  
  “Hack Yourself Before Hackers Do (DEF CON Lessons)”
  
  
  “From Flipper Zero to Wireshark: Tools You Need to Learn”
  
  
  “Real Hacking Skills You Can Actually Try (Safely)”
  
  
  #defcon #hacking #cybersecurity
---
What if I told you that you could go to a place with 30,000 hackers? Who would want to go to that? Me. This is Defcon, a hacker event held every year, and this was my first one ever. This place is crazy. I got handcuffed, zip tied,

hacked packets and cars broke into doors, went to a furry party. This is way more than a conference. I went to a conference a week before that. That was black hat. This is something else.

So my goal in this video is to take you on a journey through the villages of Defcon, a place where you're not normally allowed to film, but we somehow got a chance to get your coffee ready. Let's go now. First, DEFCON has a reputation of being pretty scary, which is why I've never gone, I'm not kidding. The recommendation when you arrive there is turn off your Bluetooth, turn off your wifi, never turn it on ever. You have to get one of those RFID blocking wallets so people can't steal your credit card because that happens. I mean, it kind of makes sense.

30,000 hackers in one place. So me and my team, we got ready, we got the RFID blocking wallets. We turned off everything. My camera guy, Brandon, even bought corded headphones and turns the Bluetooth off the entire trip. Even on the plane, I guess there could have been hackers on the plane.

There probably was. But lemme tell you something, when we got there, it wasn't that scary. The hackers, you hear about the ones who are trying to steal your data and do all the nefarious stuff online. Most of them are actually pretty cool. They're actually nice arriving at DEF Con, we were welcomed with open arms.

Like sure, they do have seasoned hackers there. People have been hacking for millennia and they have hacked into the NSA database and all that kind of, they have those people, but they also have people who are just like, I want to learn and they're welcome. I saw kids walking around like, for real, I'm going to bring my kids next year. Well, I kind of felt like I did. My editors when they saw this place were like, oh my gosh.

They wanted to leave me and just go around and play. Now here's one thing I was not expecting. I was told before arriving that I could not film anything and they enforce that. They have these people walking around called goons. They're wearing red shirts and they are intimidating.

These are people who have been in the hacking community for a minute. They've got respect and they don't mess around. And here we are walking in with a crew. Cameras, tripods. I thought were cooked, but it turns out many of the goons watched my channel and they were super awesome. So what you're about to see,

I don't think many people have got a chance to film. And the first village we visited let us film everything almost too much. And this is the village that gives Death Con as reputation for being scary. The packet it Hacking Village. And when you arrive there, you're going to see a big wall called the wall of sheep.

And on this wall you'll see usernames, passwords, secrets, credentials. Who's are these? Everyone's. If you connect to the Defcon wifi and you're not using good security, you're going to end up on there. There's a room full of people who are hacking your packets and who are learning how to hack your packets. And I'm not going to lie,

I'm looking at the wall of sheep going, is my stuff up there? Lemme check my phone one more time. Is my stuff off? But what's funny is that a place known for pony noobs, which do people still say that? I don't know. And hacking the unaware,

these people were probably the nicest people I've ever met in my entire life. The leader, Riverside, legendary Goon immediately gave me a hug. And it's not just me. He's welcome to everybody. So if you're a beginner, you're just wanting to learn and you're humble, you're going to be welcomed by that community. Him and his team.

They're amazing. And I was so surprised by that. Not that I was expecting them to be mean, but I wasn't expecting them to be that warm and open while also teaching you some crazy insane hacking skills. I'm telling you though, this place is where it's at. I mean, they got a DJ there, lights are low, that Defcon vibe. People are building ethernet cables,

they're learning how to hack with Wireshark. Chris Greer sat down with me and taught me a few things. By the way, go follow Chris Greer. He's that wire shark guy. Actually, the real Wireshark guy is this guy. He created Wireshark.

I'm Gerald Combs, I'm the original author, but by no means am I the only author of the Wireshark Network Protocol Analyzer. I got to meet him, which is crazy. We had a taco night and I got to meet Jack Recit and hang out with him also Kit Boga. And then some guy gave me this crazy strong coffee and I almost had a heart attack. And this is just the first village. It gets crazier.

Like at the next one, I got handcuffed and Ziptied, let's go. They have a whole village for lock picking. What? Yes, this is moose. And he showed me how to pick my first lock. I was terrible at it,

but I did it and it was awesome. And then he ziptied me, which was kind of weird, but then he showed me how to break out. Watch this. It's actually not that hard. Alright, I just had Brandon zip tie me.

All you have to do is, well this, I hope this works. Kind of nervous, actually. Oh, that hurts so bad. But I got out ow. And then he handcuffed me and tell me how to get out of that.

What if you were handcuffed? Could you get out?

That's it. Are you seeing this? I told you def com was crazy. You can just walk up to a village and learn how to pick a lock, take a seat. Doesn't matter who you are.

Look at all these people learning how to break into your house. I mean, it's just nuts. Side note, I got totally addicted to lock picking and I bought two lock picking kits. This one and this one, by the way, you should totally get some and learn how to do it. Link below.

But before I show you how to hack into buildings, lemme tell you something crazy. I'm at Defcon, literally surrounded by thousands of hackers, yet I still feel safe enough to access all my stuff remotely. I'm talking my home lab, my business lab, and that's because Twin Gate makes me feel safe even when I'm surrounded by hackers. Seriously, twin Gate is the sponsor of this video and what I use to remotely access all my stuff wherever I go. It's not VPN, it's different. It's better. It's zero trust.

So when me and my team are out, we can reach all our stuff, but Mike can only access the video editing servers and that's it. Because if he did, he would download some free Ram onto my main system and it'd be dead. And I know what you're thinking. Oh, Chuck's just doing an ad. No, I use Twin Gate every day. I would talk about them even if I wasn't being paid.

It just so happens that I am and it's awesome. It's a perfect match, but seriously, it's free for up to five users. So you as a Home lab user, you want to access your home lab from anywhere. I get it. VPN, that works but not great. It's frustrating.

You can set up Twin Gate in about five minutes, probably less. It's so stinking easy and what you can do with it is so powerful. I'm not kidding that Zero Trust remote access. I don't understand why they're giving it to us for free. Don't question it.

Just use it. And listen, if you're exposing any ports in your house because you're trying to watch Plex or access your web server, stop it. Use Twin Gate. They'll keep that secure firewall barrier for you. But just give the people that need access like you or your kids when they're trying to watch a video. So please, for my sake,

stop using stone HVPN and use Twin Gate. Check it out. Link below twin gate.com/network. Chuck, thank you Twin Gate for making me feel safe. We're on all these scary hackers.

You still didn't protect me from moose, but that's okay. I forgive you. Back to the video. Oh, well then it gets sketchier. They teach you things that I kind of felt weird about people learning like should we be teaching people this? That's at the next village,

the Physical security village. I think about this village every time I lock my front door because I'm like, hmm, people can break into this because they're teaching people how to do it here. I'll never look at a locked door the same way. This village has ruined locked doors for me. Seriously. When you walk up there,

they're teaching people how to break into doors and not just one method, multiple methods. You can put a close hanger under the door and pull the handle. There's a tool that allows you to turn the deadbolt from the other side. They're showing people how to use flipper zeros to clone key cards and fobs to get into doors. I had a flipper zero, so I tried it on my own pool gate and it works.

They showed me how to break into a car. They showed me how to skim a credit card and not just me. People were lined up doing this. How is that? Okay? And I asked them that.

Why are you doing this? They gave me this and that's a good answer. Once you've seen how to do them, you're also able to recognize where they can be done and then go in and correct those issues. Education. Here's the thing, these vulnerabilities, which they are vulnerabilities already exist, that people who want to break into your house and your doors and all this stuff, they already know how to do this.

The point of the physical security village is going, Hey, these things are vulnerable. Fix it. And I can get behind that. That's pretty cool. What's also pretty cool is knowing how to break into doors.

And that was fun. Again, we got a chance to film this, which not many people get to do. We got permission and they were awesome and gracious. Me and my team seriously have the best time. But I'm telling you, our sketchiness meter is about to go up the next village, the car hacking village. Yes, we're hacking cars. Not just breaking into them,

but the computers inside them. I got to meet Camel. He runs the car Hacking. Village. Cars have evolved since 50, 60 years ago, so we started to add electronics to them to make them more efficient, more smart.

I also met this guy who had a bunch of badges on and I don't know what he was doing, but it was really cool. By the way, badges at DEFCON were a whole thing. He even had one that helped you hack a car. Speaking of the car hacking village, you can learn how to hack cars. They give you the basics of first showing you what it feels like to break into the car's can bus, which if you didn't know this, your car is pretty stink and vulnerable.

I don't know who thought it was a great idea to put a bunch of smart features into a two ton shell filled with people traveling at 60 miles an hour. On the average. Your car is not just one computer. It's hundreds of computers doing their own specialized things. And all these computers are connected in a network called the CAN Bus. Now,

here's the glaring problem with the CAN Bus. The CAN Bus is a broadcast network. All your networking nerds know what I mean. It means when one computer on that network sends a message, that message goes out to every single system on that network. That's bad.

But why? Well, if I were to connect myself to that network, I can then see every single message from every computer on that network. Not just that I could send messages to every computer on that network. Malicious messages. Now, this really wasn't an issue until we decided to add 4G and wifi and Bluetooth and all the cool ways we can connect to our car giving hackers the ability to connect to our cars and hack them.

When you talk about a self-driving car or driver assistance systems, that means that part of the computing system is able to influence the steering, the braking, the throttle, and that creates a safety hazard. And here at the Car Hacking Village, they show you how to do it. They even had this Ford F-150 in a box. They took all the components of a Ford F-150 and they had it in a nice travel case where you could practice how to hack it. Watch this guy's making it, do all kinds of stuff. He's fuzzing it.

So you can see it's all these alerts are going to start popping up. Oh my gosh. It's like you click on a pop-up, oh, and you know your car remote to unlock your car. This guy was hacking that too. The flag in this case is the opposite between the unlock signal counter and the lock signal counter. I even went to the Defcon gift shop,

which it's not a gift shop. It's like a place where you can buy from vendors. And I bought this.

It's a can bus flipper. Are you kidding me?

So now I can hack my own car. By the way, should I make a car hacking video? Kind of talking about this and how you use it? Let me know in the comments below. And this is just one of the many gadgets I spent money on at Defcon.

I spent way too much money. I'm telling you, DEFCON is like Disneyland, Disney World. If you like tech at all, you're going to have a good time there. Now, car hacking, that's scary. But the scariest stuff at Defcon, I wasn't allowed to film at the Social engineering village.

This is by far the most popular village. A line out the door. And they were teaching people the most dangerous skill at defcon, how to hack people, social engineering. They had competitions to see who could hack companies better over the phone live on stage. Again, I couldn't film it. Here's like a little sneak peek

if you want to see it. You just have to go to DEF Con. That's the whole point of this video. By the way, I just want to see you there next year. Let's go. Now,

if you're watching this video and you're like, Chuck, you said in the beginning that Con is awesome and safe and welcome, but I just saw some scary stuff throughout this video. I don't want my kids to know how to break into a house. Yeah, I'm not going to lie. Def con, it's rough around the edges and that's why I love it. But the biggest thing I love about Def Con, and you probably saw this coming, you can feel it right here it comes. It's community. And I have to apologize.

So I advertised at DEF Con that me and John Hammond, this is John Hammond, right here, right here, right here. We were going to do a talk at DEF Con. That didn't work out. We didn't get our speaker system or whatever. Something happened, but then something even better happened.

A bunch of you came up and met with us. We got to talk with you. I get to meet you and hear your stories that that is why Defcon is really amazing. Defcon Hi Chuck. Bring back 4 0 4, 4 0 4 0 4, please. Sure.

It's awesome learning all these hacking skills and if you want to learn some stuff, that's the place to go. But community. That's why Defcon exists. Meeting so many of my fans and hearing your stories, that was awesome. And if you saw me at Defcon and stopped me and we took a picture and got the chat, thank you. That meant the world to me.

And also I got to meet a ton of cool people that I watch online that I am like, oh my gosh, I think they're amazing. I got to meet them in real life. Zero Day Rezo, Ryan Rader, Daniel Meer, Jason Haddock, tuck ass watch, cyber, Maddie, Allie, I'm probably forgetting people, but I got to to meet all these people in real life and that's huge. But can I tell you one secret thing? This was totally an accident.

This happened. I was writing in the Tesla loop, which is so cool, by the way, if you've never done that at Vegas, you can ride a Tesla underground through a loop. But one night as I was leaving, DEFCON Defcon, by the way, during the event, does not close. The conference is open all the time. They're always having parties there after hours, always something to do.

Or they're all hacking and being nerdy. We got a blanket for it. This is what people do, I'm sure in the Tesla with this guy. And we start talking and he turns out he's a ciso, a big boss at a company. And I'm like, oh, well why do you come to Def Con? He's like,

I come to Def Con because I need to hire people. I'm looking for people to hire for my company. Are you hearing that? If you want to get into this industry, if you want to have an amazing career and get a job, this is where it starts. This is the secret path. This is the shortcut. Networking community. Embrace it.

And also I just scratched the surface of the villages I showed you. That was just a small number I was able to have time for. There was the Bug Bounty village, the scam baiting village, the AI village, the red teaming village. I didn't see any of that. I had to go to the red teaming party and that was awesome.

We got these really cool hoodies with bunny ears. That's my pastor Johnny wearing them. This outfit totally helped us out. So that was just kind of a teaser of my Defcon experience. I just can't tell you, or I forgot to get the full experience, the real experience. You got to go yourself. I want to see you there next year.

I will see you there next year. Let's hang out and have a few cups of coffee in the pack of Hacking Village. See you there. And that's all I got in this video. I'll catch you guys next time. Hey,

you stay till the end of the video and here at the end, I like to pray for my audience for you. I'm a believer, I believe prayer works and it's totally cool. If that's not your thing, that's why you can click off the video. But if you'll hang with me for a second, I'll love just to pray over you and your life and your family and your career. It's weird. I know. Let's do it anyway. Death con is weird,

so this flows right into it. All right, here we go. God, I thank you for the person, the people watching this video,

I pray over their life that they would be filled with joy and be filled with contentment. That wherever they're at right now and their jobs and their life as they're striving and working hard, that they would just feel satisfied right now. And it's okay for them to want to strive to advance their career and have the goal of making money and more money and providing for their family. That's an amazing thing, and I pray blessing over that. But also let them just be satisfied in you right now and enjoy today. Enjoy their family.

Let them enjoy their family right now and enjoy their friends and enjoy what they do. Just take stock and be content. I also pray over their careers that they would be able to embrace community, that they would be able to afford to go to con or any kind of hacking event, any of the BSides events,

and that they would put anything that makes 'em afraid to go put that aside

and just have relationships to meet people, and that through this networking, they will not only find friends, but also rewarding careers. I pray for their families that their families would be blessed and God, I pray ultimately over them that they would know you. They would someday know you. Jesus. I thank you for my audience.

I thank you for all of them. The ones that've met, the ones that haven't yet. I'm so thankful for them and I pray over their lives right now. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thanks guys.

I'll catch you Allall next time.