---
video_title: "FREE Phone Calls with Claude Code"
video_id: cT22fTzotYc
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cT22fTzotYc
video_date: 2026-01-23T18:21:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Try 3CX for yourself (FREE tier available): https://www.3cx.com/try/?src=networkchuck2025
  
  
  I gave my server a phone number… and now it can call me. In this video, I take a normal phone system (3CX) and connect it directly to my AI workflows running in the terminal. That means I can call my AI from any phone (even a payphone) and have it create tasks, send Slack messages, generate thumbnails, monitor my servers, and call me back when something breaks.
  
  🔥🔥Join the NetworkChuck Academy!: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  
  RESOURCES / LINKS:
  
  💻 GITHUB Guide: https://github.com/theNetworkChuck/claude-phone.git
  
  ▶️ Setup video guide & walkthrough: https://youtu.be/EIhAelYTna8
  
  🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
  
  
  
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  
  0:00 - Intro
  0:42 - The Platform
  7:27 - the Power
  9:28 - the Character
  15:01 - the Moment
  
  
  
  
  **Sponsored by 3CX
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK
  ---------------------------------------------------
  🎓🎓 Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  
  ☕☕ COFFEE and MERCH: https://ntck.co/coffee 
  
  🌐🌐 Use the MOST SECURE Web Browser, NetworkChuck Cloud Browser: https://browser.networkchuck.com/
  
  🧠🧠 Use n8n, my favorite automation tool: https://ntck.co/n8n
  
  🆘🆘 NEED HELP?? Join the Discord Server: https://discord.gg/networkchuck 
  
  STUDY WITH ME on Twitch: https://bit.ly/nc_twitch 
  
  READY TO LEARN??
  ---------------------------------------------------
  -Sign up for NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy 
  -Get your CCNA: https://bit.ly/nc-ccna 
  
  FOLLOW ME EVERYWHERE
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/ 
  Twitter: https://twitter.com/networkchuck 
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/ 
  Join the Discord server: http://bit.ly/nc-discord 
  
  
  
  
  Do you want to know how I draw on the screen?? Go to https://ntck.co/EpicPen and use code NetworkChuck to get 20% off!! 
  
  I Gave My AI a Phone Number (Now It Calls Me)
  My Server Can Call Me Now… Here’s How
  I Turned a Phone System Into an AI Brain
  I Connected My Phone to the Terminal
  This AI Can Call You When Your Server Breaks
  I Built an AI That Uses the Phone
  Calling My AI From a Payphone
  Why I Gave My Server a Phone Number
  This Phone System Changed How I Use AI
  AI That Calls You Back
  I Built an AI Phone System (This Changes Everything)
  My AI Has a Phone Extension Now
  I Turned VoIP Into an AI Control Plane
  This AI Answers the Phone and Runs My Life
  I Built AI Employees With a Phone System
  Your Phone System Is Smarter Than You Think
  I Let My AI Answer Calls (And Call Me Back)
  Calling My AI From Anywhere (No Internet)
  I Replaced Apps With Phone Calls
  The Future of AI Is a Phone Call
  
  #VoIP #Automation #Homelab
---
Hey, watch this.

Hello, I'm Stephanie. How can I help you today? Hey Stephanie. Can you tell me how healthy our storage cluster is right now?

Chuck, your storage cluster is healthy overall. OneDrive is down on Griffin door, but everything else is running perfectly. Thank you, Stephanie. Have a good day. Did you see that?

I just called my server. My server has a phone number, but that's not the coolest part. By the end of this video, you're going to watch my server call me. Hello. But how? Three things,

three cx, Claude, code and coffee. Let's go. Okay, first three cx, my phone system. I was not supposed to do this. Connecting my phone system to Claude Code because here's the thing, three cx, they are sponsoring this video and they reached out to me and said, Hey Chuck, can you make a video about our AI receptionist and transcription features?

And I'm like, nah, that sounds kind of awesome. Sure, but I took it too far. Way too far, and I hope they're okay with this because disclaimer, the AI features they have, that's a paid feature. It's worth it. But what I did to get this phone system connected to cloud code, all of you can do it. It's part of the free tier. You can do it right now.

Now we're going to go down that rabbit hole here in a second. It's going to require lots of coffee because it's awesome. A little coffee break. I never chucked on coffee. Now it turns out their built-in AI features are actually pretty cool.

It took me like 10 seconds to set it up. I just went to settings, added my API key, created my AI receptionist, Dolores Umbridge gave her some context. Look at these settings. If call is abusive or frustrated and call, we're going to have to test that. Actually, let's test it out now. Let's see if she knows me.

Hello, Chuck, this is Dolores. How may I help you reach the right person or. Department? I just want to know more about network. Chuck.

He loves coffee, especially coffee from Ethiopia. He has around 5 million subscribers. Alright, listen, Dolores, I'm tired of this crap. I'm being belligerent, I'm being rude. I'm sorry, but we won't be able to continue this conversation.

It works. I'm not going to lie. That's pretty cool. And it was really easy to set up and they also have AI transcription. You can use OpenAI, Google or even three CX locally. But anyways,

this AI receptionist had me thinking, thinking about context because what if I could connect my three cx, my phone system to cloud code? Why would I want to do that? Well, because cloud code is where I live nowadays. It's where I build my workflows and it contains a lot of the context about me and my business. If I could just pick up the phone and call and talk to Claude code from anywhere, even with an old analog phone, think about that. No internet required.

I could be in the middle of nowhere and all I can find is a payphone and I could still call and talk to the most advanced AI known to man. There's something kind of romantic about that combo and seriously doing this, unlock superpowers. I didn't even know I was missing like having my servers call me. It's crazy. But how are we going to connect a phone to a terminal? So here's our mission.

We're connecting old technology to new a phone system to Claude code in the terminal. How are you going to do that? Sip a sip of No, I'm just kidding. Actually, it'll help. SIP is the session initiation protocol.

This is the protocol that makes voiceover IP work, which is how most phone calls work across the world right now. When I pick up my desk, I want to make a phone call. It's sending SIP messages to three cx, the brains of the operation who is then sending SIP messages to my PSTN, which will route my calls wherever I want 'em to go, the world. It's these SIP messages, this protocol that establishes communication and makes phone calls possible. So what if I gave Claude code the ability to sip, I could give him a phone number and three CX could communicate with him over sip. I mean, it's just the messaging protocol. It should be pretty easy, right?

Well, I almost spent a thousand dollars a month to get this working. I'm not kidding because to get this working, I needed two things. First, I needed a SIP server that could handle all that communication on behalf of clock code, but setting up the phone calls is only half the battle. I also needed a media server and it was handling this little part of the diagram. You see right here. This is a good example of a SIP call.

Notice once the call is set up with all of this fun stuff right here, all the SIP messaging. Then we have the media. This is the actual audio files, the voice, the hold music. That's a whole separate thing. Now the good news is I found out people do this all the time.

They build VoIP applications. The bad news is that there was one solution that all my research kept pointing to an awkwardly named product called Jam Bones. I don't know, and it sounded like the solution, like it handled both SIP server and media server stuff, but the look at this price so bad, $1,000 a month for a single node self-hosted server. I was about to do it. I was reaching for my wallet.

It was either this or build my own sip and media server from the ground up. But then I learned something. I was so happy I found this. It turns out that Mr. Jam bone's here, he's a big fan of open source.

What I mean by that is under the hood are two open source protocols or solutions that make him happen. One is a SIP server solution and one is a media server. Both of these are free and open source. So a few Claude code sessions later, boom, I had a completely free SIP application and shout out to them. By the way, they are awesome. So here's a diagram that Claude made me.

This one's pretty easy to follow. It also made me this very cursed one, which looks kind of awesome, but it's really hard to follow. So we got Dr. Teo and free switch as my SIP stack and at this point I was almost there, but I did need some kind of interface, some wrapper that could accept the SIP calls and hand them over to Claude code and then Claude Code hand his messages back over to the SIP side. This is a fun little server running on the, well, actually the Mac I have right now, this Mac, there he is this little server running on my Mac does voice activity detection so it knows when I start talking and when I stop talking, it uses whisper to take my speech and to text and then 11 labs to go TTS text to speech. I know what looks complicated because it is. This took a lot,

but don't worry. The tutorial I'm going to show you, which will actually be a separate video you can check out here on the second channel. I made it pretty easy to install. It's like a one-liner in the command line, but before you go off there and go crazy, lemme show you my favorite thing about this. You see with traditional voiceover ip, when you add an external service, lemme get back to the Photoshop here. There he is. Most of the time.

This connection between three CX and my Claude Code sip magic would be a sip trunk. But I didn't want to do that because three CX with their SMB free tier, they don't allow custom sip trunks. So instead of doing a sip trunk, I have Claude code and this is so cool. I love this. I have it registering with the three CX phone system. Like it's a phone,

just a phone. It shows up as a person, it has a ready status, it can make calls and we can make calls to it. And now I can just call Claude code and I added in some fun things like the hold music because Claude likes to think it's not real time voice like the AI assistant on three cx, although I may try to add that it's a good idea. Maybe another layer on top of that, okay, we're getting off track and of course I had to add some special prompts so it wasn't too verbose. And my main assistant is Morpheus.

He's my executive AI assistant for everything. This is his voice. His number is 9,000. Hello, I'm your server, how can I help you today? He's great, but the power here is not that I'm just talking to some ai. This is Claude code,

my claw code unlocking ridiculous things like skill access and access to all my stuff. Seriously, I built this just before Christmas break and all during Christmas I was telling everyone about this. I was showing them this. I'm like, look, I can call my stuff. Not a lot of people got it. I'm hoping you understand.

Okay, lemme show you three things real quick that make this incredible. That'll make you just have to do it. That's my goal. You got to do it right now. Lemme get my Claude code visual up so you can see it actually happening.

I'm going to call Morpheus.

Hey Morpheus, I want you to create a Clickup task, assign it to me and just have it saying, you need to finish this video, Chuck, right now because you're way behind on it and that's it. Get some nice hold music and then boom, it starts going and he's using a skill. You can see that here. And he's creating a clickup task for me. That's my project management software.

Okay, thank you. Also, can you send me a direct Slack message with that Clickup link? Lemme think about that. Now what I'm showing you is number two, notice he's keeping context. We're keeping that session going. Oh,

I just got it. Lemme go see. Yeah, there it is. From Morpheus, the direct link to jump right to it. Thank you. That's all.

Let's see if that worked. There it is a sign to me done. The third thing is that you don't have to wait. You can fire and forget like watch this. I'll call Morpheus back.

Hello. Hey Morpheus, use your thumbnail skill to make a thumbnail of me holding an analog phone and I want the phone connected to a terminal running clog code. Make it hyper realistic. Send me the finished thumbnails as a slack message and I'm just going to hang up because what's going to happen is he's just going to go watch, he's going. So I can be out and about and just call Morpheus, be like, Hey, I got this crazy idea. Do this one thing or run this whatever. Create a task,

whatever, hang up and I'm done. And this process does take a while because it'll create a bunch of thumbnails. It'll verify that it looks like me and then kick it off to me. Okay, I just got a slack message, let's check it out. And there they are. Not bad.

That's not me. I think it heard me say cloud and not Claude.

Now I think it's time to introduce you to somebody. She's nice, a little bit sassy and knows a heck of a lot about Seth Storage. Her name is Stephanie. Stephanie is my Seth cluster. Now I really can't take credit for the name Stephanie.

My AI actually came up with that and I'm like, okay, that's awesome. I'm going with it. Do you have a better name? Comment below, we can call and talk to her right now. Extension 9 0 0 2. Hello,

I'm Stephanie, how can I help you today? New me. Same sweater, different mug. Had to go home and get dinner. Now where was I? Oh yeah,

getting back to Stephanie. Now I realize I didn't really explain how Stephanie works. I mean we're calling and talking to Clock, right? But what does it mean for her to be Stephanie? How does she become Stephanie versus just like the basic claw code.

It's just a few prompts and a few guardrails. And the beauty of this is that you'll be able to create whoever you want to create and plenty of distinct extensions because remember, we're connecting to a phone system, which means you can have as many free calls as you want. You can create an entire company of these guys. These agents. Now Stephanie, her brain lives inside CLO code and it's actually right here.

The AI server or rather the API server, this is going to be running on your machine, whether it's Linux or Mac. I'm not supporting Windows, sorry, sorry, windows. And it's here. That will say like you are Stephanie with the prompt and this will send this cloud code command to cloud code and we can specify like, hey, you have access to these skills. So you might have access to my storage skills.

So you can only work on storage stuff and whenever I ask about anything, you do this. We can be very specific, we can add as many as we want. It's very fun. Now, I think it's time. I think we show off how Stephanie can call me and not me just asking for it, but monitoring my stuff and going, oh no, something's wrong.

I got to call Chuck and let's talk about it. We'll have a conversation. That's crazy, right? But lemme show you this as part of my Claude phone, this is what I'm calling it now because I'm kind of a developer now, everyone is. I've created what's called a call skill. So I can do this.

I can say call extension 1000 and tell me I'm awesome. So now I've given Claude the ability to actually call me.

I just wanted to let you know you're awesome. How cool is that? I can also do this. So that was just like a drop it and go, just wanted to call you and tell you you're awesome. Or I can say, make it a conversation. Keep it going.

Hey, I just wanted to call and tell you that you're awesome. You're doing great. How's your day going? My day's going great. You're so encouraging. Thank you.

Now you just put me on hold. He has to think. We should all be more like Claude code. We have to think before we speak. I just wish I could put on elevator music for people. That's an idea.

Now think about what we can do with that, right? I can say, Hey Claude, real quick, I need you to call my wife and tell her something. I've done that and it totally works. And it's so weird. I had Stephanie call my wife and she did not like that. But I can also do this.

I can be like, Hey, look at my latest YouTube stats and then when you're done, call me and tell me about it and I can just walk away. And that's what you probably saw in my Mac Studio videos. I was working on a bunch of things and I'm like, I am going to forget Claude is finished, so I'll just have it. Call me when it's done with something and tell me about it.

Hey Chuck, your latest video, I built an AI supercomputer again is doing great. You're at 386,000 people. You. Get the picture, but how cool is that? That right there, I'm hoping will just make a billion ideas burst into your brain.

You can do anything with phone now. Now, right now, this is all internal. This is three cx. This is a phone system. Unlimited calls to all the extensions I set up on three cx.

If you're new to phone systems, welcome. It's really fun. You should put a phone system in your house. I did it right here. It's free.

But also if you connect your phone system to the PSTN, you get an actual real number that people can call that opens up so many more things. I legit tried. This was very basic. I tried to find out if a restaurant was open on New Year's Day. I'm like, Hey, call them and figure it out. It kind of did. It told me they were closed,

but only because of reach voicemail. But just think about what we can do with this. Now, let's have Stephanie troubleshoot my nest for this. I'm relying on N eight N and it's the simple workflow right here. And the reason I'm using N eight N is because it's a great way to orchestrate tasks.

I could do Aron job or whatever kind of orchestration tool might be coming out. Now there's 15 things coming out every three seconds, but this is a great option right now. I just have a manual boom, but I could have it scheduled or whatever webhooks. Whatever you want to do, it's you. And then right here I have an H TT P request.

Now all this is doing is going out to my API server that we have running on my Mac here. It's how when I pick up my phone and I call cloud code, it's doing the same thing, talking to the API server. And here in the request I'm just telling it, Hey, check the CEF cluster health, and then I'm giving it an alert. If my SSD pool is over 70% capacity, then alert me and I've got it configured to where it will spit out JSON. That can be parsed. For example, we have the Boolean field call Chuck.

And if that becomes true, it will call me. If it's false, it doesn't care. So it can keep logging in, checking my server and go, oh no, something's bad. Call Chuck. But if it's not bad, it just ignores it. Now,

right now I know it's over 70%, so let's watch it happen. And by the way, this other HCTP request is just simply what this would normally do. Ready? Set. Fingers crossed. Thank you. Demo work. Alright, it's making the request.

It's talking to Stephanie. Okay, so we kicked off our flow. I hope this works. Right now you're about to see Stephanie troubleshoot my nas. Log into it, check it out, ruin some checks, and if she sees a problem, she should call me.

She's like an IT person. Moment of truth. Here we go. Get your coffee ready.

Last time I was waiting here, it kind of scared me. I wasn't expecting the call. I got distracted. It did scare me.

Hey Chuck, cluster Health checked one osd. Now six SSDs over 70% want details. Figure it out and then send me a Slack message using your Slack skill when you're done. Now, I just told her to send me a Slack message when she figures it out, which is so cool. By the way, I could ask her to fix something if she knew how to fix it or if I had procedures for it. I could also have her call me back. She has the call skill.

She can just call me back. That's so crazy, right? Oh, I love this so much. Okay, so what you saw here is very much A POC proof of concept. Don't yell at me if it doesn't work, but I do have a separate video right here.

If it's not out, it'll be out soon. I'll at least have documentation or you can install this yourself. I may have changed a few things since this video, but it should be pretty easy to get set up and it should be free. All you'll need is clawed code. But also I wanted to point out that three CX did sponsor this video.

Thank you three CX for helping me go down this rabbit hole and get lost in this idea. This was very fun. Also, this is janky. This solution three cxs solution is not. And if you want a real AI receptionist for your business or a personal assistant with AI transcription, they are the place to go.

But if you're a hobbyist like me and you want to play with stuff and do something very cool, this option's also there. Also, if you do the AI receptionist, I have, you can also do the Claude code thing. I'm hoping people who have enterprise three CX stuff can try this. It's interesting, right? So think back what we did in this video.

We can now from anywhere, from a payphone in the desert, no internet, no anything. I can call and talk to Claude Morpheus or Stephanie and access anything within my business, do anything, create thumbnails. And yes, in case you're wondering, you can connect your cell phone and everything. I have it. Call my wife's cell phone when you connect it to A-P-S-T-N and I'll cover that in the other video. It's just crazy powerful and I love the idea. Now also,

you might have better ideas than me. In fact, you probably do. I would love to hear in the comments below or if you want to open up some issues and do some pull requests on this project, I welcome that. I'm not going to promise I'll look at it. It'd probably be better off just forking it, but I just wanted to show this off and just show what we can do. Now,

keeping in mind, I'm not a developer. I just cobbled this together because I understand VoIP technology and how it's supposed to work, so I would love your honest assessment on this. Am I crazy? Let me know. Is this just a weird thing to do? I thought it was fun.

He should have seen me as I was getting this set up. I'm like, oh my gosh, I got it to work and I was just freaking out. Anyways, this is the first video of the year. I hope you're having a great year 2026. It's going to be a fun one. It's going to be an interesting one.

That's all I got. I'll catch you guys in the next video.

Hey, you're still here. If you're new here, I do a thing at the end of my videos where I like to pray for you, my audience. It's kind of weird. I get it. I know I'm going to do it anyway. Now,

one thing I specifically want to pray for, and this is something that's been weighing on me and that's ai. Claude code has been the thing that everyone's been talking about, and if you haven't played with it, you should, but be careful because it's very addicting and it can kind of consume you. The more you get into it, the more you feel left behind. And that's what I'm feeling, a ton of imposter syndrome, a ton of stress over all this, and I know if I'm feeling it, I can't be the only one feeling that. So I'm going to pray over that right now.

Pray over our careers and our futures. Let's go ahead and do it. God, I thank you for the person watching this video right now on the other side of the screen, possibly on the other side of the world. I just thank you that they're here and that they're passionate about technology. I thank you for who they are, their unique personality, everything about them and I asking your name that you just bless their lives right now.

If they're like me and they're wanting to be really good in their career, they're wanting to keep up with all the new changes and become really good at their craft, but they're feeling overwhelmed with AI and how fast it's moving, I ask that you just give them peace over that. Give me peace over that.

Give us the path forward, a clear path where we don't feel burdened or overwhelmed, but we can take all these changes in stride and that we won't be afraid of the change. We have to change with it, but we'll see what the change means for us and how we can navigate this new world, what it means for our jobs and our careers, and what we should be learning. Let that become so crystal clear and ask that you bless us. Go before us and make our paths straight. Let our careers take off. Jesus,

asking your name. Let the person watching this video just be so inspired by all this and walk away from this moment, excited to just tackle whatever they have in the new year. Bless their goals, bless their discipline, bless their plans.

Thank you for everything, Lord. I ask this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Thanks guys. I will see you guys in the next video.