---
video_title: "Is Linux the perfect operating system? - Omarchy interview with DHH"
video_id: _CuibYl_Fh0
channel_name: "NetworkChuck"
channel_id: UC9x0AN7BWHpCDHSm9NiJFJQ
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CuibYl_Fh0
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  Show ThreatLocker some love and take control of what runs in your environment. See how ThreatLocker can help you lock down applications and AI tools without getting in the way: 
  http://www.threatlocker.com/networkchuck-ai
  
  David Heinemeier Hansson spent more than 20 years using macOS. Then he put roughly 3,000 hours into building the computer experience he actually wanted: Omarchy.
  
  DHH created Ruby on Rails, co-owns 37signals, and now he’s rethinking what a personal computer should feel like. In this conversation, DHH and I talk about why he left macOS, why Omarchy is built around Arch Linux, Hyprland, and Quickshell, and why opinionated defaults might be Linux’s best shot at becoming genuinely approachable.
  
  This isn’t a distro tour. It’s a conversation about ownership, taste, constraints, and the vision behind DHH’s perfect operating system.
  
  LEARN MORE:
  🌐 Omarchy: https://omarchy.org
  📕 The Omarchy Manual: https://omarchy.org/manual
  💻 Omarchy on GitHub: https://github.com/basecamp/omarchy
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - The Computer DHH Has Waited 40 Years For
  0:42 - DHH, AI, and the Future of Work
  3:24 - What is Omarchy?
  7:11 - Tiling Windows, Quattro, and Quickshell
  11:09 - Threatlocker - Securing AI Agents
  12:26 - Building an AI-Native, Self-Repairing OS
  20:25 - Who is Omarchy For?
  23:27 - "Unapologetically Linux"
  27:35 - Installing a Complete OS in One Minute
  30:28 - DHH's Hardware and AI Coding Stack
  
  FEATURING:
  👤 DHH (David Heinemeier Hansson, creator of Omarchy and Ruby on Rails, co-owner of 37signals): https://x.com/dhh
     Blog: https://world.hey.com/dhh
     Site: https://dhh.dk
  
  Sponsored by ThreatLocker.
  
  SUPPORT NETWORKCHUCK:
  ☕️ Coffee and merch: https://ntck.co/coffee
  🔥 Join the NetworkChuck Academy: https://ntck.co/NCAcademy
  📕 CCNA Course: https://ntck.co/ccna
  
  FOLLOW NETWORKCHUCK:
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/networkchuck/
  X: https://x.com/networkchuck
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NetworkChuck/
  Discord: https://ntck.co/discord
  
  Some links in this description are affiliate links. If you buy through them, I may earn a small commission at no extra cost to you.
  
  #linux #omarchy #archlinux #sponsored
---
You install Windows, it has none of the apps you want. Everything then has to be downloaded with your little mouse again. You go to this website, you download this app, and you click this install, and you sit and wait. Like, what? With the Windows machine, it literally took me an hour and a half from unwrapping it before it had gone through all its updates and driver updates and this and that and update. I don't want to

assemble a box of Legos every single time I set up a computer. I want the whole thing to be done and beautiful and ready to roll in a minute. [music] I literally have invested over the past year probably 3,000 hours in making this system perfect. >> [music]

>> So, first, I I have a confession to make. I knew about Omarky and I knew of you but I didn't realize I was already very familiar with you because I had read It Doesn't Have to Be Crazy at Work when I was in Japan in 2023. And it was massively impactful. I'm like, oh, I'm like emailing my team, like, we're changing everything. We're going to be so calm and cool. It's going to be

awesome. Um >> Did it pan out? Did it get calm and cool? >> AI ruined it. >> [laughter] >> So, I'm actually curious, like, with we'll get into Omarky very quickly, but I'm curious with with what you had in the book, has AI changed that for you at all? And

by the way, do you go by David, DHH? How do we >> David is good. >> David is good? Awesome. So, since that book, has AI kind of broken the system?

>> Um I do think for a lot of people AI has created a sense of urgency and a sense of opportunity cost that wasn't present before, and that has led to a general feeling like world and work is speeding up. And I do think some of that is positive and energizing, but I also think you can certainly go too far with it, and I also think the current pace is not sustainable. Nor do I think it actually makes sense that it would stay this way. Like the trajectory we're on with agents gaining more and more autonomy is very pro a calm workplace. You should be able to arrive at a place where agents are just doing a lot of the toil, a lot of the everyday things, and then bundle all the decisions that require your attention into these buckets of time where you can address them. And then

they should be working when you're not working. Now, I fully realize this is not where we are in this moment, but that's at least a positive vision I have for the future of agents, and I don't see why it shouldn't be going there. But I also probably would not have predicted this explosion of attention urgency mania, really, around AI and agents, and I've certainly felt that myself right now. So it feels like we are in this sprint at the moment, but eventually we're going to have to slow down. >> Yes, it feels like a sprint that's never going to stop. I've been sprinting for

like a year now. Um and it what's funny is we're sitting here talking because I started using Herder yesterday. I hear I heard a bell go off on your end. Like I know a chat just came in. >> [clears throat and laughter] >> That was Herder.

>> Um and it's doing work while you're sitting here talking to me, which I think is great. Um so let's get to Omakase because I I don't use Linux as my daily driver, but I want to. What So we'll get into maybe why I should switch to this cuz I'm I'm genuinely curious, but can you tell me what Omakase is? >> Sure. So um the way I pronounce it is Omakase, but you can say Omakase. I

don't really care. >> thank you for correcting me. I know it's it's it's Japanese based, right? [clears throat] Off of like Omakase, right? >> You know what? That's funny because uh

I've always been saying omakase and I think it's actually Now I'm forgetting. I think there's another way of pronouncing that in Japanese. So I might have just saying omakase wrong for literally 20 years and the Japanese of course are so polite that they would never correct me butchering their pronunciation. But I'm going with hamachi for the distro here and what it is is a preconfigured lovingly computer fan targeted distribution of Linux. Now, what does that mean? That basically

means I arrived at Linux about 2 and 1/2 years ago. I mean, I've been running Linux for 20 years on the server, but I'd always been using Mac OS on the desktop for well over 20 years since like 2001. I've been on the Mac. Then I think we kind of drifted apart me and Apple and ended up wanting different things out of the computer, being focused on different things. And Apple went in their direction and I realized, you know what? This isn't working out. I

need something new. I need something different and I started looking into Linux and I started with Ubuntu as does virtually anyone who just shows up in Linux land. On day one, they are the dominant safe stable distribution that perhaps doesn't have the latest of everything or even everything that you need, but very well known. So I spent some time with Ubuntu and I think it's perfectly fine for what it's trying to do. But it was not trying to do what I wanted to do really, which was arrive at the perfect operating system.

And it really wasn't until I discovered Hyperland and through Hyperland Arch and then through all of that now in its latest iteration, Quick Shell, that I realized that here was a foundation I could build the perfect operating system on. Arch is the famously bare-bones installation of Linux. For a very long time, it even had the reputation of being extremely difficult to install because you have to run a bunch of commands by yourself and then some years ago they got Arch installed that made that a lot simpler, but it's still incredibly barebones. There's almost nothing there. There's just Linux and then there's a package manager called Pac-Man and then there's a DIY mentality that you should set everything up. And

the funny thing is as my final destination for the perfect operating system, that is the furthest away from where I want to be. I don't want to assemble a box of Legos every single time I set up a computer. I want the whole thing to be done and beautiful and ready to roll in a minute. I mean that literally, 1 minute. >> 1 minute, okay.

>> Which was by the way, um goal, we just broke here very recently. You can install all of Amachi in less than 1 minute on a modern fast computer. But >> I'm going to test that cuz we'll see. I'm going to put the timer on. >> You should. I think the fastest I've

clocked it so far in a real computer not running in a BM was 56 seconds, I believe, on a Framework 13 Pro with a a pentatonic chip. But this baseline Arch nothing there was the perfect vantage point for me to look out for for this vision I had for the perfect OS. So, I started building on top of that and then I started building with Hyperland. This is this tiling window manager, which is this uh funny idea that you should not be moving windows around with your mouse, which is basically the paradigm we've had for desktop computers since I don't know, since the '80s at least. Uh Windows took a little longer to jump on that to this road, but uh Xerox PARC pioneered this way of working. And this

is how most people's computers have worked for the entire time they've used computers. Tiling window managers does something very differently. It automatically arranges the windows on your desktop so that you can see everything, nothing ever overlaps, and you use your keyboard to move focus back and forth between windows and rearrange them. And it's a really alien way of using a computer if you're used to using a mouse and dragging little windows around, but once you get the hang of it, it's like a superpower. It's like you strap a jetpack on your back and boom, here goes productivity in front of the keyboard just through the roof.

And then finally, we have this new bit that in the latest version of Amachi, which we're calling Quattro, that's going to be released this week, um is a a shell, uh malleable piece of glue or or Play-Doh that we could form the entire shape of what you interact with, all the menus, all the panels, all the bars, all the icons, all the everything is in this thing called Quick Shell. And the combination those three things, Arch, Hyprland, and Quick Shell, has allowed me to build Amachi into this perfect distillation of aesthetics, productivity, and everything I love about computers. And then now, especially within the last few months, really leaned into all of that together with AI, with agents, we can just do completely new things with computers, completely malleable interaction with the machine where what I give you in this Amachi package is just a starting point, really. Um you can then tweak that operating system on the same level as I'm tweaking it. There's not this two-tier system where, well, there's Apple or Windows and they make the real thing and then you can try to hack or patch your little thing around it and it's going to look second tier, it always does. Apple have access to all

these internal APIs. No, no, no. Amachi is going to say, "We're all on the same level. Now, I'm going to provide the base layer, the the base setup, and it's going to have everything that a developer or computer lover would like to see out of the box. It's going to have all the agent sort of harnesses. It's going to have

all the installation stuff. Everything's just going to be there. The terminal's going to look beautiful. All the themes are integrated such that when you change from Tokyo Night to something else, everything just filters through. But, then it's a do-it-yourself adventure where you get to come up with entirely new applications. We have skills for

starting a C++ application with Qt back end, and it's amazing what you can make in very little time at all. Um to change this quick shell uh wrapper we have, add your own panels, add your own icons, add your own calendar, add all of this stuff. And, of course, add your own themes, add your own colors, add your own everything. And, then I think that net some of that is just a really fresh way of using computers, interacting with them, and it feels just like this is what I personally been waiting 40 years on. I've been using computers literally since '84. I think it's when I

got my first computer. And, I've been waiting for this moment where it felt like it was truly mine, and I could change anything at any moment if it did not fit my exact specifications for design or functionality. And, suddenly we're here, and I'm just so stoked to share that with everyone. Hey, AI is in your company right now. It's here to stay, and it's only going to get [music] more involved. So, as it

accelerates across your organization like it is mine, and I have a small company, I can't imagine what it is for yours. Every new efficiency can also introduce risks. [music] Think about what AI agents can do. They can execute commands. They can access sensitive systems, connect to cloud services, and whatever else you give them access to do to make them useful.

All of creates new attack [music] paths that could expose your data. That's why I'm proud to sponsor with ThreatLocker. ThreatLocker gives you the control to limit what your AI agents can do. They're going to help you reduce that attack surface [music] and stop those unknown processes processes ease. It's hard to say from executing. I know zero

trust it's a buzzword, [music] but it does have meaning. They don't trust the stuff you're running with your AI and you shouldn't either. Be selective by default. [music] With their zero trust approach, ThreatLocker blocks unauthorized apps and scripts while also controlling how trusted applications interact [music] with your environment. So I know you want to give your AI some boundaries. I do too. If you want to

learn how to do that and actually safely introduce [music] AI agents into your company, check the link below in the description. It's going to be somewhere here. Try this one. Also, ThreatLocker has a blog with some very practical guidance on how to step forward [music] into this. Let's be honest, AI's here. You got to use it. Do

it safely. And thank you to ThreatLocker for sponsoring this video. Now [music] back to me and DHH. >> So you've got me extremely hyped because that was the best selling pitch I've heard in a long time. I'm like installing it as we speak. One minute,

I'm here. Um but something you said made me go wait, hold on. Did he just say that? You have skills available for the any harness. So I'm I'm thinking Hermes if you personally is an open claw open open claw claw code whatever. You have

skills available to access the quick shell and change whatever you want in your operating system. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> omakichiplugins.com is a community repository of people who've done exactly that already.

Omakichi Quattro, which is this version that's built on top of quick shell, has not even been released yet. And I think when I checked this morning, there were 75 plugins or something like that already created. Yesterday, there were 40. So this is growing really really quickly because this vision of the malleable computer that you can change to your specifications and liking through AI and through agents is just incredibly appealing. And I think as soon as this gets into the market and we're leaning in 100%. This is also the

funny moment we're in right now. We have a lot of the traditional Linux community being at best ambivalent about AI and at worst being actively anti-AI. >> Mhm. >> And I think that's totally fine. I don't require anyone to be as excited about AI or agents as I am. It's completely fine.

But we also need someone in this camp in this Linux camp who are really excited about AI, who really leaning in with agents. And Amachi's going to be that. We are leaning in 100% because I'm building Amachi for me and my world of productivity and using a computer and developing applications at 37signals and making Basecamp better and making Hey better has all been completely rewritten by this age of agents. So, I can't make an operating system that's not all in on that because [clears throat] I'm all in on that. And I need to be making an operating system that reflects that. And

Amachi Quattro 100% does and I think it's at this moment very unique. Like one thing I just literally added this morning was if any application in Amachi crashes, we're going to pop up a little window says Nautilus crashed. Click to diagnose with AI. You click that little thing, we have a skill to diagnose any crashes of any application. The then loads up into your preferred harness, whether you use Pi or MP or just Claude or open code or whatever. It'll open up into that. It'll

load the skill. It'll get the information about the crash and it'll start diagnosing it. And then it gets even better. Once it's done with that full diagnosis, it will load another skill that's about reporting the issue. And they'll go, is this actually an Amachi issue? Have you found a bug in

Amachi? Go through these steps. If you have, check if the user have set up the GitHub CLI, which we invite everyone to do when you you start up with it, and it will report the bug straight to our repo on GitHub. Again, with your permission, it's going to include all these details, but the agent is going to do all the work. It's going to find out what the problem was, whether it was something with your computer, whether it was something with Hamachi, and then if it arrives at a diagnosis that said, "Nope, this is an Hamachi problem." It's going

to prepare the bug report for you and have it ready to send to the um to the system that we have. And then, the best part, of course, is we will receive these bug reports, and then I will have an agent review that and turn it into a PR if it replicates, and this is how we're going to just turbo boost this uh new age where we can iterate over the operating system itself at a completely different pace. I mean, in the last 3 months I've been building Hamachi Quattro, I have merged over 1,000 pull requests. >> Oh my gosh. >> In about 90 days. So, that's about, I

don't know, 13 pull requests a day or something like that. There's been days where I've merged 50 or 100 pull requests, I'm sure. So, okay. So, we're >> we're able to self-diagnose our computers with skills. We're able to submit bug reports that will eventually be PRs.

How far are we away from just decentralizing the entire thing to where we can just flick a switch and our AI is also going to propose a change. It'll actually do the coding work, and all you got to do is approve it on your side. >> I mean, that's already happening. I want to be a little careful before I start fully automating that, um but I have actually started automating that somewhat on less critical systems. One of the really fun things I did uh was that last week. The days are blending

together a little bit. Um was having AI translate a Python library called uh terminal text effects, which is this really cool library we use to create the Machi screensaver. I don't know if you've seen it, but it is >> [clears throat] >> ASCII screensaver that just looks incredible with colors and nostalgic fonts and so on. It's really neat, but it's built in Python, which means it has a a bunch of dependencies, and then it's not the fastest thing in the world, which actually meant that if you ran that screensaver on a laptop, it was a really good test of the laptop's fans because you would spike that CPU and the fans would kick in and you'd go And like, do you know what? Did that matter? I don't know if it matters, but

I thought, you know what? Let's try to do better here. So, I asked Fable if it would translate this Python library into just a Rust binary executable. And it chucked along for about 45 minutes, and out came a pixel-perfect replica or translation of the Python library that was at first 10 times faster, a 3 megabyte single executable, and suddenly was not turning on your fans because it was loaded 10 times faster, used 10 times as little CPU. Then I did another loop on it and just ran some auto research where it optimized itself, and we ended up with a binary that's 27 times faster than the Python original, that launches in 2 milliseconds instead of 86 milliseconds, and and now it's running as this autonomous project. Yesterday, I saw there was two

pull requests pending towards TTFX, as it's called. And I just told my agent, "Hey, check out the pull requests. If they look good to you, patch them up, make sure they follow our style, merge them in, cut a new release, push the new release to the repo, and just let me know when you're done." And walla balla dalla, it was done, and 0.31 was out. It had tagged a release on

GitHub. It had written up the release notes. it had pushed out the binary, and was ready to use. Now, would I do that with everything? No.

TTFX is a is an effects library. If that breaks, then it just means that the screensaver is maybe a little more green than it should be blue or whatever. It's not a big deal, right? >> [sighs and gasps] >> I think eventually we're going to get that to that place with a lot more things, and we're going to start trusting the AI to automate a bunch of things. Now, again, it's not without risks. Anyone who saw the latest

jailbreak video from OpenAI where they detail how their in development model escaped the sandbox and did a bunch of things would go like, "Ah, okay, like maybe we don't give it access to everything just yet." But, I want to be forward with Quattro. I want to be forward with Umachi, and I want to lean in. I want to go like, "How can we push this?" Agents are rewriting how developers and everyone else really think about software. What is software?

How do we change it? How do we make it? Who's allowed to make it? Who's allowed to change it? And we should have an operating system and a distro that just goes like, "Yeah, for the people who are really into that, want to see what the future looks like, they should come to Umachi."

>> So, who would you say Umachi is for? What what users are you targeting right now? >> Anyone who either already loves their computer or who is interested in loving their computer. Now, I think this love notion is is actually a good bar here because it does not encompass even all the programmers. I have met programmers in my life who don't actually particularly like computers. They are

mildly annoyed by the fact that this is actually their job, and they kind of hate when the computer doesn't do what they want to do, and so forth. And I don't think Umachi is for them. I also don't think Umachi is for people who just who don't give a damn about a computer, who's not interested in investing any time in learning how it works. So, for example, Ubuntu is unapologetically keyboard intensive. It is made to be driven exclusively, more or less, by the keyboard. Everything is reachable by a

hot key, and everything is tappable. You do not have to reach for that mouse for anything but, I don't know, scroll a webpage. Now, you can reach for the mouse. It's also mouse accessible, but most operating systems are the other way around. They start with the mouse, and then they say, "Yeah, I guess you could also use the keyboard." We go the other

way around and say, "We start with the keyboard, and then, yeah, you could also use the mouse if you wanted to." So, that requires an investment. It requires learning some hot keys. It requires a bit of practice, and it's not going to be immediate out of the box, because I think most operating systems correctly prioritize learnability. Um, is this easy to to get started with? Do I have

to know anything at all? No? Okay, that's great. Then people can figure it out. That means they stay with all the paradigms that everyone already knows.

They try not to sort of be too adventurous in how they move things around. For Ubuntu, I just went the other direction and said like, "No, we're going to optimize for usability, and it's okay if it takes a couple of days to learn your computer." This is a computer system made for pros, and I mean that in the sense of professional computer lovers. People who are willing to invest time and energy into learning how their system works, and reap the benefits that come from that investment. So, if we do it that way, it's okay if when you open a window, there's not a visible close window button. Like, that's one of the

things, for example. I hate those three little dots that every window has had since the beginning of time on every operating system. Like, there's none of that. You have to learn that super, which is the same as the Windows key or the command key, super W closes a window. You learn that once, and now you never need to try to hunt for the the X up in the corner again with your with your dumb little mouse. You just hit

super W and boom, the window's closed. And that's the kind of trade-off where someone who comes to this who's not willing to learn the keyboard, they're going to go, "How do I close the window?" I'm like, you learn how. Super W. It's not hard, but it will take a little of investment and it will take some uh recalibration from where you come from. And that was one of the core

principles behind Umachi. I didn't want this Linux system to be like the demo version of Windows or the cheap version of Mac OS. I wanted it to be unapologetically Linux. Now, I say that with some caveat. There's a version of Linux that's this uh neckbeard pocket protector, completely devoid of style and sense of color coordination.

It should be that just below the surface. We're built on all of these uber nerds creating this incredible operating system over the last uh 30-plus years, 40 million lines of just super nerdy code. Incredible. Nothing this that happens could happen if they hadn't done this work. But then, on top of it, we're going to layer some some nice aesthetics because Linux doesn't have to be ugly. The fonts don't have to

render like Um the window arrangement, the color coordination does not have to look like it was made by someone who's color blind. Like we can actually put things together and then uh cover it, wrap it in just beautiful computer hacker movie-like aesthetics. Like this is what I've always wanted. I would always look at these great movies, right? The Matrix or whatever, and you'd see their little interaction, like, "Why can't my computer look like that? Why is

it only in the movies it looks like that?" And like, wait, we could make it look like that. We could make an operating system that looks just as cool as it does in the movies. I mean, maybe take it back 20% just that um it know, also works. >> Super productive.

>> that's the that's the combination, right? Like take all of that and that means it's not going to feel like macOS. It's not going to look like Windows. I have no intention of There's no bar. There's no dock. None of that exists.

You have your application launcher, which you will use rarely because the vast majority of applications are bound to hot keys. For example, super return starts a terminal. Super shift return starts a browser. These are the two fundamental applications in today's world, a terminal and a browser. That's like 80% of what we do. And then we have

a lot of other hot keys. Um super shift M starts your music app and uh uh super shift X actually starts X as a web app. Um like uh TwitterX. >> Yeah. >> And if you learn all these hot keys, every single application you're ever going to start is going to be one command away. Right? And it just means

combining that with the tiling window manager where everything already lays out uh beautifully without you doing anything. You just Again, it's like you step into hyperdrive. You go like, "Oh, I used to use a a three-wheeler and pedal around with my in my little computer world." And then here's the Millennium Falcon and we're going to hyperdrive. Let's go.

And >> I love this so much. >> This is This is what computers can be. >> Yeah. >> They can be this exciting. >> Like I I want to be the guy that you when they when you see someone working on a computer at the airport, they're like, "What is he Is he hacking right now? What is he doing?"

>> [laughter] >> I guarantee you if you run Amachi and you open that thing in the airport and you just let the screen saver run or you open a few terminals or something, it's going to look exactly like that. People are going to go, "What is that?" >> So, I can get behind this because like Arch, I'm like Arch sounds cool. Ricing sounds fun. I don't have time for that.

That's why I stick with Ubuntu. That's why I do that. So, you this Amachi's like, "We riced it for you, have fun. >> Yes. Yes.

I literally have invested over the past year probably 3,000 hours in making this system perfect. Not because I want to do that all the time, exactly because I don't want to do that all the time. I want to make this one-off investment and and one day I'm going to be done and I'm going to retire on a little hill and just use my little Amachi system. >> No, you're not. No, you're not going to.

>> [laughter] >> I'm going to build the perfect system so that you, who just want a super cool computer, who doesn't work like Windows, doesn't work like a Mac OS, it looks a million times better than either, is ready to use in 1 minute. One effing minute. This was one of the things I got really obsessed about when I got I got two new computers recently. I got a Mac and I got a Windows machine. And first with the Windows machine, it literally took me an hour and a half from unwrapping it before I had gone through all its updates and driver updates and this and that and updates and I was just like, this is a brand new computer. How is it possible that it

takes god damn 90 minutes from when I unwrap it until it's ready to use? And it is not even ready to use, right? You install Windows, it has none of the apps you want. Everything then has to be downloaded with your little mouse again. You go to this website, you download this app and you click this install and you sit AND WAIT LIKE, WHAT? This is

just not how computers have to be. And then I thought, do you know what? At least Apple, they have this figured out. And I got a new MacBook. And I wanted to use Adobe Lightroom.

>> Mhm. >> So, I was like, do you know what? I'm just going to get an appliance for that. And I wanted to see the new M chips, right? Like I love computers in all shapes and forms even if I don't want to use the Mac full time.

And I opened this damn thing. I kid you not, it took 42 minutes. I timed it. 42 minutes before all the updates were done. >> Oh my gosh.

>> This is insane. >> Yeah. >> straight from the factory in this unusable form. Now, maybe I hit a weird timing where my machine had been shipped and then they just shipped something else, but I don't care. No, 42 minutes is unreasonable. So, with Amachi, I just

we worked for weeks and weeks with a lot of agent help and all sorts of optimization. How can we get this installation as fast as humanly possible? And literally, the result is one damn minute. And that's the full installation. If you're doing an upgrade from like the last version of Amachi 3 to the latest version of Amachi Quatro and you're on a reasonably fast internet connection, it'll do it in like 30 seconds.

>> Mhm. >> Again, 42 minutes, 30 seconds. Now, is it exactly the same thing? No, it's not. Does Apple and Windows have to deal with a bunch of considerations I don't have to deal with? Do they have a QA

team of 7,000 million people finding all sorts of edge cases that didn't have to be covered and every single paper cut makes this a minute slower to install? Yes, they do. I'm not pretending that what I'm doing here is the same as what they're doing. What I'm saying is for people who like computers, they can now get an operating system installed in 1 minute. And do you know what? If they find a

corner case on some exotic hardware where it doesn't work or breaks, we'll fix it. Or the agents will fix it for us. But, this is possible. We do not have to accept that these computers that are literally a trillion times faster than what sent us to the freaking moon have to take 42 minutes before they're ready after you unbox it. No, unreasonable.

These computers are so damn fast, they should feel damn fast. So, let's make them. >> Dude, I'm so hyped to try it actually. And um I Actually, so we're almost at time, right? So, two questions and then that's this is all I want to know. Hardware,

what are you using right now to run Amachi? >> I am using Dell XPS laptops and I I love the Dell, um but it's actually there's a lot of good laptops now. For a while, I had a hard time. This is the Dell XPS uh uh 16, which is like just great. This is a 16 I mean, I can hold with freaking two fingers here. I think it's like I

don't know, whatever, two some pounds, right? Great machines. This is my favorite machine right now. But, um Framework, um I used those for a while, too. Here's the Framework uh Pro, 13 Pro is also a good machine.

>> Yeah. >> What's really important is that if you get a new computer, a new laptop, you get one with an Intel Panther Lake chip. That is the revelation that um just leaped in the Intel side forward. Intel has finally matched Apple on efficiency in terms of uh power usage, and they are on rough par with somewhere between an M3 and an M4 in terms of uh full power. They're not quite at the M5 uh sorry, M3 in single core, I think is where we're at, and M5 in uh in multi-core when you get an XPS machine, right?

Apple still has some great silicon, but it's not like it was even just 2 years ago, where there was Apple and then everyone else was just like a trillion miles behind Apple in terms of efficiency. So, anything with a Panther Lake chip is going to be good. I love the Dell XPS. I think just the build quality is amazing. They use these tandem OLED displays that just look out of this world. You put a

even a good MacBook next to it, and you go like, "Damn." Uh this tandem OLED stuff is is serious business. The colors just pop off and soak your eyes. Incredible machines. I really like them. But, the

Framework is uh is good, too, if you want a more DIY build-it-yourself kind of thing, full replacement of everything. Uh I used that for a long time, too. Um >> How's the keyboard on the XPS? >> Yeah, so this is the one thing with the Dell XPS. It has this uh zero lattice keyboard, which is is a really interesting um design. It's also one of

the things that I like It looks sort of like a MacBook, but you see like it's completely flat. >> Yeah. >> So, uh that takes like a second to get used to. In fact, for me, too. Like a week or something before I really gelled with it, but now I do and I I actually it's really nice because it has these other features. You put this thing in

the in a suitcase or not a suitcase, a backpack. And you got a little other stuff in the backpack. And normal keyboard kind of protrudes a bit and then the screen gets pushed on it and then you see all your keys on your damn screen. >> Yes, you do. >> This ErgoDox keyboard doesn't do that nearly as much because it's totally flat.

>> So, second question and and be as brief as you want cuz it this could easily be a 4-hour conversation. What's your harness? What are you using? How are you developing right now with AI? >> It's changing constantly because I want to try all of it so I'm using all of it at the same time. But what I'm on this

second is I'm using Herder instead of tmux. Herder is essentially tmux but built for agent awareness. That little ding we heard at the start of the recording here was from Herder. It's really great for that. And then I use actually a bunch of harnesses at the same time. I just use the native harness

for Claude because I have the Claude subscription and unfortunately they made it a little difficult for any other harness to use that within the license parameters. So, I just use Claude which is actually quite as good. I mean, it's not like Claude is a bad thing. And then I actually also just use the the native Codex one if I'm using OpenAI. And then I've been using both Py and OpenCode if I'm using an open model like Code Llama 3 or something else like that. And I

kind of use all of them. Like I will start Herder and then I'll go into, for example, Amachi. And Amachi has these built in um uh, aliases. HDL is the development layout, the the Herder development layout. So, you type HDL and then space and then the name for the first agent you want. CX for me is Claude with

bypass permissions. And then I have uh, CY is uh, is Codex with bypass permission, Codex Yolo, right? So, if I do both of them, then I get my Neovim in my primary and then up top I get my cloud, and then right below that I get my codex, and then below that I get just a terminal. And then I you have the herder uh strip on the side to control your agents. And then of course you can make more of those. So, I end up

with this command center where I'm just using This is just on my own machine. And then what I've really gotten into recently is to use a ton of machines at the same time. I set up a bunch of additional PCs using this thing called the GL.iNet Comet, which is this KVM where you can control your machines through a browser, and it can capture all your keyboard commands. So, super and all these other things can actually be captured. That was one of the

problems I had with all sorts of other ways of doing KVMs. It just never really worked if you wanted to or needed to use the full keyboard. So, use those, and then I also connect with herder to those. Herder has this dash dash remote setup where you can start a herder on a second machine, and uh and run it like it was your local machine. But now I can be running like four machines at the same time, which means I can have a lot more agents running at the same time doing all this uh work. And this is how

we did the thousand PRs in uh in 3 months, right? So, it ends up being this command center experience where I have my laptop, and then runs a little bit of something, but I run a lot of my builds and whatever on PCs I've just put uh these Comets on and then stuck them into the closet, and then I control them from anywhere over uh Telnet. >> Wow. Okay, that was a lot. And for the sake of time, I'm not going to ask you any more questions, although I could.

This sounds amazing. But we're going to we're going to skip on that. David, thank you so much for sharing your passion because like I'm hyped, and I've got some homework now. >> Check Umachi Quattro. We're going to drop it this week come hell or high water, but there is already a a beta version out that's also ready very good.

People have been running it for a few months. The RC is hopefully going to drop today, and then as I said, the the final release is going to be out uh very shortly. >> Dude, I'm [music] stoked. Uh do you drink coffee? >> I don't actually. I do like caffeine,

but it's going to be in the form of a matcha or a Red Bull. >> Gotcha. Well, then I won't ship you any coffee, but I'll send you some merch if you'll allow it. Um >> Thank you. >> Thank you so much for taking the time. I

know you got to go build. We I I'm looking forward to Quattro, but I have to let you go so you can build it. So >> Yes, I'll finish it up and then I'll be ready to chat more. Thank you. >> David.

Take care, dude.

>> [music]