---
video_title: "Stop Using Vercel. Use Open Source Instead"
video_id: ic0L6-JqJxY
channel_name: "DevOps Toolbox"
channel_id: UCYeiozh-4QwuC1sjgCmB92w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ic0L6-JqJxY
video_date: 2025-07-18
video_description: |
  Start hosting with Hostinger! Use `devopstoolbox` at checkout:
  https://hostinger.com/devopstoolbox
  
  I thought there was one open source option for a deployment platform that resembles heroku. It turns out there are A LOT. Here are my picks, and that that rules them all!
  
  ✅ Build a Second Brain With Neovim in Under 90 Minutes: https://learn.omerxx.com/courses/second-brain-neovim
  
  ✅ Zero To KNOWING Kubernetes in Under 90 Minutes:
  https://learn.omerxx.com/courses/k8s-from-scratch
  ❗Use `devopstoolbox20` at checkout for 20% off!
  
  ⌨️ The keyboard on this video is the Dygma Defy: http://dygma.com/DEVOPSTOOLBOX
  ⚡ Tech I use: https://kit.co/omerxx/my-battle-station
---
Do you want to know what's the best open- source platform to deploy your apps? Maybe you're tired of Heroku, Versell or Netlifi, and you want to run things yourself. It can be tough to pick the right one without first trying all of them. Not everyone have the same requirements, use cases, and if we're honest, patience. New deployment platforms are popping up everywhere almost as quick as new JavaScript frameworks. Whether this is the AI coding push or something else, there just isn't

a day that goes by without a new option showing up online. But I don't care about all platforms. I care about the open- source ones, the run-it yourself options that offer both the flexibility of a paid service while allowing you the option to install their software on your own servers and run your own thing. There are famous ones like Kulifi, Doku, but then there's Cap Rover, K9, Docloy, and more. But how can you choose? Most people will simply pick the one with the most stars and have

the run. But this isn't ideal. Well, that's what we're going to find out today. To help me out, I built my criteria into a table. I'll measure the adoption based on stars, open issues, and language of choice. I'll install it and test how easy and smooth getting an application running

is, but also something that makes or breaks platforms like this, the community around them, the templates, the plugins, the support. We'll go through all of them and declare a winner. But before jumping there, I suggest watching throughout because my pick is not for everyone and some of you may find pluses in other options out there. So, with that in mind, let's find the best open- source application deployment platform. I'll start my journey using a real remote Ubuntu box which is a realworld test case compared to my local machine. Hostinger were kind enough to

answer my request with a remote box that makes provisioning and sshing in a breeze. With my public key in making things even easier, let's look at our first contendant with over 21,000 stars. Doy is a versel netifi and heroku open source alternative. It's strongly sponsored all around backed by the community and a long list of contributors. It caters for my personal requests.

Uh native support for Docker Compose, multi-erver support, making it a second tier orchestrator. It comes with a CLI and an API to automate tasks with a bunch of other useful features. But there's one critical part of Doy making it really unique. Let me show you with installation line in. Let's let it run. And 2 minutes later, a greeting tells me we're in and provides a link. All around so far,

10 out of 10 for installation if it works. And there we are. A quick admin registration reveals a nice dashboard which if you've ever deployed an app on such a platform, you'd be familiar with projects, monitoring, user management, and the rest of the good stuff. Let's deploy an app, shall we? With Doy, you create a new project, pick a server if you added any, and then turn to the source. It can be connected to GitHub to pick up and build your app using a Docker file,

a build pack, or even Nyx. I'm going to run it simple with this one and use the ever so popular engine Docker image. Confirm the deployment and it's done. Logs say it's pulled, unpacked, and deployed. There's a dedicated web hook leading to the deployment information for automation purposes. For terminal access, a simple terminal tab attaches to the container allowing remote

debugging sessions. Lastly, and most importantly, to reach a service from the outside, we create a domain. In this instance, traffic generates one for me and an optional path like /engineix. And there we have it, a famous 404 engineix page with a version indicating it's running. Doc comes with features you'd expect and even more. All back office management and yes, adding servers to

support your orchestrator. Everything's here. It also features certificate management to automate the SSL provisioning process, S3 for object store, and a registry for all your artifact needs. But above all of these basics, the real killer aspect, which I just love seeing, is a vibrant community of both official and custom templates ready to be deployed. All of them are open source and can be found on the website or when creating a service on the dashboard using a template. You can

find some incredible ready to go applications like Superbase, Pocket Base, Graphana, NA10, WordPress, Jellifin, and the list goes on and on. I have my all-time favorite, which I'm going with, and this would be Excaliraw. My absolute favorite way to draw system architectures, but anything else really, which I'm also a paying customer of because I like it so much. Just find it on a templates browser and hit create. The provider has a compose ready to go. In this instance,

it's just a simply publicly available Docker image and it's time to hit deploy. Not too long after, hitting the custom domain leads us to a shiny brand new instance of my favorite tool. Too easy if you ask me. So, do is a strong candidate. And to put the numbers in place, I'm going to give it five out of five for easy and smooth installation process. a large range of templates,

almost 200 of them that honestly can power any young startup with utilities for IT, messaging, monitoring, and even Kestra, the automation platform I use on my home lab, which I covered on a separate video, which you can find up here. It's all there. So, it's five for plugins as well. Lastly, there's the pricing thing. Sure, you can run your own open source, but Doc chose to eliminate the remote server connected to the platform, which isn't a dealbreaker, just annoying. I won't complain. It's still a fantastic platform. However,

we can purchase Docky plan on their cloud that runs the UI for you. You'd still have to bring your own servers. But why does the price go up with the numbers of servers I'm running? I mean, you could claim that it takes more resources to orchestrate more remote servers. Fine. But

this much? I don't know. I'm giving it three for ambiguity, which leads us to the final score. With over 20,000 stars, it gets 4 and a half in the popularity contest, leading to a grand total of 4.5 overall score. Not bad. Our next contender is Koolifi, another open source

famously trying to become a versel alternative and offering a similar set of functions. Coolifi states that it needs at least two vCPUs and 2 GB of RAM, which on Hostinger that are also the sponsors of this video, is not only a better deal than most cloud vendors, it actually comes with a huge disc and bandwidth to work with. If you're looking for powerful and flexible hosting, you absolutely need to check out their VPS plans. I highly recommend their KVM2 plan. It's a fantastic option for demanding applications. Just head over to hostinger.com/devopstobox and you can

add the KVM2 plan to your cart. Don't forget to use my coupon code DevOps toolbox to snag an even better deal. Now, why is this perfect for tools like Koolifi or dopy? Because Hostinger's VPS gives you the control and resources you need to run them smoothly. And their one-click installation templates make setup a breeze. You can get Koolifi or dopy up and running in minutes.

That's hostinger.com/devops toolbox and devops toolbox code at checkout. Installation-wise, Codify provides a clean oneliner similar to dockploy which installs its own dependencies with a breeze. If it wasn't clear, both Koolifi and Docky encourage you to keep the main server holding the platform alone and additional satellite more performant servers serve as hosts which the platform will then use to schedule and run your applications. Setting up a new project is fairly similar in process. You start a new project. I'll start my own from GitHub here for

a change in Kify. There's a nice touch I like that also creates a notion of environments for your application. You add a resource which for me is going to be my GitHub repo and let Koolifi know it's building a Docker image. Then add whatever environment variables are necessary. I also pushed things by adding a data volume for my SQLite supporting this application for persistency.

If you want to hear more about why SQLite is the absolute goat when it comes to databases, check the video up here. Now it's time to hit deploy again. A few moments later, the logs say I'm up. And since this is a Telegram bot, I can already tell it's up and responsive. Back to the dashboard, Kify comes with an extremely useful terminal that can pop into running containers, nodes, or any endpoint in the system since my application requires Reddice as well. Why don't

I ask Koolifi to create one? It is incredibly easy using the plugins page to run a Radius instance. take its address, pop it into my app config, roll a new version, and voila, Reddy's functionality achieved. If you keep looking, Kify will continue surprising. If you keep looking, Coolify will continue on surprising with scheduled tasks, web hooks for notifications, and deploy statuses and more and more. On a personal note, while it's hard to say for sure,

I get the feeling that Coolifi is slightly more geared towards real high-scale engineering workloads rather than something like a home lab or a personal project manager like Dockway. I made a video specifically around Koolifi. You can definitely check it out above here. But for now, back to the table. In terms of installation, Koolifi is as breezy as docky. When it comes to

ready-made open-source plug-in services, Kifi has 200 of them, which is slightly more than docklo. But while you can definitely find things like cal.com, gitlab, and graphana, I couldn't find my beloved excal or castra. And there are some fairly obscure ones like Baby Buddy for parents wanting to track their baby as an open source on Kify. Kind of niche if you ask me. Anyway,

Kify gets a four here. When it comes to pricing of their SAS, they take five bucks for the initial server as opposed to the four and a half for Docky and three per additional server compared to three and a half for Docklo, which ends up being ever so slightly cheaper, but roughly the same. And again, why pay this much for servers you bring? I mean, did they build this together? Anyway, Kulifi is the most popular of the bunch with over 40,000 stars and that counts for something. So, it's

five out of five here, which brings us to a total of 4.3 for Koolifi. Now, this is where things get complicated. Doku is our next platform, which its name already suggests it's very much attached to Docker. Like the rest, it presents itself as a platform as a service aiming to replace Heroku.

However, just by the tiny quick start instructions window, I already noticed the first issue. It's not going to run in one big bang. Doku has over 30,000 stars. Not anish project by any means. It comes with a bunch of plugins as you'd expect. Yet, I had issues. Let me show you. The wget get

liner fetches a Bootstrap script. And just looking at it, I already started asking myself, why is it separate from the run command? So, I copied both and pushed them to my remote box. It runs, it installs, and now what? Well, according to the quick start, it's time to set up a domain. But

what if I don't have one? So, I skipped forward to create the first Doku app. Side note, I'm not a fan of having to SSH into a server to run commands for it to operate. The DevOps demons inside me are screaming. I don't mind a remote CLI. I'd even appreciate one, but this doesn't feel right. But

I'm no party pooper. I'll follow the instructions. I'll grab the getting started project and fire away. Time to create an application which requires a posgress to work. So the docker way appears to be cloning a git repo called do posgress. Okay, not ideal but let's try. Then I was told to link

posgress with the rails app which didn't work. Now here's the thing. I got this thing to work eventually but compared to the previous projects this was not friendly. And this is coming from someone who's running a YouTube channel pretty much dedicated to terminal applications and CLI. Now, I don't know if you've noticed, doku doesn't come with a UI on its open- source version at least. So, I found Shoku, an open- source friendly interface, and I don't know about you,

but I don't like the way this thing looks and fits. You know what? Maybe I'm just sour about the not so smooth installation process. I'm sure the pricing is going to be very much reasonable. What?

$849 for life. And this is a limited time pricing for one production server. I don't know. So, maybe I'm missing something here. something that 30,000 other people didn't. Do tell me in the comments

below. Roast me all you want. What am I not seeing here? As far as score goes, three and a half for installation. It did work, but the overall feel is that the user is in the center here. Plugins wise,

there's a nice list. You can't compare it to the first two projects by any means. You'll find Reddice, you'll find Elastic, but no sign of the friendly open- source home lab style which I've seen earlier. Look, this could be geared towards enterprises, but even then, I don't get the way it forces you to do things. I'll give it 4.6 for the number of stars, even though I don't get them.

Maybe someone else does. So, I'm factoring in my own possible misunderstanding. So, an overall score of three for Docku. Last on our list is Caprover, a scalable, free, and self-hosted platform as a service. CLI, web UI, automates load balancing, and SSL encryptions as everything else.

14,000 stars claiming to be Heroku on steroids telling us it's the easiest with no Docker or Engineix knowledge required. But here's another strange looking installation script. A Docker run really. I mean, sure, for local use or a test box, but if you're expecting high availability, simply running Docker without a watchdog on top is a big no no. But I'm not letting go yet. So, I

ran Cap Rover and the container is up and running. It's called Captain for some reason. And looking at the logs, there's strange things already coming up. But let's go on and hit the dashboard. IP port 3000 and cap rover login. Cool. But how do I login? Apparently, there's a default, which the

only way to find out is through the docs. RTFM, right? So, the password is Captain 42. I like the reference. Let's go. And there we are. An initial setup that asks for what npm installed cap rover.

So, what was the point of bringing a container? And I get that it's for satellite instances. I just don't like it. Nevertheless, a dashboard finally with projects, monitoring, and the things we love. Let's jump straight in and create a test project that comes with HTTP settings and app configurations. What I did not find, however, is the place where I tell it to run a container or

a remote application or a plug-in. I'm sure it's here somewhere. Here's the deployment telling me cap rover is running. So, I went for the settings which welcomed me with a nice upgrade now along with MFA and other stuff. Now, a couple of things. A, there's a wall of shame for companies

hiding SSO login behind a payw wall. And in my book, not allowing multiffactor authentication is even worse. It's a security feature, not a treat. If you're running an open source, telling people to pay in order to keep it secure is somewhat unfair. As much as we can complain about companies releasing their code, B. I did not have a good time searching through this UI. So,

I'll keep cap rover short as well. It gets three for installation. For plugins, you'll find [ __ ] and Radius, but the list is one-click applications as they call it, and it's not that long. So, it's true that you could just pull any container and have it there, but you can say that about anything. So, three for ready to deploy plugins. And lastly, it was not easy to find the pricing.

You'd have to deploy it, go to settings, upgrades, sign in with a Google user, see the 1.99 per month or a $23 yearly price. It's not bad, but what does it include? MFA, like we said, build failure and success monitoring, which begs the question, is this not a free version feature either? In short, this puts us at 3.3 for cap rover, which to me was a lesson in how you run a SAS. Security features

by default offer everything you can keep pricing fair and keep the only real premium stuff behind a closed payw wall. Now, look, I don't want to keep you too long. There's another very young project called K9. It's written in Ruby, aims to deliver the power of Kubernetes to replace Heroku, which we've already figured is not an easy task. So, I said, "What the hell? Let's run it." And

I did. and it installed beautifully. But then it said, "Waiting for services to be ready and started counting dots." This was before 2:00 p.m. my place and kept going 5 hours later. I tried

this again and again, found all sorts of errors in the logs, but K9 did not run for me. Before wrapping things up here, I thought long and hard whether there is even a point to show the rest of the projects after being blown away by Kify and Doy. And eventually, I decided there's a ton of value in it. Maybe beyond the things that do work. Companies, even non-commercial teams, work so hard to build projects, open source their code only to disappoint a user first installing their product.

And it's so easy to make a user happy. Give them a bulletproof oneliner that spits out a link to a working dashboard. The rest will follow. You can have the best engineered system in the world, but if you pile hurdles on the user's way, they have a lot of free alternatives out there. So with that, our table says it all. In my eyes, Doku is the winner for most use cases. I think

if I'd go for the commercial space, I may lean towards Koolifi. The ease of integration with Git platforms and registries felt like if I needed extras, it'll be there for me, but both are pretty much on par. As far for the other options, I'm giving them the benefit of the doubt of me not getting certain processes or not reading the docs properly. I hope you've enjoyed this. If you're contemplating such a platform or even Kubernetes for some reason, watch this next video to help you better understand where you stand. Thank you for watching. I'll see you on the next