---
video_title: "World's Fastest Text Search CLI"
video_id: eBB8KXVK9D0
channel_name: "DevOps Toolbox"
channel_id: UCYeiozh-4QwuC1sjgCmB92w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBB8KXVK9D0
video_date: 2025-11-14T14:30:30+00:00
video_description: |
  DataImpulse Black Friday! Get +25% bonus traffic your purchases:
  https://dataimpulse.com/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=DevOps
  ---
  
  Ripgrep is one of my favorite CLIs and should be part of any power user's toolkit!
  
  ✅ Build a Second Brain With Neovim in Under 90 Minutes: https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/second-brain-neovim
  ✅ Zero To KNOWING Kubernetes in Under 90 Minutes:
  https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/k8s-from-scratch
  ❗Use `devopstoolbox20` at checkout for 20% off!
  
  ⌨️ The keyboard on this video is the Dygma Defy: http://dygma.com/DEVOPSTOOLBOX
  🎹 Keycaps on my Defy are made by 3DKeyCaps: https://3dkeycap.com/?ref=vxdqqmmo
  ⚡ Tech I use: https://kit.co/omerxx/my-battle-station
---
Does this sound familiar? Your deadline to finish a task is today. You need to find one line of text to help you find the root cause, and you need it fast. You open the company's giant codebase and start manually opening files, ripping others, sifting through directories, guessing by names. Things just get worse. So, you turn to Git. You

search there, but you have no idea how to tell it exactly what you need, and it takes forever. What if you could search your entire codebase before your coffee finishes dripping? RIGP is a text search cheetah that outpaces gre and ag the silver searcher in real projects not just benchmarks. Developers, analysts, writers, faster search means faster learning, faster fixes, faster work. Multiple peer-reviewed studies on human attention found that even tiny delays raise stress and cut performance. Slow

search cost you time and focus. Fast search gives it back. Now, here's the twist. I thought search is simple. You type a word, press enter, [music] wait, that's it. But to me, the gap between

good enough and instant is the gap between frustration and flow. RIP Group doesn't just find text. It filters noise, pops and highlights the results. It can provide context, search binaries, even gzipped files, and it returns everything with a blink of an eye. Let me show you how. [music]

Born in 2016, gaining more than 55,000 GitHub stars. It was initially named RIP, as in a shorter variant of Grip. Then it was XREP, then Rust Grip, or R Grip in short, which already tells you what was used to build it. And eventually, RIP was added to convey the message of a faster grip. Now, Reap also suggests this. Now, Mr. Burnt Sushi

claimed that this connotation was never his intention. Nevertheless, here's a humble suggestion for a new visual. In all seriousness though, RIPG never was or will be 100% a drop-in replacement for GP. What it is doing is offering great features at an incredible speed. Due to its popularity, it's almost synonymous with GP itself. That said,

RIG grip, not even for a second, suggests that it can replace GP or intend to do that. It supports all platforms and available everywhere. And one thing you'd quickly notice if you go through the doc is the evergoing battle with its competitors. RG is similar to the silver searcher A and GP but these are the well-known ones. On the very top it has a list of comparable tooling with benchmarks running against the entire Linux codebase with tools like hyper grip achieving half the speed and ag less than 20% of the speed of rip grep not even going into git grip and the likes. [music] I would suggest exploring

some of these because not only the different approaches are interesting, it's hard to find a utility that is as smart, fast, and powerful as rip grip. Which begs the question, why are there so many alternatives? Probably the most famous of which is AG, the silver searcher, written in [music] C, used to be my personal go-to, but seem to be losing both the battle of popularity as well as efficiency. And this may make some people angry, so I invite you to use the comment section as your nerve outlet. Back to RG, you're going to find two interesting sections. One is called

why use rip grab and that's what this video is all about. But the other is why not use rip grap. Starting from the not so obvious point of can it replace grap. And while it can if you're automating especially when working with servers scripting and requiring edge cases of GP, RG is probably not the right tool for you. For this and other reasons, it's probably best to use it locally.

and in some special cases like a pre-baked CI runner that you know for a fact is going to have it. Although RIP GRAP isn't POSIX compatible, not does it ever intend to be. So keep that in mind for those of you who don't already have it installed. Pick your favorite method and within 5 seconds you'll become a happy rip grapper. [music] Starting from the very basics, RG will take a word and a path to search in. This is every

appearance of the word telegram in my project's rhythm. You'll notice it's both highlighted and showing the line number of the result. These are RG's same defaults that we can tweak later. It has autocomp completion which for me is handled by carpace which is helping with filtration and explanation of flags. Now we've searched for a word.

What if we either don't remember the term or want a partial string. RG treats any search term unless mentioned otherwise as regular expression making things incredibly convenient for search. So for example, let's use res and a back slashw plus which in regex means one or more words like the search term. no special characters. If for example we do the same but with w followed by back slashb which sets a boundary after one word like space a punctuation character or the end of a line we get one result not including progression above that doesn't have a boundary right after res.

If you live in your terminal like I do rip makes it trivial to find anything in your repo instantly. But what if what you need isn't in your repo yet? Say you're building an AI data pipeline that fetches pricing snapshots or docs that change by region, hit rate limits, and dependent on geo variations. That's where this episode sponsor comes in. Data Impulse gives you premium residential and mobile proxies with real availability, 90 million plus IPs across 195 location. SOCK 5 and HTTPS support

rotating or sticky sessions with custom duration up to 120 minutes and a snappy response time. You can even check how many proxies are available per location before you run. Pricing is simple. Pay as you go, no expiry. Residential proxies are just $1 per 1 GBTE. Mobile

proxies are $2 per 1 GBTE with discounts for larger volumes. And support is real humans 24/7. Go to dataimpulse.com, create an account, then in the dashboard, you can generate credentials, pick your country or city, choose rotating or sticky, and drop those into the scraper or test harness. They don't resell other providers pools, so you get consistent quality at a great price, and you can even manage usage and settings from your phone. That's dataimpulse.com.

Now back to the video. This is not a reg video, but since ribb is working with them by default, you'll see quite a bit of them today, but they will be thoroughly explained. That said, I will have a dedicated regular expressions video pretty soon. So subscribe if you aren't to see some basics as well as other cool tricks and major pitfalls if you don't want to step into one. As mentioned, since by default search terms are treated as regex, code dot, for example, is code and any character following it. But what if I am actually

looking for code followed by a dot carbace to the rescue and fixed strings makes sure we get the string itself. Sometimes we want multiple expressions. Using hyphen e as many times as you like will build an or statement like getting either telegram or run in the rhythm. This will get all of them combined. If you find yourself listing too many of these expressions, you can actually send them to ribb as a file, a simple text file holding expressions. In this

instance, just clear text to search as earlier, then RG takes a file with a path and there we have it. Since it supports all level of regx complexity, if you're writing Go, for example, and would like all the unexported functions in your code, which go conventionally starts with lowercase characters, there you have them laid in front of you. All findings conveniently grouped under the file name. Exported functions, anyone? Same deal. Starting with uppercase

letters, and there they are. Now, so far we've been either searching for a single file or the entire codebase, but RG can take specific directory names and search in them. Another cool feature it has is a default ignore of dot files and directories. So, if I try to find my GitHub action like so, there's nothing to see. But adding the hidden flag searches hidden directories and does that recursively. It's important to

mention what if we're getting too many [music] results to make sense. Max count can limit the results per file like so, which you can play with to your liking. In some cases, even searching every code line in every file in the repo makes sense. Interestingly, if you pay attention, there is no line number two. And that's because in Go files, you keep an empty line after the package name, and RIP Greb filters everything out. The

next feature is something I use almost every time I run RG file gloves. This is a simple one, finding all Go files, [music] but we can expand it and asking for all results that are Go or Markdown or PM files. And this gets us the cheeky go.m domod file I forgot to filter. So throw that in and we're left with only text files. You won't believe how many

times this alone helped me to comb through large repos both private at work realizing not only waste and strange files unintentionally committed but also lines of code that were quite risky to be pushed like they have but stayed hidden for years. One more flag you absolutely want to keep in mind is the one that lists the result files only. With C, you add a count of findings. [music] And since in this case we're not actually searching for anything but rather any code. These are all the SQL toml and text files on the repo with a number of code lines. With a search term

like code for example, you can get the files in a number of search term findings. But globes are good when you need a granular search. RG has a flag for file types. Takes the type as is and brings back all the results of all go files or files with a count adding C. You can also reverse the flag to capital T which negates the search, i.e.

everything but go files. If you're like me and know GP flags by heart, you're probably familiar with I that turns off case sensitivity. But check this one out. RIP Grip has a smart case flag which comes from Vimman AG. And while Mr. Burns Sushi doesn't like the option,

we're talking 9 years ago. This is similar to ignore case. Also, when you know your expression but would like RG to work against it, invert match is an extremely useful flag doing that. So, here's a not very useful search of all non-empt lines that don't have the at sign. Or, and this is where I do use it a lot, count the matches it finds. And

if you only want files with matches, like containing the word code in them, you have the files with matches flags, [music] which has an anti flag of its own files without match. Now, here is one of my absolute favorite features of RIP GRAP. Remember, we've searched for a GitHub action earlier. Here's a way to put your findings in context, adding one line surrounding the result with other code lines around it. You can expand the context as much as you want. This is a

feature I know from so many logging utilities, normally called breadcrumbs, and tells you everything you need to know about this tool. It tries beyond its only function to do a smarter job and add the missing features in all others. So far, I'm guessing extremely useful applications, but are you ready for a small surprise? RIP Grap also comes with a search and replace utility and this is where things become incredibly useful for those of you who are going to use it for automation. RG Telegram R and Instagram will do what you expect it would not an actual file replacement in case you're wondering just an inline result. Lastly, like any

great modern utility, rip grip answers grip RC for local configuration. For example, here are some settings with max column searching hidden files by default but ignoring git and applying smart case everywhere. Instead of a doconfig file path, rip grep picks whatever path you've set in the rip gre config path environment var. Once set, the next run will pick these up immediately. Lastly, a great function for you hackers or anyone really who ever tried gripping for a binary. If you do happen to end up

doing that with an unreadable file like this one, [music] the text flag helps you search binaries with ease. There are lots of more quicks and interesting bits from the author in the FAQ, which I highly recommend for all users, like stats flag [music] telling you about the results, speed, byes consumed, etc., or even the JSON output if you're crazy enough. With RIP Greb, you're faster than ever, but without proper regex skills, it's only revealing half the speed. Here's a quick regular expressions tutorial that covers everything you need and much more. Thank

you for watching and I'll see you on the next