---
video_title: "Never `CD` in the terminal ever again"
video_id: xk-O88q-aIs
channel_name: "DevOps Toolbox"
channel_id: UCYeiozh-4QwuC1sjgCmB92w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xk-O88q-aIs
video_date: 2025-08-02
video_description: |
  Sevalla is a no-limits, all-in-one PaaS with global performance and usage-based pricing. 
  Get $50 credit to start and test it for free: https://sevalla.com/?utm_source=prettyprinted&utm_medium=Referral&utm_campaign=youtube
  
  Zoxide has truly changed how I move around the terminal!
   
  ✅ Build a Second Brain With Neovim in Under 90 Minutes: https://learn.omerxx.com/courses/second-brain-neovim
  
  ✅ Zero To KNOWING Kubernetes in Under 90 Minutes:
  https://learn.omerxx.com/courses/k8s-from-scratch
  ❗Use `devopstoolbox20` at checkout for 20% off!
  
  ⌨️ The keyboard on this video is the Dygma Defy: http://dygma.com/DEVOPSTOOLBOX
  🎹 Keycaps on my Defy are made by 3DKeyCaps: https://3dkeycap.com/?ref=vxdqqmmo
  ⚡ Tech I use: https://kit.co/omerxx/my-battle-station
---
Let me ask you a question. How many times today have you typed cd into your terminal? You probably type cd/ documents and then hit tab tab tab hoping to find that one folder you were just in a few minutes ago. We all do it. But what if I told you that's the slow way? What if you could jump to any

folder you use often by just typing one single word? This idea completely changed my workflow 7 years ago. I was working on a bug sharing my screen with my mentor and I was just about to type out a long path to find my key file. He stopped me right there and then. Whoa, whoa, whoa. He said,

"What did you just do?" I was confused. "What? I need to change the directory." He went, "Okay, stop what you're doing. Go to GitHub and search Z." And there it was. A script that would

fundamentally change how I move around in the terminal. But this script, as you might guess, had its issues. It wasn't properly maintained, and it felt old. With modern tools like FCF and lightweight local databases, you just knew it could be more. And eventually someone picked up that glove and decided to build that more project. Now I use a lot of terminal tools,

and I mean a lot. Over the years, I've probably switched over a hundred of them. I love to tweak my setup and show off the freaky stuff, but if we're honest, in any area of life, it's the essentials that truly matter. Some tools are just not a nice to have. They're the solid core of my workflow. Remember that old Zcript and the idea that it could be better? Well, meet Sockside.

It's the more than capable successor, doing the same job, but way, way better. It's quick, it's persistent, and it comes with fuzzy searching and a bunch of integrations. But beyond all the bells and whistles, it's a solid tool that saves you seconds, but hundreds of times a day. And if you're not already using it, you're going to be blown away. So, this is the Spiritual Father Z 16K stars, and it's been on my machine since I can remember. But, as mentioned, it's not maintained

and has been recently dethroned. At the end of the day, it's a simple shell script, not a very long one, too. Something Gemini describes as a system designed to navigate quickly by keeping track of frequently visited directories and allowing you to jump there quickly. Fairly simple. Its successor, and our main star today, is almost at 30,000 stars. And here's another one to get it closer.

Written in Rust, sponsored and backed by the community, and notably inspired by Zed. To get started, you install first. Surely you did not know that. I'm going with homebrew, but Zoxite comes in mix and Linux flavors and a rust crate if you're a crabs fan. There's a small setup once you have the binary available. ZSH folks have the eval with the init command, but since we established my

freaky shell tooling, I'm on new shell and I need to run the init command as part of my new. To find my new shell config, I'm going to use zoxside. But I'm kind of cheating and getting ahead of myself since I had zoxside for quite a while. Here's my source zoxite. and then zoxside init command which we'll get to very soon to see how the config can be tweaked to your liking. Now since I am getting

asked quite a lot of these are on my do files repo on GitHub. Feel free to review open issues. Not that I seem to ever get them but it's all there. Okay. Showtime C works like your normal CD on your first run. There's nothing else really to do until it records some of your paths you visit.

You don't have to use it. You can just CD your way through paths if that's your preference or just muscle memory. There I am on my documents directory and there are my docs. Now, let's make sense of how it prioritizes paths to travel to. This is more complicated than any of us actually cares about since we want what we want and it should magically find it. But while we're at it,

to simplify the system, the default algorithm used is aging, where Zoxite tracks visited paths. If a new path is seen, it's given the score one. The next time you visit the same path, the number is incremented. When Zoxite sees a query to a path, it has a few results. It'll take the number of the visitations and multiply that by an index of how recently it was visited. Last hour time four,

last day x time 2, last week divide by two. This is a bit of a head scratcher, but I can tell you it works almost flawlessly, often leaving you in awe of how this magic is even done. I'm taking a quick break for a word from today's sponsor. Tired of hitting walls with your hosting platform, artificial limits, surprise bills, and juggling five different services just to deploy your app? It's time to break free. Meet Savala, the all-in-one trickery-free platform as a service

from the infrastructure experts at Kinsta. They combine the best features of modern platforms into one seamless experience. With Savala, you get unlimited collaborators and unlimited parallel builds. Deploy your apps, databases, and static sites on a global network powered by Google Kubernetes Engine and Cloudflare. There are no fixed plans, just transparent usage based pricing. You only pay for what you use. It's the developer experience you love with the

enterprisegrade security and performance you need. Stop compromising and start building. Experience the Heroku successor that's built for today's development teams. Visit savala.com to deploy your first application for free. That's svala.com. You also get $50 worth of credit to start and test

the platform. So make sure you don't miss that. And now back to the video. So let's watch it in action. If I try to find documents, Zoxite knows where to go. If I send a partial stream like doc,

it'll still find it. But what if I create another new directory named doc in my home dear? Now zd do takes me to the newly created path just since it was more recently visited. Mind you, these change every second. If you know you have more than one optional result, hit zi. It'll take the results

to fitf with the score. My documents path and doc have the same score at the moment. You will note, however, that the documents path with the actual name starting with a capital D was recorded many, many more times and is given a higher score. If I'd search for that or simply provide a couple more characters, I'd hit my documents folder for sure. If you want a path removed from Zoxside, not that I find myself doing that all that often, Zoxside remove will delete it from the database altogether so that the next query doesn't see it at all. But the second you visit it again,

it's back on the tracklist. Now, allow me to demonstrate something pretty cool as oxide can do. Although, I can't say I use that often either. I'll jump over to one of my projects but instead of providing one argument I'm going to use two which Zoxite uses first as a search target and the second as a following subfolder inside the target in this instance fat project with a scripts folder specifically if I just hit scripts the result would be quite different just to remind you zoxide functions as city no attributes like cd with no attributes defaulting to the home directory and dash as with cd will go back to the last visited path in a way this gives you the feeling of a drop in alternative where some would consider mapping CD to Zoxide. Not sure I'm there yet. All this

is standard behavior. But what if you'd like to tweak things up a little? Well, the environment variable ZO echo note the underscores can be set to one, which will make Zoxside echo the path to the terminal with every switch. Apologies for the new syntax. I have two videos covering new shell and why I use it, and you'll find them up here or here. For your local POSIX compatible shell,

just use the standard export command. they show up in the docs. Now, every Zoxside search prints the result just before switching to the target path. This becomes especially handy in scripts wrapping around Zoxside. I'll show you one open source DMX plugin I built around it in just a bit. Now,

what if you don't like the Z as a command for whatever reason? Well, when running Zoxide in it, d- cmd and a key of choice would remap it the next time you create a shell. I've set it to X here just as an example. I actually do use C, but there it is unmapped while X answers to Zoxside. Configurations aside, let's talk about the Zoxside CLI, the tool itself that will be actually used when building around Zoxside or when changing settings and making other data related changes. We've already covered Zoxside remove previously for deleting a path. But you can

also manually add, edit entries, import data from places like the old Zcript, but also run queries, which is essentially the default behavior of soite. Sometimes the results won't make a lot of sense. Don't ask me why Zoxside query-all actually returns the unavailable directories, but regardless, it comes with a man page. If you go to manzoxide-query, for example, to resemble what we've seen so far in FZF, when running zip path, you can achieve with Zoxside query- list-score and a query string. Zoxside returns the score and the path result that we can then pipe to FCF or use in another context. Why would you use this in a standard workflow? Well,

you won't. But Zoxide was built with extensions in mind, not only as a userfacing utility. For example, this is my T-max session X, my pride and joy, a T-max plug-in managing T-Max sessions that uses Zoxide to assume local paths when creating a new T-Max session. Imagine creating a session named dot files. And not only is being created with a name, but the shell path is already set to my home dear/files that Zoxite already knows. And while my plug-in isn't maintained all that much,

and I'm sorry for that, check out Sesh, Josh's far more robust session manager using Zoxside as well for similar purposes. Playing around with the query features helps us a lot by understanding the scoring algorithm or why as a result return the way it did. For those who are like me and care deeply about what's under the hood, well, Zoxide maintains its own local database with path strength and timestamps. But I'm assuming you already guessed that on Macs, you're going to find it under library application support and Zoxite. This path is also configurable using zodo data deer but the database itself as you'll quickly notice is a zo file not an SQLite or something similar. I'm not actually sure why that is but still I was curious and while my paths are

definitely hiding in the mess it's not very human readable. The entire set of configurable variables as well as a bunch of integrations and projects working with Zoxside you can find on the projects readme and yes amongst of which you'll find both teams session X as well as sesh. Zoxside makes you fast and you've probably seen how it makes use of FZF. We touched FZF super briefly but this is one of those solid core utilities like Zoxite. Check out its origins, how to properly configure, use and integrate tools you use or even build. Thank you for watching and I'll see you on the next one.