---
video_title: "Somehow, Atuin Just Got EVEN Better"
video_id: 4aje_FZvX2c
channel_name: "DevOps Toolbox"
channel_id: UCYeiozh-4QwuC1sjgCmB92w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4aje_FZvX2c
video_date: 2026-08-14T13:30:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your Keeper demo today to secure your passwords forever: https://www.keepersecurity.com/demo/secrets-manager-demo-request/
  ---
  
  Atuin, a staple in my setup, keeps getting better...
  - https://atuin.sh/
  
  ⌨️ The keyboard on this video is the Dygma Defy: http://dygma.com/DEVOPSTOOLBOX
  🎹 Keycaps on my Defy are made by 3DKeyCaps: https://3dkeycap.com/?ref=vxdqqmmo
  
  ✅ Build a Second Brain With Neovim in Under 90 Minutes: https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/second-brain-neovim
  ✅ Zero To KNOWING Kubernetes in Under 90 Minutes:
  https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/k8s-from-scratch
  ❗Use `devopstoolbox20` at checkout for 20% off!
---
There aren't many terminal utilities I'd take with me anywhere, but if I had to pick just one, a twin may very well be it. Not only it's been a favorite of mine for a few years now, it recently made huge upgrades, making it not only incredibly performant, but also adding stuff that could basically kill another company you probably already know. It's not only faster and smarter, it packs so much power, I sometimes have to recheck the docs to make sure I actually got it right. There's dot files management, parameterized scripting, key bindings, and sync across all of your devices. But now, now there's the next level. Can you guess? Well, I'm sure you can. Artificial

intelligence. But this one isn't just AI. It isn't just in your terminal, it's part of it with it as context, making it not only extremely powerful, but also kind of the killer of another product. You know, before much like everyone else, they became a terminal agent or an agent terminal. Goddamn, we're going through the worst time in tech. I'm kidding. A twin is beautiful. It's

open source, highly maintained, and if you're not on it yet, you're missing out. Let's get into it.

[snorts] The Magic Turtle has made leaps of progress since I last updated. Not only it's already at 30,000 stars, the doc's page got a serious faceelift. And if you're still not using it, here's a quick rundown. It gives you fuzzy structured searchable prompt on top of your shell history that persists inside a local database so you never lose any command. Anyway, in the blog amongst many other news like open sourcing their AI server and custom bindings at twin 18.13 stands out as a major one.

There's better search a proxy and yeah AI. But before all that, let's rewind a second. At its core, a tuing does this. It sits in your terminal replacing your history. In a TUI, not only you can fuzzy search across pretty much every command you've ever typed in, you get timestamps, colorcoded exit codes, and even Vimlike range rulers. This is not

the first tattoo in video I'm making, and for some reason, I keep getting similar comments. So, the combination of a forever persistent list of commands is a game changer for me. It saved me more times than I like to admit. Having it in a fuzzy, snappy, searchable list that has my entire history is simply genius. And now for B. Yes, your history has tokens and secrets. And while

a twin can easily be configured to never record them, I get the worry. I get why you won't want to sync it to a server you don't trust, let alone fit it into a random AI model. You don't have to. All of these things can be easily configured, and I'll show you just how. Good. End of rant. Let's

upgrade. I'm running at 2 in 18.10, 10 and there's quite a few changes since it was messing up my TX history would sometimes choke on large data sets and surely it couldn't do what I'm about to show you. So a quick curl which reinstalls everything for me and after a few questions we got it. So, a twin has a demon, and like other demons, you can't really see it, but you can feel.

This was an experimental feature that without going into too much details was a layer that enhances speed both of retrieval and search. It's based on a similar algorithm as FCF. But it's not just about the demon. Atin is now, yeah, this sounds unreal knowing how it behaved previously, 78 times faster. Up to 78 to be exact, but how you ask? We'll get to that. This is Ellis at

author's profile. Follow her if you don't already. She posted this not too long ago. And if you're bored like me, you've found the commit where a developer had basically changed the SQL statement to achieve insane speed. He went from finding unique commands and then grabbing the n most recent to scan by recency until we have n unique. Confused? Me too. Well, suppose that twin had 1

million commands in history and control R only needs to display the latest 100 unique comments. The old query effectively did this. Read all 1 million rows, work out every unique command, sort that large result by recency, then return the first 100. SQLite had to process almost the entire history first. The new query is more like start with the newest commands, ignore a command if a newer copy of it has already existed, keep collecting unique ones, and stop as soon as you have enough of them. See this square? It basically scans backwards and

keeps unique commands until it reaches the wanted default amount rather than processing everything every single time. Nice. Next, they've added a pity proxy, which if you've used the older Atuin, you probably noticed how when you tried seeing your history after a twin popped, it messed up everything. No more. A twin now overlays the existing terminal and renders in its own popup, then removes all together when you're back to your view. Now, demons and rendering is nice and all.

We're here for the main dish, a twins AI. And I wasn't kidding when I said this is what Warp is, or at least used to be for. Once upgraded to version 1817, you're good. One thing though, and I'm sorry to disappoint those who listen to me and got new shell as their main shell, a two in AI doesn't currently support New Shell specifically. Let's talk about managing credentials from the terminal. For a lot of DevOps teams, the workflow is still a mix of env vars, copied passwords,

config files, and scripts holding secrets in clear text. Keeper Security gives you a much cleaner way to handle this with Keeper Commander. Commander is an open- source command line interface and SDK for working with your Keeper Vault and Keeper Pam. You can use it to manage credentials, automate vault operations, and launch remote sessions via Keeper Pam. It also functions as a powerful SDK for Python, .NET and Go, allowing you to integrate Keeper with backend systems at scale.

Commander also includes SuperShell, a full-screen terminal interface for browsing and managing your vault. It uses vim-style keyboard navigation so you can search records, move through folders and run commands without leaving the keyboard or the terminal. The important part is that this all sits in Keeper's zero-trust zero-knowledge architecture. Vault data is encrypted and decrypted on the user's device and the encryption keys aren't accessible to anyone except the user - not even Keeper's own employees. Instead of treating credential access as a collection of scripts and local workarounds, teams can bring it into a workflow that's centralized, automatable, and designed for proper access control. Interested? You'll find the link in

the description to request a keeper demo. Now, back to the video. So, allow me to hop over to my home labu where a twin is also upgraded. Now, check out these. Do I want my existing history to load into it? Sure. Sync with a twin cloud? Well, I know some of you aren't big fans of the idea.

Up to you. As for the AI, by default, the commands themselves are not sent to the model. That's it. Restart the shell and get the snappy thing just shooting when called. Instantly, everything is here with 0 seconds timestamp as it was just loaded to the system. Now,

at AI is triggered with hitting the question mark and you'd need to be logged into the system for it to work. So, get that sorted quickly. Authorize and boom. Now, get that. need a command to find, I don't know, every pod that restarted three times and sorted. Nice. [music] Since it's already

in your terminal, just hit enter to execute or tab to insert and edit inline. And there it is. Here's another great use case. What most of us are doing while searching the histories is basically trying to guess keywords or subcomands we had. Well, how about we use free language to find the command I previously ran to port forward to Graphfana or [music] any port forward command for that matter. Now, at won't just give you anything you want. There are limitations built in. And

while you can probably jailbreak it if you try hard enough, that's not the point. If I ask to expose the server so that it's available publicly, and yes, I've made it dramatic enough to make a point. A twin's going to refuse to cooperate with compromising my own system. Okay. And now it's time for some extra powers with the pity proxy. While experimental, the pity

proxy is replacing a previous component called hex. Essentially helping a twin get over the 2y rendering which often led to scrambled history or clearing your screen just to show inline search. Now with it installed, you can render a pop-up. But if you're following this channel and thinking, hm, [clears throat] T-Max has pop-ups as well. Well, I'm proud of you. So everyone else can enjoy

their PDY proxy. Real Team users have a feature of their own. Go to the Atuin config. Add T-Max. enable true and we can also configure the pop-up dimensions the next time you fire a tune it won't work because it's not supported in new shell yet but fire it up in ZSH and there it is lovely another thing a tune can do for you and that's not all new to be fair is running scripts I have a video covering all that should you want to go into more depth about it but essentially you build yourself a library of snippets that can be parameterized listed and run from everywhere.

Oh yeah, and since Atuin syncs, you can sync your scripts with all of your machines. No copy pasting, no git pushing and pulling with random hooks baked in already. But that's not all you can sync. Beyond your history moving around and AI on top to search things out, [music] you can now sync dot files. Yeah, now dot files can do a bit more than just sync. And don't ask me how

the next bit is actually related to dot files, but my god [music] it's useful. Under the dot files twin command, you can set aliases like you know alias k to cubectl. Set it make sure dot files are enabled in a config and then next time you call k on any machine voila sync through everywhere in a way this replaces your rc files which makes sense that it sits under the dot section coming to think of it. Anyway, now here's a cool beat combining dot files with a twins AI and the pty proxy, which earlier we only mentioned as a rendering solution. This time, even though we're in T-Max, we're going to activate the pty proxy by adding it to the same evil line that loads a twin.

Now, let's get pods from a non-existing namespace. Of course, it fails. Now, we can pop up the AI prompt and ask it casually, why did it fail? A twin will infer that it's being asked about the command history. Well, duh. But we're not done. There's also a setting to allow

a twin AI to open the last send command. Kind of like a skill. Set it. Run again. Use the failure to ask a twin what went wrong. It gets the last command and produces an answer. [music] Magic.

Last but not least, the twin had recently added color coding or syntax highlighting rather for all history commands making it not only beautiful but much much easier to read. flags, subcomands, strings, and parameters all beautifully set. There's no question of whether a twin stays or goes. I've been very vocal about it ever since starting to use it probably 2 years ago. And every time I share it, people mainly react to the sync bit that frightens them. [music] So,

I suggest going back to this video next to see how you can filter, limit, or just avoid any kind of sync altogether. But regardless, you can just simply not sync. Use a toin for what it mainly is. An amazing search over your local command history. Thank you for watching.