---
video_title: "Stop Relying on HTTP. Use Queues Instead."
video_id: MrD89TQYSN4
channel_name: "DevOps Toolbox"
channel_id: UCYeiozh-4QwuC1sjgCmB92w
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MrD89TQYSN4
video_date: 2026-01-02T16:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Hostinger is on sale: KVM2 plan is now **61% OFF**!
  Get an additional 10% off using the coupon code DEVOPSTOOLBOX at checkout, or just click this link: http://hostinger.com/devopstoolbox
  
  ---
  
  RabbitMQ is the open source beast the powers queues EVERYWHERE!
  
  ✅ Build a Second Brain With Neovim in Under 90 Minutes: https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/second-brain-neovim
  
  ✅ Zero To KNOWING Kubernetes in Under 90 Minutes:
  https://learn.dotb.sh/courses/k8s-from-scratch
  ❗Use `devopstoolbox20` at checkout for 20% off!
  
  ⌨️ The keyboard on this video is the Dygma Defy: http://dygma.com/DEVOPSTOOLBOX
  🎹 Keycaps on my Defy are made by 3DKeyCaps: https://3dkeycap.com/?ref=vxdqqmmo
  ⚡ Tech I use: https://kit.co/omerxx/my-battle-station
---
One of the most fundamental problems in modern server communication can be reduced to burgers. [music] Back in the day, I worked at a small burger joint. Yeah, flipping burgers just like the rest of us when this thing takes over. It was a small place with order incoming every 15 minutes. The manager would take the order and basically scream it at the cook.

>> Big Mac, Big Mac. >> For a while, it worked. But over time, we became popular. More people came in, multiple orders taken, and meals started fading away from memory. That's HTTP in a nutshell. You throw a message at

something, but nothing's guaranteed. If someone picks it up, perfect. If not, it's lost. That's where Q's come in. Allowing you to both create a persistent list of orders, but also go back in time and review what happened. Now, see, just

the queue is nice, but you don't need anything fancy for that. It's when you need more than one queue, create priority, handle scale of requests, and being able to actually serve different endpoints or different people in the back kitchen. To stay with the burgers analogy, this is where real systems come in. This feature is usually called popsub in the industry and you'll hear many explain it as an upgraded post office or a group chat if you will. You send a message, someone else makes sure it's delivered and many people can register to view these messages kind of like joining a group chat or a Slack channel to see all the relevant published announcements. Those of you

who built systems in the past are probably already mumbling Kafka or managed solutions like SNS or SQS, but I >> but I come in peace. Seriously, if you like paying for a service you can use locally, go right ahead. Or if you like to handle Kafka's operations, I won't stop you from shooting your own foot. >> Right. Rabbit MQ is designed for everything above. It's open source and written in

Erlang, a fact making it both scalable to millions of threads, fall torrent, and easy to distribute on a cluster of nodes. The best thing for us is that it's sold by cloud providers, so that when you do want to take the leap and use a managed service, you can easily migrate to the cloud. More about that later. Rapid MQ has been around for a while. It's been so long that you'll see it's by VMware, which itself is by Broadcom.

And these guys are connecting everything. Nah, I'm joking. They're also doing AI rabbit. One broker to cue them all. Free and open source, flexible and durable, but most importantly, in my opinion, one of the best pieces of tech deserving of the cliche where the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.

Erlang and its framework OTP are a major powerhouse of the world's telecommunication networks. OTP literally stands for open telecom network and it's designed for concurrency at scale, fall tolerance, real-time latency, and hot upgrades. In other words, Kevlar bulletproof. Started in 2007 in its own little company called Rapid Technologies, acquired by VMware division 3 years later, then sold and became part of Pivotal after another three, then acquired back by VMware in 2019. Busy life, eh? Well, two years

ago, VMware got acquired by Broadcom for $69 billion US, and the rabbit found itself changing hands again. Okay, enough with business talk. It's dirty hands time. That sounded worse than I expected. Anyway, install Rabbit NQ with Homebrew. You can actually run it as a

background managed service. Once running, the first gateway is the web UI at the default port 15672. It's important to mention that 5672 is the communication port for Rabbit. If you try Rabbit MQ then tab to complete, you'll notice a bunch of tools. I really have no idea why they're not combined into one parent utility and one can only imagine its legacy and segregation of processes. But anyway, we'll be mostly

using Rapid NQ admin starting with declaring a Q. You know, for our burger joint, a queue of orders. This usually comes with a name and other parameters. QES can be durable or transient. What this basically means is that durable Q's metadata will be stored on disk. Hence

[music] surviving broker reset while transient Q's metadata will be kept in memory and evaporate with resets. [music] Our orders Q has to be durable in this use case. The next step is to simply publish a message by telling it what exchange to use which is kind of like a router. We'll get to that, but the routing key is orders. Then sending our payload. Our Q is in the UI and the

message is shown as well in the counter. We can run a get command through the UI too to read messages. Unless told otherwise, a message isn't taken out of the queue when read. This is an important concept in modern cues where you both want to process a message and then tell the queue that you're done. Otherwise, you'd want someone else to pick it up if you've stopped. In our

burger joint, an order can be picked up by someone in the kitchen, [music] which is then called to put out a fire in the oven. We still don't want the order to get lost, so it'll find itself back in the queue. To get the most out of your message broker, like Revit MQ, you need an environment that provides dedicated resources and absolute stability. That's exactly why I've partnered with Hostinger for this video. Starting December 29th, Hostinger is running a massive sale. If you want to go to their

VPS page and check out the KVM2 plan, it's currently discounted by 61% bringing it down to just 6.99 a month. This plan is my personal favorite and offers an excellent balance of price and resources. To give you some perspective, a similar setup elsewhere could cost you roughly 7 times that amount. And that's even without counting the network bandwidth. If you want some fun, go

check out how much 8 terabytes of data transfer costs you on an EC2 instance and let me know. The KVM2 plans runs on AMD Epic processors and NVME SSDs, ensuring high [music] performance and low latency for your message brokers or any other service. Here's how to secure the best deal. One, select the KVM2 plan for 24 months duration to locking that 6.99 pricing. Then head over to the card

and type in the coupon code called DevOps Toolbox. This gets you an additional 10% discount on top of the already massive sale. Once you check out the onboarding is seamless, but the feature I use the most is a docker compose manager. [music] Yes, instead of manual configuration, I can just paste my compose file right into the dashboard and Hostinger deploys the project for me in one click. Click the link in the description and remember to use DevOps Toolbox for the extra discount. Big

thanks for Hostinger for sponsoring and supporting the channel. Now, back to the video to show some traffic. We can loop through some publish requests from a shell script. Mind you, this isn't a very robust test that these are all HTTP requests waiting [music] for responses, too. But we just want to see the UI graphs picking up traffic. We can also

create some parallelism to push it a tiny bit higher. Again, nothing in Rabbit's terms, but still. We can also use the admin utility to get a quick view into the queue. And thanks Rabbits for the table, but as a neutral user, I'd appreciate it if you left the data visualization to me. They did however add a straightforward way to keep only wanted fields. Like when listing cues, I

can pick just the name and messages columns, which is thoughtful. Do note the current message number at 8,870. Now, let's get 10 orders from the queue and do something risky in terms of flow by mentioning act mode to be req false. Basically telling the queue this order is processed the second I consumed it. Not a great practice, but in some cases it does make sense. Some messages should

be read once and once only. And while this response is a bit broken, orders are fetched and the first one with the cheeseburger says true under redeliver. Meaning this is not the first time this message is read since we did get it earlier using the UI. Just to confirm the fact that messages were truly not receded, we had 8870 earlier and now fetching 10 with nonrecueed act mode, we have 8860. So far simple concepts. It's time to

show some real rabbit muscle. Earlier, we published messages telling [music] them to use a default exchange. It's time to create our own exchange. But why? A Rabbit MQ exchange can be thought of as a load balancer or more precisely a router. Receiving messages from

producers and routing them to one or more relevant Q's. Why do you need them though? Well, the first general purpose known to most Q users is dead letter Q or DLQ in short. That is like a waste basket for failed/p problematic messages. We declare an exchange similar to a Q. name it and give it a type. In

this instance, direct is a proper router, but exchanges can also be used for topics, fan out, and other options. We'll talk about that later. Then, we need a queue to send these dead letter messages, too. In our burger joint, these would be sent to the manager's desk to decide how to handle rather than keeping our kitchen busy with nonsense. The last piece of the puzzle is binding.

Declaring the dead letters as a source and the manager's desk as a destination with safe orders as a routing key, meaning safe orders will be our filter rule deciding where the message goes. We'll declare a safe orders Q with an argument of X dead letters exchange set to dead letters so that failures will automatically go to that exchange and routed from there. At first, we process a message from the safe orders queue will artificially send a reject response to Rabbit, setting REQ to false. Rabbit understands there's a processing failure. The message is rerouted there to the manager's desk. Now, we process a

message from the manager's desk and there's our concrete block waiting here instead of interrupting our kitchen. Nice. We can now [music] fan out failures to a separate line. But what if these are not failures, but rather different places or cues these messages should end up? For example, at our burger restaurant, what if we could automatically send some orders to the burger chef, but fries or chips? We'll

go to the deep fryer person in [music] the kitchen. But that's not all. How about we do that automatically in the system? Check this out. We start by an exchange to route messages in this instance of type topic, allowing us to use pattern matching to decide on a routing key. We'll add two cues, a fry Q

and another one for the grill. Both are ready. So, let's declare the binding. And this is the interesting bit. From the orders topic, we'll send messages to the fry queue if it answers the pattern of order burger something or to the fry if it's order something fries. [music]

We'll send one burger request with order. cheese as the routing key and another with order side fries. Onto the cues where one message was sent to the fry and another to the grill. Now that the setup is ready to serve millions of burgers, it's time for my one favorite command, which is a bit anticlimatic. Rapid MQCTL status sends a list of unpar metrics with everything you need to automate monitoring and alerts from memory pressure through disk connections, listeners broken down with protocols, busy cues, reads, writes, even file descriptors. The last bit on

the status list is available plugins, which is a great segue to Rabbit extensions. There's a nice list of plugins you can add. The most famous of which are the shovel plugin, which by its name, you can guess how it picks and throws messages in one direction from a source to a destination. The other is Federation, which I hope no one officially is listening to my description, but it's like a shovel glued to a tractor lifting and moving messages across different rapid clusters. Enabling a plug-in is simple with a plug-in utility. In this

instance, I'll use the top plugin, adding extra metrics from monitoring, which you know I love. That's it. In the UI under admin, there are now processes broken down even further with memory consumption and status, giving you further debugging context for real hard [music] workloads. The last bit is taking our burger restaurant to a real scale. And nothing screams scale like clusters, right? And if you think this

burger example for infra in high scale is farfetched, I want to inform you that Chick-fil-A had almost 3,000 distributed Kubernetes nodes and that's 2023. It's probably way more by now. I'll leave a link for the article below because I want to show you how easy it is to run rabbit at scale in a cluster that can easily grow. Something that's hard to say about Kafka, for example. You can fight me in the comments. In the

meantime, mini cube start for [music] a local Kubernetes mini cluster. And while there are multiple options out there, I'm going with the official Rabbit MQ cluster operator for Kubernetes. One cube CDL apply and it's running. Then we create a simple custom resource called rabbit MQ cluster and give it the terrible name definition while also misspelling cluster in the file name. Let's apply get all the objects named definition. And there we have a pod

initializing and two services so that we can interact with the rabbit. Notably, there's also a stateful set making the rabbit setup persistent with an attached disk. This isn't a Kubernetes video. I have a full introduction to Kubernetes course in the description. The point here is clustering. The log say it's

ready. So let's first port forward to the UI and see that we can login. Logging requires a bit of hacking if you're like me and RTFM never applies to you. So hiding in opaque secrets which I then have to decode with B 64 are both the user and the password. And once these two are in, we are in. Now only

one node below. Let's see what it takes to scale up or out rather. So we're editing the Rabbit NQ cluster object changing the replicas from one to three. Saving. And we have two new definition servers initializing monitoring the logs. We can see that they're both

started. So go to the UI and what do you know? Two new nodes join the system. For those of you seeing this and [music] saying, "What the hell does this nerd want?" He scaled it up. So it's scale. I

invite you to do the same with raw Kafka or just raw rabbit servers. Making sure these things join the cluster. Understanding who's the leader, who are the followers, how to apply failover, and more is such a pain in the butt that looking at this thing just performs what I've been fighting with for a decade is pure wizardry. You're almost a Rabbit expert now, or at least a step closer to knowing better options the next time you build a system architecture. And if you like the open source nature and versatility of Rabbit, it pairs beautifully with Postgress. So much so

that Pidge can actually serve as a pubs of itself and a message queue. Not as good as rabbit, but pretty damn great. Don't believe me? Watch this video next.