---
video_title: "LLM Can't Search TikTok or Reddit. This Free Open-Source Tool Does"
video_id: CLXU4RGrU5I
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CLXU4RGrU5I
video_date: 2026-07-13T22:09:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Matt Van Horn, the famous creator of /last30days shows what his tool can do
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com
  Say hi to Andrew: hi@thenextnewthing.ai
  
  Matt’s repo: https://github.com/mvanhorn/last30days-skill
  
  Andrew Warner talks with Matt Van Horn, creator of the Last30Days skill, an open-source tool that helps AI agents research what people are saying right now across X, Reddit, YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, GitHub, Techmeme, Polymarket, research papers, and more.
  
  Matt explains why normal AI search often misses the best current information: models are blocked from major platforms, old posts can outrank useful new ones, and each AI company has access to different parts of the internet. Last30Days solves that by focusing on recent discussions and pulling together data from the places where builders, creators, investors, and internet communities are actually talking.
  
  00:00 - Coming up
  00:27 - Matt Van Horn introduces Last30Days
  00:36 - Researching Fable 5 vs GPT-5.6 with Last30Days
  01:03 - Why recent social data matters more than old search results
  02:06 - Why AI tools are blocked from X, Reddit, YouTube, Instagram, and more
  02:51 - How Last30Days started with X, Reddit, and Claude Code
  03:36 - Matt’s first open-source launch
  04:48 - API keys, Scrape Creators, and getting access to better sources
  06:00 - Why agents sometimes fake Last30Days results
  06:45 - Doctor mode and checking whether the tool is set up correctly
  07:39 - Recommended setup for X, YouTube, Dig, Techmeme, papers, and Scrape Creators
  08:06 - How Last30Days pulls together current research from blocked platforms
  08:33 - GPT-5.6 vs Fable 5 community reaction
  09:45 - Why comments are one of the most useful data sources
  10:48 - Using Fable 5 for routing and GPT-5.6 for execution
  11:51 - Last30Days researches Andrew and The Next New Thing
  13:39 - How Matt uses Last30Days before meetings
  14:24 - Running Last30Days inside Hermes, OpenClaw, and cron workflows
  14:51 - Using Last30Days to find what works in cold email right now
  15:18 - Using recent expert posts to improve prompts
  16:21 - Comparing tools before choosing what to build with
  17:33 - How Peter Steinberger’s Google CLI inspired The Printing Press
  18:36 - Using Last30Days to understand current tool and prompt trends
  18:45 - Kanye West, album drops, and Polymarket examples
  20:24 - Watch the open-source GitHub repo breakdown next
---
Your AI is being blocked by X, Reddit, YouTube, Instagram, so many other sites. I have a tool that unlocks it. And instead of giving you outdated information, it zeroes in on the last 30 days. So you can research people before meetings, find trending topics, learn about new album drops, make better polymarket decisions, see what's making money today and so much more. We got the founder of the last 30 days skill. Let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. What do we look at? Yeah, so I just typed in last slash, last 30 days, Fable 5 or GPT 5.6. And so it ran it. And then it created and about, actually we can see how long it took, it took 40 minutes for this one. So there's a lot of content that it pulled in. Usually it takes about five to seven minutes. And here's the quick verdict. This is the first true mythos class showdown. And the QDC is a race between capabilities and access rather than a simple benchmark war. Wait, why should I even care what all these people say? Why is this any better than me doing a basic Google search or Twitter search? In January, I felt like I was having trouble keeping up with prompting techniques, where it was like, okay, this new thing came out, like how do I prompt it? And the best content I found was on X and Reddit for prompting at the time. And it was in like weird niche communities, like local Lama, which is like people that are like taking Facebook's open source project and like doing interesting things with it. Like literally local Lama for the longest time was the best place for geeky content. And so that's where I was going to search for stuff. And so I always wanted to know what is the best prompting technique in the last 30 days. But I only want stuff that's 30 days old because the prompts and everything was changing so quickly. How can I do that? So kind of one problem is like, recency. You go on, you're like, okay, best way to use cloud code. And you find an article that was really, really popular six months ago. And it's completely irrelevant, even though it was really popular six months ago. Or, and then the other piece is that on all these different networks, because of rights issues, that all these services are not friends. So Reddit has a relationship with chat, TPPT, and OpenAI. Cloud does not, cloud is no access to Reddit. Okay, X only gives access to GROC. Okay, Gemini gives access to YouTube. No one gets access to TikTok and no one gets access to Instagram. GitHub is not crawled very well, even though it's very easy to crawl. Dig, what the hell is dig? There's a new dig. And it's great. And no one even knows about it. I do until last 30 days. Yes. And then I don't even know how to pronounce archive ARXIV. But the papers there are unbelievable. TechMeme, polymarket. And so, when I built this thing in January, the magic behind it was A, limit stuff to the last 30 days. And B, you could just plug in your own API keys. So you could plug in in-clod. This is how the original last 30 days works. It's very simple. It was, it used defaults with Cloud Code. And it would use your X API key. And it would use your open AI API key to get access to Reddit. And that's it. It was just those three sources. Default Cloud, X API key, and Reddit via chat GPT. And we were the only place in the world, in the world where you could get data from all three of those places. And it was crazy. And so I built it on a Sunday, literally on the ski mountain, because I wanted to build it for myself. I had never submitted any open source software to anything in my entire life. Who knows if I put it up properly on GitHub. But I just, I launched it and I made a video because these agentic video platforms were very easy to use. I'm obsessed with hyper frames now, but at the time I was using remotion. And I put it out there and I didn't have that many followers. I think I had like 10,000 followers, which is not zero. But like, I was very inactive. That was like a very slow 10,000 followers over like 15 years. Or however old my ex account is. And I launched it and we got a million views. And we got a bunch of stars and people liked it. And then people started submitting PRs. And I'm like, what's a PR? And had to learn all these people sometimes breaking my entire app and other people adding a ton of value. And then obviously it's evolved. There's over 50,000 stars now. And it's a wonderful product. And people like it. And now do I still need to put in all my API keys in order to get access to these different sites? No. And yes, it's a mix. So what's interesting is people started submitting ways to get around putting in API keys. And so what's interesting is there's a lot of interesting scraper content out there on the internet. So there's one product called scrape creators, which I'd say is the most valuable API key to get. And so scrape creators will give you access to TikTok and TikTok comments. Give you access to Instagram and Instagram comments. We'll get you access to Reddit. And so just by paying for one API key and if you sign up for last 30 days through scrape creators, create through last 30 days CLI, I think you get like almost like $80 worth of credits for free, which is awesome. It's only available to last 30 days. Give me, by the way, I make no money off that referral. I just whenever someone offers to do something cool or offer me any kickbacks or anything for the last 30 days, I just say just give that value to the community. Like I'm not trying to monetize this right now. I use last 30 days. It never told me that I could do that. It never told me that I can go and sign up for anything else. It just said, okay, you asked me to use the tool. Claude says. And now I've used it. Here's what I got for you. So what's funny? So that's that sucks, by the way. And I think that's a bit of that is is agents running rogue. What's really interesting about about Claude and codex and all LLMs is they think they could do anything. And so a lot of times they fake it. So I literally was with someone yesterday who was showing me their last 30 days experience and I was like, you're literally not running last 30 days. And it's like Claude says I am. And like literally Claude is just pretending that it's going to go on the internet and search a bunch of stuff and say this is all from slash last 30 days and it literally made up what last 30 days. I've literally seen it do that before. I can imagine. Which is wild. Okay, so then there's no way for me to test to make sure that I'm using it to the best of its power. There's a new doctor mode that came out yesterday that you could try. That'll tell you what stuff is synced up and what is not. But I'd say that the things that make it really magical just like to keep it really easy because not that many things is number one. Make sure that it is found your x cookie. So you're logged into x so you're getting x content. Right. By the way, that's how it's getting x content without my API. What it's doing is it's getting the cookie from the computer as long as I'm logged into x. It's basically being treated like me, the user, getting data, got it? Yep. Yes. So that's one thing. Make sure that's working. And if your system is too secure and you're just like, I don't want it to steal my cookies, then like you don't get that feature. Yeah. I just spend a bunch of time on the new user experience. And so all this stuff happens automatically if you sign up from scratch. So if you just delete your .env file and say, I want to install last 30 days from scratch, it'll automatically like run you through a wizard to kind of put you to good fun. So take your x cookies first. The next thing is download. I forget what it's called, but it's this unofficial YouTube CLI. Okay. That allows you to get transcripts. So just download that one. Download the dig CLI from the printing press. Download the tech meme CLI from the printing press. And then the archive one for the papers download that one from the printing press. And it downloads all those CLIs and then get a scrape creators key. And your experience will be magical. Okay. I'm going to try that. Let's take a look at the results as you got them. And so the idea is this while you're loading it up is you're saying they're a handful of sites that really matter for information that's current, x of course, Reddit, etc. Those sites are being blocked by various places. If you want your agent to be able to access all of them, this is the one tool that's going to bring everything together to enable you to access it. And we're going to see a few examples of what can happen with that. So it was previewed to roughly 20 vetted orgs in my public today. After the Trump administration lifted restrictions, the pulse across 22 Reddit threads, 31 expos and 1.1 million YouTube views, fable five is the model people fell in love with and then lost. GPT five six of the model people watched from outside. The is 124k video on GPT five six. We do the framing that stuck. And the top common is we were watching early access like peasants outside a castle. Having said that, you ran that today. We're recording July 9th. That's not a today news. That's a little bit dated, right? So that I don't have five six yet. Do you? Oh, I thought we were talking about fable. Yes, you're right. Yes. I'm sick of these today. OK. I asked Codex to check every hour if it had it yet. And it said it couldn't do that, which made me very sad. I'm like, it's 2026. Codex, you can't just check your own model. It's three hour. And it built a script that would give me a macOS notification. I'm like, no, just update yourself when it's time. OK. All right. So fair point. It did pull up latest information. What else does it have that I couldn't get otherwise? Yeah. So one of the magical things is the comments. Usually on TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram, and Reddit, the top comment is usually great. And this is literally how I feel. I feel like everyone in my X-feed has been using GPT-566 except me. And so this Zoll UI, we are watching early X-eaters like peasants outside of gas. I am that peasant right now. It pains me that I am that peasant. Let's see. Strengths of fable 5, genuinely different capabilities are saying fable 5 as one shot me would be a criminal understatement per theos guide, who says going back to OBS 4 age, GPT-5 left him running in circles. Let's see what else was fun. Weakness is the costs are eye-watering. The freshers push people towards the rival. That's a big deal breaker for me. I really hope GPT-5, six smokes fable 5. So we don't have to deal with this behavior for my enthropic. So then it'll show the head to head comparison. And then the bottom line to use this and the emerging stack is the communities and picking one. It's routing. And so for me, my plan of record is I want to use fable 5 for all my routing. And then I want to send everything to GPT to do the work. Essentially what we are seeing is that people who've used it are coming around to saying this is great. And by routing, you mean have fable 5 be the brain. And then it routes the work to other models. And 5.6 from Codex 5.6 is what will be one of the workers. That's what we're seeing. Absolutely. And that's what I want. That's my dream. And I've built a lot of my systems where I really had this pre-fable 5 where I was sending most of my coding work to Codex mostly because I run out of my cloud usage every week. But my codex, it's very difficult for me to run out. And so kind of using that combo within Cloud Code as my base has been my magical way of doing things. And I'm excited to upgrade this. All right. Let's get to an example. All right. So the next new thing is the AI era reinvention of Andrew Warner and the pivot is complete. In February, he told subscribers his bootstrap giants newsletter was becoming something new because his AI company focused needed its own brand. Today is the Zapier presented podcast newsletter YouTube channel pitched as the podcast for AI creators by the ultra pushy interviewer. And this one's output shows he's living that pitch. The guru scurrying Dan Martell episode is the month's biggest swing. I don't know if I agree with that, but that is kind of interesting. Actually, there was a little bit of scurring of Dan Martell's ideas on how to make money with AI. I wouldn't have said it that way. But I think that's fair. Every single day, thousands of internet gurus tell you how to make money with AI. But 99 are full of it. Most of them haven't made a single dollar there. He pushes back on Martell out. What are you doing to Dan? I like Dan. I've known Dan for like 15 years. Apparently, you're scurrying him says last 30 days. I liked Dan a lot. What we did was we looked at. He had a video about 14 different ways to make money with AI. And I brought a founder on who had just done $4.5 million as an AI consultant who is also a building software. I said, look, just call Baldwin Strikes here. Is he right? Is he wrong? And the guy on a few of Dan Martell's ideas said, actually, this is not really a good idea. I don't know why Dan is hyping it up. That's where you might say there's a little bit of scurrying. There you go. OK, it's giving you a high degree with it. And then the new AI drops. News round up for Matt is quietly becoming the fan favorite. Covered one click of Open Closet of Soap and Round of Cost Abies in Cloud and Slack. And the comments read like the conversion moment. Really guys, I think this has become one of my favorite podcasts. I don't miss it. It says, same. I do have a 9179. OK. The user is revved to receipts first. Let's pause here for a moment. I do see how this is valuable. Does it just sit in your app and CMox, which is what you're using to connect to to Cloud? How do you get this into your workflow? Now that it's here. Yeah, so my workflow is existing CMox in Cloud Code. So often what I'll do. So again, if I'm going to do, I'm literally beating with you right now. Yeah. I run something like this, whether I tell you or not. But it's not an automation. You can't now that you've got this, you can't hook it into Hermes and have Hermes add it to your calendar or something else like that. Sure. You can. I can't. Absolutely. So I would just give Hermes last 30 days the way that I give Cloud Code. Am I right? Yeah. So the way to think about it is the last 30 days runs in Hermes, runs in Open Clos. And a lot of the magic of Hermes and Open Clos is cron jobs. So just like automatically when this thing's happening or on a regular basis, send me last 30 days on my competitors or things like that. And so I'm just demoing the vanilla Cloud Code skill. But setting this up within your workflows is a lot of the magic. You know, one of the things that I saw you demonstrated on Greg Eisenberg's podcast was you said, I want to write cold email. But I know that what works in cold email changes month to month, I use this to figure out what's working right now. And then it basically noticed that some people are showing off about approaches that worked. And then that's how you, that's what you pulled out using last 30 days. And then it helped you write an email that I thought was a pretty damn good email. Do you have other use cases like that where you're using last 30 days for more than just research? Yeah. So that's a good question. So prompting to like, again, a very magical one is like, GPT images just came out. All right, the new version came out a few weeks ago. And so it's like, OK, how do I write my prompts now? I know for Niana Banana Pro, it was JSON. But the thing is one of my, the most magical thing is I actually don't care about learning about the new prompts. And the way last 30 days are designed is it'll be like, OK, I'm now expert in GPT images, new model. What do you want to make? And I'm like, well, my kids of course want a donkey riding a bicycle, like what else would they want? And it's just, here's the prompt. And I just copy paste. I don't even have to look at it. I don't have to learn it. Is it JSON? Is it plain English? I don't care. I just want the best data from the last 30 days of the best experts to be able to automatically know for my use case how to do that. And so I think that works for any piece of software. I think it works whenever I'm trying to decide, like, OK, I need to start sending emails. Like, what is the latest email, like, the hottest email back end right now? Is it still send grid? I don't know. And so I will ask a question like that. And then it will tell me a few of them. And then I'm like, OK, tell me send grid versus this versus that. And then it runs the report. And then usually it's very obvious. Another one was I wanted to use Google's CLI. And to access my email and do some spreadsheet work from Cloud Code. And I noticed that Peter Steinberger had his GOG CLI that he made a long time ago. And then I had seen the press release that Google had officially released their CLI months later. And so I said, last 30 days, do GOG CLI versus Google CLI? And I assumed that it would tell me to use Googles because they got to see Peters. And then I ran it. And it was like 10 times out of 10. You should use Peter Steinberger's. It's way better designed for agents from the start. And that's actually literally that prompt and that exploration when I just wanted to use Google in my command line led to me creating the printing press. Because that just blew my mind that a not just called Peter Steinberger a fan or some random dev like he's Peter Steinberger. He's the goat of this. But like he just wanted a Google CLI. And it was frustrating him that what it was out there wasn't good enough. So he built it himself. And he could build one that's better than the one that Google itself built. Yes. And that's what, by the way, months later, months later, they did it. And by the way, when that hit virality on X, I got the guy who was fired by Google for having created this or let's say after he created it. I got a month to do an interview with me. It took over a freaking hour for him to help me get my Hermes agent up and running using Google's workspace. Using the official CLI. And in the end, we still couldn't get it. And we said, OK, it's just not going to be a good interview. If it's going to take me over an hour, the guy who created it. And we gave up and I moved on. And it's interesting that you got that answer just using your research. OK, so it's what tools are working, what new approaches are working, what new prompts are working, and what it's doing is it's querying all these different sites and then seeing what are real users, what are people saying, and let the community vote it up. Got it. OK, one final thing. You have some kind of Kanye West thing. Wanna bring that up and show the Kanye West? Have some sort of Kanye West thing. Well, it's always fun to run a Kanye West in last 30 days because he's always very interesting in entertaining in the last 30 days. So he's mid-stadium tour. The concert clips are eating TikTok alive. Ye planned a surprise July 4th. The San Antonio's Albo Dome. It was a euphoric experience. And a San Antonio Realtor at the show Gushed Kanye is a true musical artistic genius. He's back. He's performing at big arenas. Yeah, he's back. Look at that. And Albania is paying 4 million euros of public money for his July 11th concert. The country is in the streets over it. That's interesting. All the love went single in the bully area still compounding. The Andrew Trapman talk box track, I'll bully just got a standalone single. My daughter loves that song. By the way, and the betting money says the chaos is cooling. Pauli Market has a Kanye Bianca separation at just 6.5%. Down 16% this month. And it's only a 5.5% odds. He says something anti-Semitic by August 31st. Real money is betting on a quiet tour focus summer. Like how good is that? Like how in a search would you ever find something like that? And what's hilarious is I run this query all the time. This is always entertaining. And it's been at like 25% chance they split up for months. And somehow all the better said you know it. They seem fine. They're happy. So Will of course have a link to last 30 days below. And if you like Matt's very open source project here, I've got a list of the top 10 recent open source projects. Click below and I'll see you in there.