---
video_title: "Free clones: Notion, Lovable, Notebook LM + top 10 repos"
video_id: 2WNl5VidRS8
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2WNl5VidRS8
video_date: 2026-06-12T20:37:30+00:00
video_description: |
  The best open source AI tools this week: token compression, a NotebookLM alternative, AI agent tools for web access, and a GitHub repo that fixes your AI's terrible design taste.
  
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-weekly-june12
  🤝 Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Special guest: Peter Cooper
  
  X: https://x.com/cooperx86
  Personal site: https://peterc.org/
  Editor-in-chief at CooperPress: https://cooperpress.com/ 
  Editor of https://javascriptweekly.com/
  
  Andrew Warner and Peter Cooper break down the GitHub repos quietly making AI agents more capable — from context management and markdown organization to physical AI and cleaner LLM inputs.
  
  Chapters
  
  00:00 - This Week's Best Open Source AI Tools on GitHub
  00:36 - mvanhorn/last30days-skill — Your Agent's Context Window for the Past Month
  03:54 - chopratejas/headroom — Cut Token Costs Without Losing What Matters
  06:09 - lfnovo/open-notebook — Run NotebookLM Locally With Your Own Voice
  09:00 - Zapier MCP — The Middle Layer Every AI Agent Needs
  09:54 - Repos Worth Checking
  10:03 - helloianneo/ian-xiaohei-illustrations — Turn Any Article Into AI Explainer Graphics
  11:15 - refactoringhq/tolaria — Offline Markdown Knowledge Base That Stays Private
  12:54 - rbrown101010/rilable — Build a Native App From Your Phone With Claude
  15:00 - phuryn/pm-skills — 68 PM Skills and 42 Workflows for AI Project Management
  16:48 - openai/plugins — Official Codex Plugins for Figma, Notion, Asana & More
  19:21 - Panniantong/Agent-Reach — Give Agents Granular Access to Twitter, Reddit & YouTube
  21:27 - NVIDIA/cosmos — Open-Source World Models for Robots and Physical AI
  23:06 - GitHub Star Controversies — Fake Engagement Is a Real Problem
  24:27 - Leonxlnx/taste-skill — Stop Your AI Websites From Looking Generic
  27:18 - apple/container — Is macOS Getting Its WSL Moment?
  29:33 - microsoft/markitdown — Convert Any File Into Clean LLM-Ready Markdown
  31:21 - Watch This Next
---
You know how everyone's got all these markdown files and you can't keep a monotone, you don't know where to put them, obscenity and gets too complicated, I've got a beautiful free solution that will work for your LLM and that you will enjoy using too. Again, free. Everyone else's website is starting to look like Slap, I've got something that will add taste to your site. And finally, what about when you have your agent try to look up information on the internet and get Bok Bok Bok Bok, I've got two free solutions that will unblock it and pull the most important data to you that and so much more. Coming up, presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Peter, the audience loved you last week. It was the number one GitHub repo show that I ever did. So I'm glad that you're back. Thank you. Let's get into the first repo of the week, which is last 30 day skill. I've been really eager to talk about this. Here's what this is about. You and I know that when we're doing research, especially for stuff that I'm doing over here, the most relevant information is on sites that are hard to access like X, which will keep blocking my bots. And it's not just on these sites. It's also within the last 30 days. Don't give me a tweet that happened six years ago or even frankly, six months ago. It's not relevant anymore. What he did, Matt, was he created a skill set right here that makes it easy to go and pull that data. And that's why people are loving it. I've actually, I think plugs it in the in the past, but it never really made it into the top 10. It is now number one, the most popular repo of the week. Where do you think of this? I mean, do you want your own little kind of like mini, Gartner industry analyst on your site? This is that kind of skill. It's going to go around and pull stuff from all sorts of places. And you might be like, hang on, how's it going to grab stuff from X when I haven't got an API key? I'm not paying for the access. And that's because hidden within this repo, there's lots of little tools for accessing things like X and YouTube and stuff like that. And it uses your own browsers cookies. So it kind of acts as if it's you, which, you know, it's something you might want to be careful with. But yeah, if it works, it works. And it is a common technique to get around the platforms, looking you down, use the things you've already got that you logged in with. And then these tool, synthesize all that information it finds into a deliverable that then you can read and enjoy and use like I'm pretty sure that it did ask me for my YouTube API key and maybe even my X. I think it's doing it. It's doing both. I thought I could be wrong. But you're saying I thought hard of this is it's not supposed to, right? It's not supposed to, but you can bring your own keys into this app. So if you've got keys, then it will use them. But I believe it has fullbacks. So that it will use, you know, it will try and slurp things out of your browser if you are logged into those sites. Okay, I like this video here that shows Matt actually using it. Let's do this one. Then I did right before we started. So I said last 30 days, highest performing cold email frameworks for ICP output three email variants, Subject Line. So they went on X, went on Twitter, found Reddit Threads, XPose web pages. And what's it doing? How I use this tool is I often don't even read what it says. Like sure, it's interesting to see what it learned. But mostly I just wanted to write a good email. So I said, can you write me some cool emails for getting on Greg Isaacberg's podcast? Sorry, I spelled your name wrong. Good target. Startup ID is later. It's all about unconventional startup ID is community building and fast, unique relevance. Now what's your angle? What's your credibility signal? Any connection points to Greg mutual follows? What timely? Talk about AI tools and work on. And I once made a smart oven. Okay. And then what he's using is he's looking it up, seeing what's hot right now and what's effective for cold email. And then he's having his AI right it for him. Good use case. He's got a few others. And of course, we got the report here with the full video for people who want to go see it. I love that. Next, number two is headroom. This has been especially popular this week. How would you explain what this does? So we had this one last week, but it is back. And the whole way that it works is that it uses various forms of analysis of basically big things that are going over the wire. So things like log files and Jason files and things like that. It kind of has these techniques to boil them down into kind of like minimal representations of what the agent actually requires to do its job. And then that supposedly will significantly reduce the number of tokens going over the wire. And there is some yeah, the truth to this technique. Some of their benchmarks showed minor gains, but then I believe you have some benchmarks from them that show significantly bigger gains when performing specific tasks like debugging and so on and so forth. Yeah, it's and I think it's because of Fable. Everyone's now seeing the Fable Fable's really powerful, but at the same time, it just burns through tokens. A lot of people have burned through tokens within a day. All of their allotments. And so this is becoming especially hot. There is an old post here that I'll include in the show notes for people that that just shows that actually I asked you, did you understand what he said? And you said, oh yeah, what is he saying here? He's evaluating lots of different tools like this. So this is a list of various different tools and technologies being used to basically, as I said, take things like JSON. So where it says they're smart, pressure for JSON, deed up and structural compression. It's because things like JSON files and JSON documents contain often lots of things that repeat over and over and over. So if you can strip all of that out, deduplicate it. That's what deed up means. Then you can significantly make it smaller and then smaller equals fewer tokens. And it's the same thing with code as well. So where it says they're IST aware code compression, that's basically taking the structure of the syntax of code and boiling it down to just its bare essentials so that you can make the code smaller again, fewer tokens over the one. Okay. All right. Let's go on to the next one. I really like this one. I love notebook LM because this is Google's project where I can really learn things the way that I like to learn things. My way of using it is I will put a big document into it and then I end up with a chatty podcast where two people who sound like NPR hosts are talking about and teaching me the topic. The problem that I have with it is those two people get very boring because you still hear the same two people in the same approach over and over again. And I think that there are other features I would want and I'd want to pull it away from Google's framework because I think they're smarter models that I'd at least like to experiment with. And so what they did here was, and here it is, it's open notebook. They basically said let's reproduce what notebook is doing but give people a lot more flexibility. I've got a really good video here that I'd like to play a little bit of and I know people have told me to told you I guess or told me that we should not be talking over so much but I'll let it play a little bit and when I get annoyed I'll stop first. The podcast generator notebook LM made AI podcasts feel actually pretty cool. If you haven't played with it maybe you should. If I run it here, well, something else happens. You take a listen. It's a game changer for researchers looking for autonomy and privacy. Absolutely, Alex. I think one of the coolest aspects of alum. But open notebook gives you more control over that format. You can generate podcasts from your sources, configure the structure and use multiple speaker profiles instead of being stuck with one fixed stop. Multiple speaker profiles is where they got me. Maybe not even have two people. It doesn't have to be two different personalities every time but even have a third person. Anyway, it's great. We have a full link here for everybody who wants to go check it out. Any thoughts on this? I think the biggest win here is privacy. So when you're using Google, everything's going up to their service or whatever, but this really pitches itself as being something that you can run locally on local models. Now, you might think, oh, it's going to not sound very good or not perform very well because obviously running local models is very intensive and a lot of people's machines just can't run them. But as we saw, that's getting better. And last week we had I think something called Vox TTS, which we tried out and produced the amazing voices in such a small amount of space that actually, you could produce voices that are entirely prompted. You could say, I want it to be some with a particular accent or, you know, I want it to be, yeah, you just describe who it is you want it to sound like. You can't do it with Google, you can do it with local models. So it is worth a try. But it is going to be work setting it all up. So don't think it's just as simple as notebook LM. You got things to set up here. That team, by the way, reached out to me and I love that they did. I'm hoping I get to talk to them. I've got another video here for you to take a look at when we're done, folks. And now comes up my, comes my sponsor Zapier MCP. If you are here, you are probably messing around with lots of different tools, lots of different LLMs, lots of different computers. Even in fact, I was complaining to Peter quite a bit. Listen, as he said, a lot of me with how many things get lost. Skills are in this computer. Anyway, the beauty of Zapier MCP is you get all of your connections to all the tools that you love in one place. It is so easy to use. I really urge you to go and try it out. It's free right now to use it. And you can experience what it's like to connect all your tools and give it the parameters that you want. So maybe they don't have right access. Maybe they have read access, maybe they have draft access, etc. And now you have a URL, a simple tool that you can give to every, every other product that you work with. Go get it. Go check it out. And thanks Zapier. We're also going to get to do these repos worth checking in between here the top 10. And the first one came from you, Peter. What is this one? So I first saw this in an ex post by Justin Moore, who is a partner at I-16Z. And she was very impressed with what came out of this there. This is the tweaking. So what you do is you direct this skill. It's a codex only one at the moment because it uses code x is built in image generation tools. But what you do is you point this to like an article and preferably one that you've written yourself. And it will go through and yes, it's all written in Chinese. I did translate into English to see what it was about and it's all pretty straightforward. But you put it in your content. It works out some metaphors for the different things that you're trying to communicate in that content. And then turns it into these kind of cool illustrations with this black kind of like blob character that you can see and that adds annotations. And by default, I think it does actually do it in Chinese, but you can just tell it do it in English and it will do it in English. And I've played with this quite a bit and I've actually been really impressed with the kind of the metaphors that come out of it. It's quite impressive. And it's using the G-B-C image to model for generating the images behind the scenes because that's what codex uses. I really like that you found this. I mean, honestly for me, I love that we're doing the top 10 because it says something, but I also actually not also I prefer these great finds that people wouldn't discover otherwise. Like this one, this is called Tolaria. And this is another one that you found. Oh, this is so beautiful. I am so glad you turned me on to this. People are going to love it. What's the problem this is solving? And then what is it looking? What does it look like? So lots of people now, and we included have lots of markdown notes who not want to categorize them and just keep them around, you know, on your system, be able to search them and be able to, you know, look at things and do a whole whizzy wig markdown editing thing. This does all of that. So there's lots of other tools of this kind of nature out there, but this one is open source and it's free, and it's particularly focused on AI integration. If you want it, I mean, you don't have to use AI with this whatsoever, but you can because all of the files that it uses are literally stored on your file system. So you could have something like, you know, co-work or whatever, just produce files and edit the files, and it doesn't even have to use the app. Like it can just edit the files on the file system, and then they automatically update in real time within this, you know, note management apps. So very cool. I gave it a run. I'm really liked it, but it's a case of migrating over to these things. I've already got my own system, but I would very much like to try and get that done. I've seen so many people look for tools that will help them keep all their markdown files organized. Obsidian is the one that's talked about the most, but for most people, Obsidian is too much, and it's just not engaging. Meanwhile, look at this. Pretty looks simple. Looks a lot like notion to be honest with you. In fact, I don't know why, but they also have at the top right here under properties notion ID. So I'm guessing they're pulling documents out of notion to there. But it is such a good find. I love that you got that. Oh, there's Luca, the founder. I guess. Final one came for me. I'm really excited about this one because as soon as Fable came out, I saw this dude, Riley Brown pushed this video on X, which just went insane. Guys, quad, Fable or Mythos is absolutely insane. On the left here, we have the actual level, lovable mobile app. And here we have a lovable mobile app that I built in two prompts with quad, Fable 5. This is the chat thread. Here's prompt one. And then I just said run it on simulator two and then go. So that just counts as one prompt. And then it did some stuff, did some stuff. And then I just screenshot it all the screens on lovable. I just need you to redesign it to look exactly like this. And okay. And it did it. It made it look just like lovable as you can see on your screen. But the cool part is that at the end of it, he said, you know what? I now want you to build me something. And the thing he said to lovable to build was notion. The thing he said to his copycat of lovable that Fable built is notion. And then it went head to head and you know what? He said in some ways, I really like mine, my version better. I guess there were some people who said, is this real? He then put it up on GitHub and said, here you go, folks, go play with it. And you see for yourself, if this, if this stands up, it's got 67 stars. I don't necessarily recommend that you replace lovable with this. Like get it, it's rileyable and riley is lovable. But it gives you a sense of what can be done with Fable. And as soon as I saw this, my eyes were open to what I could build. I love this. What do you think? I don't have a lot to add to that really. I mean, this is clearly one developer's passion project. And you know, that's one of the reasons that people stick with things like lovable and bolt when they get them working is because, you know, there's a massive amount of money on the table. And there's a big team and all that type of thing. Right. But it's great to see that just individual developers can spin, you know, spin things like this up. Yeah. It's totally within your power if you've got the skills to do it. Don't use it to replace lovable user to see what you can. Not just yet. No. Okay. So now number four repo of the week is PM skill 68 skills and 42 chain workflows across nine plugins. I was like, oh, I'm about it. And I was a little sheepish. And then you said, no, there's a real value here. What do you see that's valuable in this? Again, you know, this is another one of these repos that's full of different skills and prompts. It is basically a big prompt library. But this is clearly built by someone who, you know, has a little bit of knowledge about project management. I know nothing about project management. So any guidance that I could get is valuable. But it doesn't, it does have some commands in it. So you can do things like get it to interview you about your project. And so it will just keep drilling you with questions until it can put together a plan. And it will do things, you know, let help you do consulting and strategy and all those types of things. And I don't know those areas too well. So this is useful for me. But I would say if you do have any knowledge of those areas, this is another one of those repos to go through read and steal from because you might not want to take on their approach to project management wholesale. You might want to come up your own thing. And this will give you a good basis upon which to build your own, you know, tool into do those interviews on yourself. We'll say, you know, I usually like to find YouTube videos that illustrate this to see how other people use it. I found one. These guys went through it and it was terrible. And then I got in my own head. I go, I take you back. No, no, no, it wasn't the skill that's terrible. Their video was skill was terrible. So I go, oh, no, they've, they've got a lot of views. But it makes no sense what they're saying. They're just, am I that bad? And then I started getting my head about like, I've got to get better here. I've got to prepare more. And then I drove myself and my family crazy this morning trying to like go through this and not be bad and not. So anyway, I've got no video on this. All I got is a head case on this. And I'm working through it. So let's go on to the next one. Open AI plugins. This is another one that I didn't fully comprehend the value of until you and I talk. And it's from open AI. It's plugins for their software for codex. What is this? Well, of course, I just want to firstly say that, you know, everyone should go and use your sponsors app here. But this does provide some similar skills if you're willing to kind of get, you know, deep down with codex. And you want to plug in things like a sauna and air table, like you can see on the screen there, but also things like Gmail and G calendar and different research things as well. I noticed for a new like things I would never use, but there's like research APIs and things. If you want to provide access to those to codex, these are the plugins to do so because, you know, they're kind of semi official or probably even fully official. I don't really know what the third part is after saying about it. But this is what open AI is putting forward is saying, like, you know, you want to hook into like notion, for example, then install this plugin into codex and off you go, you can ask it to do this and do that. So, you know, this is kind of almost like a homebrew local version of some of like what tools like Zapier doing, connecting things together. But yeah, you kind of have to figure out all the moving parts for this. What I also saw was that it does, it's about getting data out of these tools to do something with the tools. It's not just open-ended. So, for example, I might connect notion directly into a cloud. And that's fine. But what they're trying to say here is if you want to turn a spec into implementation in cloud, we also are going to have that covered and this will find the specs, turn it and start to implement. That's, it's like a not connect, it's not about the connection from what I understand. It's about the utility with guidance. Am I getting that right? No, I totally agree. I mean, and this is the type of thing where you can use these tools within your other workflows that you're doing. So, let's say, you know, you're building an app in codex and you want it to use your project management system, like, say, JIRA or something like that for doing tickets and you can tell it, you know, go and look at the tickets that are currently on our system, pull them down, implement something and then update the ticket with comments or whatever it is that you want to do. So, it just allows you to plug in these third-party systems into your codex workflow. Okay. All right. There's our launch video. I'll leave it for everyone to get in the show notes. We're going to move on to agent reach. This is one CLI that lets your agent read and search Twitter, Reddit, YouTube, GitHub and other sites. You made a distinction between this and the first 30, in the last 30 days, skill, sorry, the last 30 days repo that we talked about in the beginning. What's the difference here? When I look through the code, I just kind of saw some similarities between the two repos. So, that last, first, you days thing, you basically give it a topic and it produces a deliverable of what happened in the last 30 days and whatever topic you want. But underneath the hood, it's using a bunch of tools to access things like X and YouTube and so on and popping data from those to synthesize that report. Well, this is like if you just took that layer of tools and just turned that into a thing. So, if you want more granular access, if you want to be able to ask Claude or whatever, you know, go and look on X for such and such or look on YouTube for whatever it is that you want. Then this is the kind of the more surgical, like the surgical knife that allows you to do that without producing that big deliverable. You just use it within whatever workflow you're working on at this current moment. I like this example for LinkedIn. Tell your agent, help me set up LinkedIn. Yeah, again, this is for researching, for understanding somebody. When I talk with Adam about tools like this and I say, how do you use it? He says that they use it all the time in the venture studio because one of their companies is trying to hire so they want to research people. One of their companies trying to buy your company or work with the company and so they need good research tools. They don't want to have somebody clicking a mouse on a screen and that's where this comes in. Makes sense? There's a few Chinese social networks as well. I don't know anything about these networks, but I believe the developer is Chinese and so they've added in these various other sites that I'm completely unaware with. Like, was it Billy, Billy Billy or something? I don't know. I know nothing about these sites, but I guess if you want access to them, then great. Yeah, I don't know if you noticed, but when I read off the list of sites that you can read from, I intentionally said, and others. Once we had to get to the Chinese ones to make sure that I didn't misnounce them. No, no, no. Familiar with these. Okay, the tool still works really popular and it's number six this week. Again, download everything in the description. Let's go on to this one, less applicable to our people, but still worth knowing about. This is NVIDIA's open platform for world models, data sets and tools for physical AI. We're now talking about robots, autonomous vehicles, smart infrastructure. I've got kind of a video here to show anything you want to say about this. Not really other than the fact that this is a new kind of what they call an Omni model. So it can handle lots of different types of input, not just text, but also, you know, like movement within space and images and list type of thing. So it's good for people working in the physical space, which is not me. I know absolutely nothing about robots. But you want to look at robot arms moving around. Then this is the place. Yeah, they do have that on their site. And I do wonder if people who were listening are doing that. I'll tell you those folks. I stop talking over the videos because one commenter told told us that in Peter, Peter noticed it and told me if this is something that you're building with, let us know. Let us know how you're using this. Video Omni dreams and action condition world model. Cosmos predicts the future frame by frame. Post train cosmos and it becomes a world action model. Perceiving reason, planning, generating actions. Okay. I like that it's here. I like that we're getting more substantive and getting offline. I don't think it's applicable to most people. We'll move on to number eight. Oh, before we do, we keep commenting on how some repos don't seem to fit here. How do they get all these stars? And you have said, look, some people do, Adam actually said some people buy you've been questioning some. And then you highlighted these. What are we looking at here? So I noticed that this Phantom Stars account, which I know nothing about, this is, but it's a tool of some kind that is going around and commenting on different repos where it thinks there has been what it calls fake engagement. So it's not making a direct, you know, accusation and we're not making a direct accusation. These projects are engaging in any kind of like buying stars or whatever. But it's saying we've noticed that there are these users that are very suspicious and do nothing but go around and like random repos and have no other activity. So I just thought it was interesting that it cropped up on a few of the ones that we covered today. But I guess that makes sense since they are the most popular ones of the week, they're the ones are most likely to attract this, you know, with or not, it's being done intentionally or not. Yeah, they're going to get the most everything. Okay. So I've got links here for those. It is happening. It's a thing. Yeah. And if anyone has any information about this, let us know. I'm curious about who's buying stars. What are stars cost? I've been hearing a lot about people who are buying engagement on X and doesn't cost that much. Somewhere anywhere for a thousand dollars. So, you know, if anyone wants to help, they want bots to do it. They want a thousand repos started for one dollar. Okay. This is bringing up taste skills, bringing up a really big issue, which is that everybody's design looks the same, especially if it comes from any of Claude's products, except I don't know about Fable. I've been hearing Fable's getting better at it. But if you want to create your unique taste, if you want to create your unique angle, don't start with what Claude has and adjust it, start with something brand new. That's the vision here. And they've got here. Let me show you before and after from this video. So you can see this is a very basic landing page. So even though I think it's decent, but it's pretty basic. So let's check out the one that has the taste skill. Take it a moment, but I'll get it. And you can see that this is a better. So this is actually real premium. And you can see that the UI is very elevated. So it's very good. So that's that's the idea here. You can take a look at their site, which of course we'll link to and you can get a sense of their design style. I like it. I like these a lot. What do you think? I think it's very important to note that you are basically trading one sort of cliches for a number of skills like this. So like when I went into and looked through the skill files, you know, it's got all these different kind of like tones like brutalist design and minimalist design, a soft design, which you can see on that page as well. And if you go into the skill files, it basically says, oh, you know, like a soft design will use these types of colors and it will use these types of fonts. But you're really just over, you know, steering the model away from what it would do by default into this other kind of lane. So you're just trading one sort of cliches for another. But the good thing about it is you can take repose like this. You can go in and say, well, actually, I want to make my own style inspired by all of this copy and paste it, change the fonts around, change colors around and then bam, you've got your own little design system come out of it. So I don't mind repose like this. It is nice to see what other people's takes are on designing things. And it's kind of like fun to play with, you know, it's not like it's producing code that's going to completely break everything. It is basically just changing the design, the style, the CSS, the fonts and so on. So yeah, experiment play, but also again, you know, I've said this on so many repos. It's a case of go into the repose, look at the skills and see if you're happy with what it's suggesting because you might not like you might not like these designs, but you can change it. What I like about this video from Dev's Kingdom is he he shows how easy it is. He just has it create another version. He clicks it open and he shows us what it looks like. And I think that's another fun thing about this. Just throw your design at it, see what it can do. And then adjust. All right. This is Apple's own tool to run Linux containers at the lightweight virtual machines on Apple, silicon. This came out at WWDC this week. How and what's going on with this? So I mean, this idea, even Apple has been actually around for, you know, a year or two now, which is that it allows you on macOS to basically run Linux within a tiny virtual machine within your machine. Now you've been out to do this with third party tools for long, long time. This is, you know, a technology that goes back decades, but now Apple's getting in on the action and people thinking, well, why? Why would they want to do that? And that's why the announcements at WWDC this week, in particular, were interesting is because they're taking it to the next level. So it's not just about running, you know, a random Linux in a VM. You've been out to do that for years. They're focusing more on the integration now between macOS and these underlying VMs. So they're adding in things like being able to keep the file system synced between the two. And hopefully, you know, they'll eventually get it to the point where it's a bit like, they're saying in Windows called WSL, which allows you to run Linux and it fully integrates with Windows, you can even run graphical apps from Linux and they appear on the screen, you know, almost as if they're Windows applications. The idea is that hopefully you'll be able to do all of this as well with macOS eventually. They're just kind of like teasing out a bit after bit and Tim's sniff there is one of the people that's actually working on this feature. I mean, one of the things that actually I found quite funny about this tweet is that he said, oh, you know, I love what's going on with Apple container and so on. Reply back and said, oh, you know, we've been out to do this for years and people didn't realize he's the guy actually implementing this stuff. So it was one of those kind of scenarios. But it's nice to see that Apple's interested in this and they're allowing the people to talk about it. That's quite unusual that Apple with technical stuff. You know, you don't often see them tweeting about things that they're actually implementing. So it seems like they want to engage with our community and they want, you know, developers and particularly AI developers to use these containers. I mean, the 10th of the VMs. To run workloads safely within a macOS machine without it taking over the entire machine. And that is one of the things that this allows you to do. All right. Repeat. Mark it down. Coming back again. This one keeps making it into top 10. This is Microsoft's way of helping you turn PDFs into markdown office docs images. Audio into clean markdown files, even YouTube videos into markdown files. We've talked about it before. So you know what? Today what we're going to do is we're going to have this YouTuber who I can't tell if this is a real guy or not because he's so like he's so always on exactly right here. So maybe he's super edited. Everyone uploading PDFs to cloud is basically wasting their tokens. And Microsoft had a free solution to this for months. So every time you upload a PDF, cloud has to process the entire thing, the formatting, the broken tables, the images, and all the extra junk inside the file. And each PDF page can consume between 1,500 to 3,000 tokens. So 20 page document burns through up to 70,000 tokens in one shot. And this is before you even ask your first question. The fix is simple. It's called market down. A free Microsoft tool with over 110,000 stars on GitHub. It takes any file via PDFs, Word docs, Excel sheets, power points, or even YouTube videos and converts them into clean markdown text. This drops your token usage by up to 70%. And cloud actually gives better answers because it was trained on millions of markdown documents and understands the format native. Plus market down comes with an MCP server, meaning when you connect it to cloud desktop, it automatically converts every file you upload to a .md file. So check the pinned comment for the tool link and the full PDF guide. All right. I like his is wave doing it. Do you think he's human? I'm not sure, but are you human? I would like to be less human. I'd like to get like more AI into the scripting here. Look at how organized he was with that. All right. Of course, that report with his video and everything else is going to be in the description before we go, Peter, what are you up to this weekend? I am literally doing nothing. I'm attending a family barbecue. Other than that, I'm doing nothing because I just need to decompress all these stars, literally getting into my head. I need to get rid of the stars. Yeah. I am going to be mowing, mowing, mowing this weekend doing a lot of yard work. And then Olivia is taking the two older boys with her to San Francisco to be with her family. And I've got the baby with me for 10 days. And I don't know what we're going to do. I've done that before. Yeah. It's it's something. But you know, he's a daycare. And then I think I think on the weekends, I'm going to take him to to San Antonio. We're in Austin. And I'll take him to a museum where he can run around all the time. And I'll bring my guitar with my earphones so I could practice and just have some downtime while he's running. All right. So there it is. As the next video now, this is over. You should know that there been some incredible AI releases this week that did not get much attention because Fable was big and also because people just don't have that much attention span. We found the best ones in the next video that you're going to watch. You're going to see them. See you in there.