---
video_title: "I Built an AI Employee With Claude & Obsidian"
video_id: ty49TiLlKPM
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ty49TiLlKPM
video_date: 2026-05-21T15:48:17+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/fraser-claude-obsidian
  👉 Fraser Cottrell (X): https://x.com/sourfraser
  👉 Company: https://fraggellproductions.com/
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  
  Fraser Cottrell runs a business doing over £2M a year with a team of 20+ people. In this episode, he shows how he connects Claude and Obsidian to create a business memory layer that helps with SOPs, contracts, finances, staff information, newsletter data, and meeting notes.
  
  Andrew and Fraser walk through how the setup works, including how Claude organizes the Obsidian vault, how MCPs connect the tools, and how Zapier moves Fathom call transcripts into Google Drive so Claude can digest them and save the important information back into Obsidian.
  
  The big idea: AI gets much more useful when it has access to the context of your business. Instead of using Claude as a one-off chatbot, Fraser uses it more like an employee that remembers the company’s clients, team, documents, calls, and operating systems.
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Creating SOPs with Claude and Obsidian
  02:00 - Presented by Zapier
  02:06 - Connecting Obsidian to Claude with MCPs
  03:27 - How Fraser organizes his Obsidian vault
  05:15 - Claude’s daily Obsidian audit
  05:51 - Using Obsidian for newsletter data
  08:42 - Saving meeting transcripts into Obsidian
  10:03 - The simple Zapier workflow behind it
  10:48 - Obsidian as a business memory layer
  11:33 - Closing
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I run a business that generates over two million pounds every single year in revenue. I have a team of over 20 spread across the world. And by connecting Claude and Obsidian, it's like I have a whole new employee. It generates SOP's contracts, helps me with my finances for my business. So let me show you how you can do this too. Fraser, I'm excited about this. Can I see how you use your setup like an employee? How about create an SOP? Okay, all right. So essentially what this is doing is it's telling Claude to go and use Obsidian all the information that it has in the vault over there in order to create me and onboard an SOP for my agency. So what it's going to do is going to pull from all that information. But realistically, I don't even need to instruct it to pull from Obsidian because it will kind of do that for me already. But I have specifically said it in this. But I'll just hit go. Obviously this might take a little bit longer. I have found that with these prompts. When you're using Obsidian, it's obviously because it's pulling through a massive database. Things do normally take a little bit longer. It's given me a lot of different information here. And then obviously then I can work with it back and forth to make sure that it's got the information that it needs. One thing that I do use this a lot for is because it knows all of my staff. Because basically I uploaded every single one of my staff's contracts into Claude and it digested them into Obsidian. I can ask it anything about my staff in terms of like you know whether it's like holiday pay or anything like that and it will go and search. I can rank all of my staff by how much I pay them like anything like that. And it will do it for me. It's not going to read each individual PDF instead. It's just going to go to those markdown files that is done and all the key and relevant information. Right on. All right. This is excellent. I love it. By the way, I'm sponsored by Zapier which I use to connect about 10,000 apps to any AI agent that I use. Show me how to connect Obsidian into Claude. So one main thing an Obsidian does recommend this is that you put your vault folder in somewhere like Google Drive desktop. This way no matter where you are it always has access to that vaults. That's one thing that I suggest first. In order to connect it directly to Claude, I use a MCP which is in my opinion the easiest way to do it with. There is a ton of them. This is the one that I used which is from Ian's in Not. And it gives you all the instructions on here of how to install it. Honestly, how I installed it, I copied and pasted the URL into Claude and I said install this for me. Excellent. And it did it for me. There's a couple of things that you need to do. One, you need to turn on. You need to make sure that you turn on a certain feature within Claude but again within Obsidian. Sorry, but it will tell you to do that. But that's how I do for most of my MCPs. I just tell it to install it for me. All right, and of course we'll have a link to this in the show notes so people can see it. Let's take a look at your Obsidian setup. How do you set it up so that it has the data it needs to run your business? So again, I ask Claude for the best way to do this. So the main thing, it doesn't because I'd never go into Obsidian, I'm looking through the files myself. This is really all only organized so that Claude can find everything in the fastest possible way. So I just asked it, can you organize my Obsidian in a way that will make information faster for you to find? And that's exactly what it did. So you can see like there is so many files. And they're all yeah, they're all linked to these like key places basically. So what's this one? Process and deals in progress. One node per active deal, discovery page, nodes, proposal status. Now this is not you setting it up. This is not you. It just knows to create that that section. Yeah, yeah. So there's these main things. There's a home one. There's an index. There's a client roster. So that has that link to a file then for each of my clients. There's another index one there. And then these just all link to separate places. Right. So you can see these are my Claude code tools here. So it knows about them. Right. Can we see the tools? So these, this is just like basically how the tool is made so that it always can reference them. There's a ton of tools. We can we can go through that for sure. But if we're just sticking on here on Obsidian, yeah, everything here is linked together in some way or other. So it's constantly back referencing another one. So you click on this and it goes to another file. You click on that one. It goes to another file. Again, I didn't build this. Claude build this. But the important thing is that I have a Claude, a Claude cowork task that runs on another computer, which isn't my laptop that I'm on now, that every single morning, it does an audit of the entire Obsidian and make sure that everything is connected and nothing is left off to one side. So you can see here, there's a couple of things which are left over here. And what it will do is it will pick up these when that schedule task runs and it will find a place for them. Can I see one of these docs just to get a sense of what it's doing for you? Yeah, let's have a look. So, okay, this is one of these ads newsletter. Yeah, this is my newsletter, right? So it's pulled from a couple of other MCPs, but it's stored in information here. So it's got all active subscribers, the acquisition, like charts, everything, reach, pulse. Wait, so is it filling this data in on a regular basis? It's just going out and grabbing it. So you have an automation setup so that it will go and grab your data from your newsletter and put it into here. Yeah, so it uses the B-Hive is the supplier of my newsletter. So there's a B-Hive MCP every single time that I have written a new newsletter. I paste it into Claude and say, write me a subject line. At that part, then there's a skill that runs which then basically tells Claude to use that MCP to go and get the most recent information about my newsletter and then update that file that you just saw and then it will use that in order to create me the best performing subject lines. So it's also looking at all your past headlines that worked for you or all of them in analyzing what work best for you and then it's creating one. Correct. So if it's saying that your 55% open rates come when you say something like why your X isn't working. Yeah, right? And it does like paradox contradiction does well, named brand does well, or how we're, et cetera. And then you're in the 50 to 55% if you have a bold death claim plus a replacement. So something like Claude is dead. Yeah, something else is better. That's the kind of thing that gets you even higher open rates. But you can see like just by the search here, right, it's pulled 217 mentions of nice ads to some extent, right? So that's your newsletter name. Yeah, exactly. So it's so many times it's pulling information and saving it back to obsidian on a regular basis. So now when you write, do you write in Claude? And then Claude goes in and hunts all the stuff down and helps you write your newsletter. So no, because I'm old school, I like to, I don't write it, I use whisper flow to dictate it. But what I will do is I will paste the final thing into Claude to then write the subject lines. But yeah, I mean, realistically, it has pretty much every single issue of nice ads. So it probably could write me one. I just prefer to do it myself. But you're doing whisper flow into Claude chat and then Claude chat writes something for you and it's informed by your past messages. Correct. Got it. Interesting. All right. I like the way that you do that. What are some of the other things that you that you do with it? One of the main things is I'm on a lot of calls, like a lot of calls, right, with prospect clients, with staff members, everything like that. I use fathom for my call recordings and I don't pay for it. I use the free version. So because of that, there's no direct link to any kind of like LLM or anything like that. So instead, I use Zapier to send all the call recordings from fathom and then put them in a Google Doc and then save them in a file in Google Drive. I then have a Claude call work schedule task that then pulls every single day. It pulls the last 24 hours worth of calls into Claude. It digest them and then it puts them into my obsidian. Got it. Because there's no direct connection to obsidian from fathom. Yeah. So it has a look at the transcript. It sees the transcript. It pulls out all the key information from it. So it's not just saving just a huge transcript. It's saving like relevant information for me and then it saves in all back in here, which then means if we do end up working with that client, I have all this back information on the client from when we started talking, all the way to when we're working together that I can then call from. Can I see the Zap? It's the most simple Zapier ever going to see. The new transcript is in. Create a file from the text. That's it. And then if you click on the Google Drive, it's going to they go from my meetings. And then if you click on the drive, it's telling it where to store it. I'm assuming. No, it's going. It's going into the fathom calls in my Google Drive. The file name is going to be called with whoever's name is and then the file concept is the plain plain text transcript. And then convert into a document done. Okay. Can we see the co-work skills that you use that automate all this? They're on another computer. Can I ask you for it after the interview for a screenshot of them? Yeah. And we'll share it with people. Okay. Great. So after the interview, we'll have a screenshot of the co-work skill below. All right. This has been really interesting to see. The exciting part for me is that you don't actually have to go into Obsidian and even touch it. I find Obsidian to not be the most user-friendly software. It's a pain. Yeah, it really is. It's like it's quite slow. Everything is kind of all over the place. Like I said, I don't organize it. I don't enter. It's just open on my computer, minimized all the time. And it just pulls from it on a regular basis. It's just like a memory layer. And because it has that memory layer, it makes everything you're doing with Claude. A lot better. Claude is like an employee who's sits in on every meeting you have and can be much more useful. Like an EA or Chief of Staff almost. All right. Thanks for doing this. Since you watch as far the next thing you should see is how people are using Paperclip to manage not just people, but agents and people together. It's an incredible piece of software. We've got the creator of Paperclip on. Click the link right here on your screen and go to that next.