---
video_title: "Nas Daily's AI Turns One Photo Into a Profitable Business"
video_id: wAPEzRe4rPM
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wAPEzRe4rPM
video_date: 2026-07-17T14:24:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Link to Resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Andrew Warner and Nas Daily's Nuseir Yassin show how AI can build, market, and grow an online business from a single product photo.
  
  Andrew Warner sits down with Nuseir Yassin (Nas Daily) for a live demo of nas.com, an AI-first platform that turns a single product image into a complete online business. They walk through creating a storefront, generating product images and videos, launching Meta ad campaigns, accepting payments, and managing customers—all with AI. Nuseir also shares how AI-generated ads are already acquiring customers, why AI-native commerce is different from traditional platforms like Shopify, and why he believes autonomous AI agents will replace today's dashboards and interfaces.
  
  Apps featured:
  
  - nas.com
  - Meta Ads
  - Shopify
  - Seedance 2.0
  - Zapier
  
  00:00 - AI Ads Demo: AI creates, optimizes, and scales ad campaigns that generate customers.
  00:36 - Magic Ads: AI manages Meta ad campaigns — creative, spend, and optimization
  01:57 - nas.com Demo: Build an online business from a single product photo.
  04:48 - AI Product Creation: Generate product listings, pricing, inventory, and shipping policies.
  07:12 - Seedance 2.0: AI-generated product photos and video created automatically.
  07:57 - AI Storefront: Publish a complete online store with payments and customer messaging.
  09:00 - AI Marketing Content: Generate images, videos, and ad creatives for your business.
  10:30 - Meta Ads Integration: Launch AI-assisted advertising campaigns in a few clicks.
  12:54 - Nas House Case Study: Real campaign results from an AI-powered event business.
  15:54 - Campaign Optimization: Review winning creatives and improve underperforming ads.
  17:06 - Building nas.com: Why the company invested millions in AI-first commerce.
  17:42 - The Future of AI Commerce: Autonomous AI agents replacing traditional business software.
  
  Media/Sponsorship Inquiries: ****https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/sponsor
  
  Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
The guy from Nasdaily invented something amazing. Andrew, check this out. This is 100% AI content, and it's not just AI content. It's AI content that actually helps you find customers. All of these are customers that we found from 100% AI content. You see right here, we made five AI ads and check this. Found 50 customers at a $2.59 per customer. AI ads actually convert. The future is here. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. And it's buying, it's creating the ads, it's buying the ad space, it's monitoring the effectiveness, it's stopping the ones that don't work, and it's promoting the ones that do work. Yeah, and it tells you which one is top performer, which one needs new creative, and you just have to do it by yourself now, but it helps you create the content automatically. You just choose the style and you give it your website or your product, and the ad is created, and you can create infinite ads, AI videos and images, and they all convert. It's incredible. OK, just so clear, who's managing it? Like, who's deciding whether it is to kill an ad that's not working and double down on ones that are? Basically, it's AI. Magic ads essentially, it's AI doing that too. Magic ads is an integration into meta ads, and it says much simpler integration into meta ads. And you can tell that here, the AI has decided to spend majority of the budget on this ad because this ad is really good. So they like this ad, that's it. This is where most of the spend goes, and I'm running the location into buy. I'm spending, there's 100 bucks, just 150 bucks, and I was able to generate roughly 300 bucks for my event, a real estate professionals networking night. Crazy. And this is all built on your software that you created, NAS.com. Walk me through how to create it from scratch, and then show me what some of the amazing AI features are that are driving it. OK, so let me do this. I'm going to sign out of this, and so I can show you exactly how it works. But NAS.com is basically the simplest way in the world to start a business. OK, let's say you just take a picture of whatever you want to sell and then NAS.com just creates the website, the payments, the ads, and helps you find the customers. OK, so I say I want to sell my t-shirt. OK, I have its t-shirt, people like buying it. OK, OK. And this is your idea. It knows that you're actually wanting to sell a product, now a service. So it says add a picture of your product. I have a picture of my t-shirt right here. See this? I just upload the picture. Now from this picture, we can create magic. Why? Because we can create your entire business identity. We can create your business name. We can create your payment gateway. We can create your marketing content. We can even create your product landing page. All just from a picture. This is really with a future's AI. This is it. Look, you get your own t-shirt shop, your own store, and your own content, and your marketing tools, and payment acceptance. So click continue. It starts really for just free trial. It's almost like a dollar. Pro or platinum. Let's say I want to do Pro for now. OK. This. And I'll have a note here to blank out any credit card information. Yeah. Now I can just use this card. And then I'll just get the OTP. There's six, two eight zero. OK. So that means just gets five, nine, five, nine, eight, one. All right. Great. So now from the picture, basically what we're doing here now is one is we're confirming subscription, but two is we're creating your entire business identity. We're setting up your cover photo, your profile picture. We're understanding what a logo could look like for your business. We're thinking of a name for your business. And basically everything you need to start selling online. OK. So right there, payment went through. OK. Great. This is now look at this. So my identity for my t-shirt has already been created. It came up with a logo. It came up with a cover photo. And I can just say, Nas, Daly's t-shirt business. In that way, let's go. OK. So now my business scaffolding is created. Now you need to sell the product. OK. So you're here. It says I want to sell my t-shirt, your AI co-founder, generates the physical product by itself. So far I've done nothing. I just, all I did, by the way, is I just uploaded a picture. And now what do I have? I have a Nas, Daly signature t-shirt. I have ads. And I have leads created. So let's say I, how it understood it. I've gone through this process myself. I love how it says it's a t-shirt. And you didn't say it's a t-shirt. It probably needs to come in sizes small to extra larger to two. Yes. Now, it understood that you might want to have black and white for it. By the way, none of these are similar to what I had on mine. It's picking it based on the product. Correct. It also understood the price. It understood the price as well. That's a big one. We know where you're country or from. We know the product you're selling. So we know roughly the market price off this. And it's correct. I'm going to sell it for $29. And it even creates your shipping policies by itself. If you ship a Singapore, it'll be $12. It'll be $7 days. It generates ads just like here. Look at this. As we're generating already for my t-shirt. But let's say I want to create this product because it even gets even crazier here. So just from creating a product, I had the description of the product, the t-shirt, the title of the product, the variations and the options of the product. Let's say I only have one style. So I remove the styles. But anyway, so far I've done nothing. It has the price. Let's say I want to accept inquiries because why not? You can message me about it and you can email me about it. And then it understood the inventory. It created my entire inventory list and my entire shipping and return policy. I can say I'm shipping to the United States. I'm shipping to United States or whatever. You can make any changes you want. Let's say I'm shipping $10 and five days. To do this and shop the five, by the way, it'll take you roughly five days. And now, what's the multiple big part of Shopify? Can't you just create the store using one of their templates? Yeah, just good luck to understand how to navigate it. Because it's not, it's a 15-year-old company. So actually the flow is not as clear as AI basically deciding for you. And because we just do this in an AI native way, all we really need is a picture to do the entire process. Or Shopify was built before AI was created. And now just from that picture, we're creating four more images of that are much more professional looking of this picture. Plus we're creating a video, a high quality CDANZ 2.0 video of your product. And you can preview it. It'll look kind of something like this. Yeah, like with this one mobile, or so this. Look, the pictures are being generated right now. The pictures are automatically being real time. In real time, see this? Oh, look more simple for the product. A person using the product in his setting, studio shot of the product, and another studio shot of the product. See, all this was created right here. And then the video takes like a few minutes because it's a video. And that's it. Done. I'm ready to sell. I click publish. I'm good to go. Now I can accept payments from every country in the world. From every country in the world, just to repeat. OK, if I do this and I go to the actual thing. OK, now anybody can buy this. Anybody can inquire and email me and message me about this. I have my own messaging system for customer support. I have all my product details. Everything I need, if I buy the medium, I click buy. You know, it shows the, I cannot buy my own product, of course. Delivery, whatever delivery, pay, that's it. You're done. We just built an AI enabled store. How long has it been, Andrew? I'm looking here. You and I started talking eight minutes and 54 seconds ago, including. So the edited version will be tighter, but that's it. That's amazing. I have a store. I have a full store rated and big people underestimate the payments part. We didn't have to make a stripe. We didn't have to do anything. And if I go into my actual business, right, I have much more than just a product. I have this first product that I built. But now I have infinite ways to markets. OK, so I have marketing. I can create marketing. Look, look, I didn't do anything. Oh, I'm walking on top center. Yeah, there's a video of someone with it. OK. This was it even knew my face. How? Because it's an accounting. I don't know. It just knew this is a nasty. Wait, wait, wait. So when I signed up, one of the first things it asked me for was my Instagram account. I wonder if it then used your Instagram account to get your face and put it on. That's how it did it. You know, it's funny thing. I don't even know. We give it an entire context we know about your product and your business. And it just does the rest. It decides by itself. And so here we even have a creator style video. I didn't do anything. This was that looks like AI's interpretation of what you look like and how you sound based on the picture. Oh, the top. You did it. Yeah. Now, it's almost there. The AI technology is almost there. But like, you know, this is, this is, this is not bad. I would use this. You know, I would use this looks pretty realistic and and and and you know, this is, this is, this is supposed to be a humorous one. So there's a lot of like the chokes. There's minimal floating. So we decide on the style. There's a million styles you can choose from and see here. There's a million styles you can choose. We AI chooses the style of the content you should be creating with their images or videos. And just from that, it creates all the content for any product you launch. Now, the question is Andrew, how the hell do we find customers? I don't know. Yeah. That's the part that I was really interested in that you actually even had meta ads. What's your answer to how to find customers? I just click one button. So now I just uploaded one picture. I have all the contents. I have all the websites, all the payments. And now to find customers, I click one button, advertise. And if I click advertise, okay, we take your contents and we take your video, we install the pixel and then bam, we create your meta ads, search campaign. You can add or any anything you want right here. Like add photos or videos, some of the content that you have already created, done. Okay, I create another ad. See, creating ads is super, super, super simple. It's unbelievable. Okay, done another ad. Okay, great. I have three ads. And now I click next step. That's it. Here's your budget. How many you want to run it for and what do you want to advertise and then connect your Facebook and then you launch campaign. You're done. What about targeting? So I imagine that your followers, that your contacts and friends of friends are more likely to buy. Is that what the friend connected the Facebook connect? Exactly. So you connect your Facebook page because it runs through your Facebook page. It doesn't run through hours or through your Facebook page. So it goes to your followers, your friends, your friends of friends. And the location, you just choose the location and AI automatically understands to target men or women or whatever and that's it. That's all I need to do. And I'll show you a real live case study of a business that already exists that actually did run ads and it found customers. I showed you in the beginning an entire hotel that we operate is doing it just like that. But marketing see this. So I have a product. I have my marketing on tint. I have my marketing ads and I have a list of my customers, all my members, all my essentially customers in one place. So I can email them. I can message them. I don't need call of you. I don't need MailChimp and all the money I made is right here. And this is my website. And this is my domain name. I can buy a domain name and I connect it. And I can create a membership name to it too. Okay. Let's just look at it at a business. It's actually running then. Okay. So let me let me sign out and this was a test thing. Okay. So this is a hotel that we operate in Dubai. Okay. This is a physical establishment called Masshouse. You literally have a hotel that you're operating now too. Yeah. Yeah. It's called Masshouse. It's a great six, six, six, six, six, six fillers and the heart of Dubai, fools, community space, cat room, like Bali. It's Bali. Bali. Do you do that too? All right. We're 150 people. So, okay. So this is a hotel. And now the hotel is not trying to sell night stays. We're trying to sell events. We do a lot of networking events. So look at all these events that these are the product. The product could be physical product events. So you can sell anything on us.com. You can sell a physical product. You can sell an event. You can sell a membership, a coaching session, a course, a challenge, a digital file, whatever you want. So let's say we have these events. And every event is for like a specific kind of persona entrepreneur. Networking nights, really state professionals. Ladies, networking nights, content creators. Okay. Let's pick one and one. Okay. So let's go. Let's say entrepreneur network. And we made 400 bucks from 39 attendees. Each one is paying 10 bucks. Okay. So you don't need a Luma. You don't need a event product. You don't need anything. It's an all in one solution for entrepreneurs. So now this is a way I can manage my events. But if I click on marketing, it basically tells me that I'm running a campaign and that it created, it took my product, my hotel, and it's created an ad on my behalf for entrepreneur network and night that I ran this ad. Okay. And so now the content is created and this is the ad. So let me look at my campaign and see how is my campaign doing. So I bought 20,000 views in exchange for $136. It's a pretty good deal. I had at least 20,000 people that watched my ad, 466 landed on my page and third on my event page and 38 people decided to leave their email. And if these 38 people that live in their email, 22 bought the ticket. The ticket is roughly 10 bucks. So I made $220 from spending $130. Not bad. Not bad. Really profit. Can you change the targeting of who, by the way, you're revealing so much here that I'm literally writing a note here to the editor to say, hide the customer email addresses. I'm watching you and he'll be great with it. But can you then as the entrepreneur change the targeting or are you just leaving it in the hands of what you call the AI co-founder to figure out where to target? So we use Meta's AI. Just tell us where your event is happening or where you want the customer to be. And we just basically let Meta AI do everything. We give it the pixel. We make sure everything is set up. So we actually, we really rely a lot on Meta AI to find the right customer. We just feed it with the right creatives. Okay. See, this needs new creative. This is not good. But this is good. This is the top performer. This is the top performer ad. Okay. Great. So I'll just do it because you see here, it gives me this click through it was 2%. And it converted 8% of the people that landed on the page from his ad. Can I pick whether to approve the ads before they go out or is it all in the hands of the AI? Of course, you can. Human is always in the loop. This is important. So when I make my advertising campaign, see, I see I have three campaigns running right now. And I have run hundreds of campaigns, hundreds of campaigns. Look, 60, actually 66 campaigns. And each campaign, I can remove an ad. So if I don't like this ad, for example, I can just don't delete it now for live. Okay. But that one didn't do it. It wasn't good. It wasn't good. I can add a new one and I had a photo or a video and I got it for the video. I can create AI contents that I have or I can upload. You know, it's very simple. All right. I've clicked through it and I didn't even know all this was there. Let me ask you this. The funding for this has got to be huge. Where'd you get the money? How much did you raise for NAS.com? So we still have a lot of money left, actually. We just really just raised a new funding round. But we raised a total of $40 million. It costs us around $20 million to build all of this. Basically, this is competing with Shopify. And Shopify is a $100 billion company. We raised from Costla Ventures recently. Venote Costla himself is super interested in entrepreneurship and making selling online as fast and as simple as possible. That's the idea. Making money on the internet should be enabled and accelerated with AI. I agree. I love it. Finally, where do you see this going? What's the vision long term for this? OK, so there's very good question, Andrew. So here's the, here's the annoying part. To show you this now, I had to click here, click here, click here, click here, click here, and then to make an ad campaign, I had to click here, click here, click advertise. We think that's the past. Clicking buttons is the past. So what you'll see in the future of NAS.com is this here will be called Asians. Every entrepreneur will have Asians doing autonomous work for them. And you just chat with these Asians on WhatsApp. So you'll see NAS.com become a lot more autonomous in the future. Expect that to come very soon. The quality of the content will improve. The quality of the ads will improve. And then everything will be done for you autonomously. You just look at your dashboard and see, OK, I have 7,000 customers. I made a thousand dollars in the last week. There's how many people visit my business. And that's a real AI first business platform. The future you're saying of NAS.com and e-commerce for the entrepreneur is chat. And chatting with agents won't even necessarily be on the NAS.com platform. It'll be on WhatsApp. It'll be even away from your site. By the way, I spent roughly $5 million on the UIUS. I don't know if you like the UIUS, but we made it super, super simple. We'll like decide what to sell, how to get paid and all that stuff. And I can do to make this super simple. I spent roughly $5 million on this. I think all this is going to go to zero. And most humans don't interact with UIUS. For example, I don't go to the meta ads UIUS. It's the most complicated interface in the world. I see you've seen, I'm sure you've seen it. This is a simplified version of the meta ads suite. Because no people don't even know how that works. In the future, this itself will be simplified to a text position. That's the future. All right. I'm excited about this. Thanks for doing it. The link, of course, will be below. But it's just NAS.com, NAS. Thanks so much. And guys, if you've created something, send it over. I'd love to promote it and see what you built. Hey, my agent says that if you watch this far, you're going to want to subscribe. And Google thinks that if you watch this far, you'll want to watch that video.