---
video_title: "Founders react: real Hermes use"
video_id: IZ9muG8XdLQ
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IZ9muG8XdLQ
video_date: 2026-05-21T21:53:59+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Andrew Warner and Justin Brooke react to the latest AI videos showing how people are installing, using, and making money with Hermes Agent.
  
  They break down what’s practical, what feels overhyped, and where AI agents are already useful for real business workflows. The episode covers Hermes vs. OpenClaw, VPS setup, Docker, Kanban boards, /goal workflows, Zapier MCP, and Justin’s real example of using Hermes to help sell a property.
  
  The big idea: AI agents are moving from demos into actual business infrastructure, but the people showing real use cases are still rare. The setup tutorials are getting better. The next step is proving what these agents can actually do.
  
  SECTION 01 · THE BUILD — Setting up the Hermes agent:
  How to set up Hermes agent on a computer → https://youtube.com/watch?v=Bg-IPiql7x8
  Why Hermes is better than OpenClaw → https://youtu.be/Bg-IPiql7x8?t=49
  What's unique about Hermes → https://youtu.be/12Cffcjha-w?t=182
  How to install on computer → https://youtu.be/jEu5mcArSYs?t=17
  How to select a provider → https://youtu.be/jEu5mcArSYs?t=139
  How to host on VPS → https://youtu.be/gb5TlGw6Uks?t=1013
  How to set up Docker → https://youtu.be/gb5TlGw6Uks?t=1393
  How to use the Kanban board → https://youtu.be/Bg-IPiql7x8?t=227
  
  SECTION 02 · IN THE WILD — Use cases:
  Home Assistant (site) → https://home-assistant.io
  Home Assistant → https://youtu.be/QQEgIo4Juxg?t=1440
  How to find leads → https://youtu.be/KS09k8k7KfE?t=63
  How to get Hermes agent to trade → https://youtu.be/CXMalvS5CG8?t=734
  Use Hermes as a YouTube research assistant → https://youtu.be/2WZAcWtwoDI?t=334
  How to do lead gen → https://youtu.be/2WZAcWtwoDI?t=195
  How to get clients to pay you → https://youtu.be/BI-MNjm1tTQ?t=176
  
  SECTION 03 · WORTH A LOOK — Alternatives:
  How to use Paperclip instead → https://youtube.com/watch?v=iRew6HOY0ho
  How Justin uses Hermes agent (full video) → https://youtube.com/watch?v=6A_HVTvxqxQ
  WATCH THE FULL WALKTHROUGH:
  Justin, unedited — the full Hermes agent playbook on video → https://youtube.com/watch?v=6A_HVTvxqxQ
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 - Intro: Hermes Agent vs. OpenClaw
  02:42 - Why Hermes is winning on execution
  03:00 - Hermes memory, training data, and self-improving workflows
  04:38 - Presented by Zapier
  04:48 - Installing Hermes on a Mac
  06:08 - Finding smaller YouTube creators with practical setup tutorials
  07:21 - Model providers, OpenRouter, Nous Portal, and cheaper AI models
  08:24 - Justin’s model choice: Claude Sonnet and Opus
  09:36 - Why Justin runs Hermes on a VPS
  10:48 - VPS setup with Hostinger and DigitalOcean
  12:18 - Ubuntu, Claude-assisted setup, and SSH access
  14:06 - Docker containers and why they matter
  15:27 - Fail2Ban and basic server protection
  16:03 - Using .env files and 1Password for secrets
  18:27 - DigitalOcean CLI and letting Claude handle setup
  19:12 - Hermes Kanban board for managing multiple agents
  20:06 - Andrew and Justin react to Alex Finn’s positioning
  22:03 - How the Kanban workflow creates and assigns tasks
  24:09 - Hermes Kanban vs. Paperclip
  25:48 - Home Assistant and controlling smart devices with Hermes
  27:36 - Hermes use case libraries
  28:21 - Inbox summaries, Discord updates, and Zapier MCP permissions
  29:24 - Lead gen and YouTube research prompts
  30:45 - Selling agent setup as a service
  31:21 - Justin’s take on installing Hermes for clients
  32:33 - /goal and long-running AI agent missions
  34:57 - Justin’s real /goal example for selling property
  36:18 - Pricing, comps, marketing plans, and listing copy from Hermes
  38:06 - Final thoughts on what’s practical today
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
So let's be honest about something. In its current state, Hermes agent is a better, more reliable AI agent than OpenClaw. They've added a ton of functionality over the last month that has not only made it a super powerful 2447 AI employee, but more importantly, has made it incredibly reliable. And that is Alex Fan. We're going to watch him and other people show us how to install Hermes agent and how to use it to make money and build businesses. And while we watch it, I've got an entrepreneur who's used Hermes day to day to build his business talking about what's practical here and what is BS and how you can use it to build your business. Let's start watching Justin. OpenClaw has had two major issues over the last month that has led to a tremendous amount of people switching from OpenClaw to Hermes. You check. And by the way, you've actually had issues with it even from the beginning with OpenClaw, right? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Forget things. It just decides it wants to do things differently. And I need my agents to act right. At Google Trends, anything right now, the chart for OpenClaw is going like this, the chart for Hermes agents going like that. The two major issues are that one is, and this is the part that pisses me off the most, every single update breaks OpenClaw. They really need to update every day. They're shipping it ton. I'm not going to hate on them for that. They're shipping a ton, but everything they ship breaks OpenClaw. Every time I update OpenClaw, it breaks. I have to go back in and spend half an hour fixing it. That is not an experienced people want. The second thing, and I'm seeing this probably more often on the timeline is, below, the app is just getting huge, it's getting too many features and functionality. And the more people use it, the more it slows down over time. Performance has just crumbled a ton for people. For me, I experienced this once a few months ago, then I spent hours and hours and hours trying to figure out why it was happening, and what I can do to prevent it from happening again. I found the culprit to mostly be the way it manages sessions. I have another video from a couple of months ago when I solve this. All right, there are a bunch of issues with OpenClaw. It is the one that put all these agents on the map, but it's getting a lot of hate, and I understand it is very frustrating, right? Yeah, I've told people over and over again, OpenClaw as an idea is probably one of the most important ideas and software ideas and tech that's come around. I don't know that it's the greatest execution of that idea. Currently, I think Hermes is winning on that execution. All right, and now it looks as a big talker, but he's right there. And now let's take a look here at what are some of the benefits of it. This raised good on that. Genuinely unique here that I find really interesting. Every other agent normally just uses the model. This is specific agent can actually help you improve the model. And let me explain a little bit more. So your conversations with Hermes actually become training data. That's right. They actually build tools specifically for this. And you can take those conversations and then fine tune the model to be better at what you actually need. Just think about what it can do for your business and whatever other types of things that you're doing in your local environments. So you can basically run a local model, use the agents, generate the training data. And then the model actually gets better. And you just keep repeating. It's kind of crazy, right? Nobody... Have you found that out of the box, it does do that. Yes, absolutely. That's been my number one reason why Hermes over OpenClaw. Like there's a lot of the other things that I argue about on OpenClaw that technically if I was a better coder or tech person, I could get around those things. But this right here is the crux of what makes Hermes so good is I don't have to go install skills, which means I don't have to worry about some of the prompt injection security issues. Hermes makes its own skills on the fly. So when I'm working with Nikki, who's my content writer profile on Hermes, and she's writing a blog post and I'm like, oh, hold on a second, don't do that. She remembers that and it's added to her skill file. And so literally the more you use it and kind of your first couple of days whether it's gonna be a little rough, but it's gonna start remembering all that don't do this, do it this way, and it's gonna get really premium experience. That's the magic. All right, yeah. By the way, I'm sponsored by Zapier, which I use to connect about 10,000 apps to any AI agent that I use. Let's talk about how to install it on a computer quickly, and we'll get into some of the use cases. I like how some of these people that we found online are installing it. This guy you like best, look at this. So if you have a fresh Mac computer, which is what most people have, the first thing you have to install is this thing called home brew right here, home brew. Home brew is basically like a way for you to install packages on your Mac from the terminal. So if you're on a fresh Mac, you'll hit command space bar, you'll type in terminal, press enter, and then this terminal thing will come up. And if you go to brew.sh, which is a website, they'll have this command that you can paste into your terminal, when you paste it in and press enter, it'll install home brew. The most common place where it breaks for a lot of people that I've seen is, there's these things called the Xcode Developer Tools, and you have to install them separately. So if it fails for some reason, you can use this command Xcode-select-install, and then it'll install like the Xcode Tools. Another thing that's useful to have is open code. Open code is like a competitor to Cloud Code. It's another terminal based coding agent. The reason why I find it's useful to have when you're installing Hermes or any of these beta agent tools is that, in case you need to debug something in a config file, you can actually use open code to do so. Let me talk about that real quick. Yeah. So I love finding guys like this on YouTube. Alex is cool, Greg Eisenberg's, those guys are awesome. But like this guy, I'm always like, a 571 subscribers. And 517 views on this from a month ago. Yeah, this guy, I mean, he's the real deal. I mean, he is, I love finding stuff like this because this guy is the techie that I'm looking for that can actually walk me through it, and does it step by step. He talks about open code here. He's trying to save some people some money. I just use Clawed, but essentially, what he's saying is like, hey, if you run into a problem, use something like a Clawed or a Codex or an Open Code, take a screenshot and say like, what broke? How do I fix this? Right. And so he's giving you some tips here because he's right. If you don't have homebrew installed, if you don't have the Xcode thing, sometimes your install will go wrong. And you're two, three hours finding just that one little thing, in my favorite things, just have Clawed open in another window, take some screenshots, hey, Clawed, I'm stuck, what's happening, it'll just get you right back going. Yeah, and we're of course have links to all of this in the description. All right, he also talks about like you mentioned different providers here. What a lot of people do is like, they'll set up, they'll use Anthropics like Clawed and like that family of models. The problem is like they're really expensive. And if you're just messing around with this stuff for personal reasons, you probably don't need it. So if you want like free or really cheap models, I recommend using OpenRouter or the new portal. So it's NOUS, but it's pronounced new. So like for example, this week on the new portal, you can see that this Xiaomi model called Mimo V2 Pro is free. That's like pretty cool. But then you can also see like there's a bunch of cheaper models that you can choose from. I like it, Kimi K 2.5. I like all of the Kwen models. I love Mini Max 2.7. And you can see like the pricing here as well. This is a really good tip. Now when I interviewed you about your setup, the thing I didn't ask you became the number one question people asked in the comments, which is what are you using? So what model are you using? I use Clawed Sonnet 4.6. I find that that one is a good, happy medium between you have to balance capability and cost. And sometimes, you know, I like what he's showing here because if you're just a hobbyist, you're just trying to learn. There are some really cheap ways you can get started to play with it. But I just had a use case today where I was coming into the same problem over and over again. And I was using Sonnet 4.6. But then I did slash model and I changed it to Opus 4.7. And he was able to figure out why you was having that problem. So that's what I mean. You got a balanced capability with cost. And so I find Sonnet 4.6 is a nice, happy middle, not too expensive, but still really good capabilities. And then on the fly, you can slash model and go up or down, you know, as needed. Okay, now all these people have been showing how to install it on a computer. You actually use a VPS before I hit play and have you tell me what you think of how he's doing it. I like Nate a lot. Nate, Eric, this guy publishes like three times, five times a week. Guys are machine and he's a dream. You know, the stuff is good. Yeah. And unlike me, you always see me like with a sense of anxiety of rushing, he's just calm teaching. I go like, dude, where's your lack of anxiety coming from when you're doing so much? Anyway, why do you prefer to do it on a VPS instead of on a laptop or a computer on your desk? Okay, so one, I was a home stutter and lived in RV on 17 acres for a while. So internet is not always the greatest thing. Now I'm in a city, I'm in a nice house. You know, so it's not that big of a nordeal, but still power goes out, Wi-Fi goes down. I like the VPS because it's secure, it's in the cloud, it's always running, I can access it from anywhere. I just prefer also, it's like, you know, you can get started for like $8 a month, where if you go buy a Mac mini, you're $5, $600, you know, it's like I could have had it for five years on the VPS. Yeah, I'm thinking of switching over. I just don't like having a computer running all the time in my life. Yeah. Oh, let's get into the setup of Hermes agent. All right, so the way that we're gonna be doing this is on a VPS, which stands for a virtual private server. Now, I'm gonna be using Hostinger for my Hermes agent. Who do you use? I use Digital Ocean, but Hostinger and Versal, they're equal, just pick which, pick which one everyone has a better bonus for you. I've been using Hostinger for hosting NADN and for OpenClaw and for Cloud Code. So this is my VPS provider of choice. There's a link in the description if you guys wanna go here. You can see there's also basically like a one-click install for Hermes agent when you spin up one of these VPS. So very, very cool. Now, the first thing that we do, Digital Ocean also has a one-click install. A lot of them do now. The plan. So on here, you can see KVM12, four or eight. I'm just gonna go ahead and start with two for now. This basically just changes like how much CPU and RAM you have and your bandwidth in your server. So you could tell, what do you pay per month? Well, I pay extra. I pay $24 a month, which I still can't believe people tell me that's expensive. You know, but I just wanted to have plenty of room. I didn't wanna have, it's like I could do $8 a month for $24 a month. I'm blessed to have a pretty successful business. It's not hurting me to be at $24 a month. I think so on on one. And if you need to just scale up, you can ask for it. So you have to choose your period. So 24 months, 12 months, or one month, I think about 100 fast-worthy, this. You can do this. And then you're gonna put that you wanna use. So I'm gonna do Ubuntu and I'm gonna do 24.04 LTS. And what else you can see here is that, interesting. He's doing Ubuntu, what are you using? Yeah, Ubuntu. I just asked Claude and Claude told me. Yeah, I was like, all right, cool. Like this, Claude. Yeah, a lot of this is basically Claude telling you what to install. I feel like maybe we need to just move past this, right? There's nothing in here that we need. Make no sense at all. But here's a good deal. No, it's quite simple. Yeah, essentially what you're doing is you're spinning up a computer in the cloud and that's what you're using. Right, and so sign up for the account. Like you would normally sign up for any account. Yeah, you're gonna do the user name and email and put your credit card in there. And then from there, they usually have some kind of a documentation and you can give that documentation to Claude or Chatchipity or whatever you're using. And it will tell you exactly what buttons to click on and take you through it. And are you even seeing the computer? Are you even, what is it called when you do remote access? Are you doing that? How are you accessing it remotely? Yeah, so sometimes you do have to, they call it like SSH into or use your terminal. Like he has it there. You got your VPS, that's your virtual private server log in through SSH and Hermes is running. In digital ocean, they allow you to use a password instead of SSH. SSH is more secure. So if you're sensitive about that, do that. I don't need it. So I just did a password because that's very easy. Also, I have Claude set as a connection called control my Mac, which means I don't have to open a terminal. Claude can just open a terminal and running any of those bash codes or grep codes or whatever they're doing. I see all the remote control happens. Yeah, right. So Claude just does all that stuff for me. Okay, I was going to pass this one video that you thought we should look at this one clip about Docker. Let's hear what he says and then I'd love to hear why you wanted to include it in when I was going to pass it. What we're going to do is the one click install. So we would go over to our Docker manager and this is where we go ahead and click install. And remember how we have our main server, but if we wanted to spin up a bunch of different Docker containers inside of this server, we could do so. And that's how you could keep like different Hermes agents in here and kind of keep them separate. Okay, well, this says it's going to take 10 minutes. I doubt it. Okay, yeah, just finished up. So I'm going to click compose. I'm going to go to one click deploy and then when this loads up, this is where I will search for Hermes and I will click on select. Why do you use Docker? Why did you want to make sure that we talked about that? A great analogy is if you've ever had a drawer in your kitchen with your silverware and you shut that drawer too hard, all the silverware is all scattered along the place or you could put a little container in there and all the forks go here and all the spoons go here and the knives go here. That's kind of like what Docker does and I know coders are probably just cringing so bad at my analogy right here, but it allows you to install something in kind of a protective case so that it doesn't have access outside of that and it's just, it's the proper best practice. You put it inside of Docker that way, it can only mess up what's inside of its Docker and it can't spill over into other things. Then the one other security thing everybody really needs to know about. There's something called fail to ban. That's fail the number two ban. That will allow you to have like, if somebody's trying to access your stuff too often, it will allow you to ban IP addresses. If somebody's trying to like brute force hack your websites, it'll detect that and it'll just, it'll shut it off. So Docker protects your, you know, your server from bleed and then fail to ban protects you at a very shallow level from, you know, hackers. Okay. Now here is where you have to set an admin username and an admin password for your Hermes agent. I'm just gonna leave this as default. I'm gonna copy this password and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go to my cloud code project and I'm gonna save the admin password and username into this new one. So right here you can see it made this one called YouTube- Hermes. And what I wanna do is I'm gonna add a new file in here, call this one the dot ENV and then in this dot ENV, I'm basically just gonna do admin underscore username equals and then admin underscore password equals and then I'm gonna paste those two things in here. So this is where I can keep myself organized with that. Okay. And the reason he's doing a dot ENV file is why? Yeah. So there's numerous ways to do this. Essentially you shouldn't, you can, but you really shouldn't just go grab your API codes and your passwords and whatever and just paste those into your, your different AI program. Yeah. So you are giving that out. It's not gonna really go anywhere, but it's best practiced. You shouldn't do that. So what he's saying is he's creating a separate place where he can store his username and passwords. That way it's not in just the main AI and it can just start being passed around or anything like that. What I do is I use a tool called OnePassword and so I can just go and I can create a new secret note file. You can put passwords in there, you can put secret notes in there. And so then I just have all my different access keys and secret keys and whatever protected in OnePassword. I can access a minute. I saw that he had OnePassword too. He's the dot ENVs. This is where you store private information, right? Yes. Okay. Let's take a look at, I think we've got it from him. Let me see. All right, so I've saved that to my .end file. Now I can click deploy and this is gonna spin up that container. And now if we wanna access this, all we're gonna have to do is click on this little button right here that it will give us, which will basically like put us into that container and we can chat with Hermes, we can do the onboarding, we can do everything in there. But this main terminal button, that is gonna take us to the root of our VPS, not inside of this Docker container. I hope I'm not losing you guys. I'm just gonna pass it on. Okay, so while that's getting stoked, let's see if this has been used. Agent there we go. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. Now he's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. He's got it. And so another reason why I like digital ocean is they have what's called CLI, which means that your AI can just log in for you and do all of those button presses that he's talking about. It's like, I don't really know what an SAC is, and a Docker and a terminal and all that. So I just use digital ocean because it's got a CLI, cloud, I just have to give it the key and cloud goes in there and does everything. You know what, if you have a referral code, give it out, we'll put it in the head. I don't, it's fine. You don't, all right, I'll find it. Okay, now we're getting into some of the amazing parts about it. I like this a lot and still you're not using it. I'm sorry. Now once you're near, there are many things you can be doing. I'm going to start off with one of the biggest features they released over the last month, which is the Can Bandboard. This is absolutely glorious for multitasking with Hermes agent. By the way, Kanban board for everything. I just want every single thing to have a combo board. I am a visual person. The chat window becomes very important. You are talking to your Hermes through telegram or I message or discord or whatever it is. You are talking in a single thread. You send a message, it receives that message and does work. If you try to send 10 messages at one time, they all get cute. So it's a very single file way to do work. On the alternative is the Kanban board. Now you can do 10, 20, 30 strands at the same time. And if you're anything like me and you work on 20 different things today, you're building a staff, you're writing content, you're managing community, you're doing a whole bunch of different things. You can't just have a single thread. You need to have a- Can we just pause for a second? Alex keeps talking about all these different businesses and things that he's running. I don't see it. What has he got? He has one tool that lets you publish on social media. He's got a school online learning platform. And then he does a lot of content. So I'll give him that. I'll give him that too. Yeah, yeah. So I think he's writing a lot of content, research a lot of things. He's probably keeping up on a lot of news so that he could be making the channels and the videos and stuff like that. But yeah, I've seen one business. It seems great. It has great reviews. I've not personally used it. But yeah, I see a business. So like a software, I see a school community, and then I see his channel. But if you look at every comment in response to his big mouth post on X, it's all, what are you building, dude? Look, what are you building? And I'm not against him. I really, really, really like him. I do think that it's like with all this building and understanding and running multiple computers, I think you would, it sounds a good time for him to say, here's everything that I'm doing. Let's look at how big this is. And my hunch is, it's not really as big as his mouth is. And I don't mean that. I don't mean that as an insult. I think that's the only problem. I think there's a lot of hype. I think he's a great YouTuber influencer, a content creator. He's got a good piece of software. I think he's just sometimes using too many hype words. And that's where it's creating a gap or a doubt of the people are actually. Like the permanent underclass is one of his big things. If you don't learn all this, all right, let's make sure to learn it so that I don't become part of the permanent underclass. It's multiple things going on any given time. This is where the can-band board comes in. And this is great because it's deeply integrated with everything, Hermes. Let me show you how this works. So what I like to do is when I come in, the beginning day, I go into triage over here. So that is the leftmost column. There's a bunch of columns here. Triage to do, ready, in progress, block done. It's all in order. It's all how the task flow through. We start off in triage. I go in, I have my to-do list for the day. You can see it right here. And I go in and I type in everything I need to do. So I'll say, discuss him hiring with AI, create. I'll do another one, message, live stream, clippers, create that, and then plan second channel. By the way, link for the second channel, down below, Alex Spinlabs. Check that out, create that. And so it puts all my tasks in here. Now what's going to happen is in the next 60 seconds, the Cron job will fire. And I have a Hermes agent. I'll show you how to do all this in a second. I'll show you how to set up everything I'm doing here. I have a very custom workflow I'm showing you right here. Within 60 seconds, my agent that's dedicated to managing this can-bandboard will go in, see what's in triage, look at all my memories, fill out these tasks with details based on my memory. So it's relevant for what I want to accomplish. And move it into ready. Allow me to then take that fully flushed out task and assign it to an agent so I can get that work done. So you look in here, I created all these tasks a few minutes ago. They've all been taken from my manager agent, fleshed out and put into ready. So let's pop open one of these here. This looks good. You can see here, the agent went in, looked at all my memories from my obsidian memory system. I had a video on that like a month ago if you want information on that and took all the context around it and put all these details in here. So instead of me having to go in and sit here for an hour, type in all the details of what I want the agent to do, and all of this context, my agent is automatically doing that for me. Now all I need to do is go in here, assign it to one of my agents, my main worker agent is just name Hermes. I just like the name Hermes. I didn't give it a creative name. It is what it is. I hit enter. Now this is assigned to my main Hermes agent who will then in a second do the work for me. Look at the task name, look at the information, take it from ready to in progress. Okay. The reason I wanted to ask you about this is because you're using paperclip, which essentially does this too. Now that you see how he's done this in the Combaon board that's built into Hermes, does it make sense for you to switch to this? It is. And you know, people got to remember, this is a pretty new feature. Like we're on like Hermes 0.14, and I think this came out 0.13. You know, so it's only been out a couple of weeks. Paperclip's been out for quite a while. I think your first video was over a month ago on paperclip. And I think Hermes is seeing how people are using paperclip and they're building some of those features in with slash Combaon, slash Goal is another one. And so yeah, this is very convincing. You know, I like this a lot. I'm in fact, I just installed the web user interface so that I could start playing around with this. But I have so much set up in paperclip now. Like I don't know if I want to just move it all over. I'll tell you the one advantage of paperclip. It's that you can get open client. And eventually it's possible that open clow will overtake Hermes. It's not out of the realm of possibility. And so with paperclip, you can bring them all in. I think with paperclip, you can bring human beings in in a way that's natural. And so there's an advantage of that. In fact, I do have a video that I will link to below where you can see how Catherine Labyrinth, she uses it with I think it's multiple agent types and she brings the agents into her team to bring them on. You've also got budget allocation per agent and org structures. And so yeah, that's the advantage. But this is a really, really nice all in one. You just want to have one thing. This is the way to do it. OK, now let's look at some use cases. So this one I think is interesting. Boy, look at this. This guy's got massive views. Yeah. OK, he's now going to talk about a basic sort of new session here. And let's do something fun. Built into Hermes is a home assistant skill. I use home assistant to run my studio. By the way, I didn't know what home assistant was. Home assistant is software that connects to all the things that you have in your light. So if you have like lots of different brands of lighting and switches which I do in my house, this will bring them all into one device. Now with Hermes, built in is a way to do it. Let's make some things happen. I'll come to enable it first. I think it's disabled by default. Really it's the home assistant one to switch on. I love the way it talks. He's got bigger beer than you. Let me give him the IP address and key. Well, see what he does. And look at that. He's figuring things out, saving it to his memory. OK, let's test it. Got that lamp behind me. Let's tell him to turn it off. Can you turn off? Chuck lamp. See what happens. It's cool. OK. Cool use. I still can for the life of me find a real need to do that. Can you? I don't know. Ebbing, if your friends were coming over and you wanted to show off, probably, I don't know that I'm going to, because you've got to remember, there's API tokens and fees and stuff going along with this. So I mean, it probably just cost them two cents to turn that light off. You know, not a big deal. Not a big deal, but it's not that big of a deal. But I'm already trying to turn my light switches off to save money. I don't need to pay money to turn my light switches off. Hey, for me, I'm driving my wife crazy with all the devices that she needs to access in order to turn the string lights on outside our property. I don't need another thing for her. OK. OK. This is actually really interesting. This guy, Julian, he talked about the headline for his video is 237 use cases. What he really means is she's super powerful. And he's going to be able to help her. If you go to Hermes agent, people are using Hermes. You can get. Hermes actually looks through all the ways that people are using Hermes agent. And then created this collection right here, which is pretty cool. You know, she see I've been featured over here, which is nice. They talked about my sub-stock, which is pretty awesome. But essentially, they've created this page, which is a collection of all the most useful ways that you can use Hermes agent. So if you're not sure how to use Hermes, what to use it for, et cetera. Let's fast forward. He's got a couple of uses. Why don't we take a look at where is that the email? The landing vehicle. So your email inbox and then post that summary to Slack directly. And it's pretty deep set up these automations. If you're not sure how to do it, what you can actually do here is you can just go inside Hermes. Like, and you can say, hey, I've got this idea. How do I automate it? So if I was like, OK, if I want to summarize my inbox, plus post to Discord weekly at 9 AM, how would you do it? Plus what tools do you need access to? And so any of these use cases is easy. OK, by the way, this is a good time for me to bring up Zapier MCP. We have seen that Facebook employee who had all of her email the lead in while she was freaking out when OpenClaw was going in and deleting it. The reason I want to bring up Zapier MCP is their sponsor of mine. And also, they will allow you to give Hermes agent the control you want with an email. Like, I want you to read my email, but not right and not send. Or I want you to read my email. I want you to draft messages for me, but not send those messages. You give that power through Zapier MCP. And then Zapier MCP is what you come in and give Hermes. And that then gives it just the access that you give a permission for. OK, we got that. He's also talking about Lee Jen here. By the way, you are someone who, I hope we have enough time for you to just show us one of your use cases, because here's the problem. With no one's actually showing it an action prompt that I would give it, find 25 B2B companies and crypto SaaS or creator tools that we've been doing. And then he's basically saying, here's my prompt. And then I want you to put it into anywhere, like a Notion doc, a CRM. I get it. I wish you would show it. I wish you would say now, look at the result. And I'm just not seeing enough of that. He did those. There's a lot of news. There's a lot of potential things you could do with it. I think there is a lane for that. But I'm with you. I want to see more like show me what you actually did. I've got a pretty cool one. I'd love to show you. When we get to there. OK, let me go quickly then to one other one. So he's doing that. He also has one that does YouTube research. Again, he's showing the prompt. I'd love to see it actually in action. He has my YouTube research operator find 10 recent videos in the AI age. But this is a really good use. Find videos that are outperforming their average. And then for each one, I want you to give me the title channel and views. What I'd love for him to have done is say, here's how to do it. And with YouTube, you can get fairly inexpensively access to this kind of data. They clearly want you to have that. All right, here's one that I think is a use case that this is where the money is today. Let's just dive right in. Let's go into the offer. Greg Eisenberg interviewed someone who's saying, look, the way to do it is to set it up for clients. So when you're starting a one person agent business, you need to remove all the friction for your customers. They don't want to think about toe. You're saying, look, here's the offer. Give them unlimited agents, unlimited usage, infrastructure included, ongoing workflows, security updates. So they're not dealing with any of this. And I do see, I've interviewed several people who do this. Clients are willing to pay for it. Having said that, I want to see more personal uses. Now, do you have enough time to show us one of yours? I do. I'll talk about this one really quickly. A lot of my clients, they, I really only have a couple of clients. I have my own businesses, but I do work on the side for things that I find fun. This one, he works for Robert Kiyosaki. And I've been helping them with some of their auditions. This is one of your clients who does that. OK. Yeah. Yeah. And so they've got plenty of money. And that's what people need to understand. Just because maybe you might not have money, doesn't mean other people don't have money. And usually people with money don't have time. They don't want to figure out CLIs and terminals and SSH. Like they just want to pay you a few thousand dollars to make sure it's all set up correctly. And there's a lot of people that need that right now. So for what it's worth, this is a very viable, legit business model people can do. It's just go around installing Hermes for people. I interviewed a high school student. I'll link it up below. Who's doing this? And Peter talked about how, Peter retweeted him. And so I got somebody at his school to make an introduction so I can interview him. He's doing well with this. Let's take a look at, actually, when we look at goals for a moment, and then that'll tie into what you're doing here. I'll bring it up. Slash goal. He gets so excited about it that I start to get hyped up about. The next major feature I want to talk about, and I think this is one of the most underrated developments in AI this entire year, is slash goal. There are two major platforms right now that utilize this new slash goal functionality. That's Codex from OpenAI, and now Hermes. Hermes actually beat OpenClaughts. Let's talk about slash goal and how it works. So let's go into our terminal. We're going to say Hermes. That is going to open up our Hermes CLI so we can interact directly with our Hermes agent. From in here, I can now use slash goal. Slash goal is very different than just sending a prompt. When you send a prompt, it has very specific actions and the agent takes those actions. Slash goal instead gives your agent a mission. It is a high level mission that the agent can take many steps to do that can go for very long time periods. I've seen some people do slash goals that have literally run for three plus day straight. Obviously you don't want to be using Opus for this if you're doing a multi agent mission. I'd probably recommend using the chat GPT-O auth or even better a local model. Video on local models coming very soon. But slash goal allows you to do very high level, big missions that your agent will go after, figure out how to accomplish, do multi-step approaches, test itself the entire way. It's basically like a Ralph loop but for your AI agent. So you got to open up the CLI, you got to do slash goal and then you type in your goal. One thing I need to say here is the quality of your prompt for the slash goal is very, very critical. If you just do say slash goal and say, hey, build me a game, you're not going to get very good results. I would highly recommend meta prompting here and basically I mean by that, go to your favorite LLM, chat GPT-Clawed whatever, say, hey, I'm trying to build a slash goal prompt for my agent. This is what I'm trying to accomplish. Please write me a prompt that gives me a super detailed slash goal prompt. It will give you a prompt that will be probably extremely detailed and allow your agent to a lot more work. I did. OK. How did you stop sharing my screen? Let's see how you do it. The example that he used was find every broken, wiki link and every orphan page. And that's the kind of thing that slash goal is especially good at because it's a clear win or loss there. So when slash goal came out, I was like, let me test it on something, you know, just wild. I was having fun. Yeah, I wasn't expecting it to really do anything. Only thing I changed on what we're about to see is the headline just because I knew I was going to send this to my wife. And so I just wanted to be a little funny. But everything, everything else Hermes did. And so I did slash goal help me sell my property that I'm selling in Rowan Mountain because we had this website, which another agent built for our property. So I did slash goal help me sell my agent. And this thing started cooking. Like it started doing all kinds of research and Zillow lookups and MLS lookups and things like that. It found somebody right up the road from me and how much they sold for. And he was like, actually, you guys are under representing the property based on the 21 cops that I've looked at. And so he told us like, hey, you actually need to be listing this at 525, not 475. And then when we talked to a realtor, she was like, yeah, absolutely. We would agree with that statement. So did all the research to find out the right prices and actual properties that have sold all that stuff. Then it came up with a five phase plan, you know, things that we should add to the website, like an embedded video walkthrough with a drone tour, add the Google Maps, update the price, SEO, you know, all kinds of stuff for us. Then it went and looked up the places where we should market this thing for us, you know. And so it was like, look, you want to post to these 11 Craigslist locations, Zillow, Facebook Marketplace, land flip. I didn't even know lands of America or land watch. I didn't know they existed. And by the way, the responsibility on that, on these is Jeffrey. Jeffrey is your AI. Yes. He built all this, you know, about the web page. And then came up with a media buying plan. He was like, hey, what kind of budget do you want to put towards us? I said, I'll give you a thousand bucks to help me sell the house. And so he said, all right, cool. We're going to put 600 on Facebook. We're going to put 200 with Google ads for people looking to buy land in the area. So it came up with a media buying plan. And then here's the thing. It wrote everything out. Here's the Zillow listing. Here's the Reddit post that I'm supposed to do, the Facebook Marketplace listings. Oh, yeah. It even looked up the compliance rules to make sure I don't get kicked off with these different things. So yeah, it did a phenomenal. It came up with scripts for when we're talking to buyers. You know, when they ask, why are we selling? We should say this has been surveyed. Like this thing cooked, man. So slash goal can actually do some real work. And the goal you said was sell the place for me. Yeah, I was tongue in cheek. I was like, sell my property for me, you know. But I mean, it did something, you know? So I like this a lot. I like it a lot. And I'm excited about our meetings so much. I'm excited about agents in general. I feel like this has been a really good way for us to understand them and to also react to some of the videos that are out there to understand. Do these people, do they have it right? And I think here's what we've discovered. The people who are teaching you how to set it up nailed it. The people who are teaching you how to actually use it, I think they're just a little flimsy with it. I want more substantive examples like what you use here. Examples you gave in your video. And as a follow up to this, we're gonna have a link to the interview that you and I did where you showed how you use this in your business. All you have to do if you're watching is click that and watch it next.