---
video_title: "Free Wispr Flow, ElevenLabs & CapCut alternatives + more GitHub hits"
video_id: 3Cni6_JubQk
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Cni6_JubQk
video_date: 2026-06-26T20:21:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane break down the top trending GitHub repos of the week.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-repos-jun26
  
  
  They also cover codebase-memory-mcp, Google Research’s timesfm, worldmonitor, penpot, voicebox, system_prompts_leaks, Agent-Reach, daily_stock_analysis, and OpenCut. Along the way, they look at a few extra projects people are talking about, including peerd, FluidVoice, and birdclaw.
  
  
  Chapters:
  
  00:00 - Hot GitHub repos this week
  00:27 - OpenMontage: Create full edited videos from a plain-language prompt using Claude Code.
  01:48 - Why agent-native video editing matters: Andrew and Adam explain why coding agents may be more flexible than traditional editors.
  04:03 - codebase-memory-mcp: Give coding agents memory and codebase awareness while cutting token usage.
  06:09 - Help Andrew get Matt Van Horn on the show
  07:39 - timesfm: Google Research’s time-series model for forecasting trends from numerical data.
  11:06 - Zapier MCP: Safely connect agents to apps like Gmail, Calendar, Notion, and more.
  13:21 - peerd: Run a browser-based AI agent locally without backend tracking or telemetry.
  15:27 - FluidVoice: A local, open-source dictation tool and WhisperFlow alternative.
  17:15 - birdclaw: A cleaner, more focused way to read and manage X without using the regular feed.
  18:18 - worldmonitor: Track global events, conflicts, markets, and prediction signals in one dashboard.
  21:18 - penpot: An open-source Figma alternative with self-hosting and code-friendly design workflows.
  24:27 - voicebox: Clone voices and generate editable speech locally without subscription tools.
  27:00 - system_prompts_leaks: Study real system prompts from major AI coding tools to improve your own prompts.
  29:51 - Agent-Reach: Give agents direct access to sites like X, Reddit, YouTube, GitHub, and LinkedIn.
  31:39 - daily_stock_analysis: Generate daily AI-powered stock analysis for your watchlist.
  32:42 - OpenCut: An open-source CapCut alternative aiming to become agent-friendly video editing infrastructure.
  35:24 - How Adam evaluates open-source tools
  37:21 - Andrew’s process for building the report
  39:27 - Watch the next AI apps episode
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I got a whisper flow alternative that's free, self-hosted, and super fast coming up. I've got an AI tool that with one prompt will create a beautiful video for you with no AI slap, I guarantee it. And I'm going to show you a tool that will clone your voice so free, your mom won't even know it's not real. All that and so much more coming up. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. All right Adam, people freaking love this thing. They're actually using the repos or they're learning about how to build with them. And so let's teach them what the top 10 trending GitHub repos are for this week. Number one, and I like to start with number one, not make people wait till the end of the list to get to it. Number one is open montage. Here it is. You describe a video in plain language and your coding agent will research it, will script it, will edit it, will render the whole thing. Usually I like to click directly into the GitHub and show you around so that I can get your feedback. But I actually want to show you what this looks like first. And then let's get your feedback. Here is a YouTube video showing what it looks like in the end. Look at this. Really nice, right? I'll show you the prompt in a moment. I'm not going to play the whole video because this thing just goes on and on and on. But it's like nice, it's dramatic. It doesn't look like it's AI generated. It doesn't feel cheesy. Look at this. It merges well together. Here's the prompt that he used to create it. This is actually without any of the video API keys, which is awesome. Once you're on clock code and put your prompt inside the clock, then you can see that after running the prompt, for example, we're making the 75 second documentary about to see a live in the ring at night. So once everything. That's it. It's like two sentences that he has in there. Are you able to hear him talk by the way, Adam? Yeah, I am. Yeah. Excellent. Two sentences. He gets the whole thing. It's done on his computer. He specifically wants no AI generated images. He wants real footage and he got it. What do you think about this one? I mean, that explains why it doesn't look AI generated because it's it's all it's like stock footage, right? Like it's not AI generated. It's just cutting that together. I mean, I think that's interesting for a dramatic clip of rain falling with cool music. But I also think it's it's like, why would I use this? Andrew, you've used a lot of these tools. Why would I use this instead of Descript or CapCut or something like that? Where what gap does this fill? CapCut does have some of these features in it. Descript is having some of these features in it. Neither one of them is as fully baked as this. And then also Adam, what I'm seeing is a lot of people are using cloud code to create videos, whether it's it's edit their videos of themselves. And a lot of them are using like text over their screen or images, but they're not using B-roll. Or they just want just standard B-roll and even 11 labs of voices. And with this, you know, I think I'm frustrated in like Descript and CapCut. I'm usually frustrated by the experience. You know, they built these nice interfaces. They built AI into them, but they're still very limited. And when I use cloud code, I don't feel limited by anything. So I actually have started to prefer tools like this that plug into cloud code and let me combine tools and use part of this tool, part of that tool. And now I'm not limited to this like one editor experience that, oh, it doesn't have that one little feature I needed to finish the video. Cloud code is like, oh, write me a little script that can build that tool that I want really quickly. And it says great. I'll do that. So I love these because they super charge kind of the cloud code experience by not requiring that you have to rebuild this stuff from scratch. They've done a lot of the work. But then it's still flexible in a way where I could build anything that I could possibly dream of. More and more of my friends are using cloud code to edit their videos. I like it. I think this is really interesting. No wonder it's number one. It works well. I should also say that he specifically wanted it all on his desktop and he didn't want to pay for API keys, but you can if you decide that you do want to have external tools. If you do want to have AI generated images, this thing does it. It's very robust. It's a really good experience. And no wonder it's number one for this week. Let's go on. What's number two? Number two is code based memory MCP. Boy, this report is getting longer and longer because I also wanted all these links in here. I wanted the Reddit cut. We'll have a link to the report below. I obviously can't anymore read everything that live. But what do you think of this? This person, by the way, from Unread it. This is Andrew OO. Code based memory MCP review 99% token cut for code agents. Been running coding agents on a few repos lately and kept watching them burn through tokens just to answer questions like who calls this function or what's the impact of changing X, got annoying fast found this tool. That's what he's using for. What do you think? Yeah, I mean, these are awesome. This is like the AI version of the the LSP tools coders have used for a really long time, which is like how do you give your coding environment access and understanding of even a very large code base? There's a lot of files, different places and an AI is very happy to just use a hammer and change something and not realize it broke something else. It's a tool like this or an LSP that that lets the agent know, oh, I need to look at this. I need to consider these things. And honestly, the idea of coupling memory with it is something that that to me is very exciting because I struggle. If I'm working on five projects at a time, I even struggle to remember, oh, I need to remind this agent to look at this file and where was that function? And how do I want to change this feature? I forget. And man, I'm exhausted a lot of the time now. I'm a dad. I've got kids. And these things are really powerful when they couple these kind of well-built tools like an LSP with memory. And then they give access to those things through MCP, which is the agent's favorite way. For my research, I've been adding these so what to just remind me to tell the audience why it matters here. Here's the so what it is. It makes an AI coding agent smarter and cheaper on big code bases. It's. Yeah. Shipper is a big is a big part of that. All right. Adam, as you know, we've been getting a bigger and more passionate audience. It's time for us to activate them. I need your help. This man is wanted. Matt Van Horn. He is a creator we've talked about before. He's got two projects here on GitHub. One of them actually trended and made it into our list. One did not, but it's still good. And I want to have him on here to talk about them. He is ignoring me, but he's a nice guy. And I'm sure that he's getting a lot of people who are reaching out to him. So I'm not blaming him. But if anyone out there knows him and wants to support the show here, reach out to him. And if you don't know, reach out to him on X and if you don't know him and don't want to reach out to him on X, maybe you can throw me a like and a subscribe. I'm really trying to build this up and let me let me also just to show you what a nice guy he is beyond building this. This is an experience out of him. I think you could relate to it. Was this from this morning? Yeah. No, from yesterday. He goes, I love open source. Freddie Montero, soccer star player from Columbia and Seattle Sounders, number two all time goal scorer submitted two PRs to pull across, both merged into slash 30 days. Now let this send it is. This is where the story I think is so relatable to you. He texted me last week. Quote, can I get breakfast and stop by your office? You helped me out to set up cloud code. That did. And he said PRs. Isn't this like your experience where you got me excited and then I started building an outcome back in and showing you what I did. That's amazing. This is the beauty. All right, guys, if you're out there, help me get Matt and if you're not, Matt, we know you're out there. We want to talk to you. Yeah. All right. We should submit some some PRs to get on his radar. That might be the next step. Okay. Boy, this really is going on too long on the page. All right. This one is from Google Research. It's times F and it you feed it a sequence of numbers, like what your sales data is, what the demand is, what the traffic, how your ads are performing, anything. And this is what got controversy on hackers news. And I'll show it in a moment. Then it predicts what comes next. It does not need to be trained to do this. I'm going to show you the GitHub repo right here. Then I'll show you the controversy on hackers news. People were shocked, shocked that this actually can work and didn't believe it. Let's take a look at it. I somehow find the concept of a general time series model strange. How can the same model predict egg prices in Italy and global inflation in a reliable way? And how would you even use this model given that there are no explanations that help you trust where the prediction comes from? And people who came in there and started explaining it, what what is not generally understood is that these models don't predict egg prices or inflation in Italy. They decompose a time series of trends, seasonality and residuals. That's why they're that's what that's what they're actually modeling. They cannot predict wars in the Middle East influencing inflation unless there is a seasonal pattern. And then people say, well, actually seasonal pattern for wars in the Middle East maybe. Here's a real use case that will show everybody how you might be able to incorporate this by a Googler. He says, when I worked on Google ads, we used time series forecasting to compute the odds of an ad campaign reaching its goal to tell users how likely they were to hit their goals. See, a ton of unsophisticated advertisers would just draw a line from zero to the number they were at today, then they would project that line to the end of the month and they would consider that the forecast of the amount of conversions and spend that they're going to hit. This, of course, doesn't take into account various seasonalities the time of day, time of year, et cetera. And it gives them a poor forecast. That's what this is for. Andrew, I have a confession to make. Yes, sir. I've been guilty of this. We've been guilty of this. It's the only thing you can do reasonably in a spreadsheet. You look at the number and you know it's not right, but you're like, it's about the best I can do in Google's rates if that's where we're reporting. Sorry, guilty. That's me. I'm very excited to see this coming from them though, because we've got all these language models. I've thought for a long time now, old AI has been around for decades. We've been using it for decades. Facebook is AI, all ads are AI, you know, the model underneath, but it's machine learning and it's numerical AI. And this new AI is all text AI. And text AI is not for good at math. It's good at storytelling. It's good at understanding concepts. And so I've been waiting for these two things to combine with each other to say, well, how can I feed whatever data I want without having to learn how to train my own machine learning model? Because today, if you want to do machine learning and you want to do your own forecasting, you're going to need a data scientist. You're going to need a data engineer. That's still just as complicated as it was 10 years ago. So I'm really excited to see this stuff coming out of Google. And I'm hoping that this is the first of like many reports, many research articles that they put out and that this will be a wave of numerical AI kind of for the masses for you and me. I love this. I love that we can incorporate it. I love that we have access to it. Thank you, Google. All right. That's the third most popular or third trending repo of the week, according to GitHub. I want to do a quick mention here of Zapier MCP. Adam, I got to tell you a quick story. This week on X, there was this trending story by a Googler who goes, I was fired forgiving people access to Google workspace using CLI because what he wanted to do was say, all these people like Andrew are using Hermes, Agent OpenClaw, etc. I want to give them access so that their agents get access to all these tools. I messaged him and now that we're getting a little bit of cloud plus he's a nice guy. I'm a nice guy. I say, could you please come on and do a video with me showing me how this works? It comes out with me and goes, Andrew, I want to show you but my setup is like in between. I'm now redoing my whole system here. I can show you but not that much. I said, how about if I show if I connect my Hermes agent to all these tools because I want to give my Hermes agent email calendar and so on, he goes, yeah. Dude, the guy who built it gets on, on a call with me. We spend over an hour trying to connect it with Google Cloud and everyone who I talked to about Google Cloud goes, I hate that thing. We had to do that. We had to do so many things. By the end of over an hour working with the guy who created this, who everyone was herding for adding more access to agents so that they could use Gmail calendar, Asana, all that, I mean, Google Gmail calendar, etc. I couldn't make it work. I go, oh, but now I really want this. So you know what I did? I go to Zapier, MCP, Zapier.com slash MCP, no exaggeration. I connect it in and I say, not only give it Gmail, Google calendar, but also I give it access to, I don't use Asana, to notion, etc. It happened in less than freaking five minutes. Now, Adam, you might say to me, couldn't you just tell Hermes to connect to it directly? Yes and no. First of all, it's not so simple to connect to it directly. Number one, I don't want to use the browser number two. Number three, Fricking Hermes agent goes stupid sometimes. And I don't want it to go stupid on apps that matter to me and my team. That's why I use Zapier MCP. If you're out there and you haven't tried it, Zapier.com slash MCP, I went along with this because it's coming from a place of passion. If you're building, give your tools access to all your other tools that you have. Do it in a reliable way that won't just take for Fricking ever. All right, let's go on. Since we got Zapier, we are now going to give three special mentions to repos that are not trending, but I'm noticing people talking to them. We're going to break into our top ten list with these three. This is peered. It's an AI agent that lives in your browser. No backend, no telemetry, no going anywhere. Here's what it does. Many of us have used Gemini in the Chrome browser where you get on the right side. You start asking questions. What if you don't want to use Gemini? What if you want to use a different model? What if you want to use your own self hosted model? That's what this guy created. It was on hacker news and I thought we'd show it. What do you think of this one? I think it's awesome. I think this is one more of those bridges that I'm excited about. Local AI models. Today, they're OK, but they're eight months behind the best open source models. They're about eight months behind the frontier. And today's frontier models are great. So in eight months, it's true. Sorry. Really? GLM. Oh, yeah. I've been seeing benchmarks that say that it's very close to Opus 4.8, that it's only beaten by people. They're close and in some ways. They're farther off in others. I mean, they kind of they choose the thing they want to compete on. But let's say they're at most eight months behind. That's my point is that they're very close to the performance of it. And as those are models or that you're capable of running on your laptop or maybe you have a Mac mini or something. Well, shoot. Now I can start to run tools like this. The data stays locally on my computer or in my network. It's a lot faster because it's all local. And I get the control of what model do I want when an open AI doesn't get my data. Anthropic doesn't get my data. Google doesn't get my data. I'm pretty happy about those things. I'm one of the many like duck.co users because years ago, I don't love going to Google.com all the time. Just telling them about my life. And so I switched to duck.co. This this thing is like right up my alley too. I switched to DLM 5.2. I love it. Have a look back inexpensive. It's fantastic. Folks in the comments tell me whether Adam is right that they are eight months behind or whether I am right that they are neck and neck. I'd love to hear from you all really some of these people are freaking smart. I mean, if they're watching this, of course they are. Okay, there we go. Next one is fluid voice. This is because a lot of people in the comments said to me that at one point I must have mentioned that I use something other than whisper flow. Well, people have been asking about it. This is like the whisper flow for free. All you have to do is go to GitHub and get it or even if you're not a GitHub person, you can just go to their website like a normal human being, download it and start using it. And I'll have another version of this later on that we'll talk about. But here's here's from Dillip. He goes, I've dictated almost everything for six months to whisper flow, 44,000 words, etc, etc. Top 1.1% of users on whisper flow. Last week I tried fluid voice, open source runs local on my Mac, corrects as I speak with no API keys, handles slang better than I expected, cancelled my paid plan. The benefit of having it on your on your computer is not just that if you say any random stuff that it won't go into the cloud, which is also a nice benefit. It's also I find faster when it's on your computer than if it has to go to the cloud, doesn't use it bandwidth. Good find. Oh my god, I love it. I'm a super whisper pain subscriber. And today when we get off this call, I'm going to go try this and I might cancel my super whisper subscription too. What do they get the nerve? I can cancel it. Whisper flow 15 bucks a month. I find it to be stupid. It's stupid. And with all the competition, it's because people, anyway, folks, try it out. Let me know what you think of it. Let's go on to timeout. We recorded about an hour ago and Adam tried fluid voice. Check out his response. He had first thought he had an issue, but he goes, never mind. It's working. It's great. I'm canceling my other subscription. All right. So there's another endorsement for fluid voice. And I'm glad that we get to do these sessions. So he can try it out back to the program. One more honorable mention. This is bird claw from Peter Steinberger, the creator of open claw. Here is the project website. You can see here how easy it is to set up. I want you to, I should also click over to GitHub. Does it help that I'm actually showing the GitHub? Enough for this one. The repo. I will show you this tweet from him. I find this to actually show the clarity and the benefit of it. What we're talking about is an easier way to interact with Twitter that organizes here, the screenshot that organizes the things that matter to you and the order that you want and makes it a lot less distracting and a lot less Twitter centric and more use centric. Cool. That is cool. It pulls the topics and things that I'm interested in and like presents me that information, but just not without me having to go to x.com. Is that what you have? With that, you're having to use x.com like a regular human being. Yes. I think it is kind of cool. People have been talking about how great this is in my little nerd circle. I thought I'd share it with the broader circle. Now, back to our top 10 list. Number four, world monitor. Listen, there are people who are running big companies who are paying for data from Palantir, who have all these dashboards, who are trying to figure out what's going on in world events and how they're impacting them, or maybe they're just trading stocks, or maybe they're just trying to make money on polymarket. Well, you don't have to pay for all this. There is a repo on GitHub called world monitor that puts it all right on your screen. This is the kind of dashboard that you get with wars that are going on or military activities. And I will actually, instead of showing you this, I find the tweet to be really nice. I'm going to show you this kind of creepy video because I just freaking love it. I just play it a little bits of it. Hack, cyber and code. They go directly into Ubuntu, start from scratch, go into GitHub, install it. This of course will be in the report for those of you who are getting this report. And then you can see here, military bases, nuclear sites, you can check off the box on the left to see it. I don't know that I want the nuclear site data on my computer. Can I like definitely uncheck that box so that I'm not involved in whatever weird stuff. Right, right. From what I understand, this is so that you can enter the prediction markets, which are now getting so popular and decide what you're going to put money on. You know, Andrew, something we've started to talk about, we've got this venture studio and we build businesses. Something we've started to mention more lately is as we're evaluating an idea for a business, we'll say, oh, I wonder what the people on polymarket or call for something of this. There's some trend that we think is going to happen and it's a guess. And we can look at news articles and we're like, wait a minute, other people are already betting on this trend. And we can use that and we are using it now as a great source of information for, well, what does everyone else think is going to happen? And actually, as I'm looking at this, well, man, maybe I could put all of our thesis ideas in here and have that help scrape news, but also call she polymarket and others to get these analytical signals. You know, I was a little bit distracted by all the military base stuff, but if I could not run the military base stuff and do this other than that, that's pretty interesting. No, look at this. This is just a screenshot. It's a little bit of a bit obviously. But it's like Israeli forces escalated strikes and clashed with his bola in eastern Lebanon, resulting in dozens of deaths. This intensified, this intensified conflict marks a significant regional destabilization. You've got around theater. You've got live web cams from just anyone who happens to have it on in Tel Aviv in the different parts of the Middle East. This is like just looking at one little event here. They've accumulated everything here together. I shouldn't say one little event in the with everything that's going on in the world. This is one aspect of it. But man, okay, let's move on to the next one. Obviously, if you're using that and you don't want to tell me, I understand. Let's move on to Penn Pot. This is like, I love this line that I came up with, or at least I loved it last night at 11 o'clock as I was writing it. Stop paying money to rent your designs and then figure out how to get them coded. This is me trying to establish why this is the Figma alternative that is self-hosted. And the reason for that is I saw a lot of people who were using this complain that with Figma, you have to keep paying them. You don't really own your designs and then getting them coded up is tough versus Penn Pot, which is open source. It's an alternative and it makes it much easier to turn what you've got into code. In fact, where's the line actually that I got from them? Free self-hosted Figma alternative and every design comes out as real code. And this has done so well that they've actually raised $20 million. Partially led by Figma's XCOO, Eric Whitman and other angels. And partially it's because when Figma just blew up, people said, well, what's another alternative? This was taking off. I mean, this is awesome. I love, you know, you and I both tried the Claude design tool that they put out a month or so ago now. And we were both, I think, a little bit underwhelmed by the depth and capability. And, you know, I don't know about you, but I ran out of credit in about 10 minutes of I was like, oh, well, I guess I'll try again next week. And so being able to run this stuff locally, have it connect to my AI locally, maybe use a local model to do it. But honestly, I'm probably still going to connect it to GPT-5.5 or something. That's pretty awesome. And I'm an avid Figma user, have been for a long time. Really powerful to prototype. But yeah, it kind of feels like a wall garden now. So this is a pretty exciting thing to try. I don't understand the name. Do you know where the name penpot? Penpot, no. This is less LLM building and more human beings building. Connects, I saw in there. There's an MCP server. So I can build in here. It's like replacing the UI of Figma, which I love. But then I can like connect my agent to it through MCP to presumably vacuum out all of that information, help code and stuff like that, right? Like, yeah, that's, oh, and it can go back and forth. Oh, that's really cool. Because a lot of the Figma stuff is kind of get it out of Figma. But it's hard to use AI or like Cloud Code to create designs in Figma. If I could use AI to create designs in penpot, man, I'm really sold then. I'm excited. I'm selling myself on this thing. Oh, come on. Hackernos is blocking me because I have an agent go and search everything. This like should work. It's, but honestly, I do like controversy on hackernos because I find that it is insightful. I don't think the controversy here is really that big. Self-hosted or use it. Move on. Okay. Voice box. Remember earlier, I said that there is another free dictation tool taking on whisper flow that's doing well. This is it. It's actually voice box. That's not the number one thing that they do. But if you look at their website, you will see that they also are doing it. The number one thing that they do, though, is they will clone voices. They will take text and turn it into beautiful, easy to edit voices. I think they've just been doing a phenomenal, phenomenal job here. This just keeps doing well. I actually, you know what? I don't like this. You don't have to pay for 11 labs and whisper flow subscription anymore. You never have to. This is, this is just as good, but it's more than that. It's the ability to build it in. Take control. Let me do a quick video here for you to show you what it looks like. And then I'll take your your feedback on it. This is what my real voice sounds like. And this is my AI cloned voice. Hi, this is Kevin's AI voice. You probably can't tell the difference. I was able to clone it in under 30 seconds. I'll show you how to clone any voice on your PC with no subscriptions and no complicated setup. All you need is a short voice sample. And you could generate new speed. It's fantastic. What do you think of this one? Any thoughts? Man, I love the local trend. And voice does seem to be one of those things where the models aren't that big. You might not have been paying attention, but I've been watching, like as we look at some of these tools, how big like the appeared one, for example, or not appeared. What was the what was the other voice one we talked about here? I forgot. I noticed that if you download fluid voice, it's a three and a half gigabyte download. Like, oh my god, that's a lot of space. Well, but it's because they have the whole voice model built into the app. And that's why it's so fast. That's why it's free. And then because it's local, you get all this control. And so these voice, I think, is a great beach head into bringing whatever you're paying for a service-wise online. I would disagree, Andrew, I think you probably could cancel 11 labs. You probably could cancel Whisper Flow and replace it with either of the two tools that we've talked about today. Okay, fair point. I like the pushback on it. By the way, I've used AI-generated voices here because you know me, Adam. I flood words all the freaking time. And I mean, we were looking earlier at the repos before we got started. And as I looked at the name, I mispronounced it or reversed it. Anyway, I use it all the time. There's no other way. Otherwise, what am I going to do? Go and re-record the re-recordings. It's not going to sound as natural because when you use one of these, it kind of matches the rest of what you've put up there. That's right. Okay, next. This is just a repeat of last week, system prompt leaks. You had a take on this, which is first of all, let me just do this. I love these things. Look, somebody leaked the system prompts of cursor, clawed code, loveable, and 30 plus AI coding. They really make it sound like it's this nefarious hacker who saved the day. It's not exactly that. As you explained, would you do that again? Yeah, I mean, somebody leaked them. That's true. In the Anthropic case, Anthropic leaked them live on their blog site. It's not so secret. But I would love a... I'm a sucker for a dramatic music backing track. All these guys, the system prompt is the set of instructions that the model provider gives to the model for all the tools that you're familiar with using. Clawed code has a system prompt. And it goes something like, you are clawed code. You are a helpful coding assistant. You work in this way. You don't work in this way. And every one of these tools that you've used has a system prompt. And the leak is not... There's no security risk here. There's no nothing. The way that I look at these is I build a lot of AI tools. And what I've got in front of me are perfect examples from the best people in the world on how to write a system prompt. So I'm looking at the template. I'm looking at the style, the formatting. I'm looking at, oh, for Opus, what did they include in the system prompt? And what did I think they would tell it that they didn't tell it because, you know, oversharing with the system prompt can also lead a model awry. So I'm looking at these. And when I'm writing a new system prompt, Andrew, I'm pointing Clawed code at a repository like this and saying, hey, go and learn from this real quick. I want to write a system prompt that, you know, anthropic would say looks like it's among the best of the best. So what you said is exactly what the Washington Post had said here, use it to learn how to prompt properly. They also said you can see how they're dealing with things like biases. Like apparently Google has an anti-biased thing. The one thing that's not going to work in the link that I have is this, what they did was they said, okay, see how with a different system prompt your user prompt changes the results you get. And the reason it doesn't work is Washington Post is a paid subscription. And I wanted everyone who gets this report to have access to everything in here. And so I use the archive.is link for this one. I've been doing stuff like that before with these reports. We've had take down requests in the past people saying, wait a minute, the Washington Post, you have to pay for it. Make your user pay by linking. If we get it taken down, it's taken down. But for the time that it's up, it's in the description. Feel free to go and grab it. And then it's yours. Let's move on to the next one. We've also talked about this one before agent reach. Give your agent the ability to actually read the internet, Twitter, Reddit, YouTube, GitHub by pasting one line. This is something that I incorporate into the work that I am doing here. Basically what I did was I gave this link to Cloud Code. I said, you know how I put this research together. What should we use? I said, well, I think we could use this, but not that. Let's keep going. And so that's where that's what I ended up doing with this. Really helpful. That's awesome. So some of these, some of these like AI scraping tools, like the AI browsers and even plugins for your browser. They're really good plugins that bring a sense of like agentic behavior to the human browsing experience. A tool like this had a flip that on its head and it says, well, wait, you know, your agent really doesn't want to use a browser. It doesn't want to have to click all those buttons. It doesn't want to like sit as an extension. This is a way to give the agent direct access to all these sites on the internet. And they've got built in, you know, there's this war of, well, if I'm linked in, I don't want you to scrape me. If I'm Twitter, I don't want you to scrape me. Well, these guys are doing their best to stay ahead in that where it's going to give your agent the best tools that work today for scraping LinkedIn posts, for scraping Twitter, for really any website on the internet. But they've got a couple to hear that that they focus on to make sure that you're not going to get blocked. Like you just got blocked from hacker news a minute ago. This tool exists to help your agent not get blocked in the same way. I guess I'm going to have to use this for hacker news now. I do, I do hate that I have to go through all that. All right. I've got a nice video here, but we've talked about this repo before. So I'll leave it in the report for anyone who wants it. Let's move on. Daily stock analysis, a free AI robot that reads the market for you for your watch list daily. And then it sends you bicell hold a dashboard for your phone to help you make the right decision. We don't really cover much stock information, but I do like that people will go in the past. The geeks used to have spreadsheets with what their stocks were doing. If they got a little bit more sophisticated, they might connect it up to something where they have real time data. It's not for trying to time the market. It's for trying to get a better understanding of what you have, the decisions that you make and so on. And so now these tools are taking that same approach and they're making it a lot smarter. And that's that's where we are with this. I haven't tried it. I'm not, I'm not into the stock market, but I want to identify that this is a big trend here. Financial information on GitHub. Yeah, I don't have much more to say than that. Okay. And finally, number 10, open cut. Cap cut is great, but I have to tell you the one thing that I do freak out about is giving cap cut the video editor access to my computer. In fact, I have it isolated somehow. And it's because it does some crazy freaking stuff. I don't like that when I use, when I use, what's the name of that company? When I use that company software, um, by dance that it copies my clipboard. What do you need the clipboard copying? I don't like what it's doing on my computer. I don't like how I get to download it from the app store where I feel safer downloading cap cut. And then it sends me for the update to the web. And I was like, no, the whole idea of using the app store was to get around that. So I do understand that I don't think that I use all their features. And so for the simplicity of editing, I understand that this cap cut alternative called open cut is, uh, it's easier. Uh, sorry, it's, it's desktop and it's in your control and you can install it. I do want to give people just one big note about this one. It's not great. It's not a great video editing experience. It doesn't have all the features that cap cut has. It has had some problems where it's a little bit weirdly buggy. I don't think this is the right direction to go in. I think what you and I were looking at earlier, which is like, let Cloud Code edit. I think is smarter. Um, so instead of duplicating cap cut, I like to see open source, take it to the next level and do a cap cut can't do, you know, go to Cloud Code, build it with my agents. Yeah. I think that's a good point. Andrew, where, where, you know, I said this earlier when we were looking at, uh, at some of the other tools, like, well, my problem with something like Descript or CapCut is that I'm limited by a kind of crummy UI that AI is amazing. The generative capability is amazing. But sometimes I'm limited by the UI or just they don't have a button where I need a button to do something. And the open source version of CapCut is going to suffer from that. Right. Times 10 because it hasn't been around as long. It hasn't had as much testing. And so the reason to go to, to, uh, uh, Cloud Code, Open Code, whatever and let those things use all these video tools is that you get the flexibility and you can let Cloud Code fill in the gaps. And I agree. I don't think this one is, is going to do that. And this video is a hard problem. It's very complex. There's a lot of signal. The files are big. And so they've, they've taken a pretty ambitious project on. You know, I'm, I'm excited if they can accomplish it because I would love to use this instead of CapCut, like you said. Uh, but I think it's a, it's an uphill battle and they've got a long way to go. They are rewriting it from the ground up. They are going headless so that you don't need that, that interface and your AI can use it. And so let's see how it goes. That might be amazing. Let me, let me tell you something. If you go to new.opencut.app, it has been down. It's been, it's been down, which doesn't give me a good feeling about it. I want them to succeed. Don't get me wrong. Usually, if I'm going to build around an app like this and I get a couple bad signals early on, you know, it's unreliable. The websites down, the two things that I go and look at, go back to the GitHub for me real quick. I want everybody to see this. This is like, you know, I, I don't want to learn this tool if the tool is going to go away, right? So number one, scroll all the way down. Who's sponsoring this? So foul.ai. This is a good sponsor to be supported. They're great at video. But I, I, I want to see a reliable sponsor, but I also want to see multiple sponsors. Really? Because why is Fally? I sponsoring this and, you know, if in any place where you get one sponsor that's paying all of it, well, they're kind of in control and they're going to make decisions that are best for them. I want to see a couple competitive sponsors that all make sense there. And then the next thing is I scroll all the way up and look at the files here. When were they updated? Five days ago, that's a pretty good signal, right? You know, some of these you'll look at it and it'll say last month or three months ago. I'm looking right here on the right side. Five days ago, five days ago, three months. And, and if you're not seeing a lot of activity there and it's not very reliable, ooh, I cut and run. But here, like one sponsor that's pretty good. I'd like to see more, but a lot of activity like they very well could could come out of this. I'd like to see them do well. I'd like to see more video editing. I do have again in the report, there's a tweet that they put out where they were talking about how they're rewriting it, what their vision is, they're taking people's requests to heart like the keyboard, first mode, etc. Okay. Cool. I've spent hours on this report, literally hours, even though I have obviously clawed code helping me put this thing together. I spent hours because I want to make sure that there's no hanky, panky that I don't end up with somebody who is clearly trying to game the system and get in here. I want to make sure that we've got useful information that I'm curating the videos to make sure that they're helpful. If this has been helpful, I would really appreciate it. If you gave us a like, if you did subscribe or even frankly, if in the comments you told me what you hated about it because that helps me improve. I want this to be the best way for you all to understand what's going on in open source. And more importantly, how you can use it and build with it. And Adam, I was doing this last night with my Mikalobe Ultra, which is like the wussiest beer. That's what I'm down to, but I'm trying to like watch my calorie intake and at the same time, I feel like Thursday night, baby, everyone's watching soccer. I'm sitting here at my desk just preparing for tomorrow. Let's do it. Yeah. I'm here. Me and you. Yeah. Yeah. I got a week like that too where like you couldn't take much time because you had kid duty, right? Oh my gosh. Yeah. I've got my kids alone this week, my wife's out of town. And so I'm off work basically at 10 p.m. And yeah, one or two nights, I think I sat down and had a beer chilled on the couch and it's like, man, I got to crash and go to bed. But yeah, it's a, you know, you need a little refreshing and honestly, Andrew, like, hey, I, it's exhausting. I'm more tired at the end of my work day when I've worked with AI more. Just constant decisions, constant back and forth, constant frustration. I've not cursed at my computer so much in years than like compared to the last six months. But it's also so fun. It's so it's it's addicting. And I, but it man, it, it drains me. I put so much, so much into the apps that we're building, so much into the shows like this that we're working on and everything that feel like at the end of the day, I'm just done. I'm glad to hear that you're frustrated. Sometimes I feel it's because I'm stupid or I'm missing something and a smarter and more engineering oriented person wouldn't have that problem. Okay. Now that this video is over so far, what we've talked to you about is GitHub. I now have actual apps that you can use right now that are AI based that we hunted down for this week. There's a link for you to watch it right now. Just go use it. You don't have to incorporate it. You don't have to do anything. It is amazing what you could achieve or frankly just sit back watch it with a mickle of ultra and watch your weight like Andrew. All right. Go see you in the I'll see you in the next video. Bye.