---
video_title: "How to Build a $100K/Year AI Business With No Employees"
video_id: F8hJUVh0jME
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8hJUVh0jME
video_date: 2026-06-22T22:28:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Shashank reveals how he built a $100K+ business run largely by AI agents that handle everything from outreach and hiring to finance and growth.
  
  Get all the tools from today's video: 
  https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/shashank-agarwal-tools
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Shashank Agarwal (X):  https://x.com/itsshashank
  Company: https://noveum.ai/en | https://api.market/ 
  
  Andrew sat down with Shashank, founder of API.market, who built a marketplace serving more than 13,000 users and generates over $100K/year while relying heavily on AI agents to run day-to-day operations. From podcast outreach and LinkedIn engagement to hiring, seller acquisition, finance, and project management, Shashank shows how he uses OpenClaw agents to automate much of his business.
  
  Instead of treating AI as a simple assistant, Shashank built a network of specialized agents with their own memory, tools, inboxes, and responsibilities. These agents find podcast opportunities, manage LinkedIn relationships, recruit candidates, forecast business performance, and coordinate work across the company using Discord, Trello, Gmail, and custom workflows.
  
  The real shift is moving from using AI for individual tasks to building systems of agents that can operate independently, collaborate with each other, and continuously move work forward with minimal human intervention.
  
  00:00 Running a $100K+ business with AI agents
  00:28 Revenue, growth, and API.market
  01:15 Meet the AI-powered PR agent
  01:54 How agents find and contact relevant people
  03:03 Building agents with Cursor and Claude
  04:23 Shared memory vs. agent-specific memory
  05:24 Managing outreach and follow-ups
  06:18 CRM workflows using markdown files
  08:04 Why Discord became the agent headquarters
  09:03 Building a LinkedIn management agent
  10:29 Finding ideal customers and engagement opportunities
  11:22 Posting LinkedIn comments through AI agents
  13:41 Automated seller outreach for API.market
  14:28 Using Instantly and Apollo for outbound campaigns
  15:29 Running fully autonomous outreach workflows
  17:15 Building an AI CFO
  18:01 Connecting agents through cloud infrastructure
  20:09 Forecasting revenue, churn, and growth
  22:42 The AI hiring manager
  23:48 The Chief of Staff agent
  24:16 Using Trello to manage agent activity
  26:45 APIs every agent builder should know about
  27:53 Final thoughts on the future of AI agents
  
  Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
  
  #AIAgents #AgenticAI #OpenClaw #AIAutomation #ArtificialIntelligence #Startup #Entrepreneurship #ClaudeAI #FutureOfWork #TheNextNewThing
---
You're about to meet a guy who uses open cloud to run a hundred thousand dollar a year business. I didn't expect to meet him. I got an email from one of his agents about one of his businesses and we started chatting and then we get on a Zoom and then I start to see what he's doing and I go, I could do this. I could learn from you. I started implementing some of what he did and then I go, this is amazing. We've got to do an interview where you do a screen share and he's like, yeah, I go, can you show everything? He goes, yeah, let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. What is that? Yeah, that's actually my striped dashboard on the Amazon when you were doing and everything. So we just crossed like it, like a most nine K this last month. Okay, excellent. The over a hundred thousand dollar a year and it's being run using an open cloud agent. Let's take a look at your website before we go into how your agent works. This is API mark for all kinds of AI models and API and it's used by over 13,000 people across the globe. So they come to buy any kind of AI model and API and I've been running this business for almost two years now and it's entirely run by agents. Yeah, you and I actually talked about how we first met because you were running another business. We were talking about that other something or other and then suddenly it dawned on me that you're using an agent to communicate with me to run your business. I said, you gotta show me how you do it. Let's get a look at it. You're running your whole system inside of Discord. Can I see your Discord and let's take a look at maybe the PR person since that's how you and I met. The PR agent connected me with you. Yeah, that's what happened. One of my PR agents basically reached out to you and I think your name will be here with the long so a few other people that you will see over here. I see Gary 10, you're trying to get a hold of, you're trying to get a hold of all kinds of other people. He replied. Oh, Gary replied. Yeah. So how does it find us? How does it find people like me? How does it find people like Gary? Is it you who said I'm a big fan of Andrew? I'm gonna go get it? No, it's the agent. What does the agent do to go find people? Agent basically uses web search and he just tries to find hate who can be the relevant ICP, like who can be the relevant person and just goes out and sends messages to a lot of people by itself. Like it has a don't even account. What are you still giving an email account? Yeah, so I use it's Gmail account and we use Goxie.ly here that you see that can basically access, and this is open clock in the back. And they're all like, what's Goxie.ly? So Goxie.ly allows you to use and interact with all the Gmail services. Like you can use Gmail, Collender, Google Drive. Dude, this is mind blown because you know what? I tried to, not I tried. I gave my open-claw agent an email account in our network, but what I did was I treated like a regular person which kept giving me issues. And I then it also had to deal with loading the web browser and it kept getting tripped up by Google's are you a robot issues? Okay. So how do you give it the ICP for it to go on the web and hunt down people who fit that ICP? Yeah. So it's okay. For each of the agent, what I do, I use cursor or cloud code to set them up. So I change. I cursor a lot. Hey, this is the agent I want to do. I want to get beyond a lot of podcasts. I want to be on a lot of websites and blah, blah, blah. And it creates the memory and everything else that is required for each of the agent. So the agent is already set in that way. And then it gets access to all the videos tools it requires. Like LinkedIn search by I use API market as well for LinkedIn search, Unipile. So API market places your site where you find APIs that allow you to interact with places like LinkedIn. What's the tool that lets you interact with LinkedIn? Cause LinkedIn is a pain in the butt when it comes to connections. We have two APIs. So one of them is a lot much, much cheaper. It's called as Z as if I just search for LinkedIn. This one allows you to search. And the other one is without getting my system banned. I'm not gonna get cause my partner has had his business, my business partner had his business band off of LinkedIn. Okay, so this will do it. And then this one is Unipile. I'll show you. And then Unipile. Yep. Okay, and this lets you do searches or lets your agents search LinkedIn. Find people who fit your ICP and the ICP basically comes from the same doc do share it with every one of the agents individually or do you have one place for all of them? No, so there are two kinds of memory that my agents have. One is a shared memory, long-term memory across all the agents. Then each agent also have its own memory as well. Okay. So I've managed something called as long-term memory and shorter memory, which there's some paper was released. And I basically asked Cloud to implement in my open cloud. Okay. All right, so now it's finding the people. It's sending out email using essentially a Gmail account on your Google G Suite account. And then it, do you check the email that it sends out? I, for this one, I don't really. So there are different agents. For the other agent that I'll show you off of this, I do check the emails for that. For this one, I don't. I'm like, okay. And frankly, that's because there are tons of podcasters like me if you piss me off by using the wrong word or sounding like it's a I sloped, not a huge deal right onto the next. That, but you don't have that kind of time. That's the reason for it, by the way, there are not a lot of other podcasters like me, but I understand you're thinking as somebody who's going out there. Does it write messages as you? No. So this is called as Anika. She's my head of communication. Okay. All right. So come from Anika. And is every one of the agents using the hey at email address? Or no? They're different email address, depending on what they're supposed to do. Okay. Do you have to, if you're using the Gogg CLI, you have to pay for a whole user account on your Gmail Google workspace you do. Okay. I prefer to do that. Okay. All right. So now you do that. It monitors its own email as soon as it gets a reply from Andrew doing whatever. Does it reply automatically back? No, it tells me, hey, Shashar, this person has replied. Can I reply there and blah, blah, blah? That's it. Okay, go ahead and reply to that person and do your stuff. Got it. Just go ahead and reply. So Gary Tan comes in and you go, wait a minute. There's only one president of Y Combinator. I want to got it. Okay. Anything else that we need to see in that? Let's take a look, just like, give me like a quick walkthrough of what's going on in this Discord chat. Yeah. So if you see like it basically goes online, first we'll look at all the emails it has sent before, who it has to follow up with, who is replied with. How, what's the process that it uses to keep track of who it sent messages to? That's always a pain in the neck. Does it have a CRM? Yeah. So you know, in the CRM, what we do here in this one is that this agent makes a markdown where it tracks all the things it is doing right now. So there's a CRM but locally. Got it. And the local, the CRM is a markdown file that says, these are the people that I contacted. How does it know if I didn't get, if I didn't hear back from somebody within five days to go follow? Yeah. So if you see here, right, best position CRM contacts, right? Coals never pays. So it checks everything. Got it. When. So simple. I'm, I'm going to say that. I'm going to write that down and I'm going to say, OK, I'm going to write down the CRM message date. What is the next one? Like the cool down in April one. And three prior to send to don't reply. Dude, my Hermes agent suggested that I get a hub spot account for this stuff. But it felt like overkill. And then it said if you use notion, it's going to be over complicated. All right. So I use a, I use fellow, OK, but Trello is not a CRM for you. Trello is project management. Yes. OK, let's, let's continue with this. just roll down a little bit more. What is this? Okay, this is the podcast pipeline. Yep. Got it. Okay. Anything. This is what it is doing basically, right? It's loading the memory in box and the CRM. It pulls the live in box and reads the CRM and the speaking pipeline. Okay. Got it. And all these in the CRM and the speaking pipeline, all markdown files. Yep. One last question before we move on to the other thing. Why are you using Discord? Why are you using tell? Actually, I know you used Telegram for some of it. Why is Discord your main communication? Yeah. So see, I wanted to have multiple agents and I wanted to interact with each one of them separately. So Telegram was good, but it became a bit annoying because I have other stuff in there. So I'm like, okay, I can actually create a whole Discord server only for my agents and I can talk to them separately. And the agents can also talk to each other. And you see them talking to each other. Not so much, but yeah, they can if I tell them. Okay. By the way, I know I'm talking very fast and I'm like very eager at this because I love this. When you get this to work, it's so freaking exciting. And you're using this to the next level beyond what I'm doing. And I want to do this. Okay, I see that. Let's look at LinkedIn. So PR, you got outbound. We didn't even get into how it has its own help or reporter out account so that it could or email coming in there. So it could look for people. I get that. Let's now move from PR to LinkedIn. Yeah. So what do you do on LinkedIn? I've done here is, okay, I've been posting a lot of LinkedIn for the last two or three years now, almost like four times every week. And now I'm allowing and everything. So what I have done here is that first, I did a, I gave it a, how I write. I gave it a, you just give it your best post. A lot of them, like thousands, like hundreds or thousands of articles I've written over the years. I've given all of them. I wrote a book as well. So I gave it that book as well. Then I pulled everything about myself, like my entire life, what I have done so far. How did you do that? Would you dictate into something? Yeah, I was using Vistro Flow and other clawed agents to make like something called as a shung-profile.markdown. And that file as basically. Side note, I use Vistro Flow all the time. I freaking hate it. I know there are better tools in that. Okay, let's move on. All right, so you gave it all that and now knows how you write, it knows everything about you. And then what is it doing? Is it writing your LinkedIn post too? Yes. So it's also writing your LinkedIn post. No, the Ghost Rider writes a LinkedIn post. This one is mostly for my LinkedIn management, where it interacts with my ICPs, likes and comments. Got it, right. So we're not getting into the Ghost Rider, but you do have a Ghost Rider agent, also same system. What I wanted to know is more directly how are you getting customers? And what you're showing me here is LinkedIn management for who to reply to more directly. So if you're ICP, someone who is a potential customer writes a post, how does the agent catch it and then tell you, hey, go take a look and comment down in a rat. The agent knows what I do, what my business does and who I need to want to get in front of. So it finds people, finds what they're writing about, looks at all of their posts and then finds me five candidate posts, where I can write. And it basically tells me, hey, this is the post that I have found, right? And this is the comment that I should post. That you should draft. Okay, does it draft it for you? So let's actually, let's take a look here. I'm gonna do a quick reading of this. This is Runaq. He is a founder at Reducto. Got 78 reactions. This is the post, okay? And the post says, hey, I agents don't need prettier dashboards. They need operational contacts. They can query, compare and act on, et cetera. Okay, so now you've got a comment. Do you literally go and copy and paste it in there? Can you please go ahead and post all the comments. They look good to me. You just speak it into it. Okay, and it's doing it. And it's gonna go using that system that you told me earlier. What was the tool that you said they used? It's a uni pile. Uni pile, yeah. So it will sometimes give me errors because the way I'm using wall, but it'll still work. If I do it like, I'm still work then. Because see, I'm actually using Cloud Code to pay for all of this. Okay. I'm not using an anthropic API key. Because when you say Cloud Code to pay, okay, you've got some kind of connection to be able to use your Cloud subscription. Yeah, so basically I just can just like, it has forgotten because okay, now it is typing. If you see, now it is doing stuff at the bottom. It will take some time and do all the stuff. Okay, it's doing it all here. You also said, look, if senior leadership at a company where that you wanna work with is interacting with your post, it catches it and then it will do what to you. So first of all, it's looking at all your comments and then it's saying, look, he doesn't need to know about some random person who responded, but boss needs to know that someone who's an ICP and a senior level has commented on a post, we gotta get a response in. Okay, got it. And so it's because it's looking at every single person seeing what they are all using the API. Yep. How many of these requests can you make before you get kicked off of LinkedIn or before you exhaust the system? Who are like insane, maybe like do like 20 to like 30. So if you're maintaining a pattern, then LinkedIn is okay. You can't do like 200, 300 in a day. Okay. That also makes sense. Maybe like, I usually do like five comments in a day. Okay. And maybe like 20 to 30 requests in a day. Two for connections. And it's doing requests for connections on your behalf. Yeah, it can do that. Okay, wow. All right, I love this. Let's go on to the next one. All right, so now so far we've looked at one part of your business. You've got a marketplace, right? You want to know seller outreach. You want to do seller outreach, meaning get people who have APIs to put their stuff on your marketplace. What made you smile right there? What happened? Yeah, no, this is interesting. Now go ahead, go ahead. Okay, no, this is your other. No, tell me what you saw. This is your other agent, the outreach agent. So this is the seller outreach agent. What it does is basically, we want to have a lot of sellers on a P.M. market, right? And before we have to go out and find them and convince them, hey, why don't you sell on a P.M. market as well? Well, keep saying API market, isn't it? API.marketplace? API.market, that's it. Oh, okay, I've been saying it wrong. All right, API.market. All right, so you want them to come and list on API.market? Okay, yeah. So here it does a lot of like seller outreach. So basically we'll start selling emails. Hey, why don't you are selling somewhere else? Why don't you come on a P.M. market as well? Okay, and it does web search by itself. It finds that we have sent them in, we'll or not before. And then this one, I am using instantly to basically schedule my emails so that, what is it? I don't know. So I'll show you that as well. Yeah, it's like a polo. And what it is is basically a way to send emails. Like you can warm up your emails, it can do sequences, all those kind of. Okay, Apollo is largely forgetting contact information on people and and that. This does that and sends messages out, but also makes sure that you're not getting caught as a spammer. Yes, exactly. So I can use it so I can like ask my, I asked my open-claw agents to like put stuff here and instantly. And this is instantly.ai. Okay. Ramp's up. So right now I'm sending maybe like five emails in a day. It's gonna ramp up slowly over time and we're gonna make it to like maybe 50 emails a day as well. Okay, all right, this is great. We're gonna have a list of all the tools below. Okay. Yeah, it uses Apollo to get the leads because Apollo has better data and puts them here and draft the shed like drafts the email and everything. Uh-huh. One, follow up to follow a pre subject line, all those kind of stuff. So it handles it all, but you give it the input, it gives you the output, that's it. No, no, I don't know anything at all. There's full autonomous. No, I mean, you're sorry, I should have said not you. Your agent gives it the input, your agent gets the output and says, Hey, you know what? I just got a human being who says they want a list at that point, you come in and do it. No, it does everything by itself. Like I don't really have to be part of anything here. You don't even come in at that point and say, look, there's someone who wants to sell my marketplace. No, okay, I just saw that. No, look, the email is below that off. Okay. Yeah, person replies and it basically sends them like documentation and other stuff that they need to look at. That's it. Okay, just attitude wise, this is what I'm getting a lot of clear specific things that you're doing, but I also like your attitude. The way that you just blew it off when it's, when I'm like at that point, you come in, like, no, I'm almost disgusted that you would say it. I'm running a zero human company almost where I, Andrew, want to get my hands in everything. Okay. So that's one part that I'm getting from you. The other thing is do you know how in my head I am that I said, API.marketplace? And it's because I have something here that's running. It's granola that for some reason listed you that way. And now I think I don't trust my software at all. I should never trust the AI. I should come back. You don't have that. You're like, screw it. It's going to make mistakes. It's going to send a podcaster a message that sounds like AI Slap or that makes me look less imperfect. I can't be that precious move on. And that's another attitude that I'm getting from you. Okay. All right. You're going to show me something else. Or should I go on to my next item on the list? I'll be let's go to the next item. Okay. Next item on the list is something you're not going to show publicly, but you showed me before we got started, which is your CFO, you just describe it. Wait, don't click anything so that I would have, oh yeah, you can click on your website. Don't click anything that you're going to make me edit out. Intentionally, you can go to your site. Just describe what does the CFO do? Yeah. So see, when you are, I am a numbers guy. I constantly want to know how much still I'm doing, what is forecast and the different kind of scenarios I can have what I need to pay attention to, who's turning all those, there's so many things in there, right? So I'm like, I need to basically, I have an agent, call his finance agent, what it does, it basically is connected to my stripe in my database. And I've basically asked it to learn skills on how to do mathematical analysis for forecast. So I asked Claude, hey, this is my agent, please go ahead and teach it all the skills. It needs to know to create me really, really good financial reports. How is Claude interacting with your agent? Okay, so I got something called small VM on Hedsnor. I pay five bucks a month, that's it. Hedsnor, HETZ, NER is like a good, you can use Hedsnor, you can use Linnor, you can use it in the little ocean, anybody is fine. But wait, what's the connection between Claude and OpenClaude don't understand? Oh yeah, it's basically SSH. So OpenClaude, I gave it like a full SSH command. And now OpenClaude can connect to my VM, like the files and everything and can edit everything. But then Claude, how is Claude connecting in? Maybe this is beyond what I understand. How is Claude, how is your Claude? Like the app I'm assuming that you mean is on your desktop or do you mean in cursor or what type of Claude is interacting with it? Yeah, yeah, yeah, on my desktop, on my laptop, on my laptop. Meaning like the Claude app, you chat with the Claude app, it connects to Claude, but it connects to OpenClaude, how does it even send messages to OpenClaude? What do you mean, it is? I had no idea you could do that. Right now, yeah, it's okay, if you see my screen right now, this is OpenClaude, right? Yes, this is OpenClaude because it's terminal. This is cursor. Cursor connected to my OpenClaude. How do you connect cursor into your OpenClaude? Using the SSH, right? When you have a VM on the cloud, right? The SSH into it. I see, and it is doing that. I get the same command to this. Okay. Okay, I had no idea. I didn't even think to make that connection. I'm going to be honest with you and say, I don't fully understand it, but I'm going to now go over to my agent and I'm going to say, when I'm chatting with all these different tools, I want to be able to have them send messages to you. Tell me how and it'll tell me how. I'm going to do that. You see over here, right? All the five agents verified working, fill out tweets as well. Wow, yes. Okay. As I used to fix the code updated, do different kind of stuff. Okay, one more thing you were saying, and you can now go back into your, we're going to show, oh, I know, we're going to show the hiring manager next for one of your other businesses. So that's going to be again in Discord. But just to close off the financing CFO part, it will go into stripe you said in a database, database of what and why do you need another database? No, so just API market, right? The whole company has like a database right of all the 13,000 users we have on API market and what they're buying you. I do need the number of users for the finance for the CFO. Yeah, because I need to figure out who is going to turn what each seller is doing. What do I need to pay attention to? Got it. So it's not just looking at how much money you made last month because that's backwards looking. It's looking for leading indicators to understand where you're going to be next month like a proper CFO. Okay, all right. I love the chart that you showed me before. Next year. Next year. So it does multiple forecast for different kind of things. So if there's a seller who's doing really well on API market, it literally will go and say, hey, we need to talk to this guy and we'll draft an email in my Gmail. Okay. And the CFO won't send messages. The CFO needs you to actually check it because this is an important connection. Okay. In people, right? Hi. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Yeah, because these are very important people. I don't want to make any mistake. And there's some like, hey, so basically some seller who's like really up and bringing. So it's a hey, the founder should talk that guy and he tells, hey, Shashank, this is Ise as myself. I welcome them. Hey, welcome to API market. You're doing really well. Let me know if you need anything, any help or something. And they reply to the connect them to my marketing team. Okay. I'm going to do a quick introduction to you. So many tools. I'm going to tell you about the one that I love, which is Zapier MCP. They are my sponsor. But here's a beauty about it. You and I have both have heard people who had their agents have a lot of power and then they screwed it up, sent a lot of messages by accident, got access to something and accidentally deleted it or moved it out for me. They deleted my whole freaking notion set up and there was no way to bring it back even from the archive. So what I learned since then is certain things. I'm okay with it having full access because who cares if it gets deleted? Things that are important. I want to use Zapier MCP. Beauty of Zapier MCP is I have one toolbox essentially you go in to Zapier and you say, I want to give a Gmail. I want to give it Calendly. I want to give my agent this that and so on. What I what I don't want is give it full control of all those tools. I select using simple check boxes, the aspects of all those tools that I want to give access to. I put them all in my toolbox. And then when I sign up for Hermes agent because people are telling me stop using OpenClaw, go use Hermes agent or whatever else. The new thing is I just bring my toolbox and it has access to everything. One connection has access to it all. That's the beauty of using Zapier MCP. You can go right now, get it for free at Zapier.com slash MCP. And now we can move on to you telling me we've got two more things. So teach me. Let's look at how you use your hiring manager and what's the hiring manager for. Yeah, so people apply for jobs, right? What are the various companies that I am running right now? And then basically, okay, let me just find some interesting ones. So people apply, they give their entire resume PDF and everything. And so what my agent does, it goes out and checks all the links. If they have brighter GitHub, it goes and checks out. Okay, what kind of code they write? What is the quality? If they're linked and what they have done before. And does everything and then tries to verify and match if you can hire that person or not. Got it. And then it says to you, take a look, I think this is a good person. Like who? Yeah, like here, right? Top AI pick. He says, hey, he actually went out to GitHub, checked all the repos. Mm-hmm. Right? Then businesses should help nobody know. But that settles like, and we need to have breads. And I don't know if you can really foster that opportunity. So use only the introductoryppereens you own. So I think you can. We can use it forever. We can do it fighting. Datinghh. Mhm. Yeah. So, you are songs help us universal deeply. I like too much thinking that it was unpaid about the critical crises where we done works like, we do the job like and I even really make money. it basically keeps track of all the other agents what they are doing. So if you see a region has a name like Nova is the investor out tree Jordan is a seller out reach all those type of agents and creates tasks and put all the files in my trailer. Okay. Okay. Right. Then I can see everything. Like what magents are doing. This is my API market investor out reach. My all I started following your lead on this ever since you and I talked a few days ago. The thing that I find is there's hardly ever anything in the process in process column because they just handle it immediately. Yeah. What could what could be in the in process column then? Yeah. So like something that needs my input. That's in the review column. Uh, no, in reviews it's done. Okay. Got it. So for you in progress means they've done a thing. Hey, they need you or they need some input. They're basically stuck until someone moves them forward. Yeah. And they could be tasked for me as well. Why is review done if you also have a done and done column? No. Review is like I want to know. Uh, so the agent can never move anything to the done column. They put in the review. I move everything to done. Got it. It's not fully done until you've gone over and said, okay, I see they did this. I see they did that. Got it. Got it. Exactly. And they had asked all the artifacts and all the files like here. Yeah. What I like about Trello is you can have other files in there very easily. And it can read your comments, right? I'm using notion because I live in notion. It can't read comments. And that's annoying as hell. Yeah. I think it can actually. I said created, it created a task for me in, uh, in our board so that I could figure out how to get comments. And as soon as I said that, I got disgusted because now I've got to go figure this out. Yeah. You should. So I said hello. It can basically gives me an overview of everything. Okay. But again, there can be some like caveats at times, sometimes some weird stuff happens. Like this, I really like the one thing which is like attachments because my open claw is in the cloud, right? It's an a real, an accident of the file that it's creating. And I don't want to keep setting me the files in discord because they'll get lost. Right. Right. So what it does, it basically creates and it keeps adding different kind of comments and attach to the file attachment is the main thing that I wanted basically here for. Okay. I get that. That is actually a really nice thing. It's creating the markdown files. Does it ever go back and look at them? No. If it needs to, it will put it into whatever to the knowledge base that you've created for it. Yeah. Like, uh, we have different kind of CRM's, right? If you did, you saw the manager, all those things. So they share that with me. And anyway, I can even have them on a Google drive as well. By the way, does God also come with Google drive access? Yes. Oh, that's even nice too. Yeah. Okay. I think I've seen it all. Can we just see API market? What now that you know what my interests are? What are some of the APIs that I should be paying attention to on the marketplace as someone who's using agents? You need to basically go here. If you don't market and, um, and flash and literally just add it to your own thing. So basically just add one gateway and then you don't need to pick and choose because you could access to every API in your agent. And as I ask for it, it will then start to trigger it. Yes, exactly. They're like thousand goals tools over here. And then how do I start paying? It'll bring me back into the software. Like, oh, do I pay you? And then you pay them? Yes. Oh, I see. So I don't even need an account with all those different API providers. Got it. You're metering it. I then say to my agent, what do I need? It says you need this thing. And then we've got it here. And by the way, it's all part of your subscription. Ah, got it. Okay. I see. Yeah. So it's not like a referral and then go sign up somewhere else or get the code. It's one connection for everything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Hell yeah. All right. Sounds good. Thank you so much for doing this. I get, I get lit up by this. There's very few things that you can go and and learn and then do and then get immediate results in your life. And this is one of them. All right. Yeah. Let's see. Okay. Everyone now that this interview has done two things. Number one, you're going to want to get some water. Maybe I will. Maybe I'll take a shower because I'm obviously so freaking lit up that I'm sweating and energized from this. And number two, I've got a video for you to watch right next under here that I think is going to be a good follow up to this show. It's actually it's going to show everyone how to use Hermes agent and get more out of Hermes agent some more use cases.