---
video_title: "The Best AI Businesses to Start in 2026 (Dan Martell's Full List Reviewed)"
video_id: O75TAMBzM6s
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O75TAMBzM6s
video_date: 2026-07-07T22:05:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Dan Martell’s video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K8Ros5RhJW4
  Jon Cheney’s company: https://genaipi.org/
  Link to resources: thenextnewthing.ai/Resources
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Andrew Warner and Jon Cheney react to Dan Martell’s breakdown of the only real ways to make money with AI in 2026.
  
  
  Chapters: 
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Andrew introduces Jon Cheney and Dan Martell’s AI business list
  00:54 - AI voice agents
  03:09 - Jon’s take on voice agents and disclosure
  04:03 - Voice agents for local businesses
  05:06 - AI lead generation
  06:36 - Why Jon thinks AI lead gen is overrated
  07:39 - Faceless YouTube channels
  08:42 - Why faceless AI content is a race to the bottom
  10:12 - Dan’s Sell By Chat playbook
  11:24 - AI content repurposing
  12:27 - Why repurposing still needs human taste
  13:48 - AI consulting
  15:00 - Why Jon says AI consulting is S tier
  15:36 - Audits, assessments, and fractional Chief AI Officer work
  17:06 - AI virtual assistants
  18:45 - Jon’s take on Apex, OpenClaw, Hermes, and Jenna
  20:24 - Claude Tag and model flexibility
  21:27 - Boring Marketer as a specialized Slack agent
  22:57 - AI chat agents
  24:36 - Why chat agents are weaker than voice agents
  26:06 - AI trading bots
  27:36 - Why trading bots are an F-tier business
  28:12 - AI agent development
  29:24 - Why agent development is the top opportunity
  30:00 - AI copywriting
  31:21 - Why Jon would not start an AI copywriting business
  31:48 - AI venture studios
  33:18 - Why venture studios are too advanced for most people
  34:03 - AI-to-AI marketplaces
  35:42 - Why marketplaces are hard to build
  36:27 - Agent Arena as a possible version of the model
  37:12 - AI logo and brand design
  38:33 - Why brand design is not a strong AI business
  39:00 - AI cybersecurity
  40:39 - Why AI cybersecurity is risky for beginners
  41:33 - Dan’s five-step launch framework
  44:51 - Jon’s reaction to Dan’s launch process
  45:54 - Jon’s own first-customer story
  46:21 - Watch Jon’s full AI services breakdown next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Every single day, thousands of internet gurus tell you how to make money with AI. But 99% of them are full of sh- most of them haven't made a single dollar with AI. As someone who actually launches a new AI company every single month, most of which are making millions, I'll be ranking the only real ways to make money with AI. And at the end, I'll tell you exactly which one I'd pick and how you can actually build it. So let's start with the first idea. All right, and we're going to be analyzing his thoughts on each one of these businesses. I've got with me John Cheney. He is someone who is built a business that sells AI services in education to businesses. It's called Gen AI PI. He's also built his own agent. He'll talk about that. It's called Gena. And let's get into it and see if Dan Martell's got something that you should be using. And will it help you make money? Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. AI Voice Agents. So what we want to do is build an AI phone agent that books appointments, qualifies leads, and handles all calls for a business. Essentially, it's a full-time receptionist that doesn't sleep, doesn't complain, doesn't get sick, doesn't quit. And it helps businesses where one miss call could cost them thousands. For example, think about like plumbers, HVAC, law firms, dental clinics. And the crazy part is most businesses don't even know this exists yet. Or they don't think it's that good. They're probably talking to AI right now and they don't even realize the person was AI. That's the window we're in right now. Now I'll be ranking all of these AI businesses into one of four tiers. S tier, which is like super duper tier, A tier, which isn't asked, it's a little bit below, but it's still great. B tier, which is, and then F tier, which is you might want to just ignore it and run away. And trust me, most of these experts are talking about ideas being like, this is the one to do that I would consider F tier. And to do that, we're going to look at three things. First off, is profitability. How much money are people actually going to pay? And is it going to make you money? The second is competition. How crowded is the market I'm talking about? And the third is longevity. How long will this be relevant in the future? Because why would we do something that doesn't allow us to build real wealth? And just because of the speed AI is moving and changing at things that we're talking about now that might make you some money will literally fall off a cliff in the near future. So where do we put the AI voice agent or assistant? Profitability is high. Right off the bat, I know what people will in the pay. I talked to my barber about this. I talked to my friends that have local businesses. When the AI starts attacking the labor costs, essentially what you're paying for people and you can replace a person, all of a sudden now, anything you charge, it's like $500,000 or $1,500 a month feels cheap. Next we got competition. I think the market's pretty crowded. Every time I talk to people about an AI idea, they're always like, oh, I'm building the voice agent, I'm building the voice agent. So good news is very few of them know how to market or sell. You can tell by just going through Google local and calling those businesses and hear them answer with a real person. They're still not adopting this. So the competition is there like people are talking about it, but they don't have it widely used. And longevity, I think this will be relevant for a long time. Why? Because voice is the path to AI doing a lot of stuff for us. I think it's an A tier opportunity. So it's a solid business. There's real demand. You can make good money. What's going on? Yeah. Voice agents are really interesting. One, I probably agree with most of what he's saying on this one, except there was one big thing he said that I didn't love. He said, you're probably talking to an agent right now. You don't even know it. No, it is great. It is awesome, but it is very easy to get yourself in trouble as a business if you use AI voice agents and you don't, if you're not upfront about it. I help implement it in companies all the time. He said, hey, we're the agent, we're an AI. We're going to help you do this. And it's very powerful and very good way better than some of the older systems where it's like, hey, say or dial nine, it's definitely better. But we're still a ways off. It's only going to get better. Businesses pay for it because John, so I invested in a company called Rosie. They're sharing their revenue with me every single month. They're doing great because plumbers can just go to hey rosy.com and sign up and get a voice agent. Will companies pay to have somebody set that up and does the world need another competitor to rosy? I think that competition is good, but because you've got rosy and probably 20 more we could find in a quick Google search, that's a race to the bottom, for sure. Right. And so just get more and more and more competitive. If I were starting up a voice agent business today right now, I would pick something very, very niche. For example, I have a buddy and I won't go too in detail, but he basically set up voice agents that are used to talk to people that live in senior living centers. And insurance helps pay for some of that. And it provides an amazing thing that helps them avoid dementia and Alzheimer's and things like that. That's really, really niche. And there's almost no competition in that specific space. But for a general agent that's answering the phone, no, that's tough to jump into. Yeah, I'm surprised at how high he was on it, but let's go see the next one. The next one is AI lead generation. This is where you build an AI that automates prospecting for businesses. It does research. It like qualifies people, it gets data and essentially presents qualified leads to a business. What's super fun is you can use tools like Nannis, Kogko, or Gemini to essentially go find those leads and sell them to the business. Now you'd ask yourself, why doesn't the business do this for themselves? The truth is most entrepreneurs are already overwhelmed. They're busy and what they don't have enough of is leads. So they're busy delivering for the customers they have. And for you to come to them and say, I got some warm leads with phone numbers and emails that I can manage for you. That is a huge value for profitability. It's actually pretty high because you're directly putting money on the table for these clients. Then when I think about like competition, it's getting tougher. There's actually new AI platforms like clay.com that do this as a service. So it costs money and you can charge for those leads in their really high quality. I have a friend hunter that does this every day. He was getting paid to generate leads for people. Long Jeviti is pretty strong because I always think there's a place where businesses needs more leads. I think about businesses is like, what skill this is going to deliver me? Is this something I should learn? Do I need it for my own business? So if you're starting a company learning how to generate leads, probably a good idea. So let's talk about where I tear this. I actually think this one is est here. You're selling money. It's a clear value proposition. It's an easy yes. And you can charge enough money because they know what a customer's worth to them to be able to make it really profitable. No way, man. No. It's definitely a it's a B tier at best. And here's the big reason why if everyone can use agents to, you know, blanket the market with whatever, then, you know, I'm on the receiving end of this as are you as is everyone listening to this. Right. There's so much noise. And so the things that are winning me deals today are the things that don't scale. I reach out individually, very personalized. I'll send them something. I'll stop by somewhere. I'll do that or or my people will, right. My sales reps will, right. Those are the things that are actually landing deals. Are we using these systems? Totally. Are they bringing tons of results? Not like he's saying you can't just print money. But you are using AI to bring in leads. You're just saying it's not really where the money is. Okay. It's not where I'm making the most money right now. Maybe I maybe I just suck at it. But the reality is I just don't think I think it there's too much noise in this ads to surprise the Dan's excited about that too. Dan Martell has a lot of experience. Let's see what's next. Talk about where I tear this. I actually are talking about this. It's the new raise where there are such channels. Creating these cash cow fantasy things. I think it's both YouTube algorithm bary's AI generated content. Today that might change in the future. But as we stand today, it wants real organic engaging content. Channels get demonetized within weeks. Sometimes if that's all they're putting out is just AI slot. There's no brand being built. There's no audience or loyalty. And there's no way to stand out. But we'll get to your opinion in a moment. But I just saw your face and I think I've got a sense in what your opinion is of this business villity. I channels profitability is almost zero because again, channels get demonetized. The competition, I mean everybody with an AI tool can essentially create these. So it's not that hard longevity. None. The faceless YouTube channel, which is essentially like bit slinging AI slop to generate ads or sell something in. It's like the bottom theater of the internet. People are already getting tired of this kind of faceless YouTube content. So I'm going to put this in the F tier. If that wasn't clearly an obvious radar, what do you think? He nailed it. Yeah. I will say this. It's right. There are faceless AI driven YouTube channels that are getting such big numbers that I envy them. And the reason I know about them is I do research. And part of my research is to have Claude go out to YouTube using my browser and go and tell me about like and from tell me about different topics. It will pull in videos for me. And even as I raise my threshold and say no fewer than 100, 100,000 views, for example, it will bring videos to me that when I look at them, I can tell their AI. And I envy the numbers that these people are pulling. Having said that, I think this is a race to the bottom. It's there are very few people who are doing this. I just don't think it's there. And I don't think people want it. I think people crave in the day of AI. They crave looking at a real person, right? They want to hear from Dan or Andrew or John. For sure, they would much rather hear from you. Now, these other systems can pump out content like crazy. You have the same problem with music. I'm a musician obviously. And people can pump out 20 songs every hour using AI and publish them and do all this stuff. And that's great. But are those really going to have long legs? I don't know, maybe as background music. But are they ever really going to create new big huge bands out of AI? Very, very, very, very rare. There's a couple tiny instances of it. But for most people, we just don't want to see faceless AI crap or AI generated, whatever. All right. This one we all agree. Let's move on to the next. Of the bat. I think it's interesting to learn how to get good at creating AI video generated content. That's a good skill to learn. But in regards to like a business, not my kind of business. And look, if you want my help to sell any of these, I'm talking about I've got it. I'll show you. AI companies without making a single phone call. I've got a gift for you. I have this whole process document. It's called my sell by chat playbook. It's the exact process that I use in all my companies to help them make millions selling through direct messages over chat. It's got the offer template. It's got the structure, the nine box model. How to deal with objections and even talk to blur this out. And I'm about to show it. But I don't think it's a big deal. It's about the content you should be creating to attract people are ready to buy. If you want it, find me on Instagram, a damn our tell in DM me YouTube SBC for sell by chat. And I'll send it right open. So here's what I did. I went to his Instagram. And then that took me over to this page where I filled in my contact information. And then I ended up on this Google doc, which talks about his approach. And apparently a bunch of other people have done it because they're all in there right now. It's all about like how to use chat to close sales. And you've done that, right? Your first customer came from you sending a DM on LinkedIn. So it works. Okay. Next we've got AI content repurposing. This one's fun because you can take a long form video like this and turn it into short form content like tweets and carousels and newsletters. I think right now, for example, my threads are blowing out by using content from my YouTube and just repurposing it on threads. You can use tools that are AI powered like opus clips and descript to help you create this. So now let's break it down. First, we have profitability. This is pretty solid because every creator and company with a podcast, they need this. Next, I think about competition. And essentially, it's pretty moderate because yes, it's a growing category. But a lot of people have already figured how to do it themselves. And then I think about longevity. And this is where I think it's weak because the tools are catching up so quick where they're starting to just repurpose on their own. That your window may be kind of small in regards to how long you do this. So I would grade this as a beat here. I'm a fan of learning how to do this. I think you should learn it for your own business. But I also think that long term, it'll just be automated forever. I have a strong opinion on this. I think that B is maybe being too generous. It is probably an F unless you're doing a lot of work and a lot of human editing and tasting all that goes into it. There are just too many people who are sending out this stuff. And it's slop and the worst part about this is you think that it's great when you're sending it to a prospect. And I get these emails all the time because I do videos all the time. You the people who send it over, they think it's great because they kind of created it. It's theirs. They feel there's magic there. And they don't realize how bad it is. It's just not it's just not good quality. Now what Dan does is Dan does do stuff like that. He actually had invited me to do an interview of him here in Austin. We weren't able to do it. But he has a team of people who will edit that interview into short clips that are good. It's not just AI. It's a team with taste that's doing it. That would work. But to call it an AI business I think is too much of a reach. John. Well, if I'm starting this business, I'm doing exactly what you just said. Use the tools with humans guiding them heavily. You have to have that human element. So this is more of an AI assisted agency. I think that's a good opportunity right now because everyone feels the same way you do Andrew. It doesn't work. I can't really do this at scale. I need a human to make sure that this actually looks and works. So anyway, tough business. Everybody. Next we've got AI consultant. You know, you get paid to come in, audit a company's operations, their systems, their processes and find every nook and cranny where AI can save them time, reduce waste, make things better. You could charge like $5,000 to audit any business and turn that into potentially a $50,000 implementation project. And companies know just look at the comments below. They know they should learn AI. They know they should use AI. They just don't know where to start. So you come in and you could be that person. So if I think about it profitability, it's one of the top ones that I'm going to talk about in regards to making real money. Doing it for them, educating them, consulting them on it, huge competition. I mean, it's kind of low because there's not a lot of people that are qualified that are good that actually can say, look, I focus on this niche and I help people just like you. Most people can do it well. When I think of longevity, I think consulting is always going to be needed and AI is not going to slow down. It's not going to stop changing and somebody knows how to help a business get the bandwidth implemented so they can keep doing what the business does and not have to worry about the tools and the AI. That's huge. It's strong. So I'm going to give this an S tier because it's also if you have domain experience, great place to start. And what do you think of this? S tier for sure. I mean, I'm certainly biased, but I'm only biased because I look at my bank account. I have proof in my own life that this is working. I have proof in, by the way, not my own bank account only, but the bank accounts of all of my employees that are helping me do this is this is scaling like crazy and the bank accounts of my customers who are more profitable and growing their businesses because of the AI things we're doing for them. This is a win-win-win. Tell me, what do you think about what he said, which is you do an audit and then once you audit, you show them what you can do for them and that's how you sign them up. That's the model that a lot of people on YouTube say, is that what you use where you'll you'll set up an audit for them? Is that what this assessment is? So that is kind of just a basic assessment that certainly would give them a baseline audit, but that takes five minutes to do. We usually do this during the first month, right? Yes, you can do a high-level audit in a one-hour phone call, but it's really hard to do that. Really what you need to do is you need to go talk to all the leaders in the company. So this is usually our first couple of weeks is we're talking to people and figuring things out, mapping out a plan and then starting, you know, we always start with some easy something to kind of get things going, but ultimately you have to the reason we call our service a fractional chief AI officer, a chief officer, right? It's because we want people to bring us in at the leadership level so we can see and understand everything and that just takes time to really get up to speed and figure that out, but then you work with the leadership and we do we do just amazing things with that, but it is it is generally the right the right direction. Right, and we've got a link to John's site below so you can go and take a look at it. All right, all agreed. S tier. I even like it better than lead gen, so we're going to put it in front of that. I like it better because you got more meat on the bones for money and what's called revenue growth because you can sell more things to people and it gets you in the game to see other opportunities, whereas lead gen you're just kind of like this transaction. Next up we have virtual assistance. Now it's the guy who wrote the book. Bye back your time. My inbox is full. Literally the top five virtual agencies in the world are like, again, where do you see AI disrupting us? You're kind of cooked using AI tools to handle your email, your scheduling, researching things for busy found essentially acting as a chief of staff. This is what AI does better than anything. And again, I have a dog in the fight. I built a whole platform called Apex that allows agents, virtual agents to execute. That's what stands for agents platforms for execution to do this kind of work for business owners. My guy is called Kai and Kai does everything. He's my chief of staff. He manages my inbox, manages my counter. He coordinates projects. He checks my slack. He follows up on things. He even makes phone calls, even hired a bunch of people like my real estate guy named Reese. And he does a lot of cool real estate projects for me. But these are real people. And if you want to check out Apex, just click the link below in the description. So here's what I think about this opportunity. One profitability. It's decent. Right. You get three to five clients paying you. You're doing the work. You're managing the agents because I really think that is the future of AI anyways. An agent operator. Then we go to competition. Pretty crowded. Everyone that knows how to use cloud coer can kind of get all this stuff for free. And everybody in their mom seems to be offering this. And the longevity is kind of moderate. The AI can kind of do this. So then the real value kind of looks like the consulting at scale where you're coming in with business processes, not just being a virtual assistant. So I think we are a B. But I do think the value prop is stronger than content repurposing because it has a clear value of saving somebody's time. Now I know I think. Yeah. So I agree with his assessment of what he's trying to do with Apex here is compete directly with the open claw, the Hermes, those agents that really focus more that here's where they they fall short, right? They're focused on individuals as opposed to businesses. Right. And so we've been working with hundreds of businesses really over the past couple of years. And we've seen so many problems. And we've fixed so many problems. And we've run into places where we couldn't fix problems. And so we've succeeded and failed so much. We've been able to identify these amazing patterns and then said, OK, we have a lot of people ask us, hey, you've set up open claw for us. And we went in and we tried to figure it out. And we did OK on some of these implementations. We did it in our business, but it really lacked a lot of problems where we then said, OK, we need to build our own thing, which is our new system gen that we literally launched a week ago, at least launched to the public. We've been using it internally. But it's based on permissions. That's the thing that these systems lack. Apex might work great for you as a, you know, personal assistance, right? And that's that's what he decided is an AI personal assistant, right? But it can't it can't separate data for different people and users. And so you can't actually put it into a company. Everyone would have to have their own agent that is constantly trying to be taught what's going on. What you need is a master central nervous system that then has access to everything going on in the company. And then only people based on their permissions and who they are and what they need can see and interact with it in that way. And so we built a totally separate system that we believe is going to be I believe this is the thing that Gen A API will be known for long term. Now cloud came out with tag. Doesn't this mean that this space is about to get really, really crowded and heavily competitive? Totally. No, it absolutely will be competitive. It certainly will be one of the advantages you have when you're in a system like Gen A is you have the ability to use routers and what which means you're not stuck with cloud or you're not stuck with open AI or you're not stuck with GROC or you're not stuck with whatever you can actually say, hey, this is what our system allows or hey, I don't like what Sam Altman said the other day. And I don't like that this guy is trying to use AI to kill us and you know, there's so many different things and reasons why people want to bounce between these things. Yeah, if you just love cloud and you're super okay with being tied to one company like that, that's great. Gen A is really flexible so that we can route to whatever we need to and figure out, you know, figure this out as it continues to evolve. That is a big one for me. I try to do everything in a way that allows me to move from model to model because there are always such new things coming out and if I miss out on them and because I'm stuck, I really am missing out on a lot. I was thinking of this as another example. This is boring marketer. They came out with basically an AI that sits in your slack and helps your team with its marketing. They're selling it for $900 a month and it's their process is for doing certain things like SEO. What do you think of this type of thing where it's a single agent that takes a company set of skills and turns it into an agent that that you can sell? Absolutely. Love it. I love stuff like this right. It's be like, I'm going to pay 900 bucks to solve this problem. Like for me, I tell my team, if something costs less than $100 and it solves a problem for you and saves time, do it. Don't ask me. They just have approval to just do stuff like that. If my CMO says, yeah, I'm using boring marketing. I'm paying 99 bucks. Awesome. Pat on the back. I love this kind of thing. Yeah, I think this is a really good example and for marketing especially, it's a fairly easy thing to sell and to package. Yeah. Okay. But I can see this being done for other individual skills that the company gets to use. All right. Let's move on and see what else he's got. I said I have Apex and you're thinking I'm rating this opportunity B. That specific one for virtual assistant. Yes, Apex essentially is a full team of AI agents that work to accomplish business goals. That's different. And the virtual assistant part inside of that is just a tiny little part. And don't forget, the end of this video, I'll be showing you my exact steps on how I'd launch my top pick and I've got some bangers coming. Next, we've got AI chat agents. Local businesses, yes, they get phone calls, but a lot of people email a lot of people go to the website and they chat. I was just looking into booking dinner tonight and I didn't want to even go through open table. I'm lazy. I wish I could have just like started chatting on the website, but no, they didn't have an AI chat agent ready to go. They were trying to force me through their interface. Those interfaces are dead. Okay. Can we just all agree? People that want to book local businesses, they want instant replies. They don't want to even call. They want to chat. And the cool part is that when you deploy these AI chats within a business, you just build a monthly retainer. So let's run through this. We got profitability. It's good, because of the month's retainer. That's where the real money stacks. If you don't have a reoccurring revenue component to your business, add one. Then I think competition, it's pretty crowded. I mean, there's a lot of people. I'm an investor in Intercom. They kind of led the space for like AI powered chat and the barriers pretty low because like anybody can build one of these. No problem. When I think of longevity, I mean, it's kind of moderate. You know, it's like how competitive is this? Is this just going to be built into every frontier AI model or other companies just going to keep adding compelling chat options into the software that already sell into the businesses? So I'm going to put it in a behind the voice agent. The reason why I think the voice agent is more compelling, but when I see a lot of people as they use the chat to qualify and then kick it into the voice agent for booking or having them call using the AI. So it's there. It's great, but it's not going to be as good as the pointy think. So as a customer of these types of things or a potential customer of these types of things, I personally prefer to just build it myself. The amount of configuration it takes to get an AI chatbot to talk like your company and respond to be able to do things on your site and stuff like that. The amount of configuration it takes to use the third party service is actually usually more. It's more difficult than just by goading it right into my own thing. And so that's me personally, right? But for your average business that just is handy, something, you know, I think it's I think it's pretty good. I don't know if I'd give it an AI. I'd probably put it as a B. I definitely agree with his assessment that it sits behind voice agents. So I invested into chat companies assist and many chat. Many chat took off and assist basically shut down. I think I got a hundred bucks back from my what $40,000 investment in the business. The other one for the same amount. I got a couple of hundred thousand dollars and I still have majority of my shares. The difference was assist was going to do customer support. You're on the site. You're going to get some help. Many chat said we're going to be the marketing chatbot and we're going to help close sales and you could see what people value. I think when it comes to like assistant, even in booking a table for Dan, businesses aren't looking to spend that much and the software exists off the shelf. I just don't see that being being effective. I would put that probably at a B and I wouldn't as an agency start that maybe as an F. I just don't see that. I think he's being too high on this one. I can't imagine that. Let's move on. Next we have AI trading bots. So this one is interesting because we're a lot of people are selling bots to do something from business point of view. Now you've got your bot that technically can make you money. Here's the thing nobody's telling you everybody selling some kind of trading bot is essentially selling you of course. They don't got a bot. Dude, if I had a bot that made me 20% every year, guess what? I wouldn't tell anybody about it. There are companies like Renaissance technologies, DE Shaw, a two sigma that are so good at using AI to trade that they're only trading the employees money and it's like 10 to 15 billion and nobody can even invest because that's how good it is. These AI bots essentially they're selling signals. They're like marketing companies and the signals only last for like 16 months and then they got to find the next signal and then you got to buy the next thing. If the bots actually work, why would anyone sell it to you for $97? So essentially the business you could be in is trying to build these bots, market these bots and get people to buy them from you. If you want to create the bot, is it profitable for you? Yeah, because you're selling the course, you're selling the dream, you're selling the vision, they're buying it from you. Let's just leave the ethics out of it. Competition? Yeah, there's a lot of people out there. Long Jeviti, I think zero. I think it's one of those things where you build it, it doesn't work, you try to get it going and it's also really risky because people are paying you to invest and if you don't deliver, I feel like you're getting in the SEC territory of maybe them not liking what you're doing. So I would rank it as assets. The best I'm kidding. It's ranked at the bottom. I mean, come on, thoughts. No, comment. It's just terrible. And you know, I do a get-to-go video every week with the top repos and more and more. I'm seeing repos that will help you make money get up there on the charts. It's just so so bad to see. No, and that's something you want get hub to be a trusted place where you could find good things. But if you all of a sudden can't trust even the reviews on there because obviously, it's artificially inflated. Of course, they're ridiculous. Of course, they don't work. I mean, maybe people, maybe they're popular because people hope they work and a lot of people are downloading them. But man, this garbage, this is yourself and hopes and dreams. It's not a very good business. Next we have an AI agent development. This is where people pay you to create some of these AI agents like I was saying earlier. Like my guy Kai who can do all this cool stuff, they have to be designed. I'm talking about like sales bots and document processors and operational bots and like all these AI agents. The difference between the virtual assistant and this, this is like selling a team. You have your chief of staff agent and then the agent manages several other agents and those are like virtual employees. So the profitability, if you get it right, massive. I really think this is a big opportunity. The competition today, most people can't even explain what this is. So it's low because it's hard. You need to have more technical experience, which keeps most people out. But the longevity is strong. Everything that I'm seeing that agents is the iPhone moment of AI is huge. You create these repeatable workflows and then you just get paid to drop them in and they're attacking the labor dollars on a small businesses. Expo. Top opportunity right now. If you've got the technical know how and you want to go and live in that world, it is the S of the S of the S. All right. This is really what Jenna is. Jenna is an agent that sits on your business. That is what we're doing. It's a generative execution, neural architecture, execution, generative meaning it's the AI generate, execution meaning it can go and do things for you. And then of course you can program it to go and do that. And neural architecture means it understands your business. And so it does it all in the context of that. And then of course the permissions that we talked about. But this is where we're seen. This is the cutting edge absolute best super longevity play here. Like it is it is awesome. And that is why there is going to be a lot of competition right. Everyone wants to be here. This is the the Holy Grail. Next we have AI copywriting landing pages, case study, sales emails. Essentially AI writes every first draft in the cool part is you can do it in your voice and it can follow a strategic process to generate sales. Generous are getting crushed. There's a lot of people that did copywriting and they did a lot of stuff. It's the specialist who niche down into one industry and really focus on delivering a solution, not just AI, but actually a solution for a business that are going to win. The key is is don't be an AI writer, either person who writes for one type of business and manages all the words that go out. So when I think of profitability, it's decent. It's actually pretty good because most people would have to pay an agency 10 to 15,000 a month to do this. Competition is high. This AI copywriting is probably the most popular use case in all AI. And the longevity is kind of shaky. Back in the day, it required some kind of like system prompt design to be able to make it right like the person in the tone. But now right out of the box with these new models is getting pretty good. So for you to stand out is going to be pretty difficult. So if you're specific enough, niche enough and really doing something personalized, then you're at the top of B. If you're not, you're just doing anything for anybody, then you're just like clot or any other AI model and you're probably at the bottom of the lot. I don't love this one. I mean, every the base functionality of every AI model is copywriting. Right. Now obviously some are better than others. And can you be better at prompting and can you be better at your industry? Yeah, sure. But I think everyone knows I can use Chattier-Betier to write something better now. I put this in an F. I would not start a company in this area right now. No way. Next up, we have the AI Venture Studio. Essentially, it's the idea that most entrepreneurs have, which is I got a lot of ideas. I want to build a lot of stuff. So I have a studio where I create a lot of different AI companies. Think about like if you had a factory that turns out profitable businesses on repeat, that's a Venture Studio. And the cool part is pretty much since December, the whole world's change where any person with an idea can actually get an app built themselves. They can do it themselves. I shut down my company for two days and taught everybody how to code in cloud code. Profitability? Truth is unlimited. And the cool part is if you do it right, every company is built to sell. Built to go public. And then the winners get to ride and then you just kill the losers because you tested them and validate them with very little investment upfront. In regards to competition, I mean, there's a lot of people that might call themselves a studio, but they don't compete. They don't have distribution. They don't have brand. They don't know product. They don't know how to get customers. Most people can't think at this level. It's a completely different experience. You need to have the business background, the marketing background, the leadership background, the capital to be able to hire and build teams. And then when I think of longevity, this is how you create ongoing enterprise value over time. It's how you build the flywheel that eventually takes off. And then you create the machine that builds the machine. That's the whole point of adventure studio. So personally, I'm not going to rank it as even though that's what I do. Martel Ventures is a venture studio that builds AI powered companies. The problem is, is that for most people, it's too advanced of a move. Yeah, I'm putting a minus. Next we got an AI. Yeah, I think he he self identified that like not everybody can do this. You have to have a real voice to be able to do this. And even then, I think it's very limited, right? How can Dan, even with his Martel Ventures, how can he really have 40 SaaS companies actually working in a way where he can give it a voice? A lot of these companies only succeed because they have a voice. The founder talks about it. They get on stages. It takes a lot of what I call stewardship to make a creation like this. Actually go out in the market and it becomes something real. I really don't love this one. I put it lower and for most people, it's an F. I to AI marketplace. This one is so fun. Did you know there's a website where AI agents hire humans? It's called the rent to human that AI. It's kind of crazy. I think they've had over 700,000 humans register and 200,000 jobs already go out there for the AI agents to hire humans. So just so you know, if you don't get into the AI like we're talking about, then someday you'll either be the person leading it or working for the AI. But the other part is that AI will be buying from AI. Stripe, which is the number one merchant provider in the world, just came out with a protocol to enable this Google jumped on board. So this is the opportunity. You decide to build the Facebook marketplace, right? Of AI agents and you decide to like figure out what would be valuable and how you rank them and make sure there's no security issues with them and just like market the marketplace so you can be like the Airbnb of AI agents. Now let's talk about this in regards to where it sits in the ranking. First off, is it profitable? Well, you'll probably get on the low end 10% on the high end, 30% of that connection in that B. So there's some money, but it's not wild. The competition, I mean, almost nobody out there has built this yet at scale. There's no like eBay of AI to AI marketplace. And then longevity, marketplaces are wildly defensible if you can get it going like Uber, like Airbnb, like Instacart. These are incredibly valuable businesses. So that's the upside. In regards to where I'd rank this as an opportunity for people to make money with AI, it would probably be harder to do that than start a venture studio. But I do like it. I don't have an AI marketplace business yet. This might be the moment I decide to build one. I'm going to put it on the top of a I think I think graded horribly. Here's the real thing. Part of the grading in my mind is feasibility, right? This is the hardest. If you want it to rank difficulty for all these businesses for someone to start, this gets number one by far, like a large margin. It's technically very difficult. Even if you're good at vibe coding like me, this I look at it and I know how hard it is because I vibe going to 200 apps. I know how crazy difficult it is to build something that agents are using and then build this in a secure way that really makes sense. It's tough. And the hardest part is like you said, a marketplace needs critical mass to be worth anything. You know what's interesting is this is an interesting version of this. It's called agent arena where agents compete to do things like write, like edit video, and unfortunately some of it is to play poker because everything ends up like that. Yeah. And there's a bounty that you set. So if you want an agent that can, for example, edit a video like the one that we have right now, you list it on here. Agents will compete and then you pick the one that you want. It might be interesting then to turn something like this into a marketplace where agents can then say, I want to figure out which agent is the winner of whatever, of creating a video game or whatever. I'm going to hire that agent. I don't know. I do know this is difficult like you both said. I wonder if there's an angle into it. I wouldn't I wouldn't get into it, but I think it's an interesting spot. Let's go. I'm not going to think you can't do this. I actually think you can. So now we're going to have two more. And I'm going to tell you which one I would pick and how I would go about launching it so you can use that blueprint to launch your own. Next we have AI logo and brand design. Now this is getting paid to use AI to generate logos and brand kits and examples of brands on products. You can use tools like nano banana to do some of this. Anis can do a lot. So you can approach these businesses to get paid to do this as long as they're like more involved projects. Profitability, it's kind of me and because you can still get paid what people think it's worth. Like the other day, I designed a website that in the past, I would have paid $100,000. It had animation and effects. I value something and you can sell it. Then the profitability could be there. So you might not be able to charge that much, but trust me, people are willing to pay the competition. You got a lot, right? You got all the tools. You got people using the tools and then longevity. I just don't see a world where long term. This is not something that most people can't solve themselves by just asking their AI because you're probably doing it already where you just ask the AI to design your website and say make it look like Apple designed it and boom, it was beautiful day in the world. So I'm going to give this one a B tier ranking right after copyrighting because I think copyrighting sells money. Brand is identity. Some people value it, but it doesn't have the long genetic. I agree with everything you said. This one's not super interesting to me because like you said, it's a pretty general skill. And could you make money making a website that does this? Yeah, you'll find some people that don't know. They don't have G�bD and if you run the right ads, but but I'm not invested in this one. Rough, I'm surprised that anyone would watch us and then go off and do that business. I would like next up we have manage AI cyber security. This is where you get paid to use AI to manage the threats on a business 24 seven, everything from fishing attempts to getting past their firewall to sending spam emails like social engineering where people are using AI to spoof a person's voice. We've detected suspicious activity on your account. Can you tell me your login information? Just kidding. I'm fake. It's kind of crazy. I mean, one breach can cost a company millions. You essentially can get paid to help business understand security and put basic things in place. Most people barely understand AI, let alone understand the risk that AI in the hands of bad people can be used to actually attack you from security point. So that's where you come in profitability wildly profitable. It's massive. You can charge a lot of money per month because not having somebody's systems go down would be massive value. Now you are selling like insurance where they only know they need you once they have an incident, but you can sell enterprise level contracts and that's where the big money comes from. The competition because it's so technical almost none. Now there are people out there that have AI platforms for this and people that are specialists in security. So if you love to do this, you're well positioned for this. In longevity, I just think the more AI gets powerful, the more there's going to be need for AI experts to stop the cyber attacks, stop the hacker, stop the AI powered hacking, and that's a great market to be in. Now I'm going to put it in S tier right behind agent development because I think agent development is easier, less technical and you can get paid, but the cyber security is a huge opportunity. I put this in difficulty level higher than the other one. It is now number one. It's the scariest one because what if you fail? Look at your liability. Your liability is off the charts. And so from feasibility standpoint for your average person watching this, no way. Don't touch this. This is far down the F channel. Now if you are already a cyber security expert and you are well up to date on this and whatever you want to start a firm and you've already worked for huge massive enterprises, well, yeah, then maybe you can go to Walmart and say, hey, I know what I'm doing, but you think an enterprise is going to trust you with their AI cyber security to some startup like that doesn't know what they're doing that just figured out out of I code it. No way man. No, I'm surprised that this has been included in AI list. The other issue is that a lot of businesses like you said, don't value it until they run into a problem. And so you're really having a hard time selling. So now that I've ranked everyone, now I'm going to tell you how it launched my favorite. So clearly that's agent development here are my five steps. Number one is I got a validate. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a landing page. I'm going to AI create this and it's going to talk about my agent development, but I'm going to pick one use case. I'm going to pick chief of staff because that's the thing that everybody needs. They all know they need something helping with their email and scheduling and follow up and legals and all that stuff. So you can create a simple landing page that talks about this new AI power chief of staff that they can buy and they can get added to the wait list. Now after you build that page, I then want you to text every person you know in your phone. This is what I do. I just ask them, who do you know that's looking for an AI power chief of staff that helps them get back 10 to 15 hours of their week and manage more projects? Send, send, send. Want that little script? It's in the description below. So just go grab it. The cool part is you're not asking if they want it. You're asking if they know anybody, but most people are going to reply and say, well, I want that. Then the next thing you got to do is ask if they would pay to solve that problem today. So we do that to validate that number one. Second, we have to presale. I'm a big fan of crowdfunding. It's a multi-billion dollar industry. People launch ideas and crowdfunding and have people support it and they do it with one page. You can do the same thing. The landing page we just created, that's essentially the offer page. And now what we do behind the wait list is we actually email those people and say we actually are opening up our early adopter program. If you'd like to be part of it, here's how much it costs and send them a payment link and see if they buy. Maybe you get on a call with them and you walk them through it. But those same people that you contacted, maybe they replied or they referred people or they joined the wait list, those are the people that you want to use to presale, to validate that your problem is a real problem. A pain killer problem, not a vitamin problem. Then the third step is launch it manually. You can literally launch what I just said by manually doing it for people. No core tech, no like deep AI agentic stuff. Yes, eventually they'll get that. But you can just bring them on in a consulting approach, a co-seers approach and customize the tech for them. So you can prove a real transaction, deliver real value before you build or automate anything. Now I want to go build my audience. So my favorite way to do that is find the people that are already talking about the problem and then see if I can partner with them to promote my business, my AI, my landing page. And you can do that right now. You can go find people currently talking about chief of staff using AI and see if they want to promote your company. So that is how we build the wait list. Again, we haven't even launched publicly, but you can recruit partners, give them a link that's unique to them, track that they're referring people and then pay them if those people buy. This is basically the distribution of our idea to the world through other people. So unless you already have an audience, partner with somebody who does number five, which is last is productize. Notice how most people start here. And I'm saying it's the last thing. Once you have the transactions in their consistent, you're automating and you're doing most of it manually. You have the partners that are promoting it out there and you're getting paid to do it. Then you take the income and you reinvest it and building it out. That is how you could launch any single one of these ideas to any market and get there fast. This is how I've built everyone of my companies. This is my process. I keep doing it every month. What do you think of the business that he picked? I think you like it because you're in that space and let me get the spot where he talks about the framework for how to build it. What do you think of this? I love it. One thing Dan Martell was good at is making money, getting the word out. He's doing it in the right way. I totally agree with this value. I appreciate launch money building on his product. It's absolutely right. This is just a basic framework for launching any sort of business. In fact, it made me think a little bit about GenN. I don't actually have a weight list on GenN. We do. We're taking lots of live demos and stuff, but I should have a weight list. I should create some scarcity and some urgency and things like that to make it a little bit better. The reality is we are actually we have real scarcity. We're manually setting people up right now because we just want to hold it close to the chest in the beginning here. We've been using it with our existing clients, but it's not just plug-and-play set it up. Go. It's a little bit different for everybody. But the bottom line is I love his idea here. Texting everybody in here. Those are just basic. Are you a hustler or not? Are you willing to actually get out and make a sale and ask people for it? That's how business really is done. Come up with any of the things. If you can't do that piece, don't start. We should say that is exactly how John did it. He said a goal for himself of having a customer within what? Would you say 48 hours? Then you did send out DMs on LinkedIn. You ended up getting a customer and for anyone who's watching and wants to see his whole process and exactly not just how he did it, but how he says you can copy the same business. This is a guy who Jill Rogan talked about him and so many others because you're one of the early success stories of AI as a service. Now AI software. We've got a link for you right here. Go watch that video next and you hear her story and how to do it yourself.