---
video_title: "How an amateur (me) learned to loop: w/ Matthew Berman"
video_id: 1iIOGpJXSgQ
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1iIOGpJXSgQ
video_date: 2026-06-23T18:15:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude Code loops are the AI coding automation trend everyone's testing.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Matthew Berman joins Andrew Warner to break down how AI coding agents iterate autonomously — from thumbnail generation and page speed optimization to sub-agents running in parallel and a 10-day Codex automation that tried to clone Excel.
  
  The big idea: AI coding is moving from "write better prompts" to "design better systems." The best loops work when the goal is verifiable, the agent knows when to stop, and humans stay involved where taste, judgment, and customer feedback matter.
  
  Videos featured:
  Matthew Berman: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dMrm2jAyrKM
  Matthew Berman: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F4a8aMLb678
  Nate Herk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EuzYhzB0vbI
  How I AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JoXbk2fm7jM
  Greg Isenberg: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7clJ8IH784Q
  Theo - t3.gg: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJVJwmCKW9o
  
  ⏱ CHAPTERS
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:45 - Testing Loop Examples — Andrew and Matthew Start in VS Code
  01:12 - YouTube Thumbnail Loop — Generate, Score, Iterate Until 10% CTR
  03:27 - What Makes a Loop Work: Trigger + Goal
  04:30 - Verifiable Goals vs LLM-as-Judge Goals — Which Actually Works
  06:09 - OpenAI Codex Automations — Loop Templates and Routines
  07:39 - Scheduled Loops — Run Agents on a Clock Without You
  09:00 - Sub-Agents — How Loops Split Work Across Parallel Threads
  12:09 - Matthew Reacts to Advanced Sub-Agent Workflows
  13:21 - Local Agents vs Cloud Agents — Where Loops Run Best
  14:15 - Claude Code /loop and /goal — Continuous Iteration Explained
  16:30 - Why Vague Goals Make Loops Fail
  18:18 - Token Budgets and Runaway Loops — How to Cap the Cost
  19:48 - Zapier MCP — Giving Agents Permissions Without Losing Control
  21:00 - The Criticism of Loops — Do They Actually Work?
  23:42 - When Loops Are Worth the Token Cost
  24:54 - Using Unused AI Plan Limits Productively
  26:15 - Rewriting Hermes Agent in Rust With a 12-Hour Loop
  27:09 - Andrew Tests a Loop on His Own Slide Deck
  30:00 - Matthew's Loop Library — Templates You Can Reuse
  32:33 - Andrew's Better Loop — Fixing a Real Backend Feature With Drag-and-Drop
  35:06 - Watch This Next
---
Everybody started talking about loops. The two main characters in the world of AI coding talked about it at the same time. Peter Steinberger and Boris Cherny. Here is an interview from Boris that went absolutely viral. I don't prompt Claude anymore. I have loops that are running. They're the ones that are prompting Claude and kind of figuring out what to do. My job is to write loops. And here's Peter's tweet, sitting at 5 million views in less than 24 hours. Here's your monthly reminder that you shouldn't be prompting coding agents anymore. You should be designing loops that prompt your agents. I'm going to learn how to loop from Matthew and other YouTubers and Matthew will give me feedback on what I learned and what I build. If you want to learn how to loop, let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. I'm going to show you what I've learned. But is this really something that you're doing a lot of? Are you literally prompting with loops or replacing loops with prompts? Peter Steinberger's tweet, which got 6 million views, and Boris Cherny's interview went viral on the same day, was about two weeks ago on a Sunday. I just spent literally until right now and including right now, studying, learning as much as I can about loops. Okay, let me show you the example that I found to be the most approachable. This is from Nate Herk. He said, I want better thumbnails. I'm creating YouTube videos. It's visual, so I get it on both levels. Here's what he was able to get. Number one, again, number two, number three, number four, number five. And this is, by the way, the iteration that's happening through the loops. And then what happens is... That number one was one of the top contenders, number two, and so was number eight. So then it iterated on these. You can see here's number one original. Here's number one, V2. Here's number two original. Here's number two, V2. And here's number eight original. And here's number eight, V2. And what it did is after those versions, two of all of it, it said, okay, number eight's the best. So here is number eight, V3. And so... Okay, so what it's doing is he's saying, I want the best thumbnail that I can. Iterate until you get there. Here's the prompt that he used. Well, it's a slash goal prompt in Cloud Code to make me a thumbnail. So I told it basically what to use to make them. It says, make 10 thumbnail concepts and score each one against Mr. BC YouTube thumbnails using a rubric, clarity at small size, curiosity, emotional pull, visual contrast, stuff like that. And after it makes those 10, it selects the top three, it identifies the weakest part of each concept, it improves them, rescores them. And then it continues iterating on the strongest concept until it's satisfied. Good use of loops or what? Yeah, I think one thing to point out, which is incredibly important is he's using an LLM as a judge as the goal for the loop. It is not a deterministic end. It doesn't, you know, he's not saying, okay, continue to loop until my click through rate is 10%. That 10% number would make it really easy for this loop to determine how to continue and when to end. What he is doing, he's basically offloading the judgment to the model itself. He's saying, when we've reached these different qualities of the thumbnail according to Mr. BC rubric, but ultimately he's giving the judgment to the large language model. It is still a very good use of a loop, but ultimately, these thumbnails need to be presented to humanize to determine whether they're good or not. Okay, that actually brings me to, I'm gonna skip forward to your video that explains that. Here's the part that I thought was really helpful. What is a loop more specifically? Well, you need two things. You need a trigger and you need a goal. With those two things, you can complete the loop. A trigger is what kicks off the loop. And there are three ways to kick off a loop. One, you can do so manually. You literally tell the agent, go do this loop. And that's exactly what he did, right? He just said, go right now and create these thumbnails. It's schedule. You can schedule a loop to happen at a certain time of day or on a repeating schedule. And then you have actions. You can have the loop kick off based on some kind of action like opening a PR. Now to fully remove the human, we wouldn't want to kick everything off manually, but sometimes it is required. All right, and for the goal, the goal can be basically one of two things. It can be verifiable or we can use LLM as a judge. So if it's verifiable, it is something concrete. Some specific number or some way to test it deterministic. Can you give you any example of what's a verifiable goal? Yeah, I think it's actually, we can use the example from the previous YouTuber, rather than stopping at letting the judge determine whether a thumbnail is good or not, it can actually take the full step of publishing the thumbnail, waiting for the actual results to come in from YouTube and saying, continue until you find a thumbnail in which the CTR is 10% or more. And so it'll just continue to iterate, test things, bring back the data, iterate again, until it hits that 10% threshold. Now that 10% is what I talk about as verifiable. That is a hard number. It's verifiable, exactly what I just said. It's not leaving the determination up to the language model. I didn't even think of that. OK, so now you connect back in whatever platform you're advertising on with whatever data you have and you just tell the system keep checking. And if it doesn't hit my number, run another test. Yeah, and here's another version of a verifiable loop. You can say, OK, optimize the page load speed until it is under 50 milliseconds. That's one of the more obvious ones. And I use that all the time. I say click to every single page in my app if it takes more than 50 milliseconds to load, continue to optimize it, whether that's optimizing the database or the number of elements on the page. It doesn't matter. Optimize it anyway. You see fit. Get the page load speed under 50 milliseconds. OK, all right. I like that a lot. This helps me understand it. Here's an example of an automation from how I AI, Claire. Loops. So in Cloud Code, they're called routines. In codecs, they're called automations. And what I like about what codecs has done is they have these templates. And so they actually have given you a couple good ideas of quote unquote loops, automations, routines that you can run. So if you're looking for inspiration, I would really look at these automation templates. And you've got a whole side of automation templates. Let me ask you before we go into the one that she used and then customized. So far, everyone is putting it on their computer, like it's their own personal automation. Can I put this into Cloud Flare? Has a worker or something in the cloud so I don't have to have it dependent on my system? Yeah, technically you can. You would basically have to design the harness yourself, though. Right? You're essentially saying, hey, can I take codecs? Can I take cursor? Put it in the cloud. Some of them already have it. And then can I run those loops in the cloud? Yeah, technically you can. I think I believe cursor doesn't actually let you run goals in the cloud quite yet. But the main way to do it is through cursor, cloud code, codecs locally on your computer. Nate, who we showed earlier was doing it in VS code on his computer. And he was using cloud code. She is using codecs, the desktop app. And here's the prompt that she came up with. OK, so this is like, by the way, what she essentially said was, and then I'll take it to the subagents part because I think that's the most interesting. She said, I want you to take a look at what we're doing that can be turned into skills. That's essentially one of the templates. And she customized it. She also wanted to show subagents. And I still don't fully get that. But let's play what she said. A loop with subagents that is probably going to generate its own loop. I'm actually going to force it to generate its own loop by saying, you should use a goal when validating the skill. So when you prompt the sub agent, make sure you prompt it with a very specific goal. It can use to validate against. You know, basically when you write a loop or a goal or an agent, you just say, validate loop, goal, validate loop, goal, and you're good to go. And just to point out on the very bottom, you can see on the bottom of her screen, it says, Fridays at 10 AM, that's when this runs. This is an automated system. It's not a human kicking it off. But the subagents part, I don't get. A couple of things. So automations are a way of kicking off things. They don't necessarily have to be loops. What she is doing is a loop kicked off by some kind of automation, which is really cool. And yeah, yeah. So I think that's a good way to do it. When she's talking about subagents, I actually don't manually manage subagents usually at all. But what if a sub agent is you have a main agent, you can think about that's the agent you're speaking to in codex and chat, GBT, and anything. And then typically, that main agent will delegate small portions, very modular pieces of work to subagents to go complete in parallel. And that's the benefit of subagents is you can run a bunch of them in parallel. They'll finish their work and they'll roll it back up to the orchestrator, the main agents, who will then kind of synthesize the data and present it back to you. I, again, I don't manually think about subagents. I trust that the harnesses, so codex, cursor, claw code, that they are going to manage the subagents for me better than I could. Okay, I do feel like she was trying to explain it so thoroughly that it added a layer of complication and it helps me to understand that you're not doing it this way. Let's take a look at how it comes across when you do it. A loop with subagents that is probably going to generate its own loop. I'm actually going to force it to generate its own loop. Yeah, by saying, you should use a goal. Look at all the code I merged. I want you to identify skills that are missing. There are specific types of skills that I think are very important, which is skills to use some of the internal tools we've developed. If you see a new skill, I want you to spin up a sub thread, another chat, I want you to validate that skill with a goal loop. So not only are we setting a loop at the schedule basis, we are setting up subagents to work on specific things and then we're using a goal in those subagents, which is a different type of loop to validate the work. So this is like a very meta task, but I think one that illustrates that. See what it looks like. See, see here, own memory. So you can see here a little bit of the scaffolding of what an automation looks like and then it just gives its own prompt. Now again, it's going to go ahead and search the code, run its own commands, it's going to look at GitHub, and it's hopefully going to create those new skills. And then when I ideally we're going to see in the left hand side and these all chats is new threads being kicked off to test the skills that it's identified, it needs to run. And so I found one strong automation candidate. Let's see if it actually kicks off a thread to validate it. Okay, so it did it identified a chat smoke CLI skill. Basically this is a command line tool I built to sort of test chats without having to use the UI in chat purity. And it basically spawned a dedicated sub agent to test the skill with a goal to test it against the base branch and tell us whether its instructions actually hold up in practice. So look, it spun up this agent. You can see agent has got a little key name and it's given it a goal. So you can see here it's pursuing this goal, which is validate the local repo chat smoke CLI skill on the base branch. And it's basically a loop until that validation is done. I'm trying to read your face as you see this. It feels like you're kind of impressed by this. Are you drawn at all to doing it this way? No, what she's doing is very sophisticated. It is very cool. I've actually only come to the realization recently that one thread in codex can manage other threads, not only spin up and invoke new threads, but actually go in mid session and another thread and start managing it. It's really cool stuff. Yeah, for sure. What she's doing is really cool. I'm not doing a ton of manual sub agent creation. Again, I'm generally just leaving it up to the prompt that I'm giving if my agent decides that it wants to spin up sub agents. Wonderful. Doesn't, that's fine too. I think what she does is cool because it actually probably saves a lot of time because if you're spinning up all these sub agents that are running in parallel, you're not having to wait through kind of one chat sequence for everything to finish before it gets to the next thing. So yeah, I might experiment with this. It's very cool. Yeah, I like the way that she's showing all the different chats. And if you keep watching the video, you'll see she's got multiple chats going on at the same time. Let's go on to the next one. This is another one from you. By the way, by the way, Andrew, like I usually have 10 or 15 threads running at the same time in codex and it, oh my God, my machine is just crawling at that point. So I can imagine if each one of those has a bunch of sub agents and different threads that it's spinning up, I don't know most, and I have a monster computer. I don't know if most people are going to be able to do that. I hate that all this is on the desktop instead of in the cloud. I feel in some ways we've gone backwards because like you said, it just waits a bunch of resources. Computer goes down, I shut the laptop, everything is done. I keep a separate. Cloud agents are wonderful, by the way. Cloud agents are awesome and they're going to continue to get better. I think cursors probably in the lead there in terms of its functionality. But they're probably like three to five months behind what you can do on local. Okay, we saw codex, we saw VS code. Let's look at cloud code. All right, so if you're using cloud code, here is how to use loops and they literally have a feature called slash loop. So you just start typing slash loop and it says, run a prompt or slash command on a recurring interview. So loop five minutes and then whatever you want. So you could say loop every five minutes, reach feature parity with Google. Obviously that's ridiculous and I'm going to have a trillion dollar token bill at the end of the month, but that's how you do it. And you can set any goal you want. So here's a more realistic example. Slash loop every five minutes, compare what we have built with our full spec, spec.md, it could be anything, whatever product you have a vision for and continue building until we complete the full spec. So every five minutes it's going to kick off an agent, that agent is going to determine what is left to build and start building it. And it's just going to keep kicking off agents and keep looping until it finally reaches that goal. You just gave me an idea. So all of these clips, I have an agent go and get for me, but freaking a YouTube will cut me off. And I have to wait a little bit and then come back. What I could do is say every 10 minutes or every 15 minutes, I want you to go back to YouTube, grab the clips that I need and then just stop. And come back and do this over and over again until you've completed all the clips that I want you to get. Good use, right? Absolutely. And one other thing to note, which I'm realizing now that I'm watching my own video back, is Cloud Code has two different things. It has slash loop and slash goal. What is it different? Yeah, of course, in very anthropic way, they made it more complicated than it needed to be. Slash loop is for scheduling. So every five minutes do this thing, which I don't know why they call it a loop, but fine. They also have slash goal, which is more akin to a loop actually. It's more like, here's the thing I want to accomplish. Continue looping until you reach that goal. You can use loops and goals together in Cloud Code. So I think I need to put out a little update to this video. You know what, I'm so glad you said that. I just kind of assumed that they both meant the same thing based on the context. Okay, that makes sense. Let's take a look at why when it's tough. So far we've looked at all the great things about it. Loops get more complicated when the goal becomes more amorphous rather than all the tests passing, which is a very deterministic and clean way to know if the goal has been achieved or not. You might want to say, okay, the goal is build this feature in my product. But how do you actually define what the end state of that feature is? You basically have to write all of it. You have to determine the full spec up front. And for a lot of people, including myself, that is very difficult. How do I do that? Do I just go back and forth with Cloud or whatever I'm using until I have a clear enough spec that I can walk away? Yeah, exactly. I think you need to determine what the spec is. But that for me at least that's very difficult. I like to just start building and see where it takes me. Right. And like if you think about the hierarchy of goals in a loop, the best one is a verifiable deterministic goal. Something where it's again, like get the page load speed under 50 milliseconds. It's beautiful because it's verifiable. And the AI will continue to loop on it until it reaches that threshold. The kind of the next rung down is if you're leaving the judgment up to the model, and this falls into that. You can either leave the judgment of feature complete up to the model or you have to define it completely. And like, I don't know. I don't see a lot of people writing absolutely comprehensive specs for every single thing that they want to build. So I think for things that are more hand-wavy, like build this feature, you're probably going to leave it up to the judgment of the language model to see when it's actually complete. Do you think I can say spend this number of tokens and be done? This is how much I'm willing to spend on you figuring this out and figuring out what the finished product looks like? I mean, technically you can. I don't actually think that's going to be a great result because there's no way for you to determine how many tokens it's going to take to reach feature completion. I just don't stop before it burns everything. Oh, yeah, yeah. If you want to have a token budget, certainly. That is a great idea. Just continue to build until you reach this token budget. So for example, I had Codex clone Excel. I literally said clone Excel to feature parity. And it was running for like 10 days before I just finally said, OK, stop. And the way that it knew what feature parity is, so rather than me having to describe a right aspect for every single feature in Excel, which I would never be able to do, it literally just opened up Excel on my desktop and would click through and say, oh, there's a new feature I haven't built. Let me go build it. OK, is it working exactly like Excel? OK, good. Let's move on to the next one and then click the next one. And yeah, it was running for 10 days. I have no idea how long it would have run for, but probably a long time. What do you cost you, do you think? I don't actually know. Billions and billions of tokens. How do you have all that money to spend on tokens? I'm very fortunate that a few of these research labs give me some tokens to play with. OK. All right. Oh, by the way, speaking of my sponsor is Zapier. You also work with Zapier. They told me that you're like, oh, there are number one people. It's not their number one. What do you like about Zapier? You love that. OK, so I have used Zapier throughout my career for at least 10 plus years. So Zapier is not new to me. I love them. But yeah, Zapier is great because you get basically all of the automations, all of the tooling, just easily available to your agents. I'll give you my number one use. Hermes agent, I do all kinds of screwing around. I sometimes when I'm not paying attention, we'll tell it what to do. I don't want to give it the power to delete stuff. I want to give it the power to add to edit and certain things to delete. I have one MCP URL that has all that power. I give it to Hermes and it could do whatever it needs to do. Like, it booked the haircut for me for later in the day. It told my wife that I was doing it by email. It added to my calendar. But it didn't email out of my personal email account. It just drafted out of my personal email account. All right, I love Zapier. Go to Zapier.com slash MCP. Tell them Matthew sent you. No, tell them Andrew sent you. Matthew's getting a lot of credit over there. Let's let Andrew get a little credit. They do love you over there. Let's keep going here. All right. Now we're getting into a little bit of the challenges with this. It's not that useful. It details. Right, guys and Bob. I was a great tip. I'm guessing. This is the worst thing to be trending right now in my humble opinion. Yeah, this is like you. If you didn't have that, can you imagine how much you'd be spending? Let's keep listening. Right here just to make sure I'm making sense. Because as you can see, I'm pretty passionate about this. So slash goal is also trending at the moment. Is slash goal a loop? Like how should people think about slash goal and a loop? They're all the same thing. They have different names like slash goal. I know. This is why I was confused actually. And I assume that they were the same. That people have people have been saying it. I like the distinction that you had. Right. They call it goals, like kind of the nomenclature in the actual products are goals. We talk about it as a concept of loop. But cloud code also has something called loop set. It's not really a loop. It is quite confusing. The details and you see in the following experimentation, like let me do a new line experimentation. Let's say you wanted to I'll share with you a fun cool little tool I built the other day. Greg, I was doing a talk. And I wanted to build an among the simulator for AI models. Basically, it's this game where there's one bad guy, one imposter, and everyone's trying to figure out who it is. And I wanted to have like my own benchmark to find out which models are good at line. And I didn't care about the details. I didn't care about how it looked. I just wanted the simulation of the benchmark to work. So I told it, I want the simulation. I want this benchmark. I wanted to do this. Go and do it. It took about, I think, an hour and a half. And it got it done. Now, there were a lot of details that I had and monitored that it completely got wrong that I didn't specify in the initial instruction set. But guess what? Because I didn't care about what it built in a sense. I didn't really care for the details. It was a great thing. I didn't spend a lot of time. I just got slash gold to take care of everything. But when you and I are trying to use AI to build something meaningful, you know, let me sum up where they said it. They said, look, it does burn a lot of tokens. Most of us need to create and look at what we're creating before moving on to the next point. And Greg made a really good point. He said, most creators don't need less human experience. They need more. In fact, they need to figure out a way to get customers involved in here, not just their own artistic taste. And I thought all of that was super valid. Anything else about the negativity before I go to one interesting one last video where someone had a good take on when you should use it? No, I think this is completely valid and fair criticism of loops. If you look at the people who are talking about it, and to be fair, including myself, we're not necessarily concerned with token budgets. I mean, you know, Boris Cherny and Peter Simonberger, two of the biggest token users, probably in the world. And so yeah, they burn a lot of tokens, but they are the future. And just like any other technology, tokens will continue to come down in price. And then you can also think about model routing. And you don't necessarily need a single model to do the entire loop. You can have the frontier model do the planning for each loop and then delegate out. So using Claire's sub agents, for example, delegate out to a much cheaper, faster model that is still just as good at writing the code, but maybe doesn't understand kind of the big picture as well as a frontier model would. So that's a way to save some tokens there. Like that. I always forget that I can do that. All right. Final one, how to think about loops. And then here's his interesting use case. The point of trying to make here is that you should be treating these limits like challenges. If you're on the expensive plan, you should be trying to get close to maxing it out, because that's just money you're losing if you're not. The 70%, I'm not going to hit in my weekly limit here at eight hours, is thousands of dollars of inference that I paid for that I could have done that I didn't do. Totally. Totally right? Just play with it at that point. Yeah, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you're paying $20 or $200 a month and you're not using that full five hour window, eat like the quota during that window, each and every five hour window or during the weekly batch of quota you get, you're basically just you're losing money. And it's so frustrating. I think about this weekly, I'm always checking my quota, always checking my usage. And I always, especially, especially within Thropic, I want to max out the number of tokens that they're giving me as part of my subscription. You know what I'd love to do is I'd love to have something, some kind of task list on my computer and an agent that says, OK, Andrew hasn't been on the computer in four hours. I'm now going to take some item from the task list, send it over to Claude code and use that. You can obviously, you could do it with codex because that works with Hermes agent and it could watch itself. But I want to be able to do it everywhere. OK, speaking of Hermes, check out what he's doing. I have a goal running right now that's over 12 hours in. That's trying to rewrite Hermes agent in Rust so that I can run it in isolates that are much smaller and use less resources because my Hermes agent uses over at giga RAM. It is getting close. It'll pretty fun little project that's kind of like your Excel spreadsheet, but strangely, his crazy idea is more reasonable than yours. Yeah, it's interesting. I don't know. Yeah, I guess that is a loop technically. Yeah, just pointed at Hermes agent documentation and the GitHub repo and just say, rebuild it until it's feature parity in Rust. Any other crazy ideas that you've used? And then I'm going to show you what I did. For specific loops, I mean, I have a bunch that I'm testing. Again, I think my favorite loops are still the ones that have a verifiable goal to them. Because I just feel better kicking it off knowing that the agent knows what I'm trying to accomplish at the end and not necessarily relying on their judgment. Hey, time out. It's the next day. And I don't love the loop that you're about to see me show Matthew. So at the end of this video, I have a better idea for a more ambitious loop. And you'll see it and see if it works back to the show. Here's what I am doing. Where's VS code here? I want to be able to show you what I did. We do a React. We do a GitHub show here every week. And this is the loop that I wrote. Loop redesigned the deck at. And here's where the deck is to look better. Work on a copy in a new folder. Score it one to 10. For each round score, one to 10 on hierarchy, topography, color contrast, white space, polish. Judging only three sample slides, a title, the one repo, and the outro, write the CSS, et cetera. Stop at an average of 9 out of 10 or after three rounds. I'll show you what it created. Now that I'm talking to you, I'm realizing, oh, Andrew, you did not go ambitious enough. Number one, and I'm also thinking, this isn't the type of thing I should be applying it towards. But it was a good test. Yeah, I have a few thoughts about it if you want to talk about that. Yeah, do you want to do it before or after I show you the slides that it created? Let's see the slides. OK, so this is the original, kind of weak. I don't love the intro, but OK. And just so you get a sense, this is what a repo on the slides look like. This is a little bit better. I like how things pop out a little bit more. Here, you get a little bit more like a line here before and after the day. Things are starting to not look that much different to be honest with you. Here, they went a lot overboard. But I do like that these boxes are popping out. I like how you can see when I mouse over, it has a little bit of animation. I like how the sewet stands out. Not world changing, but nice. What are your thoughts on this now that you see this? I don't know if you're getting any additional value out of each iteration. Because the reason is because this is pure aesthetic determination. This is purely asking the model, how do you feel about this design? I have not found a model that has been phenomenal taste. It's regurgitating what's already in its weights. So I don't know if you're going to get a bunch of additional value for each iteration. It'll probably just change it. You might just do better by having that first prompt and elaborating a little bit more on what you're looking for in that first prompt. I think so too. And then giving it my own feedback or even finding somebody who has a design as a, OK, I can see that. But I wanted something to experiment with that wouldn't burn our tokens and take forever. All right. Speaking of, you've got this loop library. What's the point? Why would I need to use your loops instead of just creating my own? Yeah. So this is an aggregation of both my own loops and then loops that other people have submitted, as well as ones that I found on the public web. Like everything in AI, it like loops started with something that was just very hand wavy and conceptual. And what I like to do is give things some weight, some practicality. And so I wanted to put together actual practical loops that people can use or at least be inspired to try and potentially create their own loops. And so if you don't want to have to think about, what is a loop? How do I design one? How do I design it for my own use case? You can come here. You can be inspired and look and see if any of these apply to you. And you can just learn about loops in general from the loop library. We also have a skill, which you can find in that top navbar. And if you install the skill, the loop library skill will basically give you that in whatever coding assistant you're using. And so you could say slash loop library, help me create a skill to do X or find a skill that can accomplish this thing that I'm looking to do. And it'll both search the existing repository of skills. And it'll help you develop your own skill if you want as well. I like this artifact to skill loop. This is a little bit more of a judgmental one, right? I basically would copy this and I'd say, I've got this dock. I really like the design of it. I want you to create some kind of skill that would allow me to create more docs like this. Is that right? Yeah, I think this is from Heaton Shaw. And I think you know him. I do know him. We were just talking last week. Cool. Yeah, he put this one together. I thought it was really cool. So yeah, published it. You know, because there was so much to cover here, I didn't get to cover all the examples that I have. I'll have links to everything below. But one of the examples was from somebody who took one of your skills and just made a little tweak to it and then showed what that would look like. And so I'll have that below. Thanks for doing this with me, Matthew. I'm excited to see it. Yeah, this is cool. Yeah, check out the loop library. Go star the repo if you're into that. I already did. Yeah, I would love to hear what your audience thinks about loops and what loops they're playing with. All right, here. Look, starting. Oh, you hit a thousand. Hey, I know you're anything for that. I'll see you in this for the first time now. Hell yeah. Very nice. Okay, congratulations. Okay, here's the loop that I have in mind. You see this? This is the back end of the videos that I showed Matthew. It's this thing that I created for myself and you can see that I've got all the playable buttons here that take me to the videos. Everything works beautifully. If I don't like this video, I could archive it. If I want to change a timestamp, I can. Everything is great except for one thing here. If I want to move a video up or down, it doesn't work. I've gone back and forth with Claude on this to just build away from me to rearrange these videos and it hasn't done it. So that's the loop that I'm going to create. Let's see if it works. It did it. I'm so giddy excited about this. Okay, check it out. Look, remember how before I couldn't slide anything down. So if I wanted to, for example, take the Theo video and move it up, it wouldn't work. Now I can. And then I can move it down. So freaking exciting. It works. Let me show you how I got it to work. Okay, this is VS code where I like to use Claude code and you can see I didn't know how to even write the prompt for this. So I said, I want you to write a prompt for me for a loop, et cetera. And then just like I told Matthew, I was worried about burning through too many tokens. I said, I want you to figure out how I won't burn through too many tokens. And it came up with a with a prompt that I could give. And then I realized, you know what, the way it was saving me tokens was by having opus check with me after each cycle. That's too much. So I told it, I don't need you to check with me after each cycle. Check with me after I think, I forget the number. I think it was like after four cycles. Fine. And so then it went to work. And here's what the end looked like. It did a bunch of passes. It tested them to make sure that the slider actually worked. It kept going back and forth. And I saw it fail at times and fix it and so on until it finally nailed it. And the exciting thing for me is before this loop, I had gone back and forth with opus, opus would say it's done. It works. And I would go and test it and go, it doesn't work. And then the way that I operate is I would start giving it suggestions for what to do. And then it wouldn't get that right. But it would tell me that it worked. And then I would say, go frickin' figure it out and I get angry because I was in a rush because I was going to record with Matthew. And then it would go back and iterate again. It would say I'm done. And then anyway, and it wasn't done. Now instead of me sitting back and getting frustrated and going over and over, I did the loop. And it worked. And I'm so excited about it. I've got a good use. I hope you're as excited about this as I am. Try it out on a project. And let's see what happens for you. And now that this is over, I've got the next video for you to watch right here. Another one for both of us to get excited about. See you there.