---
video_title: "SpaceX launched the easy ai agent"
video_id: rznGK-txQyU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rznGK-txQyU
video_date: 2026-08-15T14:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Link to resources: http://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Erik Siu and Andrew Warner break down GrokBot and how its always-on AI agents can automate work, collaborate, and control computers.
  
  Erik Siu, founder of Single Grain, joins Andrew Warner to explore GrokBot’s agent teams, cloud computers, routines, triggers, plugins, reusable skills, and agent-to-agent collaboration. They compare it with Codex, Hermes, and OpenClaw, while looking at where GrokBot makes AI more accessible—and where its current limitations around team collaboration, triggers, customization, and cost still matter.
  
  Timestamps:
  00:00 - GrokBot: Always-on AI agent teams
  01:23 - Creating a morning routine
  03:52 - Why GrokBot is easier and more reliable
  05:24 - Moving routines from Codex to GrokBot
  05:56 - Agents that improve their own skills
  06:43 - Computer use and virtual machines
  08:01 - GrokBot vs. Codex
  09:02 - Teaching GrokBot a task
  10:15 - Making AI more accessible
  11:12 - Controlling your local computer
  12:01 - Zapier MCP: Connecting agents to your tools
  13:09 - GrokBot plugins and skills
  15:56 - Agents collaborating with each other
  18:08 - Building and deploying an app
  19:48 - GrokBot triggers and Slack
  22:06 - Current limitations
  24:16 - GrokBot vs. Hermes and OpenClaw
  25:55 - Erik Siu’s AI agent stack
  26:44 - Where GrokBot fits today
  27:27 - The future of AI agents
  28:08 - Using GrokBot with AI skills
  
  Media/Sponsorship Inquiries: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/sponsor
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Okay, so we just got GROKBOT, which is probably the easiest way that I found to be able to spin up teams of different AI agents that you can use from your phone on your computer, everything stays synced and they're always on. It kind of feels like you've got Cloud Code, Codex, and Hermes agent all in your pocket. It's super easy to set up, so let's just jump right in. So what you're going to want to do is go to Google, type in GROKBOT and then click on this link and download this for Windows, for Apple, and for your iOS device so everything stays synced together. Now this is super cool. This is what it's going to look like. You can have a ton of different agents on the side and you can talk to each one individually and you can have them actually talking to each other, which is super cool. Each of the bots have their own computer, which is really cool. You can sign in to a session and it will keep that login. You can record yourself doing something on the bots computer and then it will be able to just replicate it like a skill and there's so many other things they get smarter over time. It's super cool. Now in order to try this out, you are going to have to be on the cursor ultra plan. So get the ultra plan. Actually, you can do it for free right now. In fact, I have watched so many hours of videos of people using GROKBOT. I've used it myself. We're going to show you the best features from the best creators that I handpicked for you. And joining me is Eric Sue, the founder of SingleGrain. He runs a growth agency where both humans and agents work together to get the best results for customers. So he's got a no BS approach to this. He's been doing this for a long time. Let's get right into the very first thing and we're going to start basic and then go into really cool things you can do with it. Morning routine from Nate. One of the bots or if I want to go ahead and create my own new bot, now I have the ability to set this thing up however I want. You can see right here it says, hey, good to meet you. What do you want me around for? Research and writing, something specific, day-to-day work, whatever you want. So let's just make this agent like my morning briefer. So I just want you to help me every morning plan my day and look at what I have to do. And you can see it says, okay, cool. I'm checking what's already connected so I know where to pull tasks from. It's the only thing that I've connected so far if I go to the plugins is GitHub. I need to connect things like Gmail, Google Calendar, Slack, Google Drive, ClickUp, all of these other things that I use. I need to connect and it's just as simple as a little sign in. But what's cool about that is if you connect GitHub for one agent like my cloud store, my dev, then all of your different agents will be able to use that connection. So they share those plugins. It asked me where am I to do is in Calendar Live and I just went ahead and say Google Calendar and Gmail and now it's going to have me actually connect those plugins. It's asking me if I'm just going to pause you for a second. This is a fairly straightforward way of connecting. You don't have to figure it out. Dive in menus, right, Ark? Yeah. I think this is a good way of getting people started with agents and I ran through the connectors when this came out a few days ago and I'm like, yeah, this is easy. It's way less complex than having to set up like a Hermes or an open claw. Yeah. Now watch how easy it is for him to do it. If I want to connect these, it says you'll get a quick sign in and then it's a one-time setup. So I'll click yes, connect both. And so it just pops up like this and all you have to do is click Authorize and then you just do your sign in as you would in lots of other apps. Okay. So we just connected Gmail and Calendar and now it's asking when do we actually run these morning routine things? So it's weekday mornings by default. I'll pull today's calendar and anything important in Gmail. I'll just go ahead and say 7am. Now what does this mean? This means that your agents can actually create routines. And because all of this is happening on the cloud, this will run even if my computer's off, even if my phone's off. You can see right here, created routine called Morning Day Plan, which shows up right here in the agent section. So these are the instructions. Build Nates Morning Plan and send it in the chat. Look up current MCP tools, Calendar, Gmail, pull today's Calendar events, pull action Gmail items, write a short description, blah, blah, blah. And obviously we could tweak this instruction if we wanted to. It asks if we want to sample. Yeah, I'll say run one right now. Okay, I'm going to pause it here because a lot of what he shows, he can't really show on the screen. But let's just talk about this. I like that instead of calling it a cron job, for example, they call it a routine. They really made it more accessible, more human, right? Yeah, and I actually tweeted this yesterday, I was like, you know, the main thing that sets Grock Bott apart, Grock Bott apart is one, the ease of setup. And then the second thing is it seems to be a lot more reliable because the issue with the setup, what some of these other agents is it's one, it takes a long time and two, they break a lot as you would know. Yeah. And I also love what he said, which is it works in the cloud. And I kept checking with it. Can I shut my computer? Like, I don't know. Like a paranoid man. Okay, so I'm just going to skip to the end of his morning routine. So you get a sense of what comes out. This thing that I need to get back to. See, I've got this call on Thursday that I have to respond to. I have got this chat invite. Very cool. And then it's suggesting things like use seven to nine plan day to clear this item that you have to skim this notes and prepare for that call. Awesome. Your afternoon is pretty stacked. So pick one of these things, shorten your lunch and gym or move the gym block. Cool. It even I'm actually going to pause it right there. You get a sense of it. This is the basic morning routine that people have. I also like that it would self-improve. Based on the advice that it gave him, he could adjust it so that it does a better job for him next time. And it did give him advice. Yeah. So my take on it is, I think this is nice. But the challenge with GROC about one of them right now is, I think it's a great product so far and it's going to get better. But people that are new to this setting this up right now are like, well, this is a code start problem issue, right? Where it's like, I don't know where to start. And so they should probably have some some recommendations. But I think people watching your channel, you have a lot of advanced people watching. I would say you're probably doing a lot of things in in chat, cheaply or clawed already. And this is what I did the other day. I used my codex quite a bit. And I was just like, hey, look, I'm going to move some stuff over to GROC bot. I want you to just give me the highest leverage routines that were there's that word routines. What are we running every single day now? And I listed them. I'm like, okay, give me a separate MD files for these. I literally just pasted the MD files into each of these. And I have them running right now. And it's it's running them pretty closely to what I already had. So, wow. Okay, here's I also like to see what people are doing because it gives me ideas. This thing I didn't know he was doing. He's having his GROC bot like comments from his people on his community. Here goes. I go over to clouds real quick. Take a look at this. I had it do the skill where it went through my free school community and liked posts that were for my seven day challenge. And here's what it did after a one run. It said, okay, here's the dry run. Here are the three posts that I liked. Shout out to you three community members. You guys are awesome. And then it said, hey, here's something I noticed. It's not very clear. I can't tell very clearly if they're liked or not already. And then it said, okay, cool. I went ahead and I put open the post before liking into the skill. So without me even asking it to after it ran the skill, it basically gave itself feedback on what worked and what didn't. And then it fixed itself. So over time, it's going to get smarter every time it runs the skills. And it builds more context and more memory over time as you talk to it more and as you do more things. Very much a Hermes agent feature, which I love, the constant improvement. Yeah, I think the computer use piece is still underrated because what are you going to get to that next here? Yeah, okay. Let me show everyone. I agree with you. This is the part that's so exciting. One part. If you look up in this top right corner right here, there's this little computer icon. And deposit. You can also see it on your phone, by the way. If I click it, you can see it actually spun up its own environment, its own operating system. And it was looking on Amazon.com for me. And so this is fully usable. Like I can move this around. This is Linux, I believe, Soonar File Manager. And it is a full computer. And every single bot that you spin up has its own full computer. And the cool thing is even though every single agent spins up its own fresh environment, they share authentication. So you only have to log in once. So if I log in Amazon now, and then I spin up another agent and open up Amazon, it will also already have been logged in. So I can continue, I can do work myself. I can use this just like I would use any computer. And it's really, really easy. And then, okay, what are we going to say? I was just going to say the computer use piece is huge because when I use Codex app, it's I'm literally letting it run complete recruiting funnels. And it's doing such a great, literally we've hired some of these people in the last few weeks. But the challenge with Codex is like mine, my codex app doesn't work right now. The desktop app doesn't work because they've had some bugs with it. And so the big power with GROC bot is that it's always on. You have these little mini virtual machines. And you said you can run it on your phone. I'm like this is something to me. It's like an obvious thing you should be adding to your agents. So good. I tested to see if I can install a plugin on it. I installed the one password plugin on it. And then I realized one password has a way to connect with agents that is more elegant than this plugin. But it was still interesting to be able to add a plugin and customize it. I'm going to go live in Mexico as I told you for a year. One of the annoying parts about leaving America is you lose access to things. Imagine you do this. And now suddenly it's like you're in America and you get access to everything. One other thing that I saw on Twitter was someone showed how the agent can actually go through CAPTA. And I'm seeing a lot of CAPTAs on here. My agent brings me back in. I still haven't had my agent do it for me. But I think it's interesting that people are starting to see that. All right. Teach. Great feature. All right. So let's say I want to teach you to task. Every single week, I want it to look up this camera and give me an update on the price. So all I have to do is click Teach Task. Okay. So again, I'm in its own operating system in its own environment. I'm going to grab this URL. I'm going to place it right here in this spreadsheet I made. Then I'm going to go back. I'm going to grab the price. I'm going to paste it right there. 599. Okay. And so then I click Stop. And it's now going to learn from the demonstration that I just gave it. And so let's see what happens. So it says new bot working. It's thinking. And what it's going to do is actually create a skill, a reusable skill based on what I just showed it manually, which is really cool. So there we go. Saved log Amazon product to camera prices sheet. That is the skill. Open an Amazon product page, copy the URL, switch to the camera prices, Google Sheet, paste the URL into column A. And so it's watching the video and it's saying, okay, you put 599 as the price. Let me update that skill. All right. And there we go. So it's finished. Now it also copies the price. So that's it. You can give it anything. You can really helpful. Right. I feel like going back to what we're just thinking about everything being, this being more accessible. I think this enables more people to become AI fluent or AI native. Because I was just bringing the numbers with my CTO yester. I was like, to the beginning of the year, my team was maybe 10% AI fluid. Today it's more like 50%. And it's, I think if we can get that number higher for everyone, we're all going to be more productive. So this is exciting to me. The big challenge for bringing everyone on board. And you're right, this is for everyone agent, the cost. I am on the free plan. The free plan is there. I think they need a $30 a month plan. I should also say about pricing that I signed in to GROC using my Twitter account. I paid for an account using my Twitter account. I then went to log in and it turns out the Twitter account does not work there. It's the cursor account that I need. So I paid on one and then I had to shift to the other. And that's very annoying. Definitely worth watching before you start paying. Let's look at local use agents. But it can very much control your local computer as well, which is really nice. So I can say something like, tell me how many folders are on my desktop. Nine folders on your desktop. Not counting hidden ones like.Cursor. So I can control my local computer. So can the one issue that I found was unlike using codex, which can actually the codex desktop app will go and click. It has its own mouse. It can't do that. It's doing the things in the background. It's essentially using terminal to control your computer. I think it's very impressive for their first go at it. And you know, having the resource they have in Elon being Elon, I think, you know, the main thing is like, okay, let's just strip this thing away and make this something that's easy for everyone to set up and make it so it actually advances work. So people are actually make, they feel like they're making progress because a lot of AI usage right now is a lot of AI theater. Right. Yes. Okay, and we'll get into whether this is ready for a company like yours. And I don't think it is for one reason that we'll get in later or whether it's ready for the person who's watching us. Okay, but Zapier MCP, if you're working with agents and you want to give them access to all the software you have, even the obscure things that you didn't even think anyone else was using except for you, Zapier MCP will have the connection. And it'll allow you to connect to your agent with safety. And Eric, there's one other benefit of this. A lot of software will only allow you to make one connection. So for example, Codex and this will only allow me to connect to one tool. I don't even think this connects to notion yet, but one account, what I do is I connect natively sometimes to one account and then I use Zapier MCP to connect to a second and a third and a fourth. So if I need Codex, for example, to have access to my notion account for work, but also my personal account, I can do that. And when I use Zapier MCP to give that connection, I pick what it has the power to do. It can't delete my files like OpenClaw did when it first launched. It can only add and do certain things. Okay, so if you want to try it by the way, guys, go over to zapier.com slash MCP next. All right, let's look at plugins. You could connect like Slack or linear or email just by conversating with your agent, but you can also do that by clicking on this plugins tab. And so here we can see all of these different plugins that you can add directly into your Grockbot agents. And there's so many plugins here. And it's very similar to Codex and Cloud Code. Here you can see that there's like a remotion plugin. We could also let's see like if I wanted to do trading or crypto stuff, you can add like Revolut. Obviously, I've already added for sale. So this allows me to host any app that I create or I think I can do Cloudflare as well. And just like the original Codex, there's kind of this distinction between skills and plugins. So all of the plugins that you add here, you can add message them. So I just added this Revolut plugin. And I do see that there's an error on this one. But like I could add, mention Gmail. And I could get it to control my email just like that. But all right, we'll get it to skills in a moment. I haven't done much plugins, but what I found lately is it's better to add as many plugins as you feel safe with. It's a little buggy right now. Or just like say it's added, but it's not added, but you know, I haven't had that. But if you add a skill, it's actually this slash button, just like Codex. And I could say something like this is how I get to my scrape creator's skill, which allows me to scrape from any social. So I put all my skills on GitHub because I use different tools. My problem with importing them into every one of these is I keep whenever I use it, I improve it, I tweak it, and then I don't want the drift. What do you do for that? Yeah. So I have a private skills repo that my harnesses can access, where it has like, you know, there's key, some things like that. And then I sanitize it for the public. So if I think it's good enough, I'll sanitize it for the public. But then we actually, we made this little thing called Skills Dojo, where we try to give away a lot of the free ones to the public. So that's how I handle it right now. And then I just basically say, hey, add this to the private repo or add it to the public repo. And it's fine right now, but I wish there's something better. So I know there needs to be something that's more user friendly. A lot of people don't understand how to use GitHub. Me included. I didn't know where to go and share repo until a couple of months ago. And even the people at the interview, I interview founders of tech companies. And they'll ask for one of the repos of something that I built. And then I'll say, okay, how do I share it? I don't know. Yeah. So there's a lot there's like, oh, what do you commit and merge? And all that stuff. But you know, I think we've made do with it. Andrew. Yeah, no, it absolutely. It works. I just don't like having it in any one tool. I need it in one place and have all the agents collaborate with there. Speaking of, let's talk about agents collaborating with each other. Celebration. And I can create a voice message. Hey, buddy, I need you to talk to the content creator agent. I need you to ask him about all the transcripts for Riley Brown that it's pulled like my content on Instagram. I'll just pause and say he's doing this from his mobile phone. Very easy to connect. You just log into the same account and they're connected up. And then I want you to take the transcripts and discuss it a little bit with the content agent and come up with an app idea that I should make. And then I want you to make that a app. Make it an iOS app. And so we just fired off this prompt here. I do love that it creates. The developer agent. Not just the developer agent's going to think. And now it's going to go ping the content creator agent. And here it shows message content agent. I ask the content agent for the transcript dump themes. I'll come back with an app idea once they reply. Then start the iOS build. So my developer agent is talking to my content agent. And this is just the iOS view. Let's go over to the actual app here. And I can see that they've messaged each other. And you can actually like, there's like these like meta conversations. And so here, the content agent messaged me and said the developer pinged me for a content brief to pick an app idea. I sent three apps. So they're like messaging me and then also messaging each other at the same time. So I can click on this right here. And I can actually just see their full conversation. So hey, Riley asked me developer to work with you on this. And then I can see the content agent response here. Thanks. This is exactly what I needed. And now they're working together. They're talking about the pitch. They're literally just having a conversation with each other, which is just mind blowing. And one thing you'll notice that while they're still working, they're moving. So they're very static when they're not moving. And you'll notice they animate on the side panel. By the way, I also noticed that he has a chief of staff. That's one of the things that everyone creates. In this case, it seems really useful. Matthew Burman said that he went back to cursor and said, how do I address multiple agents? I want to be able to do it. And they said, you can't. But the work around that they told him was to create a chief of staff agent that then would communicate with the others. And you could then tell it, go tell that person, go tell that person. All right, I'll keep a plan. When they're working, even if you collapse it, which I kind of like this collapsed view right here. And you can kind of hover over them to see who they are. And you can message it while they're working as well. Update question mark. And here you go. Look, it's building this iOS app. And this is really cool. And it's literally building this iOS app. This is the app that it's creating. Can you run this with at revel? This is like a little iOS simulator that lets me run it in the web, which is pretty cool. OK, so here they've gone through the full process and they created this iOS app. And then it deployed it on this app called revel. And so if I click on this link, it'll take me to the app running in the cloud. So the app is loading up. I believe this is an Android app, actually. It's taking a second. And here we go. So we have this app called ActionPad. And I can use it in the cloud. All right. I do like that he really pushes the boundaries on these, don't you? Yeah, I think this is great. The fact that you can, because most of the time when you get an app with Cloud Code or Code X, it doesn't allow you to preview to this level, this extent. I just think this, again, this is just very user friendly. And going back to our point earlier, if this onboards more people, this is going to teach more humans to focus on doing human work while letting the robots do robot work. It does feel like it's the more smooth experience. All right. So we saw a lot of this. We also talked about how you can create routines, which are like crime jobs. You can also create triggers. So you can say, when this happens, then that happens. In fact, let's show a trigger. Actually, creating automation on a trigger. And you can do this by pressing this plus sign right here. And you can see when to run. And we can add a trigger. So let's say we wanted an agent to run every time that there was a Slack message in a certain channel. So we can go to Slack. Let's go to Slack. And let's go into the short form channel. So short-form-videos. All you have to do is type in short-form-videos, any text. And I can add instructions. I can say, please summarize message sent here. This is an important channel. Any links should be included as well. So I just want to show you that you can create. And so we can say short-form-monitor. And I could ask the agent to set this up for me. I'm just doing it like this. And now we've created this right here. So now we have short-form-monitor. And so now, if I were to go into Slack, and I would say, hey, I have an idea for a short-form video about Groc bot. And this should automatically trigger this agent. So I'll wait here until it starts working. And you'll notice here, it is starting to load. And the agent is moving around, which means it's doing something. So you can tell which routine is working because of this little spinny circle. And it should get back to me with my latest response about the short-form-monitor post in the short-form channel in Slack. And there you go. It said short-form videos. You posted an idea for short-form about Groc bot. And then here it has some recent messages that I post in the channel. What do you think of that? I think this is great. The cool thing, again, is recently I saw a company. They're popular companies that most people know. But they launched this new workflows feature, where it's like, OK, you have to map this out. And there's all these workflows. This is not that. There's just a couple things that you need to do. Here's what I want to do. And you set it up like a routine or something that fires over and over. But again, it's just less complex. And again, I'm just more accessible. So I think it's great. OK, that does bring up a few of the shortfalls, a few of the missing pieces that Riley Brown had. He said, look, it's limited in the number of triggers. So yes, you can trigger it from Slack, but you can't necessarily trigger it from a notion account, for example, right? Like when a card moves into this column, that's a potential issue. He also said, you can't really message it in Slack, which means yes, you can create a trigger like he did, but you, Eric, have your agents in Slack with your team. And your people don't necessarily need to know who's an agent and who's not. Or they don't need to use another tool. That's missing. And to me, those two things, probably the lack of connection to Slack means to personal assistant for you. It's not an assistant for your whole team, Eric. Am I right? You're right. I just think it's interesting, because we're watching these other content creators. And then it's within their right to criticize. But we all know that they're going to make it better over time. And I think you're going to be able to message it. You're probably going to, it's, honestly, it'll probably become like a buzz type of competitor as well, where you can exactly collaborate with multiple agents in Slack and or inside of this. And so I'm not worried about, I'm actually, I think the thing we started with again earlier, like if we nail down one thing, it's like, this is very user friendly. And the fact that they're owned by SpaceX now, there's a lot to like about it. Yeah, so I wanted the developers at Notion on Twitter talk about some of the issues here. And he said, look, essentially, this is really powerful. How are people going to decide whether to pick this or something else? He said, I found it a little weird that in Notion, we let you pick the model here. You don't pick the model. But he goes, it's actually not an issue. He did say, at some point, they're going to have a problem with this, because you can't just stare at the screen and watch a little squiggly thing move. What you want to see is the work that it's doing. And at Notion, they tried to eliminate the task list, the stuff that looks too techy in the background. People felt anxious just watching. He thought that they might bring that back. But essentially, we are looking at a world where they're all competing and competing with each other. Let's take a look at speaking of other agents. And then we'll do our own comparison, who you think this is for and who it's not. I want to close out with my man, Alex Finn, who gets hopped up and excited about anything, an agent related, especially Hermes. But let's see what he thinks about this. So the question becomes this, does it replace Hermes and OpenClaw? I will say this. If you want an out-of-the-box experience where you just open it up and you immediately start getting productivity done, no kind of tinkering, model selection, harness selection, UI setup, necessary, then I would say Grockbot is the best. It just works out-of-the-box. There's no crazy setup needed. There's no crashing. Right? That is really the challenge with Hermes and OpenClaw is there's tons of setup and tinkering need to be done. And if you're not super technical, it becomes challenging. And by the way, I hate when they do this. In none of this Hermes videos, when he's excited, does he complain about how technical and difficult it is? It's like, come on, what a spoil. You've got to learn how to do this or else you'll be part of the permanent underclass. Not so hard. And now when we're talking about it, we can get real and say, Hermes is a pain to use. There are challenges. OK, I'll let him finish. Well, crash a lot. Grockbot just works out-of-the-box and helps you out immediately. Now, the downside to that, the downside to not being open source or tinkering is that this isn't going to be as customizable. I can customize Hermes and OpenClaw literally anyway I want. It's completely open source. If I wanted to make it powered by an open source model, if I want to change how the UI works, if I want to change something under the hood, I can do that. You can't really do that with Grockbot. But for like 90% of people who don't need to do those things, who just want like a fleet of agents that do work for them, Grockbot's going to be perfect, actually. Reasonable. What's your take on this and where it fits in? You ever play Counter Strike before the game? No, I've played no games, except for chess. OK, well, I'll give the analogy here. So like, maybe you can have an analogy in chess, too. But in Counter Strike, you have a primary weapon, you have a sidearm, and then you have a knife, right? And so the way I look at this is there are no solutions, only trade-off, right? It's a good Thomas Sol quote. And so there's trade-offs to every single one of these. And I'm just like, well, if you can afford it, use them all, right? It may be except for OpenClaw right now, because they're really behind. So my thing is like, maybe my knife is just going to be the Grockbot. I'm still going to use my Hermes. My main driver right now is still Codex Desktop app when it works. And why wouldn't I just use all of these tools at my disposal? And when I get buzz, fully working, I'll just use it all. I agree with you. Here's where I think this one doesn't do, especially while it's very single player mode still. I don't see a way to add another team member into this. And if I have to wait for them to trigger something that then happens on my account, it just doesn't feel like a good experience. And I'll leave it with that. I don't think you could put it into Slack yet. But once they do, then I could see you definitely adding it to your team. It's also expensive to run. But on the other hand, you don't need to have your own computer to do it. I would say on the opposite end of this is probably hyper agent, where you can create an easy tool, which has some limits to it. It doesn't have its own computer in the browser built in like this. But it will plug into Slack. And it will work in a way that your team can use. It was just recently spun out of AirTable. AirTable? Yep. All right. Great. I'm excited about this. And I'm excited about the future of it. And I don't mean to put Alex Fendan when he gets all hopped up about this. I get all hopped up about this too. I think that there are clearly challenges here. But when I love about our community of people who are trying this, if we see the power here, and it's so freaking fun to get past the issues and to create something that was never possible before. Yeah. The last thing I'll add, I'll enter to this one, is what you just said. Sure, I think it'll become multiplayer at some point. But I don't want my team to have to struggle with Hermes. I don't want them to have to struggle with all these things. But if I can give them the MD file and then tell them to load this up and then pay to $200 a month or whatever it is and show them how to do it. Because we have a lot of these skills already. I'm telling you. Even the recruiting skill that we have, it does the job of a full-time recruiter. And again, we've hired like three or four of these people in the last few weeks and they're super AI-pilled. And it just follows all the criteria that I'm looking for. So I'm like, it can be single-play right now. I'm good with it because it's user-friendly where my team can pick it up quickly. So yeah. All right, we'll leave it there. I've got other videos for you to watch. If you're excited about building agents and want one, I've got one for you. See you in the next one.