---
video_title: "My $10M Company is Run by Claude Cowork - Here's How."
video_id: gWZwP_8UEGM
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gWZwP_8UEGM
video_date: 2026-06-15T17:38:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude Cowork is the AI automation tool everyone's about to use. 
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Resources from this episode: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/jeff-whitlock-cowork
  
  Jeff Whitlock, CEO of Grain, demos two live automations: an AI email triage that drafts replies using your meeting context, and a defensive product radar that surfaces your biggest user pain points before they become churn. 
  
  Andrew Warner digs into how Jeff actually built these workflows, how they connect tools like Grain, Slack, Superhuman, Linear, Intercom, Amplitude, and Zapier, and why Claude Cowork can be a fast way to prototype automations before turning them into full AI agents.
  
  Timestamps
  00:00 - Intro: Claude Cowork Is More Powerful Than You Realize
  00:18 - Why Jeff Whitlock Keeps Coming Back to Cowork
  00:54 - Email Triage With Claude Cowork
  01:39 - Using Meeting Context to Draft Better Replies
  02:24 - Slack Reports, Urgent Emails, and Smart Bucketing
  03:45 - Turning Cowork Outputs Into Interactive Canvas Reports
  04:21 - Drafting Replies From Email and Grain Transcripts
  05:33 - Zapier SDK and Internal Automations
  06:36 - Defensive Product Radar
  07:30 - Finding Product Issues From Customer Signals
  08:15 - Connecting Linear Issues to Real Customer Conversations
  09:27 - Inside the Cowork Recipe
  10:21 - Iterating on Cowork Like an AI Employee
  11:42 - From Claude Cowork to Full AI Agents
---
Everyone talks about Hermes agent, open claw, all these other cutting edge tools. Meanwhile, Claude Cork is right on your desk and it's more powerful than you realize. Let's see how presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. So on the CEO of Grain, we've got tens of thousands of users. We are doing millions of dollars a year in revenue. We're growing fast and I use a lot of AI tools. And there's a lot to do every single day and how to get a productivity edge using AI. I use Claude codex, you name it. But I honestly find myself coming back to Cork a lot. It's just like a very easy way to prototype automations and see what's working. And then if there's a way to sort of make it more expansive, make it more digetic, I'll then move it into a more architected flow, you might say. But I honestly just find it such an easy way to try ideas and riff on them. Let's take a look at a couple of your ideas. When we start with email triage, that's something everyone can relate to. Yeah, I mean, it's awesome. It's a simple flow, but it's something that every single day we've got to stand up over our email. You're constantly getting emails from customers, from vendors, et cetera. And so as much as in my mind, as much as I'm wasting time on non-high signal email, that stuff I could be doing that's higher value. So I wanted to think through how could AI help me with this. I've been a big superhuman user for a really long time. I love superhuman, but it still is kind of in the very gooey, centric software design. And so I built this daily email triage flow to try to push further along that. The core idea of this flow is, and I'll show it, I'll show you when the outcome's in a second, is that it uses not just the email itself, but also the meeting context. It uses grain transcript data to understand who these people are, what previous commitments have you had, what conversations with you had, what open threads. And it uses that context to not only better triage and prioritize the emails, but also draft smarter responses. And as I've been kind of loading that meeting context in addition to the email context, it's just much, much better outcomes. OK, so it's going through. It's saying, these are the emails you need to pay attention to. And I'm actually writing follow-ups for you and the follow-up of some writing are based on when I've read in the email and what you have said in past conversations. Let's take a look and see what one of these reports looks like. Yeah, so what it's doing is, it's giving me a DM with flagging urgent emails that require my attention. And over time, I've tuned the instructions to be quite smart about what truly is urgent and needs my attention. And then it buckets also other emails that are important, but not urgent. It also will flag things that are possible product signals that I could be looking at. These are oftentimes things that like intercom chats that are getting forwarded to my inbox. And then it also just kind of gives me spam unfiltered suggestion that actually, I've started having it just automatically, as it's gotten better at detecting spam, just automatically marking them is done. So I don't even have to ever see them. And then it just suggests like things I should maybe unsubscribe from because they're just clear in my inbox. So it just kind of gives me like an overview of the urgent and you can see it kind of summarizes each of these and then just flags out of things. If you open this Slack Canvas, there's a breakdown of all these things in more detail. And one of the things that I love really, I love about this is that it drafts responses if a draft is needed for me. And I can just open those directly in superhuman. And so for example, if I switch to superhuman, I'll just show you an example of kind of all these drafts that are already drafted for me so that there's something just amazing. Let me just take a look at the top for a moment there. Yep, yep. So this is Canvas. And the cool thing that you've done is you've found a way to put full HTML interactive pages inside of a chat because of these canvases. I thought that was a really big takeaway for me. I never use Canvas through any kind of automation. So this is helpful. And then you can see the very top ones. Those are the four things that need the most. All right, what happens if you click open and superhuman on the message for me for today? Yeah, so this one is because we'd rescheduled this podcast and I had needed to accept your invite. So if I click this, it just open to the calendar invite and remind me to accept it so you knew I was coming. Ah, okay. And then can I see how it creates a draft for you? Yeah, so you can see, for example, it drafted two emails for me. Previously, one is a question I got from Zapier. Wanted to about a case study because we've been building a lot of stuff with Zapier. And I've also had some conversations with them so it was able to pull some of that grain context. And then it sort of just drafted this reply to Rob from Zapier. Hey, Rob. Thanks for the clarification. And for flagging this, we've been actively building Woods Appier SDK recently for some internal automation. So this is likely us generating that volume I'll check with our engineering team. Got it. Oh, wow. So it knows what's going, this is it writing it. It knows that you did all that because it's listening, it's using green transcripts and sees that you've all been doing that in meetings, talking about this. Wow. Yeah, it's pretty awesome because like there's no way that from this thread it knows all this context. It just, it knows this because of the context that this automation I've instructed to pull from its grain conversations. OK. Well, for my team, because my team has been talking about this and from conversation I've had with the folks doing the SAP SDK. By the way, can we give people this recipe so that they could share it and use it themselves? Yeah. I'm happy to do that. All right, we'll have it in the description. Speaking of Zapier, they're a sponsor. What are you doing with the Zapier SDK? Is there one thing that you can bring up? Yeah, I've been using the SDK to build a lot of animations as a way to not have to, you know, I'm using Cloud Code plus their SDK to build automations. I find it a really nice way to not have to deal with a lot of a key management because I've already got all these Zapier, Auths, already in my Zapier account. They just recently launched Triggers, which I'm really, really excited about so that I don't have to worry about setting up web hooks either. So just a lot of automations like, for example, we have like this sales brief where it kind of pulls all the context of every single deal, puts it into Slack, tags, people who need to follow up on their deals. We do some intercom automations with it. There's just, there's a lot of stuff for kind of, a lot of internal ops and robots sub-ronomating. I love it. I love it because like you said, you get to connect all your tools in. You have one key essentially that you give to whatever app you want to work with and you know it can only open up the things and do the things that you wanted to do. OK, let's see what else you're doing with co-work. While most of my attention has been on offense and trying to understand, you know, how do we create new things and take bold steps forward as a product. I have created some automations to help me, I call it a defensive product radar to help me make sure that I'm still prioritizing and coming open solutions to the things that are active paper cuts of our existing user base because those are also critical to ensure you're building a delightful product. OK, can we see that? I'll show you the output again in Slack. OK, everything for you goes into Slack, huh? Or a large part of it? That's one of my main ways of doing these co-work automations. As I said, it's a really nice way to just ensure that these are getting inserted into my daily workflow. I'm really enjoying co-work. It's just like a really quick way to set up these things and then and see what works, see what doesn't work, and then iterate it. OK, here you go. So this is the defensive product triage. It flags the top defensive issues that based on intercom chats, sales calls, customer success calls, and amplitude signal, things that I should be focusing on. And then it also looks at linear and at the existing issues and kind of suggests issues that perhaps are under prioritized based on the signal it's getting from the market and from our customers, suggests new issues to create, and then kind of puts that all into, again, a Canvas report with the links to the tickets that are either there or that it created that I need to triage and prioritize. Can I see that previous going one more time? Yeah. So I love how it says, hey, look, here are top issues. It's apparently somebody thinks that they had their meeting notes shared even though it was turned off. So that's a big priority for you and you're taking absolutely critical for trust. The next thing below that, so that's top defensive issues. Then underneath it, I really like how linear issues are being flagged based on conversations that you and your team are having. So if a lot of people keep bringing up the same issue, and it's in linear, now this automation says, hey, pay attention to it. I know it's just another item in your linear, but this is one that a lot of people are bringing up for you. Got it. 100%. OK. And then when you open it, and then it creates linear tasks for anything it thinks needs a task. And only when you move it into, like, let's start taking action, does the team start to take action? Yeah, we have, we use linear tree, the linear treeage bucket. And so as things are in treeage, I then review them and then I put them into the relevant project and assign it to people. So I still kind of maintain that final decision making on what our team is spending time on because that's critical. OK. Can we just see co-work one more time? Just kind of click into it and let's see if we can see the recipe within co-work. But of course, we'll have it below for anyone to want to use it. Yeah, of course. So right here, product defense radar, you can see here's the instructions right here. Uh-huh. OK. Review recent customer product and support analytics and linear signals to identify defensive product issues grain should not miss. Create high confidence linear issues in ENG treeage. Got it. Here's the goal. Help Jeff Answer. What product friction customer pain, turn risk bugs or recurring complaints should we notice and potentially fix? And then it's using call notes that grain is taking and what else? It's using intercom chats, grain calls, amplitude, and then existing linear tickets. And this is doing it every day at 8am. How do you put this together? You chat chatting with it. And then every time you have a problem, you chat with it and tell it to improve. Correct. Exactly. Yep. One of the things that I find very easy to iterate on is in every time a task runs, it runs in a chat. And it has all that context from the run. So you can just in-clawed say, hey, can you change these instructions? Can you improve this? And I'll just automatically improve. So it's just so easy to give feedback. I think of it as like almost like an employee that is just like really easy like, hey, you did this for me. Can you please do it this way differently every time? So the iteration cycle is seen to be just really lightweight. Also, because it has all that context, if you need to actually do some work, for example, just when I was working on one of these, I can actually let me actually just show this. So you can see on its last run, there was an issue that I'd remembered that a customer had asked for help with and had to give it some feedback on. And it was related to a different issue that was flagged by this run. So I basically said, what issue is associated with this customer's issue? And then can you find any Slack messages? I like to understand the current status of diagnosing the issue, because we weren't really sure it was causing it. So with that context, it basically found everything related to the problem. If flagged one part of the issue, or mind me, another users, because it had that full context, it was able to connect these two separate issues and help create a plan to get the full problem result. All right, this is automation, using Cloud Co-Work, easy mode for people who want to take it to the next level and say, I want a full blown AI agent. We've got an Ermese agent walkthrough, and we'll have a link for it right there. If you want to take that to the next step.