---
video_title: "Free Notion and Gamma Alternatives: Top GitHub Repos This Week"
video_id: FbFnmCgGYDA
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbFnmCgGYDA
video_date: 2026-05-29T18:43:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Every week: the top GitHub repos for AI builders. Free tools, open-source alternatives, and what's actually worth your time.
  
  📄 Full report + all links: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-weekly-may29
  
  🤝 Presented by Zapier — the AI automation platform: https://zapier.com/
  
  This video presents the top 10 GitHub repos of the week, featuring practical ai coding tools and open source alternatives to popular paid services. Discover a text to video ai that creates videos from a single prompt and learn how to address the common issue of AI writing sounding artificial. We also touch upon the dangers of vibe coding and how ai agents can streamline your workflows.
  
  0:00 — Intro
  0:34 — Understand Anything — auto-document vibe-coded apps before they become unreadable
  2:00 — Claude Code Context Map — stop putting Claude in the "dumb zone" with a map of your codebase
  3:36 — AI Engineering From Scratch — 416+ lessons, 20 phases, every lesson ships a reusable artifact
  5:32 — Zapier MCP — connect thousands of apps to your AI agents with granular permissions
  6:38 — YT-DLP — the YouTube downloader you can wire directly into your workflows (166K ⭐)
  8:46 — AppFlowy — free Notion alternative, no AI upsells, open-source (71K ⭐)
  10:44 — Cal•com — free self-hosted Calendly alternative you can fully customize
  12:29 — Anthropic Knowledge Work Plugins — meeting prep, sales intel, and more built into Claude
  15:21 — Money Printer Turbo — text to video AI with full model + prompt control
  19:24 — Presentation — free Gamma alternative that builds slides from any text or doc
  21:56 — AI Slop Remover — a Claude skill that catches AI writing tells before you publish
  23:10 — WiFi Presence Monitor — detect breathing and heartbeat using just your router
  26:28 — Anthropic Cybersecurity Skills — run a security audit on your vibe-coded projects
  29:20 — Cursor Plugins — MCP-powered plugins for Cursor IDE (Figma, Webflow, Notion + more)
  
  #GitHubRepos #AITools #ClaudeCode #TextToVideo #VibeCoding #FreeNotion #AIAutomation #OpenSource
---
Do you hate how AI writing sounds like AI? Well, I've got a solution for you. Do you want to create videos with a single prompt? I've got a repo that'll do that for you. Do you like notion, calendar, gamma slides, but you don't like how much you have to pay for them? I've got free alternatives for them. All that's coming up because right now we've got the top 10 GitHub repos of the week plus three special ones that I picked out for you. Let's get started. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. All right, Adam. Let's go down the list of the top 10 for the week. In fact, up we can start with number one. This is understand anything. Here's the way that they used people framed it. They said, look, you join a new team. You've got 200,000 lines of code. You've got to try to understand what happened before you've been arrived. Nobody made it clear. There isn't even a clear readme file and you've got to figure it out and take it on. Or maybe you're like me. You created something six months ago. You are super excited about it at the time and you totally forgot what you made or what the code is in there and you want to understand it. The idea behind to understand anything is this will clarify it and make sense of it so that you understand it and can actually use it. What do you think? Yeah, I think this stuff is really important now. I'm seeing this a lot in our organizations and our portfolio companies where people are vibe coding up apps, but they don't know how to document them well. They don't know how to write down. Here's how I made these decisions. Here's what it's connected to. And now they're successful. They're working. And then other people try to work on them too. And man, they are stuck. So having this like automatically created documentation, this map that anybody could understand and click around like this is the sort of thing that that I think could be game changer as these vibe coded apps start to become real apps and not just a little prototypes. Okay, you know what, you're totally right. I'm building things and then I expect other people to take them on. They don't understand what's there. I don't understand what's there. This is what will clarify it. Really good repo. Let's go onto number two for the week. This is the other way around. Now it's cloud code that doesn't understand everything that's in there. You've got this whole city that you've basically developed this whole virtual world in your code. And now every time cloud code wants to go and do something, it has to go and run through the whole neighborhood in the whole world to understand it. This gives it a map. So it takes fewer calls. And as a result, it weighs fewer tokens and it becomes a lot easier to for cloud code for codex for all these services to work with your code. Yeah, I think the, you know, we always talk about fewer tokens and some people are paying for token, but most people aren't. We're using our subscriptions to pay for tokens. And so it doesn't. It doesn't seem like it should matter. But Andrew, I want to remind you that the LLM's all have a dumb zone. And you say, Opus 4.7 has a 1 million context or a 1 million token context window. I should use the whole thing. Well, after about 100,000 tokens, it gets dumber fast. And so yeah, if you're using that whole window, then then you have a problem like I'll tell you yesterday I tried to do a new task in a project and Claude burned 190,000 tokens just trying to understand the code base, the database and everything that was connected to it. And that was one of the things like, man, I got to start using some of these graph tools because I'm putting Claude in the dumb zone before it's gotten to do any work. I see. So it's not just about saving tokens. It's about making it smarter so that you can as you keep working with it, get the best out of it. All right. There's no smarter token than the very first token that Claude sends you. Okay, let's go on to the third one. And that is AI engineering from scratch. This is a course by a very opinionated course creator. Here he is on X. He says, look, AI education is moving from watch videos to ship artifacts. I'm totally with him on that. That's why I built AI engineering from scratch. I've got 416 plus lessons, 20 phases, every lesson output, something reusable. You get prompts, you get skills, you get agents, you get MCP servers. That's what he built. Here it is. I love his vision. I don't know that this is really for me or I don't know. What do you think of this? Yeah, I mean, we spent a little time looking through the actual phases and a bunch of the lessons. And I'm not sure who it's for either. They're pretty technical pretty quickly. And it's very technical thing to do in order to interact with this. You open these folders. You go and look at these, you know, the English dot MD markdown file. Then you have to figure out how to run the code that's paired with each lesson. So it's like their technical lessons for technical people. But in general, a lot of technical people know a lot of these concepts or they have other ways that they would already prefer to learn them. I don't quite understand. I actually, I'm still one of the people that wants to watch tutorials. I want to hear someone talk through it because I appreciate getting to hear it, getting to see it. And then I want to do it. You know, what I would love actually is what if there was a video for each one of these right because now I get to watch it. I get to listen to it. And sure I get to interact with it too. You know, let's let's bridge the gap. I think this one is maybe too far down the spectrum. And what what would the YouTube plus this combination look like? That's what's going to get me real excited. But I do like that he built it. I wonder though, how did he create all these lessons? Did he really do it? Is this like vibe coded lessons? What's what's in here? Anyway, but I appreciate his vision on it. And now Zapier MCP everybody knows how much I love Zapier MCP. Here's the beauty of this. I grill people in private because they're my sponsor. I want to make sure am I really supporting somebody that we are all using or am I looking like an idiot here? And I just talk to a founder and I asked him how are you using this? I don't need to hide his name. It's the founder of grain. And I said, how are you using this? And he goes, listen, I use all these different tools. I basically don't want to have to keep authenticating and keep bringing in all my API keys and everything. He's basically he's got a toolbox and he comes into this tool and he's got it there. And then when he shifts something else, he got another toolbox. And in the toolbox is Gmail, Google Calendar, a sauna. He doesn't use a sauna. He uses linear. Nobody uses sauna anymore. And he just brings it in and it's all there. And he can say, I want you to have this permission, but not that permission. You can read my email, but not send my email. You can draft an email for me, but not send it. A lot of my friends, by the way, are actually having a draft email. I need to do. I do have that more. I now set that up this week. All right. Next, that's Zapier MCP. If you're not using it, you've got to thousands of apps full protection. Okay, I love this one as a video creator. Here's the problem that I run into. I often need to pull YouTube videos for lots of different reasons. Sometimes because I want to clip them and put them in my own videos. Sometimes because I want to show them to somebody on the team and I need to clip them out. Sometimes there's something on X that I want to just send out in a different format without sending a link to X. So I go to these websites that will let me download. And you've seen this atom. We all use them. A few things happen. One is you pick a favorite site and it's just done. Somebody has taken the site down and you can't use it. The next thing is it will either try to get you to download porn or try to get you to download malware. And they do it with this weird ad that says download here. And only if you look underneath it, you realize it's an ad. The thing about this is this is a tool that's just drop dead simple connected in download, what you need, move on and connect it into your workflows. That's the other thing that we don't get from those websites. You can connect it to your workflow. This you can. What do you think? Yeah, I love the CLI nature here because I actually have built kind of a custom one of these. I would say I had seen this one before I spent all that effort. Because I needed one of my agents to be able to scrape out YouTube and to get YouTube has these auto transcriptions that are attached to videos. I had to build this whole workflow and pipeline that could pull that in so my agent could use them. Oh man, I wish I had seen this first and I could have just you know, I probably could have saved three hours of work. I also appreciate Andrew like the battle here YouTube is constantly battling these scrapers, these bots. And so I don't want to own that part of the battle. I would much rather the supporters and contributors of YTDLP are there. Oh yeah, YouTube figured this out. Now let's fix this and we could get around the bot detection here. Like I want them to own that and I just want my transcripts, please. Really popular 166,000 stars 14,000 forks. Totally understand. Wow. All right. Next up. Oh, by the way, I should say these are these three are honorable mentions. They didn't make it into the top ten list this week, but they are worth looking at. So number two of three honorable mentions is Appi Flow. Here's a problem that I have. I love notion. I really do everything's organized. Everything makes sense in there. The problem I have with notion is they're getting so heavy into AI that they're pushing AI everywhere. You want to ask I just want to search the AI button the AI bar is bigger than the little search bar. I just want to do something and they keep saying do you want the agent to do it for you. No, I don't. I want to do it myself. And part of the problem is that I have a big team using this and I don't want to sign up for AI for everybody on the team and then add agents for everyone on the team. What appy what app flowy has done is they've basically created a simplified notion. As you can see here, everything is easy to use. It makes sense. Use it for yourself. Use it for your team. And I like how popular it is because it's just a useful useful tool 71,000 stars 5,000 forks. All right. Yeah, the one thing I'll say, Andrew, on these these notion type interfaces is the really simple. It's just a document with a bunch of blocks in it. And the blocks can be in whatever order in whatever way. And this is the perfect interface for documents and AI. You know, you might have started to see the trend lately of don't use AI to write markdown use AI to write HTML. These blocks are kind of halfway in between markdown and HTML where the AI doesn't have to spend all its time thinking about the visuals because app flowy just provides that as the template as the style. But it can do something richer. It can do something. Look at this beautiful to do list and you saw a convine board earlier. Like those are all features that are built in and it gives the AI that supercharged power of the detail of HTML without having to spend all of its tokens and all of its time writing HTML. So I love this doc and block like method. And it doesn't surprise me that someone could kind of upset notion here because it's such a simple model. It's perfect for AI. All right. And finally, in the honorable mentions before we go back to our top 10 list is a calendar alternative. I really like calendar. I think it's a great service. I like all these little tools. The thing that I that I struggle with is they force me into their structure. Like can I have follow up messages. Yes, but only the ones that they have. Can I have this on my site? Maybe only if they allow it. What the cow dot com team did by open open sourcing their software is they said look we figured out what works best for us. You can use it for free if you want to host it for yourself. But you can also edit and change it. And a few weeks ago they actually said we're not going to continue to participate in this I think. And what they said was they worried about having all their. I guess their source code being public with what's going on lately with potential attacks having said that the community around this is so big people are using this I've interacted with this as somebody trying to book a meeting with someone it works well this is such easy software. I cannot believe how much count is making considering how easy this whole this whole is. Yeah, for a new founder entrepreneur. I mean this would be the tool it's free you can customize it to your hearts content without having to pay them for the $3 up charge here in the $12 up charge there. Like this is this is absolutely the way someone should start off so good. The worst was I was using someone else's software as just trying to book a meeting with a partner. And I said do you want to overlay your calendar on top I said sure they took me through a sign of flow atom that was 20 pages deep and I finally. And every step I said OK, I invested a little bit so I might as well go it can't keep going and then I finally just gave up on it so frustrating I get it. All right back to our top 10 list number four on the list is knowledge work plugins a few weeks ago you and I talked about how. And the topic basically turned lawyers into skills they turned finance into skills this is them coming for the rest of your organization. But I don't think they're replacing the organization I think in this case what they're doing is they are helping your team so let's take a look at sales for example this is one that I that I know really well. When you are in sales before you get into a meeting with somebody what you want to do is have like a meeting prep and so sometimes you go and do it manually a lot of us are creating our own skills to do it. So I want you to pull data out of LinkedIn I want you to pull data out of my CRM that kind of thing go Google it. But and thought because done is they've said we are going to create the best version that we can of this and we're going to make this work for you really well out of the box like just give us a company name and contact and the type of meeting you're having and we'll make it work well if you also connect it to other tools like your CRM your email etc we will give you even more superpowers and what will give you as an output is this kind of thing here's like a prep doc and all of these skills are like that. What do you think the I mean the plugin system here and I think it's it's really underutilized what you might not realize is if you have your whole team on cloud and you're on this team account you as the administrator can actually go in and force every one of your accounts every one of your team members to install these plugins by default and you can customize them so if you're running a sales team you know I would look at this this plugin. Well I could change these prompts a little bit I want to make sure it's connected to the data that we want it connected to and oh here's our flows in our S.O.P. and then with three or four button clicks in the claw dashboard now that's installed in the agents of everyone of your sales team and I don't know why more people are doing that I don't know why more people are building these I don't know why more people aren't using these it's really really underutilized that's what we're doing as a team here at the next new thing we are now starting to share skills so that if I'm doing something like last night I was working and proving a skill everyone else on the team needs to have it I'm never using these skills out of the box the way they are I actually really keep hearing your voice in my head Adam when I say I'm not using their skill summary it's not that I'm afraid that they're going to add stuff to it I just want to get a sense of what's in here I can clearly read this and understand it what do I want from this I'll go until clawed at it to my skill that's the way that I that I plan to interact with this I don't I don't need all this data. I'm not saying nonsense but it's helpful I like that they've got all these here and they're coming in and supporting the whole rest of the organization next look at the name on this one it's called money printer turbo and what it does is it takes your text and it creates a faceless video for you this is the repo here I'm laughing because by the way look at me I now you've taught me Adam to switch directly to English and where the English link is I'm like becoming a get hub like experienced user here I will say this this stuff is pretty much all junk here this is this is one user I like I appreciate the honesty at her I didn't even give you a chance to give your opinion here's and I don't know we should talk about whether it matters at its junk this is a user I watched him will have a link to this in our in our description used it goes in 15 minutes later I get this and here's the video let's watch it together video here and then let's watch that motivation is the driving force behind our actions and aspirations it propels us to overcome obstacles and pursue our dreams even in the face of okay this is like a dancing elephant it's not like you really need to watch this is just hey the elephant can dance so it's not like I really need these AI generated videos in my life but it's cool that you can do it out here this is some of the settings this is another user who ended up with another piece of nonsense on AI is it or maybe yeah it's another person same same screen afterwards here's his result video and this is let's play that is see generating everything that we need you will discuss the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle what is this the chopsticks of know what that is like what what is this combination of a smore and like an oyster right in a chopstick over a cup it's just it's horrible now here's here's what I would say though I wonder how much it matters Adam because my the short that I was not super proud of but I said to the editor go ahead and post it got over a hundred thousand views on Instagram then I said maybe some random thing happened to it's one of these repo clips I said maybe some random thing happened another person on the team reposted it on Instagram it's getting more than a hundred thousand views so maybe I am being too precious and maybe we do need to just flood the zone put these videos out there and keep improving as the technology improves what do you think of money printer turbo you know and I think a lot of people are doing AI generated videos and they're using the kind of off the shelf tools to do them and those videos they look more polished out of the gate they're better than the stuff that we just saw with less work but those tools are sophisticated enough to actually make those videos good what I like about these more in depth kind of a little bit slower processes look at how many little knobs and fiddles yes you could change this part of the prompt now if you have a real business you're trying to sell a real product these are the kinds of tools where you can spend the time to actually say well yeah let me try five versions of this and post them all and see which one works and yeah some of them are going to be good but right now you're not posting anything so get out there like try some of these use genuinely good interesting content I mean I think part of the problem here is that these are a little bit contrived of examples right and so then yeah the output is is not that interesting but if you have an interesting business and an interesting product instead of going to the off the shelf video generation tools I'd be spending more time in one of these where I did get to fiddle and experiment and I bet you could get to a higher quality fair point with with something like so and you do get to pick the models that you use it keeps improving you keep improving how you're using it all right fair point that's money printer turbo and I've got all these videos linked up below so that you can grab them in the report okay presentation gamma took the world by storm because they said look you shouldn't start with an empty slide start to put your header your design or even even work with a template and start to fill in the gap just talk through what you have in fact don't even talk through give me what you already have a Google doc a transcript from a meeting whatever you got just paste it in and will create slides for you now Google to some degrees trying to catch up but they haven't gamma still is and lead and now here comes presentation by presentation with a GitHub repo that does all of that for you and here's what the slides look like what do you think of this Adam for free I mean you know Andrew you're talking to a loyal gamma user I I was in the beta you know I paid and paid I love the service and I canceled it two months ago do you know I canceled it I canceled it because I could make pretty good slides with just cloth now right but you know what I kind of miss the interface I kind of miss having a nice gamma like here's the slide like you know some you need to give me the user interface you need to give me the buttons I want to see a bunch of templates and claw doesn't make that easy and I don't want to rebuild gamma from scratch whoo now you're telling me I could have free gamma that like has all these beautiful templates built in that has some integrations I think I'm pretty interested in that all right fair point you're right I do use clawed to create slides in fact this is made in clawed we're looking at it right now that's right I mean maybe this presentation tool would would make what you're doing here even more repeatable you could build your own templates I'd be curious if we tried that I do like this kind of set up over here as as you can see it and what I also miss about using gamma and Google slides and everything else is being able to just edit the slide itself if I want to make a single change Adam it recreates the whole thing it drives me crazy to do that and so that's right and it takes forever and it breaks something else in the process like there's there's real logic to having a tool that helps manage a lot of that I mean look at how seamless this is compared to asking clawed to make the slides you know just because clawed can make them and they're pretty doesn't mean that it should be the only game in time okay fair point it's available for free presentation now I understand why people like it again as I keep saying full report below people have been downloading thousands of people download these reports so I'm glad to see that it's there for you and we'll have all everything in for you all right I think the best way to describe this repo is by seeing it in action when we see AI slop in text we all recognize it like this here's the thing I'm going to read this here's the thing building great products is hard it turns out that most team struggle with alignment communication execution not because they lack talent because they lack clarity so this things it has these little telltale additions yeah what this repo does is it's actually it's just a skill that says I'm going to catch all these and I'm going to isolate them so that your writing doesn't look like AI even if AI created it for you I think this is very positive I like this one what do you think I love it absolutely no you know full stop I love it full stop I even like look at this Chris Brillo this old blogger has added to it and he goes look AI wrote this you know I'm going to do it AI wrote this you could tell because every paragraph so basically he started adding in addition to what was there already he started saying you know I don't just want to catch specific words I want to also start catching these rhythms and he's adding it into it and I think more and more people can start to identify what feels like slop and adding it into into the skill very very positive number seven for the week number eight is one that we had seen before how would you set up review how would you explain this I mean it's kind of a magical little device right and it's it's like this idea that there's a sensor already in your room that you can use to monitor presence to monitor heart rate to monitor is someone breathing faster slower like if I said to you and drive I've already installed one of these and it's in your office right now you wouldn't believe me which I have a creeped out and still it is in here because it what this repo uses is your Wi-Fi router to tell like Adam said if there's someone breathing in the room if there's a heartbeat in it so there's a there's a big issue here people are just arguing about this all over their reddit links that I was going to include here but they're not substantive their people on reddit who say I'm going to try this out and come back and report back who never come back and report so I've got a couple of issues on GitHub to talk about here this is from someone who says no this is not fake by the way that's not good writing no this is not fake yes it actually word works read the docs and so people are saying look this works and at the same time I was saying I haven't really seen it this is just marketing I don't really believe this is this does what it says it what it's supposed to do what do you think about this well honestly and it's it's not the science is real that's not up for debate like we use devices like this we can monitor breathing by looking at at how wireless signals change over time and heart rate and all of that stuff the question is could I use the random Wi-Fi router that's in my office to monitor that and they even call it out here which is that not every consumer router has the has the sensitivity and has the data exposed right that would allow you to do that right but what I actually think there's a there's a bigger story here because I don't care that my that my router could or couldn't monitor my breathing what I actually care about here is people are starting to use AI to bridge this gap between what's on your screen what's on your computer phone and what's happening in real life you know we're already seeing that a lot with voice like I type to humans but I talk to AI and AI talks back to me and that's a much better way to interact with this software well I love this I love buttons that do things I I want to use the technology we have around us and use AI to say well now we can get some new richness out of it that that we couldn't ever have before I want to dissolve the interface between you know this screen I don't like that you're two dimensional right now so I think I think more people should look at this with kind of creativity and curiosity rather than will this work on my router and what would I use this for because almost nobody has a real use case for this but just take it as a take it is an exciting thing and what could you build if your router could do things like that what could you build with your screen if you could modulate your screen really quickly and there's there's more there's more creativity we had here I do like looking at your LinkedIn when you post what you've done with the real world device using some code that you created fair alright and the topic cyber security skills when I use loveable which is how you introduce me to vibe coding one of things that I like about it is it will tell me there's a security problem with what you're doing potentially do you want to look at it do you want to fix it when I go to cloud code and I create something there's nothing like that I just hit publish and we're good to go did I put my API keys publicly and anyone can use it I did do I put some private information accidentally yes it happens and so what this does is it says I'm going to catch it also if there is a problem if there is a cyber security issue and it's gone out into the world I'm going to help you identify and resolve it and it's not from anthropic despite the name that despite having a anthropic in the name of the repo it's it's still really popular 11,000 stars and it's growing what do you think of this yeah I mean if you're a vibe builder but you don't have the engineering background or honestly even if even if you do go and go and take your biggest project you know this is the homework after the call today go and take your your biggest project run this on it and see what it says see see if it gives you some recommendations see if it finds some vulnerabilities my guess is that it will almost everything has some vulnerabilities the problem is you're not always going to remember to do that and this makes it really easy now you take this there's a bunch of skills it's all in this one package there's two ways that you can or three ways one is you could you could write this or run this on on your project but I would set this up in cloud you can set up a recurring command to run you know these automated skills that that can run you can do this in a desktop you could do this on the on the cloud version and I would set this up to just run once a week that way if you're forgetting to run it if you don't run it before you deploy it's going to run once a week and it's going to give you the output of this and say hey you should look out for this look out for this the other thing is if you're using something like get hub to commit your code up and so that it deploys to railway or versatile or wherever there's a thing called a pre commit hook what will happen is on your computer when you try to commit or when you try to push a pre push hook in get it will say well I got to run this script first and it'll run this script and you can actually set it up so that if this finds vulnerabilities it will fail the commit it will not let you commit until you've run this and it'll do it automatically you don't have to remember to do it but it'll run it automatically and if it finds something it won't it won't commit it for you and you have the opportunity to either fix it or if you're in a hurry and you know you like to live dangerously you can push it through anyway I had no idea I could do that wow all right yeah final one cursor plugins in my friend group circle cursor is becoming more popular I think it's getting a lot of credibility because essentially Elon Musk bought it even though it hasn't fully gone through yet here is their launch video they're adding a figma in this example add the figma plugin add it for myself not to the projects in this case here we go MCP servers tools usage and now they've got the plugin super easy to add in here that's they've got notion in this demo of course slack in the demo and so many so many others I also want to show one other example of it here is web flow on their YouTube channel they talked about how they they showed how to install it and now here's an example of how you would use it so they're in cursor and he's just typing in tell me what sites I have and then it's checking and it's saying okay you got Raymond's fantabulous site you got Raymond's one page or you got Raymond's cool site Raymond really likes Raymond I'm sure it's his demo sites WP import test and scratch site really helpful it how it brings these other tools into cursor what do you think of this what do you think of cursor yeah I mean I said it before I think the plugin ecosystem and Claude is is one of the most powerful and under appreciated parts of it now cursor can do that same thing and you can use all these plugins and to remind you and a plugin isn't all that special it's a bunch of skills it's a bunch of like Claude skills or you know agent skills along with predefined MCP connectors along with workflows or sub agents so these are all things you could build individually you could connect with web flow with MCP you could have done that three months ago but the plugin says well I'm not just going to connect the data of web flow I want to have some processes some workflows and I'm going to have some skills of here's the right way to deploy and here's the right way to use this and now they packaged all that into one thing that you can use as a tool and that's why they're so powerful is because all these little tools were all building on the side they are a lot more powerful when you when you turn them into this like co here and plug in so that's that's what we're looking at in both of these platforms and they make it so much easier to follow for example all these security practices or you have 200 skills to check for security we're going to need a plugin or something to help orchestrate how do you run those how do you use those so I love this and I love that you can build your own they have a pretty good SDK and little ecosystem here you can duplicate a bunch of these pre built ones and build your own it's awesome do you like cursor I do like cursor I've actually been using it more lately to partially because cloud has gotten more expensive as the rate limits have come down as they've gotten more aggressive about controlling the other ways you can use it I've been using codex more I've been using cursor more and I've been using cloud a lot less wow All right now that we are done with this week's top 10 and three bonus ones I've got another collection of GitHub repos that you need to see right here click the link over and we're finding out that At least what is it 7% of people who watch this far are going to click over to the next one so see you on the next one