---
video_title: "Free CapCut, marketing tools, and all of github’s top 10 repos"
video_id: mIijk28-ZEk
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mIijk28-ZEk
video_date: 2026-06-19T15:52:40+00:00
video_description: |
  OpenCut hit 57K stars as a real CapCut alternative, Apple just shipped a native container tool for Apple Silicon, and a Netflix engineer found a trick to cut your AI agent token costs by 60%.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-weekly-june19
  
  Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane break down 13 repos — from AI agent skills and PM workflows to a system prompt leak that reveals how Claude Fable 5 actually thinks, and a security scanner that catches malware hiding inside skills.
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:36 - Hidden Gems
  00:45 - coreyhaines31/marketingskills - AI marketing workflows for SEO, social, ads, and onboarding.
  02:15 - mattpocock/skills - Personal skills for engineering, learning, and productivity.
  05:06 - OpenCut-app/OpenCut - An open-source CapCut alternative you can run yourself.
  06:54 - apple/container - Apple’s native tool for running Linux containers on Mac.
  09:09 - NVIDIA/SkillSpector - Scans AI agent skills for risky behavior.
  12:27 - addyosmani/agent-skills - Helps coding agents follow a stronger engineering workflow.
  14:51 - Zapier MCP - Connect AI tools to apps through one controlled toolbox.
  15:45 - phuryn/pm-skills - Product management skills for clearer requirements and positioning.
  18:00 - iptv-org/iptv - Public IPTV channels playable through tools like VLC.
  19:39 - Panniantong/Agent-Reach - Helps agents access sites that block simple scraping.
  21:00 - chopratejas/headroom - Reduces unnecessary token usage between tools and models.
  24:27 - mvanhorn/last30days-skill - Fresh research from GitHub, YouTube, Hacker News, X, and Polymarket.
  27:00 - music-assistant/server - Connects smart-home audio with music services and local sources.
  28:57 - asgeirtj/system_prompts_leaks - System prompts from major AI products for builders to study.
  33:36 - Watch this next
---
I've got a free version of CapCut that you can install yourself and have work beautifully. If you're installing skills, you've got to see the antivirus that Nvidia created. It will save your computer. Everyone's trying to figure out how to watch soccer for free. Well, guess what? There are television channels all over the world for free on the internet. But how are you going to find them? Well, I've got a repo that will put them on your computer like that. And is there a leak of Fable 5? Tune in. I've got the top 10 repos of the week and so much more. Chapter links below and a full download of everything I'm showing you in the description. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. All right, Adam, you're back. We got a whole bunch of repos this week, but this week I want to start off with something different. I want to start with three hidden gems that I think everyone needs to know about. And the first one is this marketing skills repo. I think it's fricking phenomenal. It is built by Corey Haynes. He has someone who's been a marketer for years who basically took all the things that he does to grow a business and he put them into the set of skills. I tested it with him in an interview. They work so simply and they're so fricking effective and he keeps improving them. And I really want to draw attention to them because I think the too many people who are looking at GitHub are also not thinking about marketing and they're missing this. And that's why I wanted to highlight it. Man, I couldn't agree more. Like a lot of these like solar perners, like they're building awesome products. The very product growth centered. And oh, I could change this. I could build this. And what they're missing often, if you're one person in a business is you don't know how to run ads. You don't know how to improve your SEO. You don't know how to do cold emails to your clients. And the reason that you could be this like solo perner now is with a set of skills like this. You could do probably an eight out of 10 job on all of those other things that you need to make the business successful with really not a lot of effort and basically no money. And it turns marketing into an engineering exercise that just works. You can tell it build me SEO sites, build me on boarding flows. And I tested it with him. It works beautifully. And here you can see this is just from Thursday. He says I uploaded slash social. So he also has social marketing. Instead of post more, it asks which 10 posts should you comment on today? It maintains the list of sources. Really effective. Let's look at the next one. This is from a past past person who had his skills repo. Be one of the top 10. We've talked about him in the past. We blew past one of his skills called Teach. Let me show you this in his repo. You can see here this is a collection of skills that he uses to make himself into a better engineer. And so you see the engineering skills here to make himself into a better person. So he's got his personal ones and also to increase productivity. And there's one here called Teach that he tweeted about that I want to just highlight here. And I have a note for myself to go to three minutes and 40 seconds where you can see this is what it looks like. And this is really the core of what makes this such a good learning experience. And here is my first lesson. And that's me notation. And it creates HTML docs with each lesson as you just showed. And this is him using it to learn how to use a Rubik's cube. Basically teaches you just what you need to know at that moment. It gives you diagrams. It gives you very simple explainers. It gives you call outs. And it gives you quizzes too. One thing I find really important whenever you're teaching anything is to develop a feedback loop. And quizzes are, okay, this they're basically good if you can't find any richer feedback loop. Again, if we zoom down this, we've got notations, we've got traps, we've got... Okay. And he's just showing how he learned a Rubik's cube. And one of the reasons why he has this here is to show that there's some skills that he has that will remember what you've done. Stateful versus state lists. And this is an example of that. Any thoughts on this? I love the learning especially because it creates multiple modules there. So you can actually go through one of the modules, one of those HTML files. And then you can go back to the agent and say, hey, I learned this, I think this, I have these questions. And the rest of the modules could actually change them as a result. You can update the stuff as it's going. It's like, oh, I've learned this or I'm this is cool, but I'd like to learn about this use case instead. And the learning is like really dynamic then compared to, you know, you could find a course on how to solve a Rubik's cube online, but it's not going to be tailored to what you already know, and it's not going to keep up with you as you learn. It's pretty formulaic. So I love this sort of thing. And I think you should be using it if you are vibe-goating out there. You know, I don't think people put enough focus on, well, why did my agent choose these technologies? Why did it choose this architecture? What are the options? I would be using this slash teach skill on my own repositories and on my own apps that I'm deploying to say, hey, tell me about how these work, how they're created. And like, wow, when I come back to it to work on it again, like, I'm going to know exactly how the things work. I'm going to make better decisions the next time around because I'm learning from my own successes and failures as I build out apps. The more I get to know his work, the more I like him and I like his work and it's available for everyone there. Last hit in gem, this is an open, a cap cut alternative. I like cap cut a lot because it simplifies video editing and it makes it powerful. The problem with cap cut, not a huge issue for me, but it is a pain in the neck. They charge you for stuff or they try to promote their own things in it. And I say not a big issue for me because I live in video. But if you're doing video editing for like family videos, if you're doing video editing for yourself in a way that you may not want to pay cap cut or maybe just don't want their software on your computer, which actually is a huge issue for me. This is an open source alternative. It has the features that you need. You can build onto it. You can put it on your device. Feel good about it and I'm glad to see it here as one of the hidden gems. And it's actually, it's not yet at a level where it could reach the top 10. It's got 57,000 stars though. So it is popular. 6.2000 forks, which you told me to watch out for to get a sense of real indication and utility. Yeah, these are cool. I mean, I grew up learning Premiere and After Effects and all those and oh my god, I almost no one is going to learn those like wildly in depth tools and you don't need to. I don't want to. For almost any content that people are creating today unless it's a feature like film, you really don't need the tools like that. So I love this. I love the competition. I love open source because all those forks, Andrew, each one of those are an opportunity for someone to say, oh, I like this tool, but I wanted a little different. And we've already talked about this. You can use agents to customize open source tools. So if you're using OpenCut, I wish it did this instead. That's great. Fork it. Put that repository in your own computer and ask Cloud to make the changes that you want so that it works on the way you like. That's, I mean, I love this ecosystem. Okay, let's look now at the number one repo of the week. This is from Apple. Docker desktop has always felt heavy on a Mac. Apple's own tool runs Linux containers and lightweight VMs built for Apple silicon. This is the GitHub repo. I'll show it in a moment. But first, this is for one of the people that Apple talking about it. One of my personal favorite features announced at WWDC. Will I suspect be a sleeper hit container machines allowing your Mac to run a lightweight persistent Linux environment? And then someone came in and said, this existed for a while. It's helpful, but it's nowhere near as flexible as something like Docker, to which he came back in and replied, um, container machines are brand new capability this year. They build on the containers container support we shipped last year. He goes, wait, I didn't read your bio. That's cool, though. Yeah. Developer tools and frameworks at Apple. Yeah. And then he did start to explain it. At WWDC 25, we introduced generalized container support with an open, and I like for you to explain what this means with an open source containerization framework and container CLI container machines introduced at WWDC 26, extend that enabling a seamless high integrity Linux environment on a Mac. I'll leave this for people in the doc, which we'll have a link to in the description. But why are you excited about this? I mean, I have Docker desktop running on my machine. It crashes a lot. It's slow. It uses a lot of memory. I would love to get out of it. I count me in the group of people that didn't know about this tool until you introduced it to me here for this show. I was like, oh, man, like, I think I'm going to love this because, you know, we use these machines all the time. If you're building apps, each app probably has its own little container where it gets to run in its environment. It has its own database. And that's the thing that you deploy out to the cloud when you want to share it with, with actual customers. And man, Docker is kind of heavy for that. You run in a bunch of copies of Linux. The tool itself is kind of buggy. So I'm very excited to try this out and see if, man, if this can't just take Docker off my machine. All right. I love when you get excited about discovering anything. All right. Nvidia's skills, Specter, I've heard this call basically anti-virus for skills. We see a skill, we install it. We don't know if there's a problem on it. Just go for it and yolo it. That's the version of, that's the vision behind this. And you can see here, I can even show how it gets installed on a computer. You can see here a Nvidia skill, Specter assessment on Angular, where it found a problem that's critical. This is the report it got. And what do you think of this report here? First of all, I love it. I think everybody should be a little bit more skeptical of the skills that they're installing. Because they don't feel like code, but they're code. They can download things on your computer. They can run code. They could copy all your emails if they wanted to, if that's what you've given your agent. And so you should be a little careful when you're downloading all these skills. And you know, you're not going to read them all. I'm not going to read them all. Having something like this installed, where you can run it against all of the skills you've installed on your computer. Like, honestly, I think everyone should pause the video for a moment. Download this, run it, install it, see what it calls out as issues. Now, I think the complaint that's coming up here is that this repository maintainer is saying, hey, it's calling some things out that maybe aren't real. But there are places to be skeptical. You know, if it's, I almost guarantee you're going to find something on your computer that this tool says, hey, you should look at this. And at the, at least look at it. Let's take a look quickly at how it works here. It's a skill specter. Inside the GitHub repo, there's this test folder. And inside that, they've got some dangerous skills. You can actually run it on to confirm the tool works. So we run it on these skills. And with every one of them, it tells you not to install. The higher the score, the more dangerous the skill. And with each test, it doesn't just give you a number. It shows you the exact line number, the exact location, and the file. Okay, now this is something that you pointed out to me before. You said, well, it's not enough information. The line number is kind of a pain. I wish that they would say what's there. And then the remediation is not helpful because it's cut off. Yeah, I don't understand that. That does seem to be how it works. My guess here, Andrew, is that there is an interface that you could run this with as well. Or clearly, if you had this output and you fed it back into your agent, the agent could build you a beautiful HTML report of exactly what's wrong. The agent has enough information here to run with it. There is a class of person that I think needs to install this now. And there's a lot of people out there building these marketplaces for skills. I would have built a marketplace for marketing skills or sales skills or engineering skills or whatever. And all those people, if you're hosting a marketplace, please install something like this when a user uploads a skill to share with others, pass it through a system like this that's going to rank it. And if it ranks it as potentially dangerous, you should flag that for review before you encourage other people to download it. I know this is a pretty popular trend now. Please take a little bit of responsibility and scan these before you host them. I wonder if I should do this even with our team. If we're starting to share skills, we should be a little bit more careful about what people are sharing. Okay, next, agent skills. Most AI coding output is sloppy. What this is going to do is it's going to turn your AI output, or at least your AI coder, from just an intern into a senior discipline engineer. I don't know. You've taken kind of a skeptical view of these, but also talked about the utility of them. What do you think of agent skills? Yeah, I kind of like the marketing one. We looked at a little bit ago. I think this is a great option to fill in a gap. If you're sitting here in your vibe coding and you're trying to sell this, maybe you're even making some money now, but you don't have an engineering background going to a set of skills like this, and almost just using it blindly and trusting the process. He's got a very specific timeline that he says you move through. You go through Define and Plan and Build and Verify and Review and Ship. You know what? If you don't have the background, you might not think to move through all those steps. So just installing a skill pack like this and trusting the process is going to make you a better vibe coder, a better builder. And then you know what, Andrew, how about you couple this with that Teach skill that you looked at before? You're like, oh, why do I do this? What should I learn from this? Because a regular engineer mostly isn't going to need skills like this. They're just going to do these things by default. Well, you can learn how to do that too. Go and use the Teach skill. All right. I call this a report, but I actually built full-blown websites to help guide this. Extract here before any non-trivial, it's going to look at one of the sites. The biggest skill in the repo. Before any non-trivial decision stands, your agent spawns a second agent with a clean context to attack it. Claim, extract, doubt, reconcile, stop. Three rounds maximum. The clever part, the reviewer never sees the original conclusion because handing it your answer biases it toward agreement. And my favorite line in the file, if you can't write the claim compactly, you have a vibe, not a decision. But does any of this fix why agents actually fail? Because they mostly fail from wrong context, not low intelligence. That's what the context engineering skill targets. Okay. And so it's a collection of skills. This video explains some of them. I'll go on to the next. Oh, the next one is Zappier. One of the things that I love about creating things for myself is getting to try lots of different tools. My headache is constantly that I have to bring all my connections from one tool to the next. And from literally lately, it's been from one computer to the next. The thing I love about Zappier MCP is I connect everything into this one place. It's Zappier. I give it whatever control I want over all the tools that I have. And then I have one connection. One tool box essentially that I give Hermes agent, that I give Claude code on this computer, that I give, what do I have on that computer? Whatever it is, I get to give it to it. And it just works beautifully. And it's from Zappier, a company you know, you can trust and that can become kind of the middle man between your most valuable data. Think about all the things we're giving AI access to between your most valuable data and the tools that you're experimenting with. Go try it for free right now at zappier.com slash MCP. Next. Oh, I have something good to show about this one. This is PM skills generic AI gives product managers text. This gives them rigor. Let's take a look. Actually, you know what? You and I were saying I couldn't find enough to test this on. So we tested it on our stuff. But before we do, let's just look at the GitHub repo. Is there anything you want to say about it before I show what we did with this? It's the same category. If you're a project manager or a product manager and you need engineering support or marketing support, go use those other skill packs that we looked at. If you're an engineer and you're vibe coding, you need that marketing one and you need this one. Like these are here to fill in the gaps that you have naturally. It's not a failure. You know, we're all only going to know so many things. These help fill in the gaps. And honestly, I think this one specifically is a pretty good. I like the results out of this package. All right. Here's what we did. One of the things that it does is it helps you think through the way you explain things in a more, more benefit-based. So I gave it this whole website that I created to guide our conversation today. And I said, how would you change the headlines? What would you do? And it said, well, look, you've got this Apple container. Before you explained it as a Swift tool that runs Linux containers as VMs on a Mac OS. Or this is the way you might have. After I would say using this skill, say it, sorry, say Docker desktop, but free, native and built by Apple. So for the video. I'm going to have to say, that's so much better. Yes. And it's like, we went from a five out of 10 title to a 10 out of 10 title. And we didn't have the learning thing about, like, how do we do the marketing of this? How do we do the explanations of this? Like, the skill did 100% of that. I mean, I watched you prompt this. It was like one short prompt. And this is what it came up with. I'm actually going to give my skill to create these websites for our weekly talks. I'm going to give this to it. This site, I don't think this is the way that I exactly explained it. A security scanner for AI agent skills. That's the Nvidia skill specter. But I do like how it said it. Scan any agent skill for hidden malware before you install it. All right. So all of it really helpful. It does give us a taste of how this works. Let's move on to the next one. Oh, this one's been so hot because of, because of soccer being so big right now. We know that there are ways for us to watch television online somewhere. If not in our city, not in our state, not in our country, somewhere around the world. But how do you even find it? What this does is it's basically a collection of all those little channels bundled up in a way that you can give your video player so that it just freaking works in the video player. And so I just really like it. I like it today. I like it forever. I think it's really a beautiful remote. What do you think? I love any of these collections of open source things that just like make life easier that are finding something freest, finding some like gem on the internet. Now because it's not a full package, it's like you got to install one of these IPTV players or VLC or whatever, they've got a whole list of different things you can play from here. I would, if you want it just to be easy, just download VLC. There's one for Windows, there's one for Mac. Download VLC and it's very easy then to just paste in the playlist that they have here because it looks pretty overwhelming. But I'm telling you, it's easy to use and it's not overly technical. It's so great. I had no idea this existed until I saw it just really take off and trend this week. And they're saying, look, before you pay for another streaming subscription, here's a trick, just go and get it put in VLC. I've got a video here of how to install it and how to use it, but I don't think it makes sense for us to show it now. I'll have it on the site if anyone wants it. Next, Agent Reach. This is a problem that you and I come across a lot. You ask an agent to read a tweet or a YouTube video and that's where it goes blind. I know there are other situations, but that's especially the one that hits me every single week. And so what Agent Reach does is it gets past their blocks. It makes it easier for you to access it and use those sites. And whether you're using a personal use or you're building something, this has been really interesting and helpful. What do you think about this one? I mean, yeah, there's this battle on the internet of bot detection and bot prevention. And hey, sometimes I want a bot. I want to scrape this site. Even if it's my own site, I want to be able to scrape it. I want to get my data out of a site where I have to log in to see it. So platforms like this, there's a bunch of different tools you could use. Some of these tools are meant to control your browser. They're kind of slow, but they give you a lot of control. Some of these tools are meant to be built into scripts and applications. Some like this are meant to be used by agents. So this one is great because you can just plug it directly into whatever agent you want and immediately give it the tools to start pulling content from protected sites. Yeah, I love it. I don't have much more to say. It's kind of everything you need in one package. I'm glad it exists. I wish it didn't have to. I'd like my agents to just have clear access. This is by a Netflix engineer who decided that he wanted to pay less per token or for token use. And this really took off after Fable came out because Fable was very token hungry and people used it, discovered it. Fable, of course, was pulled back. But now people still have it. They still like this. It's still talked about. I'm going to show you an example actually. This is the repo here. I'm going to show you an example of how one of the co-founders of Hermes, my favorite agent, tried it. And the first thing they said was key conclusions. Most of what it would do for Hermes actually is a net greater token cost. But there was one aspect that discovered that would save 60% of tokens used on Search File tool, which we will be integrating. And this took off on Twitter. And I'm glad to hear that. Why? Why is it that sometimes it's more, sometimes it's less? Yeah, I is so frustrating. It's like sometimes it's backwards. The tool calls that are made. A tool called Sounds Weird and Technical. But it's really just, oh, if you connected your email, connected to your calendar, your notion, or whatever, in order for Claw to reach notion, it uses a tool. And it says, notion, give me some data. Well, often the tools that are built by notion or Gmail or whoever, they give back too much data. You know, the agent has requested emails for the last week. But the tool also will return a bunch of metadata or the content of the emails. Maybe you only wanted the subject. So a layer like this in between the two says, oh, I see what that tool was trying to give me from notion. But I can tell that the agent didn't want all of that information. So let me cut out the things that are irrelevant. So that they don't have to make it all the way to the agent. Well, hold on a minute, though. What happens if your agent decides, now I did want that data. Well, now it needs to make another tool call. So it's not that it's using more tokens per call. It's that if some data that the agent was expecting got filtered before it made it, now it's going to have to ask again. And it's going to have to ask more explicitly. And I bet what they found was a lot of repeated calls looking for nuanced data in different ways. And there's some cost to every single call that goes up if you get rid of it. So I like to give my agent as much context as possible because they're so intelligent that when you give them that context, now I can ask great questions. I can generate great outputs. But of course, yeah, man, Fable is expensive. These new models, they're getting more expensive. They're generating more tokens for the same messages. So if you can cut cost, I would try it. I would try and plug something like this into your into your toolkits. But don't, you know, don't forget to check and see if you're actually saving or not. By the way, if you are getting this website after and there's a link in the description, I have all these links that I used to show in the past, but I found that it slowed down the conversation. But when you're ready to go deep into one of these repos, links will help you because there are other people's guided experiences and more nuanced evaluations. And I spend a lot of time putting that together for you. It's not just AI, it's me, which means you'll sometimes find mistakes. And I don't think I have many, but sometimes you do. I do also have this video of a better stack doing a test before and after. I don't think it makes sense to show it here again, not to slow it down. But I think it is interesting to see him specifically try one thing with it and one thing without one prompt with one prompt without and look at the results. And it saved him tokens. All right, last 30 days skill. This is coming back. This was number one last week. It is now number eight this week. It is insanely popular on Twitter because Matt Van Horn is so popular on Twitter. And because it is so helpful. What I like about this is that it understands that when you want to learn something, you don't want to go and get, not always get everything that's on the internet. You want a few curated sites that you trust. GitHub being one, YouTube being one, hacker news, ex. But only most recent responses. And so the example that he gave on one podcast recently was, I want to send out cold email that gets me responses. What's working today? Go find the people who are showing off on Reddit and give me that. Another example that I seen him use somewhere was legal questions. Help me understand what legal questions people have today that are not solved for this area and he'll get that. Or OpenClaw vs. Hermes vs. Paperclip is a really good one because these just came out. Don't give me what happened even two months ago because two months ago, OpenClaw was number one. Hermes was weird. Now tell me what they are. I think it's great. You know, Andrew, you know this. I'm the CTO of a venture studio. We own a bunch of companies. And one of the questions I get the most often from anybody at these companies is how do I stay up to date on AI? And honestly, I don't have a good answer because there's so much content. You've got to follow this blog and subscribe to this newsletter. And pretty soon, you're just spending all your time reading and watching YouTube and you're not doing your job. I think this is a pretty, I want to test this out as a way where I can give people a very customized tool and even stream of hey, you're interested in marketing tools for SEO and GEO. Well, great. Run this every Monday and get a custom report that just has what's interesting and useful to you because until I saw this, I don't feel like I've had a good answer to that. There's not one newsletter. I'd recommend there's not one YouTube channel I'd recommend. You've got to be immersed in it. And maybe this is a good way to get immersed. Well, somebody please introduce me to Matt. I want him to come on here. I'd like Matt to come on here with me and Adam. I'd like him to just do a session just on the repos that he has. He's been doing incredible work. I don't know why, but I'm glad that he is. Oh, I also like that he uses Polymarket because that's actually becoming a really insightful source for us. Okay. All right. Let's go on to the penultimate one. This is Music Assistant Server. I didn't know what this was. You and I talked about it. Let's go on GitHub. Tell me what this is. And I'll show the pages that you were referencing. Yeah, this is a niche cut. There's this platform called Home Assistant that people use to build their own smart assistants in their home. So you could already get Alexa or use the Siri version and control your devices. You could talk to it. A bunch of people have used this open platform called Home Assistant that can connect all smart devices from pretty much every platform. The problem is it's difficult to couple those with tools like Spotify or with Apple Music. Those are very closed ecosystems. And Home Assistant being an open platform. It's been around a long time. They try and stay pretty neutral on this. And so this Music Assistant, I mean, look at how many different sources of music you can couple with this. I don't know about you, Andrew. Like, I have Alexa at home. And I ask it about the weather and I ask it to play music. And if I had Home Assistant, I'd struggle to get it to play music. Well, with a thing like this, you can pair all these different sources of music with it. And even like coupling in YouTube music and say, oh, I want to play this song. Which platform do I have rights to listen to this song on? This package kind of takes care of all of that. So it's a wonderful companion for Home Assistant. This actually is very compelling because of Music. It drives me crazy. That my A word, I won't say it, I won't trigger it. No, I'm sorry. You'll have to bleep me. But it won't play YouTube music. And you know what? That's the only thing that's keeping me from using YouTube music as my main music player because YouTube music has all the music. Versus Spotify, which doesn't. Okay, all right. I got a video here for people who are interested. We're going to look at the very last one. System Prompt Leaks, I'm going to show you the tweet that is indicative of the kind of thing that people got really psyched about with this. Someone leaked the entire Claude Fable 5 System Prompt and Anthropic cannot stop it. They cannot stop it, Adam. 120,000 characters. Oh, what do we do? Meanwhile, Adam, you say this is not that. What is this then? It's not some secret that we've uncovered. First of all, Anthropic releases their system props. We can talk about what a system prompt is, but the hype around, oh, no, they've released it. Anthropic releases all these. You can go find it on the website. Oh, yeah, there you go. You pulled it up. Here's the prompt. So I don't know that it's the concern. But I am actually curious, Andrew. I'm not sure that everyone in the audience would know what a system prompt is or why it's so important. Do you know, like, how would you define a system prompt? The only thing, so only because I've read this, I have an understanding. It seems like it's the hidden prompts that go to the model before my prompt. Like, as I was reading it on Anthropic site, I think I saw something like, oh, here, child safety. Like, before it sends anything in, it says, Claude can never create romantic or sexual content involving direct miners, etc. So it's like the prompt before my prompt. Am I understanding that right? Yeah, that's exactly right. And it's actually important to read these. If you're out there, you're vibe coding, you're building agents, you really should go to this site and look at the system prompts for the models that you're often using and learn from them. These are all templates. When you're building your own custom agent that's talking to GPT-5, 5 or whatever, you don't have this system prompt. But if you go to chatchipity.com or if you go to clod.com, this prompt is running before your very first message. And it's the opportunity that we have as application developers to inform the model and here's who I want you to show up as. Your name is Claude and you're the Fabel-5 model. And here are the things that you do. Here are the things that you don't do. It's all these hidden instructions. And if you haven't built a custom set of system instructions for your app, you really need to. Because the agent is expecting it. The model is expecting this set of instructions in order to tailor all of the output. So when we build these, we tell the agent about the tools that has, we tell it what role we wanted to play, we tell it how we want it to do the work. And these are literally system prompt examples from the like top tier model providers on the planet. So you should be reading these. You should come back here and run that teach skill against them and say, teach me. How do I write a great system prompt based on this like huge repository of system? I see. So I come to these all the time, Andrew, I'll go to the cursor one and I'll say, how are they doing it? What tactics are they using? What formatting are they using? Oh, they've got all these like weird little brackets and names. Why are they doing that? These are all things that if you're not incorporating into your system prompts, you should be. Who would you rather listen to about how to write this? Me or Claude? This is a great way to go and learn how the Claude team write their prompts. I see. I thought this, I thought you were going to tell me to understand the restrictions behind the model like here, legal and financial advice. No, formatting, the structure. It's how are they prompted? What are they not included here? All of those things, you should be learning. And again, if you're building an agent for other people, learn from the best of the best. And I want to see a system prompt in your app that looks just like these. That these guys know how to do it. I see. OK, so it is a collection of how they're telling their agent to talk to me. Like for example, Claude uses warm tone, treating people with kindness and without making negative assumptions about their judgment or abilities. But it's also here is how we like to prompt. This is the structure. It's kind of interesting because is Groc in here? No, Groc is not under miscellaneous. No, they're not. The reason I ask is because people have been showing the videos that they're creating using the new Groc video creation model. And my videos just suck. And one thing I noticed having watched people's YouTube videos is they are going deeper longer with their prompts than I am. I'm giving it one or two sentences. So I could see that that's one issue. But maybe there's something else to the nuance that's helpful. All right, that is the last one. And in fact, speaking of that, I've got a list of things that launched in the last week here that are not on GitHub that you wouldn't have paid attention to hidden gems. And one of them is Groc with an understanding of how the video works. And go watch that next. See you there.