---
video_title: "7 Hermes uses you must try (that actually work)"
video_id: 6BHh8BoKim4
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6BHh8BoKim4
video_date: 2026-06-24T21:11:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner breaks down real Hermes Agent use cases with Eric Siu, from controlling your computer to running research, managing tasks, creating memory systems, and turning repeated work into skills.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/best-hermes-use-cases
  
  They react to how entrepreneurs are using Hermes for competitor research, daily briefings, YouTube workflows, Slack and Discord communication, Obsidian memory, Linear project tracking, video creation, and remote computer control. Eric also shares what actually works in his own agent setup, what feels like AI theater, and why the most useful workflows are the ones that keep moving work forward instead of creating more reports.
  
  
  Timestamps:
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Andrew introduces Hermes Agent use cases
  01:03 - Eric’s take on loops and agent workflows
  01:39 - Competitor research with Hermes
  02:51 - Why one-off reports are not enough
  03:36 - Kanban boards and AI theater
  05:06 - Eric’s Resolver system for open agent work
  06:45 - Why Andrew prefers Notion over Hermes Kanban
  07:30 - Building a personal wiki with Hermes
  08:33 - Obsidian, QMD, GBrain, and agent memory
  10:21 - Using Linear for project tracking
  11:06 - Passing tasks from Claude to Hermes through Notion
  12:27 - Communicating with Hermes through Slack
  13:03 - Zapier MCP for email and follow-ups
  14:06 - Slack vs Discord for agent communication
  16:48 - Using Hermes to create videos with Hyperframes
  19:57 - Overlap and AI-assisted clipping workflows
  20:33 - Daily briefings, YouTube comments, and crons
  22:03 - Using agents for lead magnets and comment workflows
  22:57 - Having Hermes ask better clarifying questions
  24:36 - Grill Me, interview prompts, and pulling context from yourself
  25:48 - Hermes desktop and managing skills
  27:27 - Remote gateways and controlling other machines
  29:15 - Tailscale and running agents across devices
  31:12 - YouTube research workflows
  33:00 - Moving beyond reports into actual execution
  35:42 - Saving repeatable workflows as skills
  36:36 - How Eric decides what to skillify
  37:39 - Watch Eric’s deeper agent workflow next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Hey Hermes, go to my computer, open up VS code and in Cloud Code plugin, type this. Loop, copygoogle.com. Do not stop until you copy their whole business, make no mistakes. Now let's see what happens on the computer. It's thinking and it typed it in. It could control Cloud Code. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Hermes has been an amazing agent. I freaking love mine. I'm going to go over actual use cases of how I and other entrepreneurs are using it. I've got Erick Sue who runs a company largely using agents like Hermes to give us feedback on how people are using it. This is control your computer. You just tell it what apps to do and to use it and it'll use them. I think this is one of the most exciting things to come out of Hermes since the last most exciting thing. The reason that I showed this example is I feel like I've got all these extra credits from Cloud. I don't use them in the middle of the night. I think I'm going to have a list of things that Hermes agent can tell Cloud to do. Now I could have it work at night and using Loop, I could have it work until it finishes. I'm super excited about this as a use case. What do you think? I haven't used this yet. I think this is great. I think what's probably more important is probably to Loop's piece because I made a resolver that basically looks at all the work I'm doing inside of Cloud Code and also inside of CodeX or Hermes as well. It's just observing what I'm doing throughout the day and it tells me at the end, here are the things that you should loop, these are the things that you should continue. Then based on what you're doing over here with this workflow, you can have it continue. I think it's almost like a little combination of things going on here. I didn't even know this came out a few days. Just came out on Tuesday. This is one use case. Let's go on and take a look at other people's and use cases. I really like what Alex has done here. Look at this. It built the entire report out. It gave it a high level overview. Report about his competitor. Exactly all the tech behind it, which is all accurate, but it has the payments, how much everything costs. It has all the analytics, the events, the end. Look at the look on his face of the light of seeing what his competitor is doing. This is going to copy some of their best features. Notice they're collecting. This is amazing. If we were to go say, hey, put this in a markdown file, then we take that markdown file with hands of Cloud Coder codex. It can build out everything creator buddy is doing well. You, these are basically saying, I want you to go and look at my competitor. Tell me what they've got and then give me a markdown file that I can tell Cloud code so that it can go and copy the things that I like. The setup for something like this super easy. Open a browser and go to creator buddy. I, this is him just giving the prompt. Do a full research and technical breakdown in the site. What stack does it use? How does it work? Which features doesn't have? What can we emulate? Okay. Simple prompt, simple control of a browser. What do you think of this as a use case for Hermes? I think by itself, it's useless. I think when you make it a repeatable cron job, for example, or an automation or a loop or routine, whatever it is exactly, if you're running it daily or maybe running this one's probably you're running it like a weekly or monthly type of thing depending on what you're doing. It becomes way more useful. I found that whenever I made these, it was really cool in the moment, but I found with Hermes. I'll do a lot of these one-offs, but a lot of them go into the ether. I tend to forget about it, right? What's cool is when I'm working with Hermes and you have the cron jobs going to a channel where you're seeing the alerts every single day. And there's actually it's trying to move the ball forward every day or even if you're having it in codex. That's been a lot more useful to me because what ended up happening before was I made up too many of these different reports that ended up going nowhere because I took no action because there's just too much stuff. Got it. So it's now a lot of extra homework for you versus the Hermes agent taking things on. Speaking of the Hermes agent taking things on, I have opinions about this thing that he does. So here's the routine that has changed my life. You wake up, go to your computer, open up your can bandboard, get all your to-do items for that day and start putting them in triage. So here's how I'll do. I'll say script a new Hermes YouTube video about use cases. I'll click create and I'll make a new one. Come up with three tweets about Hermes use cases. Create. That's two in there. Okay. Bottom line what he's doing is he's putting it in there and he's letting his Hermes agent take it on. What's your opinion before I give mine? I think this this is AI theater. And what I mean by that is it looks like you're doing a lot but you're actually doing a lot of nothing. This is to me, it's a lot of wasted energy because first of all, I've used this combine board and this version of it and it maybe it's gotten better over time but this version of the Hermes combine board, it's not that useful and it actually misses a lot of context. When you click into the cards, I actually don't even understand what it's saying and so it will eventually become more useful but in this context, I don't see it being that useful. I honestly see the Hermes desktop app where you can see the different things that you're working on kind of like how it is with codex and cloud code. That's a lot more useful for me and then the resolver thing that I brought up where it'll just give you like a daily priority list for maybe when you have an hour at the end of the day where you can just kind of knock things out. I think that's a lot more useful versus having to go through a combine board like this that I don't understand. Wait, wait, what's the resolver thing that you just mentioned? Yeah. So I use codex to build this thing because my issue was an energy, I'm sure you're dealing with this. You're building all this cool stuff and I have cloud code open, I have codex open, I've Hermes open but I have so many open threads that I forget what I'm working on and I forget the priorities of these things. And so at the end of the day, it would just kind of organize everything together and say, hey, these are actually the priorities and I think you should actually consolidate some of these because you might have worked on them in duplicate scenarios. And that way, I feel like I'm continuing to move the ball forward and some of these things you can loop if you want but my issue before was I was just getting lost. Wait, wait, what do you mean by what's taking things out of codex, out of cloud code and Hermes and combining them into open assignments? Yeah. So I was at this AI mastermind with a few founders. This was like a month or two ago. And one guy was talking about how there's a company called TerraMine where like just keep watching what you're doing on your screen. And then obviously you heard about meta taking like screenshots of their employees. I'm like, forget doing that. I just want to do this for myself because I need to know like all the things I'm doing and all the things in the ways of being inefficient. So maybe there's things I need to skillify, but also there's things I need to come back to on the codex, cloud code, and Hermes side of things because I just forget because we have so many things going on in parallel right now. And so when I just kept building on it, first I built the thing that kept watching me and skillifying things. I'm like, hey, what if we built something where it helps me just check open threads and helps me prioritize them. And I was like, hey, what should I call it? It's like you should call it resolver. I'm like, that sounds good to me. Wow. Okay. I agree with you on the Combo board and I want to emphasize this. It was one of the things that drew me to updating Hermes. The Combo board is absolutely useless. It looks beautiful. It's not good because it's on the single computer. It doesn't do the things that I want. I prefer to put it in notion and we're going to see what you do. Let me actually show one other thing that he does. I also, the other thing that I think is why write it on a piece of paper? Just send it over to Hermes via Telegram. Having said that, what I do like about his point of view here is find ways to offload things to the agent. I'll even tell you a simple thing that bothers me. They're groceries. My wife hates when I eat something and then I don't replace it. I just said, Hermes, add it to our shopping cart and the Stinking Shopping Cart app from whatever market that we use sucks. I can do it here. Okay. Let's take a look at something that's more meaningful from him. I really like this. You have a different take on it. Let's take a look at at him and basically just have a hub for everything you've done in your agent. This is mine right here and I'll show you how to set it up in a second. But basically you can go in, see a whole bunch of topics you've talked about in the past. See each and every one of your daily logs and what you've worked on every single day and it's basically like an automated diary of everything that he has done. Here's a little bit of how he set it up and then I'll show you how to do it. I want to build a memory wiki. This should be a site I can visit that has a list of all the subjects we've talked about and the daily logs of what we've done together. So he basically prompts it and it creates that daily wiki for him. What do you think of that? Should I be creating a daily wiki this way? So I don't know if he's not obsidian here but I use obsidian and it will basically it logs. There's a daily log and then also a lot of decisions that I made go into my obsidian. And so it seems like this is a version of that. I don't know what he's using here. He's basically having Hermes do it for him. Here's your setup here. You actually use, are you still using QMD memory? Here's what you said. How do you want your obsidian for memory? So this is really important because your Herbys isn't going to have the best memory in the world. So you definitely want to upgrade the memory using Toby Luke K's QMD. So there's a GitHub repo for that. Literally it's the letters QMB and then we see a bunch of obsidian that every day there's a daily log all the decisions that you're making you're logging into obsidian. That way you have obsidian and that way you have linear as well. Then you have a closed loop system that continually improves and there's all this other scaffolding. Imagine that it's almost like every day you're working with a senior coffee up for you no overtime. And this is what you did in your video. That's what you explained. Are you still using QMD? How is it different from what he just described? Yeah. So I have QMD which is Toby's memory tool and then I have a, there's G-brain. I use G-stack. There's a handful of these different repos that I use. And then the biggest piece, so I wouldn't say QMD replaces obsidian or linear. Obsidian to me is just that running log. Every day it's just recording decisions over time. Linear it would just place things into projects if I need to. That way I can collaborate with other people on it. And then QMD just makes it, it just, it makes my Hermes less dumb. It's easier to find things. Whereas before without it, even with my open claw, it had trouble finding things sometimes. It just felt like it was stupider. And so you need QMD and G-brain and it's all creating log documents for Hermes to go and look at. I like G-brain. Ultimately, I think what G-brain to me is not a memory thing. It's more so G-brain, what Gary made, what G-brain and G-stack is just a list of really good skills that you can use. CEO, review, design, review and things like that. So to me, these are a nice stack for me to get things done better. Okay. All right. You mentioned linear. You do use linear to keep track of things. I like it. Here's what you explained in your video for why you use it. So for number four, you want to have your Hermes work with a project management product like a linear. And I like linear because they have a simple API that you can use and a lot of people use it for building products. And so the cool thing is I can combine linear with my claw. I can combine it with my claw code, my codex from from opening eye. And I can also combine it with my agent as well. And then whatever is that we're working on things, it's going to create a linear file. So if you keep things moving over time and it's going to have me review the linear files, and that way we can keep things moving, right? Still using it. I have one piece of feedback on this that I've learned from these interviews. I need a way to get my data from clawed the desktop app, which I use sometimes into Hermes, which I want to take on action and all that stuff. What I found is since I use notion for my combine board of tasks, what I do when I'm done with clawed and I come to some resolution, I just say create a task for Hermes in my in my notion. And it has access to notion, it creates a task for now. I've learned something from clawed, I've figured out something. I want to take action. I don't have to go and do it. I just tell it to pass it on Hermes. It's no problem or flawlessly. Yeah. The way I so we have linear my setup was working good until here's what happened. I'm just going to show you this. This thing went down. So my Hermes was on this DGX Spark over here. Then I don't by the way, I read something recently about how I think how fast you're using these agents might be burning out the SSDs on these. I have no idea. But I had to open it up and try to replace it and all that. So all that to say is I had linear setup correctly, where it was basically putting, it was automatically updating big projects that were working on it and updating it that way. I don't use it as much right now only because I haven't gotten to fixing my Hermes. My Hermes is 80% back. So this is something I'm going to get back. This is one of my big frustrations. I do not want Hermes on my computer here. I like it now because I'm getting to play around with it, but I want to put it in the cloud at some point. Next day is how do you communicate with it? I'm still using Telegram and I've got, here's what you do. Now I'm redesigning a media kit. Somebody recently they want to do a media deal with us and ask for the media kit. I don't want to spend too much time on this. I just dragged our old media kit for maybe two years ago and that somebody else made it. I said, hey, can you pull some recent numbers from all the other platforms that we have right now and update the media kit and just make it look nice and use our design them. Okay. I like how this is in Slack and the way that you're communicating with it. Let me play you what Brian Castle had said about Slack and his alternative and then I want to hear your take based on that. But first, oh, I got to tell you about Zapier. Dude, here, I love Zapier MCP because it gives access to Hermes agent to my email. Here's the number one use that I found for Zapier MCP. You and I did an interview. I never sent you a message afterwards saying, thank you. It's published. Here's the link. Never mind promoted. Here's the link with the thank you. You're not in. Right? Here's why. I get embarrassed after I do an interview and post it because I think I could have asked a better question. I could have done this. I should have done that. Let me wait. Let me wait till it has a few more views. Then he'll be really impressed. What I did was I said to Hermes every day at five o'clock, I want you to go into my YouTube channel, see who I publish with and go into my email accounts. You can find the email address that I use to message them. Send them a message saying, this interview is up and actually drafted under me so that I could hit send on it. I'm having it go into my email and if someone didn't respond to my message, I want to kick it back in with with the draft message written for me. That's one of the best benefits of having Zapier. Zapier's the best. So good. So good. Okay. All right. Here's the alternative to Slack. Let's first take a look at what Brian said about his problem with Slack. Tation in Slack, at least it's not really able to do threading or really multi-channel. He sort of can, but it just doesn't work reliably. So I've actually landed. Did you actually find that problem before I show you why he moved onto something else? No. Can you repeat that piece? I'm like looking into this guy real quick. Brian Castle, he does a lot of videos on this and one of the things that he discovered was that the threading doesn't work well in Slack and he goes into it in his video. Do you find that too? I don't find it to be a major issue. And here's the thing. Let's say it is an issue. Let's entertain him for a second. Okay. Well, how am I supposed to convince my entire company to move over from Slack where we have a lot of our stuff built and already over to Discord, which I don't have a problem with, but also like as someone with a gaming background like Discord, it's nice, but it's missing a lot of things. So yeah, his solution is Discord. Here's the reason why. Really like Discord for a number of reasons. First of all, the formatting, the markdown support, it's really nice and readable. The other thing I like is that I can separate out and have multiple channels. So these are like sort of like areas of my business. So for example, I've got my main HQ, that's sort of like a general channel. I got tasks related to my YouTube channel happening in here, content development, kit is my email marketing, my builder methods site. It runs some like SEO tasks. Okay. I'm thinking of switching over to Discord. I think what it is is if it's single player mode, Discord seems to make a lot of sense. If it's multiplayer mode, I think Slack is the way to go, because that's where your team is. I actually asked my Hermes this question, I think a while back. I was like, hey, to your point, I'm like, I would use Discord if I'm alone. I'm like, so I should be using Discord, right? Or should I use Slack or should I use Telegram? Like what's better? And then the other day I was like, hey, should I put it on an iMessage? And then it basically gives me, I'm always asking every day, what's the highest leverage thing I can do? What's the highest leverage thing I can do? Give me the leverage score. I went through 100 on this. And it was like, Slack is like a 9 out of 10 or 90 out of 100 for you, because it's multiplayer, because you can do X, Y, and Z, and you can add all these connectors to it. Discord, not so much. Telegram is good for us to maybe communicate privately. iMessage is more just for convenience, but that's kind of how I see it. So maybe, you know, Slack is probably like, if you're running a business and you have multiple employees, or if you have, if you have a lot, definitely you should be on Slack if you have a lot of employees. But I think single player mode, yeah, I'd probably go with Discord. And you know what? And one of the things that you told me was it's sometimes hard to even get your team to get on Slack with an AI agent. They're not sure you're trying to replace me with the AI agent. How does it work? Am I going to look like a fool? Okay, so if it's hard enough, let's not make it any harder by making them switch over to a different platform. Okay, great. Let's move on to the next point. Man, I really like Nate Herk stuff. Let me show you the thing that I thought that was the coolest that he did. And you've been playing with video. So tell me what you think of this. I've seen my videos on my channel about hyper frames with cloud code, basically the edit videos. I wanted to see if Hermes could do that. So I said, hey, can you make me a video using hyper frames about what Hermes agent is? How you work? How you remember things? It ran all of these different things. So it has a skill called creative. It had a skill called man and video. It was searching for hyper. It ran all these terminal commands. And it also, you can see here, it's using vision to analyze the actual video to see how it turned out. Now, its first pass wasn't great. It didn't even use hyper frames. I'm not exactly sure what this used. But as you can see, some of the spacing is off. It's not amazing, but you know, it's not terrible for the fact that I just said, hey, make me a video. So basically then I said, okay, what tool did you use? I wanted you to use hyper frames. So it had to look into it. It did the research on its own. It asked me if it could install hyper frames. I said, yes. And then it comes back with a video that's actually much, much better. So I'm not going to play the whole thing. But here's the video that it actually came up with. It looks a lot better. The spacing is a lot better. It just has these diagrams that actually don't overlap and they're not going out of bounds. So that looks good. What do you think? So it looks good. But let me tell you what, here's a easier way to do this. One, I don't want to put in the work right now. I don't think you want to put in the work right now to learn this. So in my opinion, it's going to get to the point where you don't need to think about all this initially, because usually Nate is showing the latest stuff and he's figuring it out. My opinion, I was just talking my CTO at lunch. I think Fable, like a Fable 5-ish model in the future, is going to be so good where it's just going to do it for you. Just like when you're able to see someone made literally an age of Empire's game using Fable 5 versus Opus 48, it's just levels above. And so I think this is, I think everybody's going to be editing this way. I also think, here's the thing, even if you learn it right now, it's not quite there yet. I've seen his videos where he has it. I'm like, it's kind of cool, but I still rather just go with my current editors right now and pay the premium. But I think once you have a Fable 5 that's really out there in the market, I think it's just going to be doing it for you without this much upfront thinking. Wow, this is new because when I interviewed you last and you showed me your setup, your whole thing that stuck with me was you're even having it create videos for you. Okay, that's interesting to see. My other take on this is I hate watching all these videos on X, which with nothing but text, dude, just write the freaking thing. If you don't have anything interesting to show, just in all it is a text, just let me read it in my own pace. I'm bothered by that. I do think this is a cool demo. I like that you brought me back to reality. I think where this could be helpful is if maybe it's on a green screen and you have some text that you will show on your video while you're talking perhaps, maybe as a replacement for slides. Okay, fair. I do like what you just did there. I mean, to be fair though, like we're still cranking out a lot of video with AI. Like we definitely use Hermes. We definitely use overlap. It's been a really good one as well where it just finds the right moments for clipping. And then those have been crushing on on X and then we have a nice caption based on like an X long form skill. And so I think I think what he's showing again, it's still relevant. I just think we're going to get the chance to be a lot lazier with this. You're saying overlap? What is overlap? Yeah, overlap. It's a it's like a content clipping tool, right? And so there's a lot of these tools out there. Like sure, there's opus as well. But we found that overlap has been the best one in terms of finding these midform clips that perform well on X and on LinkedIn. These are like, you know, two minute like horizontal videos that do well. So yeah, yeah, you freaking get me before I go to bed. I will see some of your videos as I'm scrolling up. I go, does he have another channel here? How is he doing it? And I know your play. You're like, let me experiment. Let's just keep publishing and see what happens. You know what? I'll show one other thing just because so many people talk about this. And I want to know from you as a as a business owner. Is this practical for you? But this is a demo that I see endlessly. Anyways, take a look at some of these crons that my Hermes is running. A daily, I news briefing, which is posted inside of my school community, YouTube comment monitoring. So if you guys have noticed on my YouTube videos lately, I've had an AI agent that has access to the transcript and knowledge about me. And it's been responding to you guys's comments. And that is this Hermes agent school community engagement, morning business, summary, server checks, research reports, follow up reminders. And that's just some of the crons that I have this agent work. Okay, actually, what I meant to show was just the daily news brief. I forgot that he's also doing YouTube comment responses. I wonder what he's using to connect to do that. But what do you think a daily briefing, first of all? Yeah. So I have a daily brief that I don't read at all. So I will say the daily brief that's been helpful to me has been finding relevant news as it relates to AI business and marketing. And then there have usually every day, there's a couple of good headlines that apply to marketing school because we record that each week. That being said, I don't use my open claw anymore. So the funny thing is on my telegram, my open claw has all these crons and all these right mind to really yeah, I don't read it anymore. It's just too much stuff. Yeah, mine too. I have this open claw that's sitting on the same computer as Hermes and all it's doing is all those crons that I thought would be important. The one thing that I do think is is interesting is the way that he's having his agent reply to comments. I don't want to do that. But I do think it's interesting, even if it could read them and analyze them and make sure that I see the ones that are most important. Okay, let's go on to the next the next person here. On that one real quick, I think what's helpful, I think in my opinion, like you see on Instagram all the time, everyone's like comment for this resource, comfort. Yes. How are they kicking out these resources, these downloadable resources so quickly? And so in my mind, I'm like, it would be helpful to have an agent just focus on that because that drives your email list higher. And like that's just smart to me, right? And so many people are doing it. I'm just like, we haven't done it yet. And maybe I'll just come steal yours after. But it's too easy. I'll tell you exactly what you do. You basically, you tell it to go through the transcript of an interview and you create a PDF and then you have what you said earlier, a design.md file. And so it creates that. The hard part is getting it into many chat, which is what we use to distribute it on Instagram. But do you just use like a, do you use like the codex record and replay now just to make it a skill and it just repeats? No, I, I've got a guy who's doing it. A guy named Krishna who's doing it. Okay, still interesting, interesting take. I like that. Let's go on to the next one. I like Charbell. He's really into Hermes agents. I do wish that he shared more of his screen and showed what he was doing. Let me, let me show one, one case where he did show a screen that I thought was really helpful. He said, listen, have, have your Hermes agent interview you. And then he showed the way that he has it interview him. And this is so that it understands you and knows how to work with you. But listen, help me find homes to buy in France. Okay, so the example he's using here is actually not the interview him example, but the how you can have Hermes ask you questions to make sure that it has enough context. But it's part of him saying, have it ask you questions. Use ask user question until you reach clarity. And once you submit that, you're going to see that since this is a desktop app and you're not operating on telegram, it can do things like embed a questionnaire. There you go. Inside of Hermes agent, which is a pretty neat way to prompt your Hermes agent. So here, look at this, it's asking, what's the real buying brief for France? Start with the constraint that changes everything. What is your all in budget, which is super important for a task like this? Okay. I do like the bigger point, which is have Hermes interview so it knows you. And I know you probably do it better by giving a document that you've already created. And then also when it's asking to do work, ask it to pull information out of you and not just go off and do the task. That's that's what I took away from that part. What do you think? Yeah. So I used to use the ask user question or ask me clarifying questions as a prompt. I've been using the matte pocock Gromy skill a lot more frequently. And it does it does a pretty good job. So the Gromy skill, like it'll just keep it asked me very, it feels like it's it's more, I think the questions are more complete and more thoughtful because it's like one question at a time, right? And not that this isn't one question but usually with ask user question at least in Claude, it's it's going to ask you like a series of three to four questions. And then it I feel like it stops a little prematurely. So Gromy feels more complete to me. And then there's also I also use there's different versions like Alex Lieberman has a content machine interview thing that he uses. And so I made a version of that. So when I was on my way to a father's day lunch, I was just sitting in a waymo and I was like, Gromy, use the content machine interview to Gromy. And it literally I created like a like 15 minutes, it's just grilling me like what's the most interesting thing that that's happened here recently, right? And so I think you could have asked user question type prompts for specific things that you're trying to do. Because if you just yapped to it for 15, 20 minutes, usually you're going to get a pretty good outline for what you want to do like a YouTube video. Or you're saying you want it to pull the information out of you with questions. I like that a lot. You know what, since we're looking at the desktop, I've really been enjoying the desktop. I think once Hermes went desktop, it became an app like any other. And we should feel more comfortable putting it on our main computer. And then we could decide, do we want to give it access to our computer and let it control it? Or do we want to have it be much more minimal? Here's something that I'm not seeing enough of and great thing about Hermes desktop is you literally have all of your skills listed right here. You can see them, you can turn them on, you can turn them off. I think this is such a helpful thing to easily see the skills that you have and you built so that you can you can just understand what's operating it. I like this. The other thing that I do though is in addition to the skills that are on the desktop, I have it go to my GitHub repo and get the skills that all the other AI services that I use will access and that I think is is even more helpful. I think this is good. So it's funny because I pulled up my Hermes desktop and I was like, hey, this is helpful, but can you show me the skills in chronological order or by use? And so hopefully they have those filters in the near future and I think they probably will. But to Europe, so one, this is great. Second thing, I just want to reinforce the Hermes desktop app is important because when I was working inside of Slack, you start to get lost inside of all these threads because it's so fleeting. But the ability for you to pin different sessions and then categorize them as well is huge. So you don't get us lost. Yeah. It's a great thing. But now what you're going to have is you're going to have Hermes on your, what was that device that you just showed me a moment ago? This is a DGX Spark that I can't believe broke. It's $5,000 from one of these. So you put it on maybe not that device, but another device and another. And now it's becoming an app, like I said, like any other. You just put it on your computers. How do you control them all? I didn't know this feature was there until I saw a char bell set on this setting icon and go to Gateway. And this is where you can choose what gateway you want, whether it's local. So one that's running on your current machine, the one that you're operating. To have one Hermes agent control another Hermes software on another computer here. Right now or another gateway, which is what I have picked. You input the gateways URL. You can ask Hermes itself to help you set it up. You don't have to worry about all these technicalities. You can test remote once it's tested and connected and it works. Save and reconnect. And that's literally it. You can access the logs here in case there's any errors. You can troubleshoot with that. The great thing is well, that's maybe an advanced hack inside this hack is you can connect different agents to different gateway instances. This is pretty cool. I haven't used it. I didn't even know was there until I did this research. Yeah. So this is the way he explained it. I've been, so I have my 2dgx barx and then I have a Mac studio here and then have a Mac mini just for my home setup. They're all on one tail scale network and so they all kind of see each other. And so it's easy for me to go to my Hermes and be like, hey, control the Mac mini here or like here, control the open call over here. So they all kind of talk to each other. And so I do have my Hermes setup is using that remote gateway. And that also gives me an ability for whatever, if I log in from a laptop, for example, I'm still on tail scale. I can remote into this computer if I want. So yeah, I think it just depends on how many devices you want to have on your tail scale network. But it feels safe to me. So it's good. What's the advantage of using tail scale versus what am I using? I'm using jump disk, which is basically a remote screen share. Yeah. I don't. So screen sharing is one thing. But when you have tail scale, it's almost like a VPN for like a private network. And then all these computers can talk to each other on a private network. And you have to, if you want someone, you can give someone else access, but it's not easy for them to just get in anytime you want. Like it's hard to provision. It's pretty secure. And if you want to SSH into any device, like you can do that, right? So if I'm traveling to France, for example, and I want to SSH and control one of my devices, for example, I remember in February, I was at, I was doing one of these founders retreats. And my open call went to I was like, Oh, no, I can't have that happen, right? And I was like, damn it. What do I do? And so I logged into a Termius, which is like the little app that you have on iOS. And then by using that and plus tail scale, I was able to control my home device to reset my open claw. And basically you can run it from anywhere in the world, right? So it's important for you to have some type of network that all your devices can talk to each other anytime. I could be wrong, but I think I could do that with remote screen sharing apps like Jump, having, I call the jump disk, but I think it's just Jump. Having said that, I can control them. They can't control each other that way. Okay, so I see the advantage. Let's look at one last video here with use cases for Hermes. And by the way, everyone, I'm trying to figure out how to do this. I want to learn about all these things. And I want to figure out how I can like learn from both watching videos, but also from people like Eric. I would like to learn from you. Is this helpful for you to see these videos? Actually, you know what, Eric, is are these videos helpful for you? Is this a good session the way that I'm doing it? It's an experiment. This is good. I mean, this, this is phenomenal. I'm like, first of all, I haven't seen a couple of these. And I like this session of reacting. I like, I even want to kind of make this for myself a reaction because I hate doing reaction videos. So this is phenomenal. I like it. All right. Last set of examples. I've typed find the top five YouTube videos ranking right now for email marketing tutorial for beginners for each one. Save the title, channel, and what it covers to a file. Then tell me which gaps you noticed. We'll go ahead and hit send. And it decides to use the skill YouTube content. It notices that it doesn't have Chrome installed yet. So it's going to set it up for itself. And you'll see it's thinking output as working. The agent will spend a minute or two doing the research. Just let it work. And when it's done, it'll reply with a summary in the chat and confirm where the file is saved. Now, if for some reason your agent doesn't have access to the tools it needs to run the task you've asked of it, it'll tell you and present you with options for what you could do together to make it so that it actually can do the job you've asked. For me, after a few minutes, it comes back and says where it saved the file here. Opt slash data slash email dash marketing dash top five dash YouTube. Okay. He's got this report here. I have a few problems with this number one. I still cannot stand when people just put the files on their computers. Now, how are you going to get it? Why not put it on? If it's not notion, put it somewhere where it's accessible. Number one, number two, as he goes on, you can see that it has found one of his videos like number three in that list. It's his video, which means that he didn't tell his army's agent who he was and give it enough background. And number three, I like that he showed how it used the Chrome browser and even ask for it. I thought that was a very helpful demo to see that it's asking for the tool and it's using it. I think often we think of browsers when we should be thinking of what tool can we give it direct access to. So for something like this, I would just give it vid IQ. And with vid IQ, you can get this data faster and more detailed. And that's my feedback on this. What do you think? Yeah. So I think this is one of those other AI theater pieces where it's when you start using this initially, it's like, oh, cool. You can make all these reports. But when I tell my team, guys, like we don't need more dashboards and we don't need more reports. Like we need like what is the next step afterwards? Like we need to build these workflows where it gets to at least drafting something. And so an example of this would be Alex Ramose has a more mosey channel, for example, where he's pumping out like 15, 20 videos a day. I was like, how is he doing that? I was like, okay, Hermes, use the YouTube API. Use and use YouTube APIs. It's fine, right? Take a look at this channel. What is he doing exactly? Okay, take a look at the leveling up channel. Okay, what do we need to do exactly to do this? And then actually was cranking out videos in that type of format where he has these five to ten minute midform videos and where he has like very direct and specific titles, right? And some take off some don't. And literally, it's working for me where I went wrong with that, by the way, is if you're going to make this stuff, you need to figure out who you can hand it off to because you as one person, you can only do so much, right? So what's the way working for me? I was again talking to my CT about this. I was like, dude, like I spent all this time, I spent all this time building these things and like the skills dojo that I have where it has like a list of our skills. I maybe get things to maybe 70 to 80% there, and I tinker as a founder. And he's like, dude, just keep doing that because we'll take the things that are actually good and then we'll build it out more and we'll have other people. And so I think the problem is, like you, Andrew or me, like we're probably over building right now, but we're not feeling like, hey, who can we actually hand it off to? And what ends up having is we end up having these like dead open claws with a bunch of cron jobs. I'm the opposite of you. I'm very much a one thing until it's done. And then sometimes I go too far and keep iterating on it. Like you might see me with this in 60 years. Andrew, what are you doing? So that's a problem for me. Having said that, the one advantage is I try to keep VS code, which is what I built this tool that you're looking at here that lets me show all these videos. I try to keep it on my screen so that I don't look away, even if it's like on one of my monitors and on the other monitor, I'm doing something else while I'm waiting for it to be done. And then I am very much an iterative person. It has to just get done or else I feel like something is wrong with me, something's wrong with my life and I get very irritable. All these open tasks really bother me. But having said that, I do not want it to keep me from playing. If I have to complete it, if it has to have a real business purpose or else I don't touch it, it's a mistake. I have to play because through play, good things come out. Let's take a look at one last thing actually. I'll have all these videos. I have so many extra links that I wanted to share, but I don't want to take forever with it. This last one I think is interesting to talk about, because it's the last thing that I usually do. Save that whole workflow as a skill so the agent can run the same research on any topic without you having to type the long prompt again. So now we'll say save that workflow as a skill called competitor-watch. From now on, when I give you a search term, find the top five YouTube videos, save the same info to the file and call out the gaps. We'll go ahead and submit that. All right, the agent confirms it, save the skill and tells us what the skill does. Let me ask you this with it. I definitely will update my skills after I do a big project. Like you and I are going to be done recording, I will update my skill. Actually it's late, so maybe I'll do it tomorrow with everything that I learned. I don't do that with Hermes. I kind of count on Hermes to do it itself. And what I might do is if something's critical, I might say this is going to be important. I want you to make a skill, but I don't get so prescriptive as he is. What do you think? Yeah, so I think trying to be prescriptive to use your word and saying, hey, doing it manually, that's where I've kind of struggled a little bit. Occasionally where it makes sense, hey, should we skillify this? But I think having to think like this will probably give me a little too much anxiety because I'm not a detailed oriented person. What I will say is that thing that I mentioned earlier where it's watching my screen the whole time, right? So it's a screen monitor for myself and it's figuring out what to skillify at the end of the day and it's rating the leverage score or you can set it for a weekly thing. That's probably more helpful to me because it's, if it sees me working the whole time, chances are I'm like, you might think of some things that you should skillify, but like there's a conversation today I had with my head of talent. And from that one conversation, I was just curious, I'm like, was it one or two things? And then I just dropped it into my Hermes, right? I was like, hey, how many things should actually be skillified that are actually genuinely differentiated? It's like three things here, right? So my point of saying that, sharing that example is like, we just don't know how much gold we have coming from these conversations. And oftentimes it's like one-on-one conversations like this or internal conversations. So okay. Now that this interview is done, I have Eric showing specifically how he works with his open claw with his team and everything that applies there in that deep dive into Eric's system will apply to Hermes. I want you to go watch that next.