---
video_title: "Cut LLM cost by 95%, replace ElevenLabs, and 10 top GitHub repos"
video_id: n8rP6Ceskm4
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8rP6Ceskm4
video_date: 2026-06-05T19:21:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner & Peter Cooper rank the top 10 AI GitHub repos of the week — including an AI video generator that claims to print money, a voice cloning AI tool, and PewDiePie's self-hosted ChatGPT alternative.
  
  📄 Full report + all links: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-weekly-june5
  🤝 Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Special guest: Peter Cooper
  
  X: https://x.com/cooperx86
  Personal site: https://peterc.org/
  Editor-in-chief at CooperPress: https://cooperpress.com/ 
  Editor of https://javascriptweekly.com/
  
  ⏱️ CHAPTERS
  
  00:00 - Top 10 AI GitHub Repos This Week
  00:36 - #1 MoneyPrinterTurbo — AI Video Generator or AI Slop?
  02:42 - #2 headroom — Does It Actually Cut Your Token Bill?
  04:39 - #3 markitdown — Microsoft's Document-to-Markdown Tool
  07:03 - Sponsor: Why Zapier Is the Middle Layer for AI Agents
  08:18 - Honorable Mention: odysseus — PewDiePie's Self-Hosted AI
  11:51 - Honorable Mention: gbrain — Gary Tan's AI Memory System
  13:57 - Honorable Mention: Webwright — Microsoft's Browser Control Agent
  15:54 - Honorable Mention: liteparse — Local PDF Parsing
  17:06 - #4 compound-engineering-plugin — 63 Agents, 249 Skills
  19:21 - #5 stop-slop — Removing AI Writing Tells (Peter's Warning)
  21:57 - #6 supermemory — Long-Term AI Memory as a Service
  23:57 - #7 ECC — The AI Coding Assistant "Operating System"
  25:57 - #8 taste-skill — AI Design Taste
  29:33 - #9 Understand-Anything — Visual Codebase Intelligence
  32:06 - #10 VoxCPM — Local Voice Cloning AI
  34:57 - Wrap-Up & Full Report
---
I've got a free tool that will make videos for you for free and claims to print money for you. Pewdiepie, the famous YouTuber says get rid of Chatchy PT, he's got a free replacement, and it's amazing. If everything the claw designs for you just looks like everything claw designs for everyone else, I've got a taste repo that will fix that and make things look beautiful. And watch out 11 Labs, I have for you a simple way to create voices, clone your voice or anyone else's and have AI read in that voice so much more coming up today. Presented by Zappier, the AI automation company. All right Peter, top 10 gate hub repels of the week, starting with number one of the week is yeah. Money printer turbo, I don't know how I feel about this one, but I'll explain what it is. You go in, you type what you want a video to look like, you want it to sound like and it will actually create the frickin video for you and in many ways it is impressive. But once you get into the money printing thing, it feels like it's overhyped. I'm going to show it to you on GitHub so that you get a sense of what it looks like. I'll show you a video of how it works. And I've talked about this before Peter, this is a way of creating what many people would call AI slap. Maybe I'm being too harsh about it. I don't know. What do you think about this? Well, I was hoping that it was just going to like print out money, you know, one of those money guns you get. But unfortunately not. No, I mean, in terms of the overall project, it's actually quite well structured and it does what it says it's going to do. But the problem is do people want to watch these videos? I guess that's the key thing, you know, you as a video producer. It's like, do people want to watch this stuff? Would they rather watch someone actually do it for real? You are going to need a bandwidth though if you download this repo just because it has, it's like 700 megabytes in size, I discovered I actually cloned it and it's full of fonts and samples and stuff like that. So it's a big one. It's fairly easy to use too though once you do get it on your system, right? You just fill out a form or you just, yeah, there it is. You just give it what you need and it creates it. Okay, maybe overhyped title, but maybe that's how you become number one. Yeah, but you need to plug into API keys as well because it needs to use open AI or deep sea. It can support a whole different bunch of APIs, but obviously you aren't going to be paying for the output from this. But it will also, one of the cool things about it though is it will pull in, I don't know if you call it royalty free, but kind of like free video that's on the web in certain repositories and then it will integrate that into what it produces. So it doesn't mildly clever stuff, even if it isn't quite actually printing money. Okay, all right, maybe I'm being too harsh on it because it's promising a lot, but truthfully, if you generate even B-roll like this and find it, I think there's value to it. Okay, that's number one for the week. Number two is headroom. Your AI agents are burning through money, reading junk, huge logs, bloated files, repeated search results. This sits between your agent and AI company and shrinks everything before it's sent, claiming 60 to 95% off your token bill with the same answers. Would you try this? What do you think of this? It's an interesting idea. I like the idea of putting a like a proxy in between your agent and the LLM and then doing things with that kind of gap between to make the communication more efficient. Just one thing I should pull up on though is that in that headline, it says something like reduce your token bill 60 to 95%, which if you actually go into that they've got a page on their GitHub repo, which is actually a real benchmark of what they've actually done with 50,000 different sessions of run through this app. Okay. And the actual median saving is 4.8%. So the headline is making it bigger than it is, but I mean, I'll just quickly explain what it does just in a technical sense is let's say that your Claude code or whatever it is is sending lots of log files or JSON or something over the wire. This thing will look at that and then compact it down to a more minimal representation that the LLM actually needs. So for a certain type of debugging session with lots of logs lying around say it may be able to reduce it by 60 to 95%. But in general day to day use, no, not so much. And that's by their own numbers. Would you actually use it? Is there a need for it? I don't think I use Claude code enough to need something like this, but what about someone like you? Personally, I wouldn't trust it, but that's just that's just me being critical of these types of things. But if it works for hidden, then great. I mean, there's people that would love this type of thing. I just would rather not have something sitting in between me and the LLM. Right, especially for such little value. All right, let's go on to number three. Mark it down. This one I absolutely love. It is back from Microsoft on the top 10 list. What it does is it takes a PDF, a Word doc, a PowerPoint, Excel, whatever, and it converts it into markdown so that it's easy for you to to work with. It's easy for you to to send to your agent so that you don't end up taking up so that you don't end up paying for a lot of tokens just to have your agent convert it. I've got some examples of it here. You take a look at actually here. Let's take a look. Look, oh, this one I wanted to show it even took this image on the right and it turned it into a description on the left in this two panel comic, a cartoon dog sits calmly at a table, a mits, et cetera, et cetera. I like that it does that. I've got a short video here that I found on YouTube with someone showing how it works on a PDF doc. Look at how beautiful this is. I'm going to mute it while I'm in my virtual environment. I've got a PDF here just doc PDF and I can run this in my terminal. I'm going to run a mark it down doc PDF output md. That's it. It makes me a file automatically. We can open that file and inside is sort of what we're hoping to expect here. Headings are clean tables actually look like tables just works. What do you think of this one? Right. The real win about this other than it being from Microsoft is it's very extensible. So what I mean by that is that it's kind of like having one program that you can just throw any kind of like media or spreadsheet or word document or whatever and then get out what the agent wants from the end of it. The actual value isn't in doing that conversion because I mean, you can take any LLM and it will convert an image into some text. But this is so that you can just throw stuff at one thing and get stuff out. The only catch with it is that by default it uses mostly Azure APIs for doing things like let's say you've got a scanned PDF. It will use an Azure API to do the conversion. However, because it is so extensible, you can write your own plugins for it so it would use whatever you want. So if you've got some magical way of converting, an image into text or whatever, you can add your own plugins to this and build on top of it. So come like a framework and I just like it from that perspective. It's not just one tool for one job. It's like one tool that you can just throw data in, get stuff out, but then extend it with your own building blocks. I freaking love the way that you explain these things. All right, let's go on to the next one. Oh, the next one is my sponsor. It's actually why I'm in a hotel room today. I'm here to meet with the founder of Zapier to talk about how we've been doing with them and I'll tell you one of the things that excites me and why I think we've been doing really well. Peter, my problem is that I keep moving from like clawed to codex to this to that and I want to bring all of my tools along with me. I don't use Asana, but I do use Gmail and I do use Google Calendar and I give it access, notion and so on. I want to be able to hand off all of these tools to whatever new thing comes out and know that I both give it the power that it needs, but also have the restrictions that I want to give it. And that's the beauty of this. The thing that I love about Zapier is they've now become in addition to all the automations we know them for. They've become that trusted middle layer that lets me give permissions to my agents, but also restrictions. They cannot send email. They cannot delete all my files and so on. Fair. And actually, it kind of ties a bit into that last time that we did in that it's something that sits in the middle inputs, outputs. I mean, yeah, there's a common pattern actually. We have a lot of the projects we're covering. And a dependable company to do it. And not just for me for people on my team when I want to protect them because they're not as deep in as I am. All right. And because of Zapier, we're going to do a couple of honorable mentions here in the middle of the top 10 number one honorable mention. I don't know why this does didn't make the list. This is PewDiePie. He created Odysseus. It's a chat GPT alternative that runs on your computer. I think this is really creative. This is the guy who used to play video. Actually, still I think does play video games on YouTube. And here's his realization. He said, actually, let's have let's play him with his realization. It's crazy. The point is you realize the model that you can run at home are amazing. The problem is the way you interact with the model. Okay. Because at the time I was trying to self host a UI for it to get the same experience as I was paying my subscriptions for. And I should say this is because he's got these these LLMs that he realized he doesn't have to pay for. He can put on his computer. He doesn't have to pass his data outside of his own little universe. But it's really bad user experience. And I realized all these things that sort of come together and make this an amazing experience was completely missing. Where's my memory? Where's my deep research? What about the agent? What about all these simple integrations? Like what looks? I got to spend like two days trying to integrate that. So that's why I started to build my own. And I thought it was funny as a meme. I'm like look, I can be out there. It's building that. And then he did it. And it's actually really good. Just unfortunately too techy. Let me show people just a quick video of what it looks like on the inside. And I'm going to kind of message. I just look a lot like the Cloud Code experience. So check this out. Sting the request. You're just going to give me a response in a second. I should say this like the cloud chat. And there we go. I can see things like a amount of context that's used. I can regenerate from here. Re-write sure or explain simpler. Let's see how that works. Okay, so it's an in place. I know this looks a place. Let me show you this work with the conversation, which is nice. We can edit. Oh, interesting. We can edit the AI's response. I like editing the AI response. I was talking to Eric Reese who's got an AI project that also asks that also enables you to edit the response. And he said it's because everything that is in a chat experience is context for the next response that you get. And he goes, if you just let it have BS in there, it then uses it to understand. And so you want to edit. But that's a small feature that I like. I will actually zoom in and show you on the left. It does way too much. It will do notes and tasks. It actually has where is it? It will do gallery, which then lets you edit photos. It's just it's very geeky in the most beautiful way. It's perfect for our audience. I don't think it's ready for the average user. What do you think of this? It's an increasingly common thing to do. I mean, it's almost becoming like the the build your own blog system of like this decade. It's like or build your own agent, build your own harness, build your own thing. And it's good to see someone that is as opinionated as PewDiePie doing it. I mean, I wouldn't necessarily use it because I don't necessarily have the same, you know, values or approach that he does. But I can see why he's doing it. And so it's very exciting to see because he's someone, you know, I think he's still one of the most subscribe channels on YouTube. Yes. Hundreds of millions of subscribers. So it's just fun to see what he does with that freedom and, you know, the wealth that he's got. And the fact that he's messing around in what kind of we're doing is really fun. Yeah. And you know, if you want to do, if you do want privacy and lately I think about all the medical stuff I send into Claude, I get it. True. Good. Good tool. All right. Next, G brain. Again, honorable mention heard on X. This is Gary Tan building a permanent memory for his AI agents that he gave it away. And he's been adding more and more features to it. I think this is from this week where he added voice. But I, oh, wait, where is it? Where is it? Here, let me go right back here because I want people to see what it looks like on the inside. And I've done an interview with the founders. Tap here in Alpha Claw. I can show you my brain here. You can see that we've got companies. We've got we've got people, for example, founders, Adam Guilt here created the world's first AI CMO for restaurants. See, so what he's got is a really well organized set of information on the people, the companies, et cetera, that he works with and the timeline of what they did. That's what this is about, making your agent smarter by giving it an organized database. Peter, thoughts? It's something that is very useful if you do have a lot of kind of disparate knowledge that you need to tie together in some way. So when it's someone like Gary Tan, so he's the president of Y combination, for example, so he's working with hundreds of different founders all the time. He needs to kind of keep track of, you know, who's who and who's working on what and that type of thing. I can see why brain would be useful for me. I'm tend to be working on really like tiny type projects where I kind of know what's going on. So it's not so useful for me. But this is an interesting project. You know, I think it is put together by AI, but it's had some really good decisions behind it. So it's using Postgres as the database, which, you know, a lot of people will like and it's doing some interesting stuff like using embeddings and BM25 ranking for looking stuff up. So there is some quality behind it, but I've not really poked into the middle of this brain. I've not done any brain surgery on it. But yeah, people seem to be quite excited about this. They are. If you're working with a lot of clients, if you're talking to a lot of people and your agent needs to keep them all in order, this is a good way to do it. All right. Next, this one you asked me to add on. This is a web write by Microsoft. What is it? It's another project from Microsoft, which I always like to see. It kind of builds upon their work with a project called Playwright, which is basically a library that developers have used in the past. And still, still now, to do testing on web apps most commonly. But you could also use it for scraping the web and stuff like that. It's just like a remote control for a browser. The problem they're trying to address here is that if you want to put an agent in control of a browser, you've got a few different ways you can do it. You can give it the access to the full screen view, like some of these computer use things use now. But the problem with that is that while you get to see exactly what a user sees, you are looking at raw pixels and that's quite demanding. In terms of the amount of tokens going over the wire and the speed isn't that great and so on. Whereas web write is much lower level so that an agent can just see the different elements on the page, but a more technical lower level like you would if you were programming site to remote controller browser behind the scenes. So their goal here is just to make the whole thing more efficient and significantly faster and more token efficient in particular. It's very early days for this, but I'm excited to see where it goes just because again, it's from Microsoft and they've had a lot of success in this area with playwright already. And this is, I actually can see the web browser as it's using it like in this demo that I just showed. Yes, but the agent behind the scenes is seeing more like the tree of kind of what's on the page. So it's not just, it's not saying like, look at these pixels and work out what's going on. It's more like look at the code and work out what's going on and then remote control it from there. Yeah, to create this document that I've been clicking through to show everything. I had to go and find links and what I did was I asked Claude to go find the links and I could see it saying, okay, I'm taking a screenshot now I'm understanding taking a screenshot. That's what you're talking about. It eliminates it. And then the final herd on X. This is really popular on on X, but not popular enough to make it to the top 10 list. It's a light parse. What is light parse? I like this one just because it's a common task that we all have. We all have PDFs full of all sorts of things or we receive them for the media kits and company days and all this type of stuff. And we need to work with them. And sometimes they have very weird formats and layouts to them. So, you know, it'd be lovely if we could have everything marked down, but sadly we can't. So PDFs all often be in columns or they'll have different tables in and things like that. This is something that, you know, without using AI can break down some of that stuff. And we've had, you know, there's tools that can do OCR and stuff in the past. It's just nice to see something that brings together the OCR and, you know, being aware of layouts and how to process PDFs that we can run entirely locally without, you know, having to shovel all of our PDFs up to, you know, opus or open AI or whatever. And it's on on my desktop does a need to have outside connection and it just works. Yeah. Okay. Excellent. So unlike the other one that we saw which does need API does need outside access. This is light. It's on my computer works. Okay. Let's go on to the next one. Compound engineering plugin from every, I like every, this is a company that both makes software and writes content about how to make software with AI and how to use AI. I like it. What is this, though? I mean, I like every as well. They do some great work and they have so many different weird random little projects and services that I think you said you said you used one for looking at your email and stuff like that. And the design that they have is amazing as well. This is largely a giant set of skills which tell, you know, all kind of instruct, Claude and codex and the way they've coded it is actually kind of cool because it actually plugs into almost any of the main sort of, you know, harnesses. And it includes things like, you know, how to do good git commits, it includes things like even how to program Ruby on Rails the DHH way. And the thing I like about these types of repo isn't necessarily just to install them and just roll with it because I don't necessarily like other people's opinions to take over how my agents work, but I like to dig in and actually look at what the skills are and see, is there anything in these skills that I can use? And I provided you special access with the directory to show you what those skills are. And it covers all types of things, you know, from front end design skills to how to think about projects and stuff like that. I like to dig through these and see if it's in this. This is a gold word is it's under plugins, then compound engineering and skills you showed me before we got started. And then in here, I can actually see the skill and what you do is you look through and you say, okay, how are they thinking about this? How are they thinking about commit? How are they thinking about each one of these and debugging? And that's what you want out of it. Absolutely, because I don't necessarily want to trust someone with a bunch of rules and then just have them put them into my system. And I don't know what they are. I need to look at them anyway. So I might as well learn from the skills, rather than just blindly trust them. And that is actually quite relevant for one of our future items that we're going to cover. So, you know, you can't just blindly trust skills just jammed into your context from my perspective. And I've got a video here that I'll include in the in the report that everyone can get in the description where you can see one of the founders within the every community going through and explaining how this works, how he uses it, how they think about compound engineering. All right, I'll let you all watch this afterwards onto the next one. Stop, stop. This is again, last week it was on number. It was top 10 this week. It's top 10. And what it does is it says, look, we all know when AI writing is AI writing, there are certain tells. Why don't we just tell the AI to stop using these tells? I think a great example of it is right here. Actually, not this one, the live demo where they said, look, these are the things that we know, like starting off with, here's the thing. Just get rid of it. It turns out, just get rid of it. And there's a few different things that it will eliminate. Would you use this for writing? No. And this is the one, no, this is this is the one that I was foreshadowing actually when I said about, don't trust skills straight out of the box. You need to write your own one of these. And the problem we've stopped sloping particular is there's almost nothing there. Like if you look through the documents, it's absolutely tiny. It's just a bunch, it's just like a bunch of small rules. And some of them are very bad. So for example, there's one holding it that says, if any sentence starts with a question that starts with WH, rewrite it. So you can't start since with what or where? Is it any adverbs kill them? Well, adverbs can be bad, but I wouldn't necessarily say just get rid of every single adverb. So I would look at this skill and say, yeah, I want to take this. I want to take that, but I wouldn't just use it blindly because it could just completely new to your voice and your writing anyway. I mean, I know this is to process AI writing, but do you want to take everything out of it? Yeah. It's okay. I'm in a hotel and I guess checkout is a 10 because they just came in to clean up in here. I didn't know. I'll talk to them later. Oh, what are you getting? And I state delivered. Where did you? Where did you even see that? The WH part? If you go into skill, I think it was no. Actually, skill MD just replies just responds to the other skill files. I don't know where it was. I just wrote down notes when I was reviewing it. But it's in one of those markdown files. But yeah, it was just like get rid of this and get rid of that. There are other ways you can look into this just to let you know. So anyone that's watching this, if you Google for Wikipedia signs of AI writing, there's another really good document that Wikipedia has put together, which also has tons of telltale signs, which you might also want to turn into your skill file. I see. So you're saying create your own skill file. Don't just use theirs and you can use theirs as reference, but not right out of the box. Yes. And of course, models keep changing. So you might be using a model tomorrow. You might be using opus 4.9 or GBT 6 or whatever it is. It might have these different tells. Well, that old document isn't going to work. So you need to keep on top of it for yourself. Okay. All right. I like that warning. Next is super memory. Every new chat with Claude or chat GBT is like meeting a brilliant employee with total amnesia. You're re-explaining everything every time this gives your AI a long-term memory follows you across every tool. What do you think of this? And I've got someone here Ben Sigmund, who actually evaluated this compared it to others. What do you think of this before we go into his evaluation? I have not tried this, but it does take us back to the G-brain item somewhat in terms of how it works. The big thing that super memory is doing, which is a bit different, is that they're running it as a commercial service. So it's a lot easier for people in companies or whatever, just to plug in and use it. But you can also use it in the open source form for free too, which is nice. So I like the way they've structured it from that perspective. But again, in terms of actually using it, it's not something I necessarily would use just because I have them in restructured already in a different way. How do you use structured your memory? How do you avoid the total amnesia? Or just like one time it knows it the next time it doesn't? I like to start my sessions with the amnesia because I like to point it to things that we've done before as we go. I don't like to just say, just here I've access to everything, just go at it. I like to be selective about what I give it because I don't like so even something like Claude or chat GBT, I don't like it when I ask a question and it uses my prior memories as like, oh, why are you asking that question because previously you did X, Y and Z? And it's like, no, I'm asking this independently of what I previously discussed with you. So I don't want that in my coding either. All right, fair point. I've got a video here explaining how it works. I like your feedback on it. Let's go on to the next one. ECC. This is a builder who spent 10 plus months living in AI coding tools, packaged everything he learned into 63 specialized agents, 249 skills into one free install. It's the closest thing to an operating system for your AI coding assistant. It's got, doesn't really have 205 stars. And it's one of the biggest repulsive on GitHub. Does it? Does it? Yeah, it's even more than 29 now. Yeah. And 31,000 forks and still you have a controversial point of view on this. What is that? Also, did you actually first explain, first explain in your words, what is this and then what's your, what's your thought on it? It's a giant pile of stuff. You know, I'm not going to use any offensive terminology. This is clearly, you know, someone has spent a lot of time on this and put something together. Problem is, it's just too much. It's like, you know, weeding in a Boeing 747 or something, just, you know, across the street. Do you trust it? Are you going to read for all of it? Now, clearly, there's enough people that are lazy enough that they're just going to go, oh, great. Loads of stuff, download, click, star and everything. But the fact is, I have no idea what any of this is doing or what it's been directed to do. So why am I just going to trust it out of the gate? Now, the thing about the one that every did earlier is that at least with every you can trust them, they're, you know who they are. They have a established background and they are experts in using this stuff. But how am I going to trust this to know how to review Go Code or Java code or Python code without going through it? And then by the time I've gone through it, I'm as well as made my own. So I don't see the appeal of these types of things. It's too much all at once. I don't either. I could see him wanting to share and other people maybe wanting to learn, but it's just a lot, a lot of information in here, a lot of different tools. I've got a video of somebody here actually using it. I'm going to, I won't even play the whole thing, but I'll give people just a taste of actually, I don't even think it's worth even the taste of it. You'll have the video so you can watch it on your own. Basically, what he said was, he said, I want to add a calendar link to my site where people can book meetings with me. He, I don't know why he needed the skill in order to do it, but he used the everything, cloud code plan. He planned it and he got the calendar integration in there. Again, there I think these things are great. I think these things are great for the people that made them because they've made them their way that want them to make them and they use like their own, like they're, if I took my approach and put it into a set of skills, then it works great than me. Doesn't necessarily work well with someone else. So you really need to review these carefully before you go, whole hog on it. There's a calendar. Yeah, I agree. Okay, next. And I do think also it's nice to look over somebody's shoulder and see how they do things. See how they structure. Yeah, but like you said, just using it right out of the box. No, I like this whole style here. Here's the problem that tastes skill addresses. We now see every time somebody gives us a document that they think looks beautiful, we see that it looks just like cloud because they're using the anthropic design. It drives me freaking crazy. Honestly, I'll be honest with you, Peter, these like web pages that you're all looking at right now, these all looked exactly like cloud. What I did was I couldn't stand looking at them after the first time. I then made some adjustments myself. And then I saw a repo in one of our past sessions, which said you can take designs from all these other companies and use them. So I did. This is from Intercom, the software company I use their design. And then I changed the colors to make it feel like mine. And it worked and it made it feel a little bit better for me. I'll probably keep tweaking it. And what I like about this is that it's doing the same thing. It's saying use this to change your designs. We've got a few, we've got to hear this is a video of a creator who tried it and he's going to show what the designs look like. And it's of course on the GitHub repo. Also, what do you hear it is? Look, this definitely doesn't look like anthropics design taste. No, what do you think of this? This is an area where I'm a little bit more inclined to go along with having a bunch of different skill files brought into a project. And the reason for that is that because it's about taste rather than how to do things. And so I don't mind other people's opinions necessarily being brought into design if you like the output. Because the thing is you don't like what it produces. You can sell, screw that, and then let's go with a different approach. And so this project does build upon previous steps forward in this area like impeccable.style, which I saw actually in the screenshot for that video is another thing. But the thing is once you design with these skill files, often you will then start to see the same like tropes coming out over and over and over. So again, this is a situation where I think it's good to see what other designers taste is, but then build on it for yourself. Build your own things like this. And right. You know, the models now are actually so smart. You can even do cool things like if you see a photo that you like. So for example, I took a photo the other day of the back rooms, you know, that's big at the cinema at the moment. And I said, does I know web page, it looks like the back rooms and threw it into a person. It did it. And it's like, oh, actually, this is kind of cool. It's got the color scheme and you know, all this type of you can do that now. So you can just find an aesthetic that you like. Throw it at a model and just do it. You don't necessarily have to say, design this whole thing from scratch for me. You can give it inspiration. But if you want to mix in things that, you know, give you like skills like this, give ideas on typography and fonts and stuff like that, blend it in, give it a try, see how it goes. You know, I think these things are kind of cool. I do too. I like them for just seeing a different take on what I'm already doing. All right. Yeah. Next. Understand anything. Here's a deal. Maybe you created something a few months ago and you forgot what you got there or maybe you started a new project and you're looking at something for the very first time. You got hundreds of thousands of lines of code. You don't know what anything does, what anything does, what it means. What this will help you is understand it by turning it into a visual that lets you see what's what. That's what understand anything is. What do you think of this? I've not used this one, but it does plug into an idea that I've had for a while now, which is that try and avoid using LLMs for writing too much and focus on using LLMs for reading things because they are much better at that job. So I would be much more likely to take a bunch of skills or plug-ins like this and have it process something that already exists because it can extract insights from things perhaps better than it could recreate that thing. So yeah, I have absolutely no problem with projects like this. And there is a lot to reading large code projects that you can't just go to codex or Claude and say, I'll read this project and tell me x, y and z. Sometimes there is a lot of analysis to be done on top of it. And if these skills give it the extra power to get over those hurdles, then it could make the analysis even better. So yeah, but again, I've not used this one. So I don't know how well it does, but a lot of people think that I like it. There's a little bit of controversy here on hacker news. What could people be upset about with this? Was there a thing about, yes, someone was saying that the stars might not be entirely legit, which is a common problem on GitHub. There's this whole thing about that you can pay to get your repo start. And the reason for that is that it's the modern version of Q-dose. If your repo has 10,000 stars on it, then it must be better than one with 100. It's not necessarily true, but it's a hurdle to overcome. I don't know anything about this project and whether it's done that, but that is something that I think people in that hacker news thread were thinking my I think we need a better solution for this. We need something like what do people who I care about think of this or how many of the people who are creating give it stuff? I don't know. Something dig is is messing with this a little bit. Digg.com. I don't think anyone's nailed it yet, and it's bothering me in a turning the whole ecosystem. This one you love. You actually told me. Yeah, we like this one. Yeah. Vax, CPM. What is it? Okay, so we've had a load of text to speech things over the years all the way from the 80s where we had like robot kind of voices, fruit of the sort of systems that Stephen Hawking used. But then in the last five to 10 years, you know, AI has really turned that dial up from like a two out of ten gualazitas of eight out of ten. And this is actually pretty good. At first, I was saying 11 labs quality, like that's what they're claiming. I would say it's not quite there, but it's like 95% of the weight of that. And it was so good actually, I could run it on my own Mac like it downloaded, compiled, downloaded the model, and I was up and producing audio with this within 10 minutes. And the output's not bad. And the good thing is you can sculpt it as well. So you can say I want a voice that sounds like it's loyalty. And it will do that. I'll do it right here. Old man with raspy voice. And then I could have him say get off my lawn. And this is not working right now on on hugging face. But you get a sense of how it is. You can also upload your own voice as a reference and allow it to take off from your voice. I've got a video here to show how it works. It's been amazing. I don't know how 11 labs is going to compete when all this stuff is so is so free. It's becoming so accessible. People are able to use it. Like you said, on their own computers, super easy. What do you think? I don't know where 11 labs are going to go with this. And so the one thing that 11 labs has going for it is that they've really focused on having professional voice actors actually supply their voices with permission with licensing. So that's the win there is the companies that want to have voices that every single legal thing is ticked and crossed. You can go to 11 labs and they provide that kind of compliance side of it. It's not necessary just about producing speech. It's about producing a paper trail, which you know, I actually had to realize I just sounded like Claude then the way that I explained that. But that is basically what it is. Yeah, exactly. So the thing is, you know, if you produce audio with this, it could be cloned from anyone's voice and you know, how do you know what your system's doing in the background? You know, it may have downloaded a video of, you know, some famous politician and just cloned a voice for you without knowing it. So yeah, 11 labs isn't going to let you do that. Here, let's hit play on this video, which of course we'll have in the report for everyone want it. Vox CPM is an innovative end to eBion, the ancient oaks and the misty trail. A secret remains. I'm convinced that Dan from smart tutorials on this video is actually just a voice using Vox CPM. Listen to this. Like, look at this. I actually think that he's this is not a real today. We are diving into Vox CPM. I don't know. I don't know. I live people decide for themselves. All right. That is number 10. We've got the full report in the description so you can play with this. Listen to a try yourself and Peter. Where do people see you? You can find me on Twitter. Oh, that's not Twitter. Now anymore. It's X isn't it. Cooper X-8 6 or PTC to Ogan the web. And of course, we'll have a link below and now that you've listened to this, we've got 10 other repos that were super hot last week plus three special ones that you've got to see. There's a link right here on the screen. Click it and we'll see you over there.