---
video_title: "Free transcription app, YouTube scraper, and GitHub’s top repos!"
video_id: QacqRZ0vsD4
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QacqRZ0vsD4
video_date: 2026-07-10T18:35:04+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-repos-jul10
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Want to show us what you built with one of these repos? Email Andrew at hi@thenextnewthing.ai
  
  Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane break down the top trending GitHub repos of the week.
  
  Repos featured:
  MadsLorentzen/ai-job-search
  Zackriya-Solutions/meetily
  usestrix/strix
  steipete/CodexBar
  StarTrail-org/PixelRAG
  shadcn/improve
  facebook/astryx
  asgeirtj/system_prompts_leaks
  openai/codex-plugin-cc
  ogulcancelik/herdr
  alibaba/page-agent
  diegosouzapw/OmniRoute
  bradautomates/claude-video
  
  Chapters: 
  00:00 - Here are the top GitHub repos of the week
  00:27 - MadsLorentzen/ai-job-search: Turn Claude into an end-to-end job search assistant.
  03:18 - Zackriya-Solutions/meetily: Take local, private meeting notes with real-time transcription.
  05:24 - usestrix/strix: Use AI agents to find and validate security vulnerabilities before hackers do.
  09:36 - Andrew got Matt Van Horn on the show
  10:30 - Help test repos for The Next New Thing
  11:24 - Zapier MCP: Connect agents to Gmail, Calendar, Notion, Google Docs, and thousands of other tools.
  12:36 - steipete/CodexBar: Track your AI coding usage limits from the Mac menu bar.
  14:24 - StarTrail-org/PixelRAG: Let agents search and understand websites visually, not just as text.
  16:21 - shadcn/improve: Use a strong model to write plans that cheaper models can execute.
  18:36 - facebook/astryx: Meta’s open-source design system for building polished agent-ready interfaces.
  21:09 - asgeirtj/system_prompts_leaks: Study real system prompts from major AI products.
  22:39 - openai/codex-plugin-cc: Add Codex as a second opinion inside Claude Code.
  25:39 - ogulcancelik/herdr: Manage multiple terminal-based AI agents from one screen.
  28:21 - alibaba/page-agent: Add an AI agent to any website with one line of code.
  31:48 - diegosouzapw/OmniRoute: Route AI requests across providers when you hit rate limits.
  34:03 - Why Andrew is doing the GitHub repo show
  37:30 - bradautomates/claude-video: Let Claude watch videos by combining frames, audio, and transcripts.
  42:18 - Watch last week’s GitHub repo breakdown next
---
You're about to get a free meeting note taker that transcribes right on your computer keeps your data safe that you can edit and it's free Are you tired of hitting your rate limit? I've got a few tools that will help you with that I've got a free tool that will add an AI agent to any website even once you don't own and I've got a cool system that will let Claude understand every YouTube video you want to study and Organize it in a way that you can use it all that and so much more coming up I've got of course links below. Let's get into it Presented by Zapier the AI automation company Adam people keep asking is AI Gonna take everyone's jobs. Well, this is AI helping people land jobs. It's called AI job search It's really been taking off this week as you can see that it's got a lot of attention here What it'll do is it will go through the process of understanding what a job here Actually, I put this together it you fill in the profile it then starts to do job searches for you It starts to find matches for you. It starts to pick people for you it evaluates your fit It does the whole thing all an automated way and some of it is just some basic stuff like writing your CV I had one created for myself. I said to it. I want to apply to get the what is it called entrepreneur and residents role at gateway X Write a cover letter for me and put together my CV my my resume and it did it and it didn't really well, you know Three-time founders spend 25 years building profitable internet companies Then it goes into what's in my history it wrote a cover letter interview you to get all that information Andrew I did it just scrape and figure out all that from the internet It's scraped and figured all that from the internet. I didn't do the full process of going through a job But this just shows the value of using AI look at how much it could get about me without me giving it the data and it understood From the job that I was going for what the context was a lot of this is clawed doing the work Obviously, it's smart enough to opus I accidentally use fable 5 for a fable 5 opus all these models are smart enough to do this And now this is just being directed properly at this role I Like how it understood to write the letter to Jesse who's probably going to be the person deciding who the entrepreneur and residents is it gave a little bit of my background I think this is really interesting and I'm hoping that we're going to see more of this Basically tools for people who are looking to get work or looking for self-improvement. What do you think of this one? Yeah, what stands out to me here is this is kind of an end-to-end tool often when we look at these Claude code or codex skills It's sort of this niche little here's one tool in your tool belt But this doesn't solve a problem for you And this kind of feels like an end-to-end Application like you would sign up on a website to Research to build a great resume to write cover letters like oh, but you don't have to do that anymore I think you're right like Claude plus some good instructions and and well thought out skills I think we're going to start to see more like end-to-end applications that you're only accessing through Claude Preps you first scheduled interviews. This is really good. I'm so glad to see this one on top This week a lot of times we've seen some Wacked out things at the top. Yeah, and this feels useful. This feels helpful for society. This is like a happy skill And it's the kind of thing also that people are referring to their friends and so it's spreading nicely. All right number two Meadily this is your meeting no-taker on your desktop So the stuff that you say doesn't go into somebody else's computer and by the way it happens to be free And it happens to be fast you and I know that this type of stuff is so dangerous We've seen people who accidentally will leave a meeting no-taker in that shared with the rest of the team where they talk about someone on the team And they get access to it and that feels bad. I don't know about you Adam I keep this on for my meetings with my doctor I keep it on for my meetings with my Financial advisor all this stuff very private stuff and as someone who lived in San Francisco And I had friends who worked at tech companies I know they use God mode to look at this stuff because some of them told me how they got dates by looking at data of women that They liked and then using that to connect with them. So I understand why Meadily is doing so well I want to show you one image here that I think shows also that it's not just a smart useful tool It is nicely designed. This is what it looks like on the inside. Yeah, cool Right real time streaming transcription and I think is really important You know something we use fireflies a lot internally and last week we have this great feedback session Fireflies was in there and it didn't record. I don't know what happened We checked we made sure it was there. I don't know if we didn't give it permission or what but we don't own that system We couldn't see the the tech streaming So we just assumed it was working and it wasn't and we lost this like great feedback session So having something that's local that you control that is on your computer. You can see it actively streaming I really like this stuff and we've looked at this a couple different ways like voice with local models It's faster. It's cheaper. It's free because you're not paying for some outside API And that's what enables all this cool streaming stuff So I think we're going to see even more voice happening local on device. I love it All right more and more I'm adding a lot of data to these reports And I know people are telling me that I'm clicking through some of them too fast and not showing it You'll have a link to the report below where you're going to see way more data than I could ever pass in here But I want to be prepared so I have as much in my fingertips as possible next number three is tricks We all know that hackers are just going to test your site. They're going to look for vulnerabilities If you're listening to this probably your friends are the kinds of people who are just looking for vulnerabilities Just for fun. I know my son is really now starting to as a 12-year-old learn about coding and hacking And he's really curious just the way that I would have gone through my dad's doors He might be curious and go through my code and see what's on my site and see what's going on I get it This is a tool that gives you a team of agents that will tell you where your vulnerabilities are and allow you to find them and Deal with them in a much faster um By the way, what do you think of all these designs? I this is my upgrade for the week I love it This whole thing is is getting so much more seamless and clear. I think it's a lot of information, but it's It's a great way for me to learn about all these tools a lot of people Tell me that the text was too small and it's true I knew I needed to find a way to make it bigger. So I made it bigger I wonder if now this is bigger. I wonder if now people are going to ask for the highlights on their own Slide and this on its own slide. I don't know. I know many of you are listening and watching on on your phones And you should know I watch and read and respond to your comments. So let me know how else I could improve this This is a lot based on your all feedback. All right Um, this video I think is really helpful to see I like better stacks for this type of data Those tools tell you your door might be unlocked bricks found the endpoint wrote a working exploit ran it pulled data out and gave me the exact steps here Us the fix it told me what's wrong Nice um, I love that he does this and you can all watch the video if you get the report Here's his analysis and it mostly held up, but it's got real limits as well It means hard on the model you give it you're basically renting a hacker for a minute or two or however long this takes a weak local model Gives weak findings a strong one it costs a lot of tokens budget three maybe five dollars for a quick scan It depends on how big your project is deep scans are slow their hours They're not minutes and Docker ads friction and on the really best up stuff complex logic long chain attacks It's not quite there yet. It's pretty cool for routine repeatable checks But maybe not a stand-in for a human on your actual systems Cool helpful Yeah, this is this is nice, you know We we try and do some of this and just prompting Andrew like hey cloud I'm about to deploy this am I gonna leak my API keys? You know is there like data that's gonna come out and When we do these fast prompts, I find that cloud will either over or under index It's like if if I said hey cloud. I think there's a problem. Can you check? Oh, yeah? There's 15 problems and I'll go through the list I make these aren't real problems these are nitpicks now if I say cloud. I think it's secure You know, can you check for me say oh, yeah? Absolutely. It's secure. I built it You should trust it implicitly so having this like kind of external source of basically a bunch of prompts that are gonna run And actually test and load the website and all of that I think that makes me feel better about more people in our organizations Deploying applications that aren't gonna leak customer data leak employee data leak our API keys like it really sucks when people get their API keys leak Because somebody goes and you know spends 30 grand on it in a day. It's pretty easy to do These keys so yeah, I think this this is pretty cool And I kind of like that it takes a long time. I think people won't use this because oh, I don't want to wait 15 minutes I don't want to spend five dollars But this is like such an important step that as you're deploying a big application or making a bunch of changes This is this is going to be worth the five dollars to save you the huge hassle down the line of leaking data The current controversy is people are calling it vibe coded Um, uh, they go back and forth on this and hacker news having said that I will say that there is enough Positive feedback about this that lets me understand that people are getting value from it And you can always yeah nerds are always gonna want it to be better and I'm one of those nerds Andrew like I always want things to be better I want the system to be complete But the reality is most people are doing nothing on this right now right and doing this instead of nothing is a big upgrade Okay Last week and the week before that I said that I'm trying to get in that van horn and we got him I hit him up on twitter I asked you all to help me get him and the reason is he is a huge contributor to a lot of open source projects And he's a person who just this year decided to get into open source projects Suddenly he's not just contributing He also created two open source projects that I really enjoyed I wanted to talk to him about how he used them. I wanted to understand what he How I could get the most value out of it I recorded the interview it will be up on this site if you're if you're subscribed you'll get it And I want to thank all of you who supported us and helped us get Matt van horn on Um, and now I've got a guy who's just like loving the stuff that we do He's watched now so many videos. He didn't even know if I was real except he goes Andrew I had my AI go scan you and it says that you're okay And so I'm into it and then when we and I got on he was like yeah, I saw that and I saw that and I saw that and I said oh Good all right So now the next person we can't stop here We need a better looking slide, but I will say I'm looking for maybe you if you're listening to us I want someone else to come and test these repos out with me Give us your take or just let us know what the experience is like If that's you and you want to participate in this let's talk and see how we can do it The best thing you could do is just show me how you used any repo that we've done here before Anyone that's been popular to do anything and send that over to me at hi at the next new thing.dei I mean that should be a video probably right Andrew they should send a video Three-minute video five-minute video or something like that that be great But I will say if you're hesitant about doing video one of the things that I do is I will bring out the best in New on video So send it in any way that you can and then maybe we take the next step to do video But I do want to hear from you if you're somebody who loves Implementing all these and wants to do it Okay, thanks to our sponsor in addition to the top 10 and we're going through the top 10 list as they happen this week to show you What the trending ones are our sponsors? Zapier said Andrew throw in another three and so I will thank them and by telling you that I use apier mcp all the freaking time Adam here's how I use it whenever I sign up for a new a whenever I sign up for a new agent a new tool I do want to give it access to things I'm not somebody who's afraid of giving it access to my let's say work email I wanted to read my work email so it has context. I wanted to read my notion I wanted to read my google docs and all all these other things But I don't necessarily want it to send out email I don't necessarily wanted to delete calendar Events etc. What I like about Zapier mcp is I go to Zapier.com slash mcp for some reason It always doesn't know that I'm logged in but I'm logged in and then um I just select using checkboxes the things that I want to give access to and it gives me a single URL that I get to paste into Um in a token that I get to paste into whatever tool I have if I decide that I don't like that That tool anymore. I go and delete the token and I move on. It's really good. It's really free Many of you are telling Zapier that you heard about them from other YouTube videos If you're starting to hear about them from me, please let them know that you're hearing about them from me They bought a year's worth of ads believing that I'm going to take this somewhere when this was literally nothing And I want to show them that that it was money well spent and belief well spent So thanks Zapier here is the first one that I want to show you this week It is codex bar. It did not make the top 10 lists But it's cute and it's helpful and it's useful for those of you who are using multiple different Models and you've got limits on each one of them and what it does is I think actually I'll jump right to the screenshot It does this right in your Mac menu bar. Sorry if you're windows It will show you I hate saying sorry if you're windows. I'd love these things to be more cross-platform Having said that it will show you in a glance how much of your session time you've used how much of your weekly time and so on It has been really popular with people largely It's because of Peter the guy who created open claw But also because it's a tool that when when you're out there using all these other Services you want to know where do you stand and he's updating it on a regular basis? I don't know how the guy has any fricking time. Yeah me either This is really cool and true. I mean, I have one of these installed. It's not this one This one looks a lot better than the one that I have installed So I'm gonna uninstall mine and it's all this one instead But it's so useful because I'm I'm usually trying to think oh I want to go in like run some big deep research project and I'm gonna spin off a bunch of parallel Sub agents and oh wait, hold on do I have enough left in my credit where I could keep working while that's right Oh, I don't I should wait until that ticks over. I should switch to codex instead of cloud or you know cursor and and having one of these makes It's so easy to check because I don't know why but in the interfaces It's so hard to check this you've got to type the slash command you gotta remember to do it and then oh You forgot to check and now you're just like shut off for the next three hours. Oh, man So having this has has really let me kind of stay on top of what I'm using And now I don't find that I surprise you know and hit the limits anymore Next one is pixel rags so many the tools Adam the United look that will turn web pages into text documents mark down Etc to make them easier for LLMs This one says wait a minute wait a minute wait a minute There's way more to a website than the text that's on it. There are images there pictures. There's layouts So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna create a An image of the site and that's the goal of this Creates an image of the site that you're looking at and allows your your your tools to use it You then ask me when you saw this Andrew. What is this for who is this for actually? And I said I actually don't know Who's the use case I could come up with some but what do you think? Yeah? Yeah, you know, I was wondering like is this a tool for my cloud agent what I'm researching is this a tool I'd build into one of my agents that we can deploy And I think the way that they've got this set up is that it really can do both there's an API there But there's also this package you can tie it into Python yeah pip there you go python and What it's gonna let you do you know cloud will happily scrape a page But I find all the time when I get it into markdown or even just keep the HTML It takes so long for cloud to like parse through the html and it loses how these things were next to each other visually Or in the markdown you lose a hundred percent of that and so doing it with with screenshots is is a heck of a lot better But a lot of those tools are rough to use they fail They won't get the like super long screenshot if there's a lot of scrolling So offloading this to a service like pixel rag that say no no We're gonna make sure it always works We're gonna have good quality. We're gonna get around all these bot blockers all that stuff like I think that's a great way If you're building a tool that relies on looking at information on on the web like I would be using a tool like this rather than just hoping that cloud can scrape the HTML or markdown Got a link to it of course and I found this on twitter I've heard people talk about it a lot so I've got a tweet that I came across this weekend there too Next is improve a lot of people are talking about how now that fabled five is out It is too expensive to use for everything. I know I accidentally made a mistake and how to create the slides for this is so frustrating any Any other model could have created this website that I'm using And so this is one of many tools now that's coming around and saying we're gonna help you organize What gets done by which agent and we're gonna help you delegate it to the right agents um What do you think of this? I know you have a couple of yeah, this is this is definitely a trending topic lately You know that these models they're they're getting smarter, but they're getting slower and more expensive too And so we're all trying to figure out how do we How do we put into play these cheat models? How do I use GLM? You know in places where that makes sense? How do I use codex when I'm about out of out of uh You know Tokens on on cloud and how do I use hiku? You know if I'm already in cloud So I think a tool like this this one doesn't hit it for me But a tool like this where you're gonna like put all these agents into play makes sense This one we we dove deep into the skill file and it's not actually gonna orchestrate all these agents It's going to look at your code you can ask it I want you to audit all my code look at everything and then write a bunch of plans So that Other cheaper agents can come and execute the plans Honestly, I don't love that. I want the smart agent to actually orchestrate and run the other agent So this is like really close But if you just added a layer into this like hey use the Hiku CLI or codex CLI like in addition to writing these plans and then check the result when they're done That's great because what you know, Andrew what what fabel is is good at It's not a it's not a better thinker It's the same thinking as all these other ones But what it's better at is it's better at the prep it's better at making a better plan And then it's just as good at doing the work But then it's better at reviewing the work too And so I want fabel or one of these top-end models to be on bullfins Not just the planning and Okay, all right fair point if anyone out there has a better one that you love send it over to me I'd love to include it In a future one that's the end of the buzzworthy we're back now number four for this week Is a asterisk from meta we can say a lot of things about meta some good some bad But one thing I think most people agree on is they do know design And that's the little bit too well as if you ask any 12 year old they will hook you in really well with their design And so what they decide to do is just make it available to everybody This is fairly recent and people are really excited about it on twitter I like this tweet for giving you a little bit of the design and then I'll show you a video Browse components and then he's got different buttons different elements Um, I'll have this again in the report for anyone who wants to want something cool I'm like and I'm like giddy watching this why what do you love about this? I mean a lot of people might not remember or realize but 23 years ago Facebook open sourced react which is this like component System to to build web pages from components instead of just pure HTML and JavaScript Which is what most of us were doing before and man? It's taken over nearly every website that you're looking at is built on react These guys are very good at design. They're very good at UI They've been good at it for a really long time and When we look at like react you've got material UI you've got chakra you've got shad see it like you've got all these other tools That people are using on top to build these design libraries and now the people that built react are building this like design library That also has Designs in it for chat interfaces that has designs like basically for the modern web like if you go to most of these older design libraries the components They belong on the internet five to ten years ago Whereas this is like this is exactly what everything should look like today I haven't dove deep into this but I guarantee I'm gonna like blow off a meeting later today and and go through all of these I really want to try building with it. I'm so excited these these guys are very good at what they do And I bet we're gonna see a bunch of websites that pop up in the next month or two. It's like oh looks like they're using asterisk I'm starting to recognize that date picker. I'm starting to recognize that chat interface and I bet they're gonna be really seamless and very beautiful And I'm I'm very excited. I want to build something with this right now All right, hey, I labbed it a video since we just went through this for so long I'll move on and leave it for everybody else to go get afterwards But it's go try it broke down the different different templates and setups that they have This one keeps coming back. It's system prompts leak Every AI chatbot ships with a hidden instruction manual. It's maker It's maker never shows you that is not true But this is what people are saying this repo publishes them all and every week on Twitter Somebody will say I just found the full system prompt. I am shocked shocked that this is available online And then you and I looked at it and we realized just kind of like though Washington posted a little while ago back in May that this is something that they want you to see This is something that you have said in the past people can use to To understand how the model makers are prompting and how we could prompt better Um, let's see. Oh look at this so good. I am so glad that I've got the No, is this the archive dot is let's see if I'm giving people archive dot is no I'm giving them the actual link to the site my agent failed at this one It's pay pay walled. It's just saying archive.ph as a free version of it I hate when I get these errors in it having said that I do have the link You know what it so bothers me. I have these skills set up to organize all my links and all the videos the way that I like them And then every once in a while something will fail like this week this little thing at the top didn't didn't let me click around to the different To the different repos so frustrating All right, there's a little bit of controversy and that is the people are saying they're looking at the way the systems are prompt Are being prompted and then they're saying this is why I'm getting the results. I I'm getting and I'm not happy with it I'll let you all take a look at that. We'll move on um codex plugin opening. I Turned its coding assistant into a second opinion that lives inside the cloud code tool The idea behind this is you build with cloud code codex understands it But they say you know what? How about if you let us give it a second opinion for free even on the free Chatchy PT models you can get it for free and get a second opinion and people have been doing this for a long time A lot of my friends do this do you do this Adam all the time I've actually got this built into my cloud.md file I've instructed for my for every cloud code session My mic Cloud code knows I can use the codex CLI here's how I could use it codex is better at this and this cloud is better at this and this and here's when you should use them So I love having you know, I don't have a skill like this I've just put it in the in the cloud that md But I think this makes sense to add in these skills Because honestly the models are good at different things and they they're going to have different points of view And if you say clod give me three different examples of what this website could look like Gonna be kind of the same But if you say clod give me one glm give me one codex give me one and a skill like this that can help you know Make that really really easy you're gonna get like the best of all of these agents And you're not really gonna even think oh was this built with cloud or was this built with codex? Yes I got this video from Nate herk showing how he's released an official codex plugin for cloud code bought it so I'm gonna go ahead and try the adversarial review right here So which are notices right away it has to get familiarized and acclimated with the environment so it's Let's jump to the point where he gets the result It's a 730 and it also looks like it has priority scores So we have some high priority things we have a recommendation same thing right here And then we also have a medium priority thing as well as some next steps So from here it would be up to you to either continue on using codex to build out these changes or switch back to cloud code All right, by the way, I keep looking my lips today because I'm using tape to close my mouth when I sleep because I'm snoring And my wife said I'm getting out of the bedroom if you don't do something about it And I don't know what to do about it, but I've heard that I've got a mouse guard Andrew that I really like I can send you Will it keep me from snoring? It'll keep you from storing it goes inside your lips above and below and and so it blocks You cannot while it's in your mouth you cannot breathe through your mouth you only breathe through your nose But it's inside your mouth then and it also if you grind your teeth it stops you from grinding your teeth I will take it. I will try it as the tape Makes you breathe through your nose, but it kind of puts your mouth in a better shape too You know the tape does have one nice side effect My wife loves talking about like important things before going to sleep It lets her put her mind at ease. What about this? What about that now? I have tape on my mouth I'm like, my mom's just like, oh, let's just move on. Thank you It's like you don't have to put it on tonight. I go I want to I want to sleep next to each other But I really can't talk past a certain time. Yeah. All right. I'm with you Next Herder, I don't know what this is. I've done so much research on it. I've got some videos to show on it I'm just gonna read what it says here Run and this is a I let just clawed do this Running several AI agents at once means juggling a mess of terminal windows This puts your whole AI team on the screen at once. I like the offer. I get it. I don't know what this is Yeah, you know, Andrew you don't use the terminal for clawed code, right? For nothing Yeah, you're in you're in what vs code. Yes Yeah, so when you're in vscode you're often opening multiple tabs with clawed right? Mm-hmm They've gotten this one's running and you can open a new tab and start some other task and that's why you use vscode and not the terminal That's why you use vscode and not the terminal There are people out there that really like the terminal and that's like what they're familiar with and you know what the interface kind of sucks It's really hard to do that tab thing and you need multiple terminal tabs and it's just like it's very cumbersome They don't get that experience you get in vscode This kind of brings that experience there you get multiple tabs You can have them next to each other in pains. You can have a vertical pain on the left and then you know quarter pains on the right and move them around This even lets you use multiple agents just like you can in vscode you said I want clawed code next to code x Well, you can't do that in just the clawed code, you know CLI So this is basically bringing that that interface that you like multiple screens multiple pains drag things around see the status And it's bringing it all into the terminal So that's what I'm looking at right here and I'm guessing the agents are on the left and that in in the section here So I could watch them as they're working. That's right. Oh god it. Okay, and so this is not the terminal that comes with my Mac This is their app that is yeah the terminal app Okay, I got it now now it's actually helping me understand you would Andrew I'd point out you know the the clawed code terminal app has like some features That don't make it into the vscode app too I've heard that that's people like the terminal one because and anything new that comes out it comes out in the terminal first So you're you're getting kind of a watered down experience now you're getting a nice user interface for it But but people that want to be on the edge that want to be trying everything that would have the best control They're in the terminal, but they're struggling. So I think this is this is aiming to help them not struggle so much You know what that's what Matt van Horn said to me yesterday He goes Andrew you you're not getting all the power of what I'm building because you're yeah, and he was like so disappointed He's like he didn't know who I was and he was like oh this guy's great and then he goes oh Okay, all right, let's move on to the next one. Just like just just just like windows and pains and buttons instead of terminal stuff There's nothing right with that I think this one demos really really well Here's how it works you paste one line of code on your website and then you have a built-in assistant that your users can click around So that means if they're wondering how to find something on your site Or they want to just ask the site to do something they don't have to email you or send you all a message They just chat with your site and it doesn't get they don't just get the answer They get taken in by an agent that will do the work of getting them to what they want to do here. Let me uh wait. Where is it? Oh here there we go That will do the work and get them there. I want to show you all what this looks like um, let's actually go over to have this link right here Where is it here's a live demo then this is from alibaba Um, and we'll talk about what that means. This is a demo site that they have imagine somebody is on this imagine This is your site and someone's on it. They want to know where the mcp this or that is so they just type in where is the mcp and just run And this is the agent now coming up you can tell because it's kind of cool how it puts This box around the site and look It's going and it took me to the mcp server right there and it clicked around and then it told me I could even ask it to create let's try create a mark Down file of the key features Now you can add this to your site if you want to experiment with it Rather not look at this is actually going through and it's doing this on the site There is a really interesting bookmarklet that you can put on right now on your bookmark bar and then try it on any website I literally tried it on the site that I created for this github show and and it found everything for me So this is it and her is this kind of like the like ask jemini button in In chrome, but but I could build it into my own site instead Yeah, with one addition I don't think the ask jemini button still has agent mode it will not click stuff it will Okay, yeah Okay, it's working you all get the sense of what it does. It's now studying the site It's then going to create a markdown file for me here So that's what it does you can add it to any website you can you can experiment with it for free Here's the controversy though the controversy is now this thing knows all the security It's not just the access to the security tokens. It just basically has access to the site and what people are doing on it And the fact that it's China hosted in the demo and the fact that it's made by China is is worrying people What do you think would you put this on your site? Uh, no I would I would point clawed at this and say hey clawed could you help me build this functionality into my site? But I don't I don't think I would just take this like Thing that yeah, I don't like anything that has tentacles everywhere Uh, and unless unless I have some some control over it and I you know, I don't know if it's good or not But I don't I don't trust a lot of of international Services like this too Should I add this to this report because people have been getting the whole website that I build out for each one of our sessions Should I add it on to this report and let people ask questions? I don't think I've got anything personal on this right? Yeah, there's nothing personal here. Give it a shot. See what happens I'm a little worried now will it go beyond the site? I'll test it and see you all will know whether it's on the site I'm the bottom and feel free to ask me what what happened if it's not there. Okay. Uh number nine for the week is Omni route Omni route is Recognizing that so many people now as they're interacting with their agents are running out of What is it not is it running out of tokens? Basically you get the session limits. I hit that now for the next two hours my Cloud code is basically shot and I have to switch over to codex This says let me tear it out for you and when you run out I'm gonna switch you over in fact It's not just when you run out. Well, I'll I'll switch you over It's got 237 different providers that it works with it will auto fall back But it will also add token compression. We've talked about caveman, which will simplify the way that you're talking with um Your your agent But it will do it in these 70 different ways um, and I've grouped them here actually I got this from a video that grouped in this way I'll just explain it It'll start by maybe draining one subscription then going to the next or maybe it'll start with the cheapest model first That's their few that do that their few that will spread the load around across multiple models and then it has one that's adaptive um What do you what do you say about this? What do you think? I think these are cool. I mean this is stuff that we're building into a lot of our apps now But it's hard to do this You know when I run out of of my cloud subscription I have to like log out and log into another account if that's what I want to do So I like having this here In a way that can use the subscriptions basically these are things we're already doing with like light llm and open router Online, but those don't work with your subscription. So this does so it's kind of the personal version of those business tools Which makes a lot of sense to me I know our viewers I last week. I think it was I shared a private messaging app and I said hey everyone if you want to test it and see if this works Just send me a message One guy sent me a message sewing his Hermes agent and how he has multiple um What is it open AI models in it and I said wow? How are you even doing this? And he said well my friends give me their access and then I get to rotate through all of them and the fact that he did that is just So our people so our people, you know Ha ha ha Okay next oh I out of this I said randomly put it in I'm gonna tell you why this is here years ago I talked to Simon Sinek he is the author of start with why and he said Andrew what's your why and at the time I was just doing these set of interviews on mixturegy and I said my why is that I believe the more people need to be entrepreneurs Because my teachers in school wouldn't let me be an entrepreneur But I think it's a lot easier and a lot more liberating and a lot more fun than most people think and it's create Create companies and as a result of doing over 2000 interviews and saying that in if not explicitly over and over Implicitly with the interviews that I did people were out there building companies one of the reasons why Wade fostered the founder of Zappier Sponsored is is he was listening in in Missouri where he was going oh, you know what? There's another path for me. I could be an entrepreneur. He listened he reached out to me I became his first customer of Zappier and we've known each other here and there over the years And so that's why that's why I did mixergy Now the I want to say why I'm doing this so you're not just seeing a collection of free stuff I have to admit that the algorithm is pushing me to use the word free in the uh in the descriptions of a lot of these It brings people in and and I like that But it's not just about free software I think Adam we're in a world where we can freaking create how proud am I when I show you that I created this website that I That last night the star history plug and didn't work and I created my own star history thing overnight While I slept by using the loop and then I added a video in bed that does it the way that I want This is the kind of freedom of creativity of expression of building and yes entrepreneurship But also of just creativity in general that we have never never had before And the more that I talk to people about this in my real life I went to my son's kung fu class the dad seemed interested in coding using Claude the son who was what 15 years old seemed interested I said let me come over to your house My son will come play with your son who's also 12 and I'll teach a 15 year old how to do this They both sat and watch their eyes lit up the way mind did Adam when you introduced me to it The kids started building a website to sell candy to his friends at school and then he had an idea for another and another and another and another and he built it there Within the hour that I spent with him That's the kind of thing that we're unleashing now he was creating a candy store That's the way a lot of kids start we are creating bigger and bigger projects This is where this thing goes I want to infect more people with this passion I want more people to build and that's why I'm doing this and idea that you can now go into open source projects and pull their ideas in and use them to build your stuff or actually build on them or in many cases like Matt van Horn went from not knowing get hub really to then contributing to it You got that ability it's a creative force that has never happened in the history of the world No exaggeration I want to be a part of it and I want more people who are part of it and that's why we're doing this and that's the that's the reason Simon would be so proud that I did this Worms my heart Andrew Thank you if you're there let me know if you're part of this mission if you're part of this if you're driven like I am like this if you're this electrified I want to meet you. I want to know you let me know yeah, there's Andrew there I kind of wish more people that that do go out and build I wish more people would write that they would comment that they'd email you Just say like oh, I'm building this you inspired me to build this like that that you know we could say that it's great It helps us build the channel whatever but like really it it warms our hearts like to hear oh somebody created this somebody got inspired somebody built a cool app We want to know those stories that's that's you know that's what we for dinner is Awesome stories like that. I just pulled out my pen and wrote a note here to make sure that I include my email address in the description of this Video so people can send me an email and let me know if I get a lot of spam from that I might remove it But I want to hear from you. All right Final repo the week. It's called clawed video so well named that clawed is going to spank this guy and remove this whole thing How long has this been around okay? It hasn't been around that long. Okay. It has taken off I I predict that this will be changed into like malt bot video or something But this is really cool For those of us like me who are using YouTube videos to study things that are visual like you know me I want to understand how tools work and visual is important to me But what I want to do is search through multiple videos at once. I use Claude code to do that to go and hunt through videos for me what this tool will do is it will bring in the transcript often the transcript is available in the subtitles of the of the YouTube video and if not it will use whisper To go and grab this or to create the subtitles um And then what it'll do is it will Match it up to the video frames to understand what's in the video and make it available to you It's useful for people like me who are doing this But it's also useful to people like this guy to pick I kept looking for how people were using this because not everyone's creating videos like me and studying using this To pick not I'm gonna play this video. I would just describe to you what he's doing. Where is it? Check this out He basically wants everything that he learns using YouTube to be organized for him in his own little personal wiki There it is so that he can access the things that he learned um there There it is And and so that's a really interesting use case. I'll have this here for you all to watch I also have this video here from Brad who talks about how this works And I think a way that's a little more organized than I just did You believe to instantly watch Let's jump into the video tool you've ever touched is probably using under the hood white EDLP is the download you can think of it as a right click say video But it works on basically the whole internet FFMPEG is the video engine it takes the video and turns it into two things that Claude actually wants first screenshots Which are taken every few seconds all the way through the video and then second the audio file Which is pulled out as a clean little file ready to be transcribed into text using whisper now Claude has the full picture when we put these two together It's flipping through the screenshots like a flip book reading the transcript like a script and the time stamps line up exactly So it knows on screen when something is being said. So that's the whole pipeline So cool such a good understanding as hit first Andrew So like I'm already getting the transcripts. That's all Claude needs. That's really useful You know getting the images. I guess that's fine too But I didn't realize that it ties the the screenshot to the moment in the transcript When that happens and so you know often in a video somebody's talking about what's on screen Oh, but now Claude doesn't know. Oh, but now Claude does know now. I guess exactly it. That's exactly that it It's in this video where he demonstrates how that happens together and it pieces it together And then there are people who are saying look you don't want it to grab it every you don't want it to grab every frame at an interval Because then you end up with a lot of waste you wanted to ask it you want um to grab it on Scene changes and then match that up. So yeah, that's exactly what this is about and having said that as somebody who uses tools like this all the time to get transcripts Not every transcript is available on YouTube. This is a way of doing it And I should also say this goes beyond YouTube It goes into the loom videos you get the zoom videos you get and other platforms so that you can say I've gotten all this information. I don't have it accessible now. I do and sometimes the internet It's really interesting too because that's that's a big problem in our you know when we take either loom or like fireflies We're just looking at the transcripts there too. It's no. I'm like trying to process a sales call I need to know what was on the screen. What what what was the salesperson showing? So this is a I mean is this a skill or is this a tool? Let's take a look I think it's a skill that brings them together It's a skill. Yeah, okay. Cool. Yeah, I'm definitely I'm gonna go and read this skill too man You're giving me way too much to do today So there's some there's some gems here I you know what this week is good some weeks piss you off because it's just a bunch of skills You're like and I don't even want to do this anymore Can we just switch to something else and then some weeks you like I gotta try this I gotta do that. Yeah I spend hours on these and It's I wonder if really going with the top 10 is the right way There might be a better way and you and I've talked about it So maybe we're not just going with what happens to get the most stars this week But what happens to get the most stars this week the clears our our bar I don't know. I've been playing with it this week's play was this I told you I used star history and the whole fricking thing crashed out last night on me and I had to reproduce it. I'm not copying them. I'm trying to reproduce what was in my my site before To show all of these graphs and it worked out fairly nicely And I'm really proud of it if you like this video Please subscribe like it comment all of that stuff makes me feel good about life and god knows You know what I shouldn't have external validation make me feel good about life, but I do I do I either way Andrew honesty is is an important element So I I'm like I'm a weekend with my with my sons I won't do this around my wife because I still want her to like look at me in a sexy way and not look at me as a dork But when my sons are in the car and it's not her I will go in and I will refresh the YouTube studio I They like me but they didn't thumbs it up. Who am I? Why did they why am I even doing this? Oh wait somebody did like it and thumbs it up And I like that comment he's a smart person I don't care about the other people who didn't watch it. I care about this one smart person up and down and up and down It's all in other people's control. I do need some help here folks Thanks for watching this one We have a whole other killer set of 10 repos that you need to watch I'm gonna link them right here on the screen every week I point down like this But I think it's mostly like this is where Michael does it but somewhere on the screen you'll see it and I'll see you in the next one. Bye