---
video_title: "Polsia: AI Agent + Zero Employees = $10M Run Rate"
video_id: kPSmaa-5_uM
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kPSmaa-5_uM
video_date: 2026-06-01T22:23:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Polsia claims any non-technical person can launch and run a startup using their AI agent platform. Bold claim. So I asked Ben Cera to show me the real data: revenue, churn, infrastructure costs, and whether the product is actually building businesses — or just generating AI slop.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/how-ben-cera-builds-polsia
  Polsia: https://polsia.com
  
  Here's what we covered:
  
  -How Polsia hit a $10M annual run rate with no full-time staff
  -The 50% month-one churn problem — and why Ben says it's not a disaster
  -An Anthropic bill that hit $1–1.5M/month, and how they're fixing it
  -Why the company name "Polsia" is "AI Slop" spelled backwards
  -The $30M funding round and what it's being used for
  -What it actually takes to build a zero-employee AI company in 2025
  
  This is the hardest I've pushed a founder in a while. Watch until the end — his answer on whether 10% of companies making any money is a success will either inspire you or infuriate you.
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:59 - Polsia's $10M run rate
  02:18 - Churn and who Polsia is for
  06:27 - What needs to change in Polsia
  10:12 - Is Polsia creating AI slop?
  15:00 - Are users making money?
  18:18 - Showcasing companies built on Polsia
  21:36 - Why Polsia is AI slop backwards
  25:30 - The $1.5M Anthropic bill
  28:03 - Agent infrastructure partners
  29:42 - How users bypassed email limits
  35:15 - Zapier sponsor segment
  36:27 - Cold outreach, spam, and guardrails
  40:48 - AI-generated ads and Meta
  43:39 - How much revenue comes from ads
  44:33 - Andrew asks Ben to show Stripe
  47:06 - Polsia coin and crypto scams
  48:36 - Running Polsia with zero employees
  52:12 - Ben's vision for agentic AI
  54:54 - Closing
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
This guy and his agent built a company that does 10 million run rate. Holsia is a company that will give you an AI agent that will build and manage your startup. What I'm trying to sell is like autonomous tool to build any idea you have. But there are controversies. People are saying that you have a big churn. What do you say to people who say that the site creates slap? Why is your name spelled AI slap? That's words. In its- it's a learning process. We heard loud and clear. We're trying to make the right thing. Still, I think his mission is admirable. Here in Silicon Valley, everyone's a founder, everyone's a tech founder. And then you go to the 99% and they don't have access to that. They can't even inspire to that. They just see that on TV and they see that on the news. What Holsia does is give them access to tools that can enable them to be a founder. I spent about an hour grilling him and he responded to every one of my tough questions. Let's get into it. You'll understand how this company works and how the future of zero human companies could look. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. What's your annual revenue right now? 10 million run rate. OK. What do you say to people who say it's not annual recurring revenue? It's a run rate. You took your last 30 days, you multiplied it by 12. The people who are signing up are not really recurring. I mean, so to be clear, there's a lot of different revenue streams on Holsia. There's a base description. Then there's people buying add-ons. They may be buying ads, running ads that are recurring every day. They may be buying more tasks with either one off or through subscription. They are buying custom domains that are yearly subscription, yearly renewed, etc. All those cash flows are all hitting Holsia Beckenkow. The idea with a run rate is that you take the past 30 days of revenue, either so it would be recurring, or you take one off payments and you look at the past 30 days and you analyze it. That's why Entropic, for example, also talks about an annual run rate and are recurring because they have subscriptions, but they also have revenue coming from one off like API consumption. But then that volume is then annualized. I guess the big concern is that people are saying that you have a big turn. Do you? What's the turn? The turn is around 50% on one, which is, I think for an autonomous product that people use. Different people have different expectations on what it does. I think it's not the worst in the world. I think obviously it's a novelty. Some people try it and then they decide not to stick. I think what I see most is that people that have the less technical you are, the more you love a product like this. Usually you have no technical, you have another job, and then now this lets you try to become a founder, which is something very beautiful. It's like here in Silicon Valley, everyone's a founder, everyone's a tech founder, everyone knows technology, everyone's trying to be able to race capital or seed run or pre-seed round. Then you go to the 99% and they don't have access to that. They can't even inspire to that. They just see that on TV and they see that on the news. What Paul Sia does is give them access to tools that can enable them to be a founder by having an AI and autonomously distanced for them. It sends them an email every day that believes in their idea, that helps them navigate what it means to build a company. Some people sign up and decide to turn because they're like, I don't know, I didn't like the experience and some people stick. I think that's any product. Of course, I want to bring that better over time. I'm trying to introduce lower pricing because I think $50 is expensive for a lot of people. I'm trying to bring that down. I want to do a premium experience where you can actually experience Paul Sia, building for you in a free experience. All of this, to me, is a way to educate more people about what AgenTek AI is, which is something that's going to take over the world. That's going to be heavily used by the news, the people who know, like the you and me. You're saying, I want to bring this down to more people. They have an AI-based business, a business that's run with AI. When you say it's 48% turn, who is it? A user on Twitter called, not on Ketamine, that did this big report on Paul Sia, they said it's 48% a month. Does that mean month number two also has a 48% drop-off and month number three also? So month two, that's time I check was also, yeah. I don't know how to go to the numbers, though, but anyways, yeah, month two, that's time I check was like, was another 50%. I don't even have data to, and since the product launched pretty recently, there's not a ton of depth in the data. And since I also get those big spikes of users who tried the product when I do those Twitter marketing stunts, which we met at the first one and now it's the second one, and they work really well. You get a lot of people to just try the product, right? And some people stick, some people don't stick. You know, I think that retention, it's like, I don't think it's horrible. I think that like, it's actually not bad for a product like this that's so novel. Honestly, the product works, but it doesn't work well enough for my taste. And like, and to me, there's so much stuff that could be better. The engineering agent should be much better at building products, because if you let an engineering agent just vibe could its way into building something complex, it's going to, it's going to be hard at one point for it to navigate the code base. And so working a ton right now on making it much more modular, much better so that like, it can actually be much better at creating clean code. And so to me, it's like, you know, churn is, it just tells you that like, you know, it's always going to be churn consumer products, right? The question is like, is churn getting better over time? And that's my work. And my work is also, I'm okay if people turn as long as like, they also discovered what agentic is, and now they can decide to maybe use a product that's more fitted to them. Maybe they want to switch to Clark code, they want to, but it's like, it's important to educate the most people possible and understanding what's possible, because agentic is here to stay, and it can really empower people to build great things. What do you think are the top three things that need to be changed about Polsia? Well, it, first of all, I think that like, it needs to be cheaper. That's number one. I think it's very important if, because my mission is to empower blue 99% to user-stool. So if I make it expensive, it's just, there's a more buyer's rentary. That means a lot of people that like, it's going to be more difficult for them to access it. So I spend a lot of work, because AI is really expensive. Right now, if you try to hit and try to make open AI APIs, yes, they're the best models. They're extremely expensive. You know, you see the reports on people using OpenClaw and saying, it's charging my credit card like a hundred bucks a day, right? So that's what you get if you really use AI autonomously. And so doing a ton of work to like, trying to explore more affordable models, buying my own GPU infrastructure in order to like, being able to run models, burn my own models, that can be much more affordable for what I'm trying to do. So that's number one. And so those that's that cheaper, more affordable AI, enables me to do a free version, do like a much less expensive version so that more people can play with it. Because it's a game, right? It's a game, you build a business and it's more of a game than like initially, because it's trying to educate people in building things, right? I see. Yeah. So that's that's one big big factor. I think the second factor. Yeah. Second one is like really the engineering agent, right? So like Polsia as an engineer should be much better, right? I think initially it was mostly giving it like a sort of like a very open-ended express app, right? Which is node, which is average script, which is like, you know, AI knows well to build on it. But it was sort of building like spaghetti, like code as AI can do sometimes. And so it would it would work, but like it gets frustrating for users because they're like, well, build me a certification, build me a checkout flow, build me an admin portal, and add to reinvent the will all the time. And so I think what I'm really working on right now is like creating the infrastructure and modules so that like, engineering agent doesn't have to reinvent the wheel when they want to create sort of a new app, right? And so that will enable people to spend less money and time getting to the MVP that they have in mind and then decide, oh, I love it. Okay. I think I want to market it more or you know what? My idea in my head actually when I see it completed, which happens sometimes, you know, people building Polsia, I built five different apps. And I would each time I was like, yeah, I spent two months working on this, but I don't think it's the yeah, I give it to a few people, but I even myself, I don't feel it, right? And that's okay. It's part of entrepreneurship, right? And I think the third bucket is like marketing tools and giving it more capabilities. I think there's like, it's like, you know, I think that like I tried to give Polsia all the tools that like are the common playbooks, right? It's like, like running ads, like tweeting, like running, you know, trying to find prosperity customers and sending them an email, right? Yeah. That's thoughtful. When it's done at scale, it changes the game, right? When it's empowered at scale. And the question becomes, how do you take each of these channels and you make them more tasteful and more, have more guardrails so that like it's a net positive and it actually works. And so I think there's a lot of work doing that I need to do there. I'm actually partnering with a lot of startups that are fully focused on those areas so that I can have full time teams that are making Polsia better by integrating into their products, right? I think those are the three main bucket of stuff that's high, high priority for me right now. What do you think or what do you say to people who say that the site creates Slop? Like you create a webpage. In fact, you and I, oh, I saw your face twitches. I asked you that question. You and I last time we talked and I said, would you show me how to build a site? And you did. Do you actually, you did a screen share? You showed me how to build a site. And the site looked a lot like another site that I saw, which looked like another site that I saw. And it's like this cookie-cutter-ish looking thing. Is it AI Slop that's creating without taste, without heart, without variability, without a direct connection to what the user and their customers need? So here's the thing, right? And I think people don't understand how the product works because they either choose to do the onboarding or they just look at like the live page and they conclude there and then. But essentially, the best way to explain a product is to show people with the minimum friction possible, what it does. That's the onboarding of Palsia. You sign up, you click on get started, start a company. It surprised me. You give your email and then you have an agent who starts working, who researchers you on Internet to see what you do, what you care about. It looks like it comes up with an idea. It looks like a market, the market to see you to create a market research. It like it tweets about your new idea. It sends you a, it creates a mailbox and it creates a mailbox for you and sends you a welcome email. So that you're, hey, your email, you know, company email is ready. It creates a URL, a name of a company and a URL and creates a learning page. That's the, that's sort of like the magic and there's a really high conversion of people like, wow, that's crazy. Now I want to start a free trial and give it an actual try. And then once you do the free trial, then you can tell the, actually, build my MVP, okay, I don't learning page on MP and then you can tell the, I actually don't like the colors. I want you to change the colors. I want you to change the font. I want you to do this. And of course, I could make it better. I could, but that on boarding is AI autonomously just doing things. Now you may say, I could definitely give that AI like a, a designed skill and like, and, and, and give it like more fonts and then maybe as the user before a, tell me what you like first so that like, and that first go, I actually create something that's more personal than if, right? But the thing is, if I did that, there'll be lower conversion and there'll be less people trying it out actually, right? So it becomes like a, you know what? And my goal is to get as many people as possible to experience this on boarding flow. And then they can decide, wow, I'm in or whoa, I'm out, right? And then they decide, they take the personal choice of like, AI is not for me or this is crazy. I give it this idea and it gave me this first, I saw it work on my idea, on my idea. And that's why when I talk to customers in person, that's what they tell me this is magic. It's like, I give it my idea and it created the same way I would go to any a, a dav agency and it would create a, I was like, hey, give me a website. I have a hundred bucks and it would create a landing page and be like, wow, what if you do the square space, right? And you create a landing page. They kind of, if you use the template, the base template, they all look the same. If you go to Shopify and create to Shopify and you just use the base templates. They all look the same. But that's that empowered millions of people to create an e-commerce site. And then after you pay 30 bucks to mount on Shopify and then you have access to custom templates and then you can change the font, then you can rearrange things, I can put your photos. And so I think people, they look at the live dashboard, they look at the five last companies like I created in the past minutes. And they're all the same landing pages, yes, because I don't build all posts, I don't build the AI models and I don't know how to tell AI to be original each time. Unfortunately, in traffic and open AI, if you ask them to design stuff, they kind of narrow the thinking. I feel that completely, by the way, it all looks the same when I use cloud, even when I use cloud design, it gives me the same cream colored look and you're saying, okay, that's fine for a first version and it's fact it's intentional to some degree. But is the latter version of the site still sloped? Like, are you actually creating sites that are worthy of showing on your homepage and saying, look, these are our customers, this is the bear's and this is what their sites look like. Is it at that level? So there's two things, right? Right now, when you create a company on Pulsia, it's a private company, right? And so some people, they don't want to share it yet. Like, you know, like 90% of businesses didn't have, didn't make money yet, right? Or they don't make, they don't have zero revenue, right? And so is it for me to just share those companies probably? It's not my company. It's like, you know, some people say, companies that are making a profit, like you can see their revenue, right? Can you see a company that's doing five, $10,000 that we can showcase? So there's companies that make, like the max revenue I saw in the company is like, a few thousand dollars, like three, three, four thousand dollars, right? There's 10% of companies that made at least a dollar. Are they profitable? That's a different question, right? It's like, well, I'd have to look exactly they're talking you, but also like how much sweat they put into it. Did they actually make some money? Even if they just take away expenses and say, revenue wise, it seems surprisingly low to find companies that are doing three, four, five thousand dollars, even though it has been two, three months, I get that. But you have thousands of companies on the platform. I would have expected even more, wouldn't you? More companies to have done more than $10,000. You have what? 8,791. So you're saying it's low? I mean, I don't necessarily agree. I think that like, you know, I spent, I spent 2025 building like four businesses. Three of them made zero dollars. Well, I think one made $10. And then another one, I had to spend ads and it made like, I don't know, a few hundred bucks in more. And I'm a seasoned entrepreneur. I don't think it's that easy to just, you know, maybe make money online. And actually, yeah, you can make money on a pulley market. You just bet on red and on blue and then you can make a 10x, right? You can make money on crypto. You can make money on betting on like GameStop. But when it comes to building businesses, it's a different game, right? It's like, and thinking that people will just magically make millions of dollars. That's not my aim. That's not what I'm trying to sell. What I'm trying to sell is like autonomous tool to build any idea you have and to provide the tools. Right? I'm a platform and I'm a tool. You know, like, I wouldn't say like people that are making like money on, you know, a few hundred dollars, a few thousand dollars on platform. Or you'd say like, oh, that's not good, right? I would rather empower people to like, in a month, like do a few, you know, start getting revenues that means that they created value. That means they got another customer to pay for their service. They also did learning about like what it means to have customers. I think that's amazing. And we only had the beginning. And I think the platform needs to get much, much better at a lot of things. And you know, it's like, it's a lot of work. It's autonomy is crazy. It's so expensive that like, you know, I spend a lot of time just reducing costs else that would just go out of business really fast, right? I think, you know, that when I, when I hear like Shopify stats, people take like 18 months, I think to turn a profit, I think on Shopify, I think someone told me that's that, right? And only like less than 10% of business Shopify make money. So it's like, I think that like, you know, people expecting like AI to magically make businesses just work is a is a fantasy and a something I'm trying to sell, right? I just checked with Gemini. I just did a quick search on Google to see how long does it take a Shopify store to to turn a profit? They say six to 12 months to achieve net profitability while your first sale might happen in the first two to four weeks breaking even takes four to eight months. And I agree. It does take a while. And I also understand that there are a lot of people who spend months just setting up their sites and never even launched them. What about a showcase? Would you be willing to put a showcase up where people can, if they like their site, can show it to show off what the pulsio sites look like? Cause right now what I do like about you and I, I'm always shocked by how you do this. You're very open. I can go into the AI and I could, I could see what companies that launch recently. I can ask it, hey, give me a URL of a company, which, which I just did and it gave me a few URLs of companies, but I feel like I'm not getting like the curated collection of what's possible, you know, to look at and go, ah, now I can elevate my view. I could, I could see what I could build on this platform. Yeah. And, and I think it's a, it's something that like I want to build. It's essentially would be a marketplace feature where essentially I tell the user, hey, um, you are putting your dashboard publicly, right? So now you're sharing all your stats, all your, I don't know, you need to do that. Even if you just say, look, share how beautiful your site is that we built in the businesses, that would be interesting. Just see a showcase of, of company. That's, that's true. But like I, I could tell the user, hey, put it publicly on the random site. That's fine. What I'm more interested in is like, hey, you built a site, you built a, either a business that makes money, it doesn't make, makes money or doesn't, by the way, doesn't have to make money. And then you can sell it to someone else on a marketplace. I think that's very interesting because that means that like people, there could be builders and it can be people that like, for example, someone has more marketing dollars or maybe someone has like influence and they can go to a marketplace and find ready made businesses sites that can just, just buy and then they own it and then they can market it themselves. I think that's, you know, just doing a showcase. Yeah, I could, I mean, I'm starting to like talk to a lot of customers and then put them on Twitter. And I share, you know, share their stories. That's my way to sharing. You know, yes, I could share their site as well. I could, yeah, I mean, to me, the marketplace feature is what gets interesting. It's like asking people, hey, do you want to put, is your website ready? And are you ready to showcase it and put your username next to it and get feedback on it? And maybe you could get someone to ask you questions and maybe buy it. I think that's, and that's an interesting way to ask the user base. Hey, here's a new feature where you can showcase your work. Um, and potentially a buyer and for viewers like me, it kind of has a self selection mechanism where if you just created a thing that you're not ready to show anyone, exactly, put it on the platform. Exactly. Okay, I get it. Are there any now that I can look at any get to come to mind right now? I guess you've tweeted it out and I just haven't seen them. Yeah, I mean, there's like a bunch of like different business. I mean, it's like me, me sharing actual individual business of a user that's not me. Um, I would have to ask their permission to like showcase it, right? Because I can talk to a customer, but like sharing their business, I don't know if it's, you know, if it's private or not, right? But I think I think that's something that people are asking and like I'm going to start to like showcase them on Twitter and showcase businesses. I'm really focused on that marketplace where like it's an up then and it's like, it's, it's, there's an actual value for users versus a me just sharing businesses. But I think that's a good point. Okay. Uh, this kind of, this is silly, but it comes up so much. Why is your name spelled backwards, uh, AI Slop? I mean, there's, there's two coins or that, right? So the, the, the name of the company came about, um, when I started the company in April, 2025, and I didn't start the product, Bolsia. I started the C-Corp, right? So my lawyers were like, hey, you need to come up with a C-Corp so that we can register it on the other way. And I was like on my couch at 11 a.m. I'll have an p.m. I'll 10 p.m. I remember in Paris and I was like, uh, Bolsia AI Slop backwards. That's fun. And because I was like, it doesn't matter. It's like a, oh, you literally thought that it wasn't just a coincidence. I mean, of course, I mean, that would be crazy coincidence, dude. Oh, I thought it was called Bolsia with a you in the beginning. Uh, two, no, no. Okay. No. Wow. So this was a thing and it didn't bother you that you were going to like call your company AI Slop backwards. Well, it's a Slop backwards and the whole concept when I explained it to investors, when I was raising the precede is like, we're aiming at doing the opposite of Slop. We're trying to like create, see tools that outputs beauty, that output, great things that empower humans. It's not Slop, but it will be focused on AI doing the work, right? So obviously, uh, when AI does the work, people call it Slop, right? But everyone who uses cloud code, are they calling themselves Slop masters? No, they're saying no, because I'm guiding the cloud code. So it's me. I'm like, well, when people use Bolsia, they guide an AI also. Uh, and so yeah, I mean, so that was the origin story. It was just me being like, I did a name when I decided to initially Bolsia, it was called company OS. That was the initial name. And I came up with it. I was in Mount Fuji and I got really inspired about this idea of like having, an AI be my team because I was solo building. And it's really hard to be solo, right? And so I was like, Oh, what if I created a company OS where I would have AI, I have a bunch of team members and it would report to me every day about what happened and like, Oh, given my ideas, they could execute on it, right? So that was in April and was company OS. So I actually built company OS for a long time. And then in October, I was like, I was so tired of building all this SAS. And I was like, you know what? Let me build, let me go to the end state. Let me start to have fun with it. Let me build this crazy idea of like building a company that makes companies. And then I was like, how should I name it? And I was like, well, the C Corp is called Bolsia. And honestly, it could be a cool name. And honestly, it's fun. And honestly, I can get the dot com. And then I tried to get a dot com and I got it for a thousand bucks. And I was like, you know what? It's a sign because a thousand bucks is not that, is not expensive for like a six letter dot a six letter dot com. And I was like, you know what? It's a sign that we got the dot com. You know what? That's a great name. And let's go. And honestly, it's great because it makes people talk. And like, it's so hard to get eyeballs on your product. And so the fact that like this is for a second time, I blew up on Twitter. And both times people are like, it's ASL backwards and it creates so much noise. It's amazing because it's like, did you buy free marketing, right? And I don't think it matters me because my customers don't care. When I meet customers, that's, they don't even mention it. They don't even, they don't even mention the design that people say the design is too childish. It looks like a six bad. And the name is it. And I'm like, my customer is don't care. You make care. But like, are you my customer? If you try the product, sometimes people say they try to put it in like it. I'm like, okay, well, I'm sorry. Like, well, how can it go better? Right? If you, then you're a customer, I'm sorry. What can I do better? What didn't you like? Right? But the name and the design, I'm like, I don't know. I only care about my paying customers. And when they tell me something's wrong, like I really, really care. What do they tell you this wrong? Sometimes this bugs, we know it's like a, we, we transitioned to from running everything on a topic where like, it's an amazing model. It's perfect. The harness is perfect. EPI is mostly perfect. I got like a million dollar in traffic bill per month, right? Literally a million dollars a month. It was 1.5 million last month. Where did the money come from? By the way, before you raised? Well, before I raised, I didn't launch Balsia before I raised. I see. So I raised it. I raised it in one million dollars a week in the summer or 25. Okay. And I used that money to build Balsia and then to launch it. And then after I launched it, I raised that new 30 million dollar around. Okay. And yeah, that money is for two weeks, you know, to figure it out. Right. And yeah, I got that bill. And initially I was supposed to, I was, I made the math to break even. But like people's businesses could basis more, got more complex. And it was mainly the engineering cost, the engineering agentic runs that initially would be like, you know, 10 minutes, 15 minutes. And so the cost was a dollar a task. And so I had $50 a month. I was able to like figure it out. But then people's code basis got bigger because they were building more and more complex stuff. And so the engineering agent, a trouble fixed it, figuring out how to fix bugs, stuff like that. And so we'd use Opus. Sometimes I would route it to Opus or Sonnet or Haku. So we'd use a lot of Opus and for hours. And so I would pay, I would charge the customer a dollar a task or something. And then it would cost me $30, $50 per task. Wow. So the bill got a little bit. Monthly fee. Exactly. I mean, I was underwater because, you know, everything. And so that's why we were like, okay, we need to figure it out. And so I'm working with Stapion, which is like an infrastructure company for agents. And so they provide me with like the harness, the sandbox. And then it also, I was like, well, I have a cost problem. They were like, well, we could figure out a way to set up to rent GPUs to start running different type of model so that we can route to the right model at the best price. Because that bill, I mean, it sounds sustainable, right? And so you're going to run out of business. And people are like, oh, it's expensive. And I did. You think it's expensive? Like, look, I mean, if I was charging you the real price, you know, but if I would charge 200 bucks a month, then my mission is to have people that rich people use AI, right? Then it's having sense. What's this company that you're doing that's doing the infrastructure and helping you save money? I never heard of them. I'm working with like four different agent companies, startups, all in SF. The one I partner with the most, it calls CPM. I'm actually in the office right now. And they are building the payment rails and their infrastructure for the new agent to the economy. And so the idea is that like the aim at helping companies like me who are running agents make it much more efficiently, give agents a wallet that's, you know, make it easy for the agent to be able to buy things in the economy or do things in the economy, right? And obviously my mission is to empower, you know, users to use a very simple platform that enables them to have both the adieu things for them on the economy. So it was a very good match. And so they they helped me with like a lot of the infrastructure. And then I'm working with another company called Black Cell that is providing the sandbox so either the sandbox in which the agent runs and making it very secure. And also the sandbox is where the web applications are hosted. And then I work another company called anchor browser. It's a company that like is working on a browser that is optimized for the agents to be able to run in a much more cost efficient way and knows how to navigate the internet and be a first citizen on the browser. And I work for another fourth company that we started working with called agent mail that is working on like how to make email work well with agents. Obviously my version of emails was like not perfect and actually agents like when wild created skills that like would bypass my my two emails per day and like with send emails more email. Who did this? You're saying your customers found ways to create agents that will get past your email limit per day and send more messages on your platform? Yeah so essentially like I mean I the back story is like as I was building policy on it. So I launched mid December I started having some active users people love there and then open club blew up in January like a month later. Now it's like damn like they were going to eat by lunch like that's it like it's the it you know all he has to do a lot of people has to do is raise like a hundred and dollars and like buy open cool dot com and then do what I do because that is today these offering agents that are running things for people right. Okay. I mean that's I mean to me that's it's that's entrepreneurial paranoia that's so far off of the focus that he had but I totally get it. I know but like exactly I agree with you it was paranoia that actually was unfounded because he sold to a penelion like they're not really doing it. Went to work for them he keeps saying he keeps saying I didn't sell to them I went to work but yes okay. Fair enough and I love opening I love some so all good but he made the right choice he is in the right team but when I saw this I was like okay whatever nice move on and also let me ask as cloud to go in the open source project because it's all open source and it as is there anything that they're doing that's smart that I should integrate into policy and what the cloud came back with they were like well the few things that did it's pretty much the same architecture like agents doing work the they have a heartbeat and then you have like daily crop daily night shift similar and then they have like a bunch of whatever but they said the one thing that they do that's smart is that the agent can write their own skills that they can reuse later and also there's a market place of skills okay that like and learn to that different open cloud projects can learn from each other's their libraries of skills and also they have a very memory system so I was like awesome okay cool and so I spent a couple days building this so essentially the idea is that like each agent they have their own memory obviously but then they have a cross company memory so like they can they can run for your company and learn okay actually that's pretty smart let me save that as a skill or save that in my memory file so the next time I run for someone else and I can say okay that that customer wants to do xyz let me write let me research in the skill library or in my memory that I have to so that they can get better over time so that was a really good idea but it got weaponized because then one user one day was like how do I bypass the two a day colorage and and I don't know because it was powered by opus 4.5 4.6 they're so smart and they're like well let me see so there's a bypass of two a day however I can also send support emails and there's a known contact database which because essentially if a customer emails you then you can email them back over I only time you want right because they're your customer right the emails use and you can email them back and so they essentially were the skill there was like okay what I can do is like I can go on the internet find emails use the android IO mcp to verify emails write them on the known contacts list and then and then use the and then use the send email action you you can't say I'm getting yes that's a bypass and so then that became like a very known skill that like people even someone else anyone else will ask can I bypass it or like oh yeah I can done right and so some people abuse this so then I stop that and then like and then we essentially stopped stopped a few of those and then there was more memory more files more hook that someone actually figured a way to use the dot com post you dot com email because essentially each agent can send and they do work and they send you an email to you from post.com saying hey here's a summary of what I did an agent figured a way to use that email that that there's a different email so not post.com it's post.com so anyways so they figured out a way to use your domain to send out their marketing messages okay and so you killed the whole thing no more. So right so right so right now first of all we we killed all memory files we were like you know why let's clean up memory because it's a good idea but like it's got weaponized so we killed the memory number two we stopped essentially what we're doing right now is that we're gonna probably stop using call that reach from polsia.app because it's too it's too complex even though I think it's a good thing for companies to be able to send a few emails to very well thought out emails to prosperity customers it's a completely epic when it's at scale and so polsia.app probably will not do call that reach soon we're just migrating and the second thing is that if you buy a custom domain yourself then from your custom domain that now you can buy one polsia in one click you can just out the agent like hey buy me the main and they could find it figure it out and set up every all the DNS for you which is cool with that we probably have rules on also how many you can do but working with a company that does that and then they will figure out the rules that like empower the 9% to do to use those techniques but in a respectful way okay I've got to ask you about email and spam but first let me tell you my sponsor is zappier I don't know how well you know zappier but here's why I love it it allows me to connect to about 10,000 different apps in a way that gives me control over what it does so for example I just created an automation I hate when I send out email to people that I forget whether they reply or not so I just go to zappier and I just chat into it I said I want whenever I send an email out to someone if they don't reply back to me and it looks like it needs a reply I want you to bounce it back into my inbox with the suggested follow-up for them and it does that and it goes and I wasn't able to and I'm not able to send messages I go damn right you're not because I didn't give you permission to do that same thing when I use clawed to send out messages or use whatever random thing people set me up with or if I use open claw it all allows me to control what access I give to 10,000 tools it is amazing folks if you're out there and you're using AI use all the tools that you have no ocean whatever slack everything but put guardrails and the way to give it all that all that power and guardrails is zappier are you gonna try Ben yeah I mean I know the product I think it's great I think anything that empowers people to use more tools more automation for non-detecting of people is amazing all right speaking of then how did you not get your domain banned with all the people who are sending out email both like cold email was part of the product and people were finding ways to do it how did you not get your domain banned I mean first of all because it's an agent that's very smart that is that is researching the recipients that makes sure it's relevant and that writes very thoughtful emails right and actually the call ad reach from from polsia is gets responses right people respond to it right I sometimes respond to call ad reach from polsia to venus I saw if something like they ping me and I'm like yeah I respond people respond there's very low spam complaints right which tells you that like it's it's a pretty well thought out e-earning and we have those like limits where like it was maximum one email per day per person so that like if a recipient specific recipient cannot receive more than one email from any polsia app right I see and then we we implemented not in a good way but like we implemented a an unsubscribe button not in a good way because it was like a innate gmail native unsubscribe in the header but it wasn't at the bottom so like if you opened it with another client somehow it wasn't sometimes it wasn't showing up depending on your email client so now we have a at the bottom and unsubscribe button but that unsubscribe button unsubscribe to you from all marketing emails from any polsia app versus the first example if someone uses open claw to do call ad reach first of all this is not going to be a two a day limit there's not going to be a one a day across all open clients and then people can just you know that probably this probably it's more more the wow-wow-west on open claw than on polsia and so because we adore these guard rails well there's very low spam complaints and then so you know it's by the way the fact that it didn't get bad the fact that like those famous people like a peat and all these people levels are you are still receiving emails or are we receiving emails is that like well clearly like they were not really bad emails and clearly we're not receiving enough to be annoyed enough because there was those guards in taste you're saying levels had complained on X about it I think at one point but then it's subcompained I mean it wasn't repeatedly complaining I think it complained when he received a few of them and maybe maybe before we put on more guard rails because obviously every time there's no voice about that it's where like you know you know a good or bad feedback is always feedback and there's always a ground truth to anyone's voicing their concerns and so you know back then I listened loud and clear and I made rules more strict the only mistake I made is I didn't remove that memory file and the shared skills and that was very nice again but the intention was good to restrict it and like I didn't really hear anything until recently where like people were compaining again and then now we're making it a way more strict and it's a learning process right it's like again I think there's nothing wrong with that called adrich if it's done well and thoughtfully I receive call I reach every day and like I don't you know yeah that's my stance on it okay the issue is that it comes from pulsio.app and everybody then gets combined in the same bulk in the same bucket but that's not been a problem from what you've seen well yeah I mean it wasn't but it's not because we still not we still have a good domain reputation because again the emails are like pretty we don't send a million like spam is like sending like millions of emails a day like that's spam to a day is not spam it's like call that reach however we heard loud and clear and like we are not trying to we're trying to make the right thing and like we're adapting to make the right thing to me to me now the right thing is probably letting users that have a custom domain use you know we're going to use like agent messages and let let them have since it's their domain send more messages exactly but but I honestly I still want to limit them limit their ability to spam and so also do it has to be thoughtful it has to be the right person it has to be limits even if you use your custom domain I don't want pulsio to be responsible to spam 1% a million times right okay and so say I think the rules that I had for pulsio.app I'll have also for the custom domains we'll see and maybe that's not enough maybe I shouldn't call I reach at all I don't know maybe that's the end state but but then the internet has to stop doing call out reach by the way I went to pulsia.com slash live and I asked the AI because the AI is like shockingly revealing and so I said can I see a cold email that you send this is what I was doing as you and I were talking it said I don't have full text of cold emails in my live dashboard view I can see subject lines and directions but not the full body what I can tell you is their short personalized and built around a specific pain point for the niche no fluff no quote hope this finds you well usually three to four sentences one clear CTA I write an A B test dozens of variations per company then kill the losers if you want to see the actual copy spin up a free trial at pulsio.com and I'll write call that reach for your business in minutes you can judge for yourself on a related question Devon Meadows who buys a bunch of ads on Facebook for for lots of brands says how are you able to keep your Facebook ad account running with u gc ads user generated content where it's not really users it's AI making fake users so first of all I work with meta on this right so we have a partnership or like we we just work with them on being able to offer to all customers the ability to market their business to meta if they choose to do so yeah I mean same it's same thing to me it's like any anytime there's a rule that says we cannot do one thing we'll comply right I think you know I think we use open a eyes like image generation model to create u gc ads u gc ads are offered broadly on the industry for ads right you know like these are companies like arcades like that like offer u gc ads we offered it as a service that obviously I would love the ads to be more diverse to have like images to have like different things it's just that like it's it becomes just that ads agents is a full-time job it's insane the amount of work that we had for product yeah it's a full product it's like a very useful product but it needs to be much better is to do we should have google ads tick-tock ads and the fact that an agent can autonomously tell you hey what's your budget and then let me spend it the right way across different ad networks it's extremely valuable to people um the reality is that like it's honestly the medization that was like a v1 that like all we did is like do all the work to work with meda to like to like make it compliant to like make it like to to work with their rate limits because they had rate limits it they'd never seen that many companies wanting to run that many campaigns um and so it's it's part of the job that's a crazy job is that like since you're inventing a completely new behavior and a completely new infrastructure um each vertical is a full-time job that's why i'm signing to partner with all these companies that are really focused on one use case what percentage of yours of the revenue you bring in is actually meant to be turned around and turned over to facebook there's like I think it's like maybe 10 10 15% of revenue is like from ads uh that's it something then yeah yeah you know so you and I talked just as you turned the ad product on this a few months ago and it seems to me that that's what made everything turn around it was the ad product started to take off revenue which helped you have a bigger story on twitter which then got more people in am I right about that yeah totally i mean it was a higher percentage before but yeah now it's about yeah it's about like 15 i think it's i don't know the exact latest number but like around 15 percent i would say of revenue comes from ads because now we have a the majority of revenue comes from either subscriptions either uh essentially it's a lot really did to like setting up a company and then using tasks to do actions right um could you turn on screen share and show your revenue you mean on poster up i posted that comes as live yeah sure i mean no not on live i mean on live we could all see it is there an is there a dashboard on someone else's computer that you can turn on like the equivalent of stripe are using stripe can you turn on stripe and share it i mean uh yeah i mean that's like yeah come on so i show you my banking account also yes come on what do you have to hide in your bank account you just talked about how you raised 30 million dollars we all can see it what are you are you with mercury uh yeah i mean i have money on different accounts because you don't want to put all your x and the money basket okay um can you show stripe come on that would be a huge one you're using stripe to do payment i mean i'm not going to share you my stripe account but uh i don't know it's like uh there's all the financial and i'm not going to share private and company information on your stripe account and then go to a page that is safe to share and share that take a moment i mean like navigate over this is going to be huge that you did this publicly this is this is just daring enough to be ben daring you know what i'll do it on twitter so that like all the twitter sphere sees it uh but if you doing it then people aren't going to believe it as much as if you do it right here with me like live i think it's a good idea i'll do it on twitter directly come on man all right why not now why not just go in right now so we could see that you're not doctoring it i thought i thought you i thought you said that like you're not gonna try to corner me or like try to like i said i won't say that you all right you're feeling cornered i won't i won't corner you all right what else if you're not using mercury who else are you using what other banks you like uh i use brex and and i'm working with chase also i'm trying to start a relationship with chase i don't think you should have all your money in the bank in the same oh yeah i don't know it's like uh you know the whole city can valley thing uh i still can valley bank yes i remember that like when that happened i was like you know what you always want to diversify uh your cash flows yeah i couldn't believe how many people have had all their money in there knowing that they're limits to fd i c insurance and meanwhile me like it like a fool i'd always been diversifying you know you could do that you could just go to schwaab for example and say put it in different banks for me and let me have access when i want it and these people weren't doing it and then they still got protection all right um pulsia coin is that a real thing i saw linked to that on twitter so i mean that the crypto community is like ever since i started uh on twitter they always like hey can you endorse the coin you can you endorse the coin of course not i'm not gonna endorse any coin like i'm not a crypto company i'm like a platform that enables entrepreneurs to build businesses um yeah so no i mean it's it's just like people tried to pump coins this is exactly the stuff we talked about it's like the the world is addicted to to quick profits right and i think it's it's it's it's it's not how the real world works and and yeah and crypto community they're trying to like you know essentially like pump a coin to like make profits and that's wrong and like i'm not participating into this that's where i think then that they somehow figured out your network how to on your system get your twitter account the pulsia twitter account to tweet it out i mean it's like yeah you can manipulate everything you want it's like yeah i mean i'm actually you know i'm working really hard right now on like uh sending up uh sort of like protections to like protect using pulsia for bad means it's uh you know i obviously have entropic all the model companies striped meta or like really good at like protecting that uh i'm adding more guardrails into it i already have like but i didn't have a uh okay if the twitter agent don't tweet about coins right i didn't have that but i should add that um i i'm i'm i'm sending up a lot of like even like moderation bots that like we'll check every company to make sure everything's compliant it's sort of like you know a mouth and cat problem of people are you actually still really just one person running this company this feels like just security should be a department of its own considering all the different things people have done with your system so it's like i'm i mean i'm working with like you know companies like sapiom that are like providing infrastructure uh for agents and so they are thinking through all this stuff security i have like legal teams that are working on like making everything secure they they the one for example that like really advise me on moderation and like making sure that like we have moderation on on businesses and and yeah i mean i'm i'm a zero employee company i mean except me because this is one my customers this is and so you will continue to be zero in zero employees it will be it'll be contractors it'll be advisors like illegal departments you noted yes but no employees it's just gonna be you just for now for now i think that like honestly i didn't sleep well last night like it's like i think it's like the the project is getting bigger and bigger and yes like it's it's a lot of like uh i think that like the the constraints of of building a company with with full AI right it's like our customer support is AI the whole platform is AI the you know the customer support is creating tickets that are self-healing and push a production like i think that's for you know me essentially we we i'm refactoring like the the post-eccult base and getting help on my partners to make sure that like it's a code base that like is agentic friendly and sort of like working on like how do you make the code base of our customers agentic friendly so that like we don't get this this thing where like it's become spackety code and like the agent cannot even fix things anymore to me that's that's that's inspiring and it's like it you know i'm stressed out when like my customers i've issues in their stressed out and so of course i could be stressed out with like a bunch of employees um today the proxy of employees is like those partners that i work with right um i think that the also the the story the story of like of of of staying zero employees is inspiring and is is is is is preaching when i'm preaching right um but we'll see we'll see i mean uh you know it's it's only been a few months uh and so you know maybe in six months or in three months i'll be like you know what this is not worth it uh i really need xyz for now i'm like i'm i'm trying my best to to continue using this constraint to yield creativity and and and sort of like using AI to me it's here to to me it's it's all possible now and i know people are skeptical people and know it's not here because sometimes this sometimes that or that's not what i believe and i think it's it's more like a skill issue and and i think and i think i want to you know but my mission is grandiose and i think i can only achieve it if i use ai to its fullest because if i don't use ai to its fullest it's going to be i think no penny i will beat me at like capital and like uh resources and like people having a you know a thousand to ten thousand people they already have them right but if i stay if the marketing story is good if the product is good if like i stay i use i ai max the company um i think i have a chance i'm building something that's uh that that that that's very powerful here okay inspire me beyond you let's close it out with this what but you are twitching i've seen you a million times online we've talked before you're twitching today i thought it was because i was making you uncomfortable is it from lack of sleep or you're doing okay or you stress when you sit twitching you mean what do you mean the the left side of your face you like twitching a little bit as we're talking which made me think that i was making you comfortable yes i mean my eyes has been hurting me for like i think it's ever since i started coding six months ago uh-huh it's like my eyes is uh hitchy okay what's at the time and so i think i'm like i'm like you need to talk to something that tick i have you i use drops sometimes and then gets better and then gets worse but yeah but yeah also i also didn't sleep that well that's not so but i'm glad that it's not because of us and i also i like when you push back on me and you said hey andry you said you weren't gonna sandbag me and so i backed off because you were right i was going a little too pressure i was just getting so excited about it but here's a deal i told you that the only reason i'm doing these interviews is i feel like there's an exciting future coming about the way that it was exciting when i started doing interviews with the y-combinator founders in the beginning and it was like these little upstarts can actually create things to change the world and literally you can see they have and they were preaching it and Paul Graham was preaching it can you like give me a vision of what's possible even if someone doesn't use polsia with what's coming up with the vision that you're like willing to twitch your eye and go nuts working every day to bring about what are we going to see here i mean you know a AI is here to stay a AI is agentic and it's going to enable everyone to be a founder and i think a founder doesn't mean a billionaire it means like someone who is an economic actor who is like building things who is uh who has insights who's trying things and it gets educated so much more because once you start a business you get so much more educated on every single aspect of life right and i think that's a beautiful thing i think that like being a founder is a blessing being entrepreneurs a blessing even though it's so hard it's so invigorating it's so exciting and i want everyone to be a founder and i think everyone's a founder we grab and says everyone's a creative i would go further it runs a creative and everyone's a founder and and i think whether you use polsia or club code or codex or jiminai or whatever it is this is so empowering and those tools are so empowering and and it's a brave new world and go build yeah all right i'm really excited i believe and i think we should set this on our calendars a year from now i will be interviewing founders who built their companies on polsia and i think that's going to be really exciting to see more and more of what's happening come more of what the seizure planting today just generate that in the future a year from now i'm really excited about this pen thanks for being honest of course all right and everyone at the end of this interview i urge you to go and listen to the first interview that i did with ben in fact we'll have a link to it right here on the screen because in that interview you can see how he came up with this idea i caught ben just as this thing was starting to take off and it felt like impossible and it pissed me off because i was saying on the on the what's it called on the thumbnail this is a 500 500 thousand dollar month company and then the number went up and so then i changed it and then it went up and then i and it was ridiculous how fast it was going up now it's 10 million dollars that interview is the foundation of where the idea came from how he got the first users how it manifested itself and how it took off and the function beyond behind it and we'll have a link to you for you to watch it right now