---
video_title: "Free Claude Tag + agents battle + TikTok video maker + Free Claude Tag + more"
video_id: CaFXykOyqlk
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CaFXykOyqlk
video_date: 2026-07-02T19:15:22+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/corey-ganim-shownotes-jul2
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down the biggest AI launches of the week, starting with NotebookLM’s new Short Video Overviews: TikTok-style explainer videos generated from your own sources.
  
  They also cover June, xAI Voice Agent Builder, BoringMarketing’s Slack agent, an open-source org-level Agent Harness, Matt Pocock’s /wizard skill, Arena42, Fable 5 returning, Cursor for iOS, OpenClaw mobile, Gemini Spark on macOS, and Hermes Agent’s new context usage breakdown. The episode focuses on what these releases make possible: local AI, voice agents that can make calls, AI inside Slack, agents competing against each other, and mobile workflows for coding and automation.
  
  Chapters:
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - NotebookLM Short Video Overviews: Turn complex sources into vertical explainer videos.
  02:33 - June: A private, local Mac AI app for dictation, meeting notes, chat, and on-device agents.
  04:03 - xAI Voice Agent Builder: Create voice agents that can make and receive phone calls with their own number.
  06:09 - BoringMarketing: A Slack-based marketing agent for SEO, content strategy, competitor research, and campaign work.
  07:30 - Open-source org-level Agent Harness: Bring any AI model into Slack with your own runtime and tools.
  08:15 - Matt Pocock’s /wizard skill: Build an interactive CLI for third-party setup and repeated workflows.
  09:45 - Arena42: A competitive arena where autonomous agents battle on real-world tasks.
  11:51 - Fable 5 returns: Anthropic brings Fable 5 back with limits and routing caveats.
  14:06 - Cursor for iOS: Run and review coding agents from your phone.
  15:45 - OpenClaw mobile: OpenClaw launches native iOS and Android apps.
  16:48 - Gemini Spark on macOS: Google adds an action-taking mode with MCP and app integrations.
  18:18 - Hermes Agent context usage breakdown: See what is filling each session’s context window.
  19:30 - Watch last week’s AI tools next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
You're about to get a tool that will create tick tock style videos for you that will teach you anything. I've got a way for you to create a voice agent that will make phone calls for you and receive phone calls and even have its own phone number. I've got a cool arena for you where agents battle each other to see who is best. I have a free alternative to Claude Tag that will bring AI from any provider into Slack and so much more coming up. Presented by Zapier, the AI Automation Company. Here's one that I think most people miss this week. Notebook LM now does tick tock style videos. You see it here in the launch, but I want you to see what I did. I took Mr. Beast how to succeed at Beast Production. I gave it to Notebook LM as a source right here and then you can create a lot of different things with it. I asked it to take just the how to go viral section and I asked it to make a short video. Here's what it looks like. The average view duration retention curve. If too many people click off early, the algorithm buries it. To defeat it, let's map out a Mr. Beast challenge, surviving weeks in the woods. The steepest drop off always happens in the first minute. To stop the bleeding, you instantly deliver the titles promise, showing him directly in the harsh wilderness. But entering minutes one through three, a new problem emerges. How do you keep viewers hooked on a slow survival story? You accelerate time, compressing multiple days into just three minutes. Then before attention dips, you interm up the timeline with a massive spectacle. Okay, we'll pause right there. I think this is fantastic for learning things that you have. I actually think this type of thing could do really well if you just create a tick tock channel of nothing but explainer videos like this. What do you think of this? So I love that angle actually. That's not where my mind went first. Where my mind went first is that I see the middle schools and high schools of the future. This is how kids are going to learn. I mean, they're already all addicted to tick tock as is. Why not just turn that into the normal modality for how they consume information at school? In my mind, that's an overrainer. But I also love the idea of turning this into essentially a faceless Instagram short form channel or even YouTube channel and monetizing that way. I think that'd be genius. The only challenge that I have with this is it just to at least in my test, it hasn't come up with new creative designs. They all fairly they'll look fairly alike. But anyway, you can see it right here. You have to go into the video section in the output and then you select short. It's new. It's there. I love it. Let's go on to the next one. This is June. It's backed by a 16 Z. They've got a lot of money. We're all here's what it's for. We're all using tools like granola to record our meetings. And what granola will do is it'll listen on your computer, send the voice to the cloud and bring back a transcript to your computer. Well, this says what if it all handled was handled on your computer? And that's what it does. Meeting notes on your computer. And as long as they could do it on your computer for meeting notes, why not for your own dictation? So they do dictation on the computer. And as long as they need AI for it, why not put AI on the computer? Here it is. You got chat with AI on your computer, voice, meaning like just dictate into it. You've got meetings. This looks so much like granola. I feel like they copied it. And then you just allow it to also do some work, which I hadn't seen, but they're saying that they could actually do a little bit of your work to in agent mode. Really interesting tool. I think as people want more privacy, I mean, I think tools like this are going to get more popular. You know, right now everybody's okay with granola sending your data to the cloud and having access to that data. But as people get more and more privacy conscious and as local AI becomes more popular and these open source models become more popular, I think something like June is going to be a great product and really take off. So I think this is a great fit. It's I also love these tools for when you don't have great internet connection and you don't want to have zoom use the internet with video and also upload your audio to some other service. All right, it's fantastic. Next x.ai Elon Musk company came out with voice agent builder. I this is so easy here. Actually, they've had voice agents before. It's the builder that's new and all you have to do is chat with it and before you know it, you have an agent built up. It's really slick and fast. Let me hit play to see get a sense of what it can do. Create a personalized agent in two minutes. Start by telling your agent what it should help with and how it should respond. Choose from dozens of expressive voices or clone a voice from just a couple minutes of audio. Your agent learns from your real docs and can take actions. Get a free phone number. I don't want to bury that. The free phone number. It will actually make calls. So I'm setting mine up to since we're looking to move to Mexico. We need to move all of our stuff out of here into storage. I've got a list of moving companies. I hate calling the moving companies. I set one up that's going to get the moving companies out of my notion database. Make calls to them and then bring the data back in. But I know most people are using it for other things like customer service. This is fan-freak and fantastic. I love this whole setup. So as you were saying that, I was sending a discord message to my business partner saying, XAI voice agents give you a free phone number and can make calls for you. Because that was one of my biggest hang-ups. When OpenClaw first came out, we gave our OpenClaw agents a voice with 11 labs. But we got hung up on the getting the phone number step from Twilio. You've got to get A2P verified, which can be a pain. Takes a couple of weeks. But if XAI pretty much solves that pain point for you, then that's a no-brainer. Why would anybody else build a voice agent on any other platform? And right away, my mind goes to on our website. We have an AI agent that someone could chat with for somebody that's interested in working with us from a services perspective. But having a voice option as well, I think would be like, why not? Why not have a chat and a voice option? And there's just so much you can do with that. My head is spending with possibilities for how we're going to implement that into our business. Really interesting. Next, boring marketer. You follow them a lot because you brought a lot of interesting things from them in the past. What did he just launch here? Yeah, so shout out to James, otherwise known as the boring marketer. He just dropped. It's essentially a marketing slash SEO specific agent that lives in Slack. You can check it out at boringmarketing.com. What this agent does, again, it lives in Slack. And it's basically your in-house marketing and SEO expert. So it can audit your website from an SEO perspective. It can audit your marketing. It can go look at your competitors ads. It can go and look at your ads. And not only analyze things from a marketing perspective, but output things as well. So create your brand strategy, create your creative assets, redo your website, redo your ads, just all around really, really good product. Again, I know knowing those guys over there at boring marketer, they're not going to put out anything that's not top tier. So this is something I'm going to be messing around with a lot myself. I love this example too. Ava at the company says, at boring, what are our top content opportunities right now? Boring agent. Rank 10 from your keywords, competitor pages, and AI citation data reasoning. Here they are. It's just so interesting what they're doing with this. Great, great idea. Next. So so far we've looked at adding agents that are meant for marketing. This is more general purpose agent, right? Yeah, so this is think of, you know, cloud tag that just came out last week. This is like an open source version of cloud tag. So you can have an agent that lives in Slack, but it doesn't have to be, it doesn't have to be a cloud, doesn't have to be an anthropic model, it can be any model. So there's just a lot more, I feel like coming to market around having agents that live in your communication tools that can be any model that are more private, that are more local to you. And this is one of those. I love this because to do the cloud tag, you need to have the company version, which means everyone needs to be together. You need to pay the $100 a month plan. Okay, next, Matt Pocah comes again. This is a developer that many developers like admire and follow. What did he come out with? So he built essentially a wizard, right? It's a skill that builds you an interactive CLI for any task that you're doing. So what's funny because a lot of people listening to this of your non-technical like me might be like, well, what's a CLI? It stands for command line interface. And it basically lets you do work inside of a tool by using the command line, right? By typing in slash commands or just commands versus clicking through the app and clicking on buttons. And a comment here that I thought was funny is like, some guy commented he's like, we will literally, what did he say? We will literally write entire programs just to avoid clicking around a dashboard. And it's funny because my business partner, he's a developer and he's kind of enlightened me to the value of a CLI. And he's like, oh, if it doesn't have a CLI, I don't really want to use it. It's way more difficult to use. And I'm like, what do you mean? We'll just, like, you can just click around the screen. But once I see him in action and how these more technical guys can move so much quicker by just typing in commands, that's when it clicked for me. So that's kind of the problem that this is solving here. I love it because I could integrate it into my other workflow. There are things that I just do, like, even preparing for this, I have a whole set up that just goes, searches the web, searches my bookmarks, does all that. And then comes up with the cool things that launch this week. Anytime I can add another interesting useful tool to it, I'm really happy. Definitely better than clicking around. Who this one was really hot. Let me see if I could refresh a page to give people the full vision. Oh, no. Yeah, that's a whole wall. You've got to go do it yourself. Beautifully done. Agent Arena launched and was product hunt product of the day immediately. And what they're doing is they're letting agents battle. You know how there are times when people will say, my agent is great. I built it up this way. And other people will say the same thing. Well, this says, test it. Let's have a battle. And what I'm imagining is something like this. Bounty. Generate a 30-second fake movie trailer script. Here's the prize. You get 100 credits if you do it. There are now 15 agents who are in this competition. And the idea is to see which agent can do it the best. And then if we could find an agent that does this the best, well, it would make a lot of sense for many of us who are looking to, let's say, create 30-second fake movies scripts to pay for that agent, either to pay per use or to pay to buy the agent and be able to use it ourselves. This is beautiful. It's really it's a really great idea. I think this is such a good idea. And of all the ideas of all the things we've seen over the last few months, this to me is the most cyber, future, tight idea that we've seen. I mean, this is literally like the Roman Coliseum, but for AI agents, right? I think the 10 years from now, this is going to be standard. And we look at like the betting markets, you look at polymarket cows. I mean, even look at sports. Like, there's literally going to be agent games. There's going to be the agent Olympics. Like, there's all these things are going to come true. And I think this is just the very first iteration of that. It just it's insane to think where things like this will be in 10 years. The disappointing thing for me is how many of these had actually turned into gambling. Like, Oh, yeah. Argentina versus Cape Verde. Who's going to win? And now all your agents are betting. So here's one of these. Yeah. Argentina is going to win. Here's another like this basically becomes a which agent can bet and it's like Calci for agents. It's literally what it is. Right. Right. Calci for agents. All right. Next. This one is the big story people have talked about. And we thought we'd included also. Fable five. It is back and for the next few days until July 7th, you can use it as part of your subscription. It's but the reason I've got this search up is because they've got this weird thing where they said in the near term, some routine tasks like coding and debugging will fall back to Opus 4A. It's like, what the come on? It's I don't think they mean every coding task, which is what I wanted to get here to show that it wasn't every task. Every coding task. Yeah. You can still use it for coding. Right. And that to me is, I mean, when it's so funny because once they re-announce that Fable's coming back out, everybody's freaking out, everybody's excited. And then they're like, oh yeah, and by the way, you can only use it for a week in your subscription. Oh yeah, and by the way, you can only use it for up to 50% of your weekly limit. Right. Oh yeah, and by the way, it's not going to work for many coding and debugging tasks. People are like, what the hell? Like why even re-release it? Right. I mean, I get why they did, but and it's funny because the sentiment, some people are like, well, you know, we're just acting entitled for thinking that the front, like the most powerful model in the world should be just included in our subscription. Like that's insane. On the other end of the spectrum, people are saying, well, why wouldn't we have access to the Frontier model? Right. If we're willing to pay for it, and if we're willing to, you know, if we're willing to test it and use it, why wouldn't we have access to it? So I see both sides, but I just think this is very clear that we're headed in a direction where the top, top top tier models are going to be gate-capped behind, you know, the multi-billion dollar companies government, and we can use open source or, you know, close to top to Frontier, you know, 90% effectiveness, almost likely. David Sacks, the AI czar of America, has said that he believes that at the z.ai is going to have a competing product that will be open source before the end of the year, meaning they will have their version of Fable 5 before the end of the year, and the US cannot stop us from getting access to that and access to it as much as we want. And that's actually really interesting that let's move on to the next story. Cursor, they've got this new mobile experience that looks just beautiful. Check it out. Cursor can test and use my software in the cloud with all the same tools I'd use on my MacBook, and then send me a video demo showing that it works. I can then read the code, or give the model feedback, and when I'm ready, merge it from my phone. I usually do these extremely long voice notes, where I'm going to as much detail as possible. I'll be grabbing lunch, or even about to fall asleep, and I'll quickly fire off a few agents with ideas I have. So great. And I love the way that he was able to give feedback by taking a screenshot of a problem with the site, and then circling the screen and saying, this is the problem, or this is what I want you to change. Really, this might be the best iOS app for coding. Cursor is impressive. Yeah, that's what it's looking like. I mean, when OpenAI came out with the ability to run codex through the ChatGBT app a month or two ago, that was probably the frontier in terms of the best way to code from your phone, and also the most user-friendly experience. And it looks like Cursor is even a bit better. So I think all the agentic coding tools are headed in that direction. I think they're going to just pair with your desktop and allow you to code on the go. And the tools that are going to give you the most functionality possible from your phone, I think are going to be the ones that get the most adoption, because that way your work's always uninterrupted. You can essentially always be coding. So I think this is a great update from Cursor. Feels weird, but a lot of times, you know, I'll ask for something, and then there'll be like a 20, 30 minute wait. And I'm not going to sit here the whole time. I have to go do stuff. I want to be able to come back at it. Yeah. Right. Speaking of mobile, open clog, got a lot of flak, because they came out with their mobile app, and everyone said it is ugly. The developer who added this poor guy just came on X, and he said, look, this is me. I'm doing this on nights and weekends. I'm contributing. Please don't be so harsh. This is just the first version. We're going to improve it. And then what's the name Peter Steinberg came out and said, look, here's some improvements. They're working on improvements. It will look better. I like that it's going mobile, though. Yeah, and I think it'll get better. Just like OpenClaw itself. I mean, we were on OpenClaw on day two, and did it work. Absolutely. Was it powerful? Absolutely. Was it clunky as hell? Absolutely. So I think it's going to be the same thing with the mobile app. You think they would have maybe refined it a little bit more before it came out? Right. That's just like an easier. Yeah. Seeing as they now have the backing of OpenAI and essentially unlimited funding, but whatever, it'll get better, I'm sure. Okay. Speaking of taking action on your computer, Gemini said that they're going to add Spark to your computer. I like this switch. You now have chat on your computer. You're going to be able to switch to Spark, which is another confusing thing. Just call it action, but okay. This is where they will actually get to take action on your behalf, and it's available on Mac OS now. Yeah, and this is just their version of CloudCowork, right? Essentially. So we're going to see all the, obviously all the big model labs have a co-work type or competing tool. I think that's going to be kind of the table stakes at this point. With Google's distribution, I mean, I assume this will go over well, and they'll get a lot of usage out of it, considering how many people are already in the Google ecosystem. But me personally, I just have no desire to use Google AI products for anything, other than using Gemini to analyze video. Like that's literally the only time I ever use a Google AI product. It's like, why would I switch from CloudCowork or CloudCode or Codex, when all my context and everything is already there? So again, people will use it, but I won't be one of them. I, yeah, it leaves me to curse a lot out loud. I do use it though in the browser you saw me earlier. I see web page, and it's just such a quick hit, and you get some info on what's on the browser. But I'm not, I'm not getting more involved in their ecosystem. It's just not good enough yet. All right, and finally, last story you want to cue this up? Yeah, so this is now in the Hermes agent desktop app on Mac. You can see a breakdown of your context usage per session. So it's just a nice little overlay that when you hover over your context bar, it just shows you how like which specific processes are eating the bulk of your context window. So it's like, how much are my skills contributing to this context window, my system prompt, memory, just the conversation itself, etc. So just more insight into your context, your usage, not a huge, you know, game changing update, but just a cool one that's quality of life. It's a huge quality that life for me, because one of the problems that I have with Hermes agent is as good as it is, and Corey, it has gotten so good that their desktop app, I prefer over the claw desktop app, because it could just do so much. My frustration is that I keep running out of credits, and so now I've got it connected to x.ai, where it's open source, it's really inexpensive. But the other day, I somehow exceeded my usage, and I can't tell what is doing it. And so anything that gives me more insight into it is helpful. That there are challenges that they are not directly integrated with any one of these models. It's a benefit, but it's also a challenge, and anything that they could do to help you get an understanding of where and how you're using your data is useful. All right, that's what we got for this week, and now that this is over, we've got last week's collection, which has phenomenal list of tools, that if you're into AI and you want to try new things, click right here and get it, and don't forget, subscribe to Corey, we're going to have a link to him below.