---
video_title: "Free: make Mac apps, AI edits videos, dictation, & cool ai tools launched this week."
video_id: 3ZSNBAHhm7A
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ZSNBAHhm7A
video_date: 2026-07-09T18:46:08+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/corey-ganim-shownotes-jul9
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Apps we covered:
  Glaze: https://www.glaze.app
  ChatGPT Voice demo: https://www.youtube.com/live/9f-Ew_lDtxc?t=186s
  ChatGPT Voice issue: https://x.com/huskirl/status/2074947343858684152
  ElevenLabs Music: https://elevenlabs.io/music
  Willow Voice: https://willowvoice.com/
  Stanley Studio: https://studio.getstanley.ai/
  Claude Cowork Mobile: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7A_oOG6Lfrg&t=409s
  Grok 4.5 prediction: https://x.com/elonmusk/status/2074911038286295049
  Grok 4.5 benchmarks: https://x.com/elonmusk/status/2074963933199282491
  Grok 4.5 pricing: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U3uX115I9sY&t=648s
  GPT-5.6 writing review: https://x.com/danshipper/status/2074870873958265335
  GPT-5.6 analysis: https://x.com/danshipper/status/2074859437374820691
  Claude video demos: https://x.com/itsolelehmann/status/2074405131953602958
  
  
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down the biggest AI launches of the week.
  
  Chapters: 
  00:00 - What's hot this week
  00:27 - Glaze: Build Mac apps from your desktop and launch them instantly.
  01:12 - ChatGPT Voice: A more natural voice interface that can reason, search, interrupt, and respond with images.
  04:03 - ElevenLabs Music: Generate songs from prompts, use them in workflows, and publish through a marketplace.
  06:18 - Willow Voice: A free dictation app for Mac, Windows, and iOS.
  07:57 - Stanley Studio: Edit videos by typing prompts instead of working in a timeline.
  10:57 - Claude Cowork Mobile: Review, approve, and manage Claude Cowork tasks from your phone.
  13:57 - Grok 4.5: xAI’s new model compares with Opus-level performance at much lower pricing.
  16:30 - GPT-5.6: OpenAI’s new model is getting attention for writing, coding, and day-to-day knowledge work.
  19:57 - Claude video demos: Use Claude Code to generate short product demo clips from screenshots and prompts.
  21:09 - Andrew and Corey’s mission for the AI builder community
  22:39 - Watch more AI release breakdowns next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
There is now a way for you to build apps. Any app you want right from your computer and use it instantly for free. ChatGPT just came out with a better voice interface, but you need to watch out for one thing with it. There's now a new way for you to edit videos just by texting and asking for it. It is amazing, it is free, it's all part of what's launched this week. Let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Here is an app that will make any app for you right on the desktop. Unfortunately, it's Mac only, but it works beautifully. And it's from a company we know, Raycast. You come up with an idea for an app, it puts it right there in your dock, makes it work for you, and even allows you to make it available on their marketplace for other people. What do you think of this one? I think this one is awesome. Raycast is a really cool tool in and of itself. So when I saw it was from the makers of Raycast, I knew it was going to be legit. This is, you know, we've seen a million different app builders out there, but this is the first one that I've seen where you can build apps specifically for the Mac desktop. I've already got a ton of ideas on what I'm going to do here in terms of testing this out. I think this is awesome. This is my favorite one this week for sure. Really exciting, really exciting. All right, let's go on to the next one. People probably have seen this, but I think it's worth a closer look. Chat 2PT voice can reason through harder problems and search the web for up to date information. Let me show you. Okay, I'm giving a lecture in 30 minutes on the history of sound. Okay, okay. Can you fact check my dates? Sure. Scott, DeMartinville's phone autograph in 1857, Edison's 10 foil phonograph in 1865, and Burler's Gramophone in 1887. I'll check those right now. Okay, and while you're looking, can you find out if there are any delays in the six? I'm just going to pause it there. It just goes on like this. The interesting thing is two things. First, it fact checked her and got it right. And second, she keeps interrupting the AI, which I've always appreciated. The Chat 2PT is good at handling back and forth conversations, but now it is way better. You can interrupt it. You can have a real conversation with it. It can interrupt you. And in the past, when I've had conversations with Chat 2PT and I needed a moment to think, I would say something like, okay, and I'm just going to think, I'm going to keep thinking, I'm going to keep thinking just to stop it from cutting me off. Really good. There are a few other features I want to show. What are your first impressions of this? I feel like this might be the unlock that makes voice agents really viable inside businesses. Because think about it. That was always a sticking point when you're talking to a voice agent on behalf of a business. It either cuts you off or you cut it off and you kind of get stuck in this loop of like, oh, oh, oh, you know, it's like you're, so if that is more or less solved, which it looks like it is, then I think that's it. I think this is a bigger breakthrough than people probably realize for that very reason. They have so many incredible use cases. The best one is language. If you're trying to learn a language, it will cut you off and say, actually, you asked me to correct you. I'm gonna correct you in what you just said. Oh, yeah, that's a lot better. So this is in the chat GPT app. It is rolling out. Now I also like in addition to voice and being able to cut you off and really doing that natural sound, it will do images. I've always hated that I could either do voice or images, something's like weather like this. You want a screenshot. You want an image to show it to you and now it will do both. Having said all this, there is one thing I want to point out. This is from Husky, gave it the classic test. Let's listen in. Natural. How are you? Hey, I'm all right. How's your day going? Good, was this natural? Yeah, this is still so good, natural back and forth. I'm gonna do double check that. I just wanted to make sure. Hey, can you tell me how many ease are in the number 17? Two ease, one in seven and one in team. And you're really smart, right? Pretty short. Yeah, it hasn't been as quick in his test and obviously it's still making these classic mistakes. I'll leave it out there for people to see. Let's move on to the next one. This is from 11 Labs. They now are adding music and they're doubling down on it with version two, which gives you better music. I also like that you can go in and use it for free. Obviously, once you go in and download it, they want you to start paying $6 a month is the cheapest that you can pay. They also now have a marketplace where if you created music that somebody wants to use for commercial purposes, they could come and do it. But I want you all to see how easy it is. I basically just prompted it. I said, create a short rock and hip hop combination song, make it about how Cory and I do our weekly YouTube show. You haven't heard this Cory, I'm gonna hit play. Tell me what you think. Tune in to YouTube, click that link. We show the apps before you can even think. Cory's on the mechanics, breaking down the code. Andrews at the wheel lighting up the road. From prop engineer into the latest model drop. We find the gold standard, yeah, we never stopped. It's so funny because I didn't know what to expect. I didn't know if it was gonna be like a rap song or like a rock song or what. But I mean, again, I think with AI generated music, like it's already there. You cannot tell what songs are real and what are AI generated. Aside, that is if you don't know who the artist is. So it's already come so far. And I think it's just gonna continue to kind of blur the lines between what's AI generated and what's real at this point. And I like that this is from 11 Labs because first of all, I love Soono. I love that app. I've used it a lot. If you want to remember something, you just feed it in as a prompt and you say, make me a song about it. While you're going into a meeting, it is playing the song. So you remember the things you want to go into remember. I've gone to dinner with people and I need to know their kids names, their wife name, things like that. I put it all in the song and then I have it in my mind by the time I get there and some catches on. I've never thought that it would be. Really good. If you're doing business with someone to create a quick like 15 second, 20 second song that you send over to them that they hit play on and it puts a smile on their face and it gets them prepared to work with you. There are a lot of really interesting use cases for this. What I like about 11 Labs is they're very good about their API so you can integrate it into workflows and bring it in. And then of course, now it's cheaper and they've got their own little spin on things with the marketplace. All right, next. This is from Willow. All of us are now using voice dictation. You hit a button on your computer or your phone and you talk into it and it types. Most people are using whisper flow, which is 15 bucks a month. Other products are priced similarly. This is a free option from Willow. What they're doing is they're taking their tool and they're making it free for Windows, iOS and Mac. I know I've talked about what is the other one. Fluid voice, which is available for free. This one is both Mac and Windows and they have an iOS and their model is to give you a very good first free version and then if you want to upgrade, you can pay. What do you think? I think any whisper flow competitor is kind of forced to do something to steal market share. I mean, I feel like whisper flow is like that, 800 pound gorilla in the room at this point. So for Willow to compete, I had never heard of them until you showed me today. So for to try to get me to switch from whisper flow to them if they were offering a paid plan, like it was just gonna be impossible. So I think by them offering essentially the same service for free, that's them trying to kind of grab that market share away. I think the jury's out on the quality. Like you've tried it, right? You tried it. You tried it. I'd like it better than whisper flow. I like there. I like it better than whisper flow. I actually, but I have a thing, I hate whisper flow. I think whisper flow for all of their money and attention really has not added enough features. It's just, it's kind of stupid. And anyway, I found this to be super fast and I've used it for a very long time. I like it. If you're out there looking for a free tool, this is it. Go use it. They just announced this week that they are free. Next, drop of the week. Oh, Stanley Studio. This one only made it to number three on product, I'm still pulling it in for today because what's cool about this is you drop your videos into their editor, then you talk and tell it how to edit. How many people are impressed that we can turn this video around so quickly and edit it? They want to be able to do the same thing. If you don't have a team the way that we do here, you can now just go and talk into it. It's not going to be as good as a team, but it's going to be damn good. I did it myself earlier today. I just basically did these two shots in. And here's the prompt that I use. Edit out the ums and dead space. Here's what it looks. Here's what the original sound like. This is my first clip and I, hmm. And I'm testing out new software. Okay. So now that's what I did in the beginning. Now watch without the ums and. This is my first clip and I'm testing out new software called family. I'm seeing mixed feedback on family. A lot of people say that it is amazing to be able to edit with a text instead of a timeline. But some people are also saying that it's not really a slow feature that they'd like you to do. I by the way here in the second video, I went in one direction. Then I said, no, actually, it's not the right direction. And I corrected myself and it did it. It chopped off that part that was the wrong the wrong thing. Very good. And yes, it doesn't have a lot of features here. Like I can't call or correct. Notice how I left the blinds up and so my face is really. I was wondering about the lighting. Yeah. I just quickly went and edited it. And if I did use a full featured editor, I could I could do this. I could fix it a little bit here. I can. What do you think? So I think this is a fee or not even a feature, but like a tool that I feel like so many companies have tried to get this right where you can just prompt to edit video in a simple manner. And you would think it was a pretty easy order, right? But apparently it's not. So for Stanley to what looks like get this right and make it free, I think is huge. I mean, I think D script is probably the closest thing that we have to this. But that's at the minute, it's not a cheap tool. I mean, the starter D script plan, I think is like $24 per user per month. So if all you need is just a quick little like, you know, especially if you're doing a lot of short form or like clips, kind of like an editing tool, I think this is probably the one that you this is your go to. So they have limits in terms of like size of video or number of clips or I mean, there's not even a place to pay, right? Like there's not a place to pay as far as I can see. I have not seen anything about limits of any kind in here. I it's still it's still very new. It just hit product on to this week. And like I said, it made it into number three. So I'm not going to say this is the greatest. I will say the fact that it doesn't have all those features. I think is is a benefit. I have Descript, which can do this. I have CapCut premium, which can do parts of this. This is just straight up easy. Does the work and we'll have a link to it because as you saw, Corey, I got confused with how to even find it just to load up the page earlier. It's not it's not even on their home page as far as I can see. We'll have a link over to it. Okay, next, a popular product now is going more mobile. This is from Claude. They now have co-work on the phone or do they now have it? It's kind of rolling out. Even Rob the AI guy who did a really good breakdown of this, which we'll link to. He wasn't able to get access to this. He showed some of the other new features in co-work. Like the fact that co-work is now integrated into Claude just side by side with chat. The way that you can do more of it in the cloud, not just on on your computer. I think those are all interesting. The mobile part is what I'm waiting for. Here's him talking about it. As we can see right here, it is going to be able to follow you. This is exactly what this is going to look like. When you come into co-work on your phone right here, you're going to be able to see all. You're going to be able to see what's ready for review. You're going to be able to see what actually needs input. This makes life way easier. Because again, the work does not stop now. You have Claude working 24-7. One thing that I would strongly suggest that you now do is begin to schedule out a bunch of tasks for when you're now working. Let's say that you work from 9 to 5. You should be scheduling out tasks, like getting briefs, finding things, doing work for you from your phone at any time. You could get that to happen both. I'm going to pause it here. This is the exact thing that I was doing yesterday from my phone. I was getting a haircut and I needed to get a list of products that launched this week so that I can talk about them with you today. What I did was I did remote access from my phone to my desktop. I basically had my laptop screen on this small iPhone. I was navigating because I wanted it to work in the background. That's the kind of pain in the butt that this is here to solve. I think it makes a lot of sense. The other thing that he talked about is you constantly, when you're using co-work, you're asked to approve and respond to a question and do, and you have to come back to the desk hop to do it. Now it's all going to be right here for you to respond to on mobile. I think it's about freaking time. It did something like this. I think we're going to look back in two years and be like, can you believe that we lived in a world where you were running your co-work and your codex instances had to be through your compute? You could run them on your phone, but it had to be through your computer. Your computer had to be on. In my mind, that's going to be so prehistoric in two years' time. The fact that they've now merged, chat, and co-work into a single chat interface, and now it looks like your projects are merged as well. It's like, why did that take so long? To me, that was a much needed feature. Having to duplicate my cloud chat projects to co-work just seemed an insane, why is that even a thing? Having to explain that to clients, it's like, oh, well, the chat project is this and a co-work project is this. It's just the whole thing was so convoluted. I think these are steps to make it a lot simpler. Co-work on the phone is going to be, I think, huge. For me and for a lot of people are going to use it even more than we already do. They're basically coming for open-cloth hermys in some way. All right. Next, check this out. This is from April, 2026. It will take until May to be close to Opus 4.6 and June to match and may be exceed short time by normal standards, but long time in the AI arena. That's what he said. I like how this guy says, bro, literally predicted this. Sure enough, Elon Musk retweeted and he said, our initial internal assessment. Is the GROC 4.5, which just launched this week, which is why we're talking about it, is roughly comparable to Opus 4.7, but much faster. Many people are saying that he's underselling it, that it actually is much better than that, right? That's what it seems like. Yeah. That seems to be the sentiment. It's almost as good if not as good as Opus 4.8 and it's way cheaper. Everybody I've seen on the timeline, that's what they're saying. All the everything I'm seeing is never bet against Elon, never count him out. GROC is going to be a frontier model by the end of the year with the cursor acquisition and all the compute that they have access to, I mean, it makes sense. I think this is a huge win for Elon and for XAI and I think it's going to continue to compound for them too. The power, it's really nice to see now, to see a new color here on the benchmarks, to see how well they're doing compared to others. The context window is big and I also want to point out, like you said, this is the video. The price. Now I want to talk about the price. GROC 4.5 is $2 per million tokens in, and $6 per million tokens out. That makes it comically cheaper than a lot of competing models. For example, $10 per million tokens in, and $50 per million tokens out, between 5 and almost 10X the cost. Yeah, I think more and more people will be using this. So there are challenges that we're thinking now about Fable 5 and then maybe in OpenAI's 5.5. And then we're thinking of Chinese models. We're not even thinking about GROC because it goes from super expensive to almost free that in between comically cheap is just getting ignored, right? Yeah, that's a good point. It's like up to this point that a lot of the open source models are so good, like the GLM 5.2s of the world. It's like, why would you go in between when you could get almost as good as frontier for comically cheap? And now GROC is kind of closing that gap, like you said. So I think it's good to have another competitor in the field. I hope they get better. All right. Next, speaking of another competitor, I said GPT 5.5. But today 5.6 launches and we're starting to see some benchmarks. We're starting to see people talk about where it is better. This is Terminal Bench putting it up ahead of Meet those 5 and Fabel 5, of course. This is Dan Shipper who's had it. Oh, wait, where is Dan Shipper? Here we go. He's had it, I think, for about a month. GPT 5.6 is much better, right, or than Fabel. And I know that he is huge on good writing and consistently one shots market emails that every previous model would fail ad Fabel is two verbose and liable to fall into using sentences in its own private language. If you use AI for writing 5.6 is a fantastic model. Then he had this other analogy that I don't know if it really makes sense, but it gives me a taste of what's coming up. GPT 5.6 is like a Porsche Fabel's like warp drive. We've been testing internally at every for about a month. GPT 5.6 is the best combination of power speed and performance for your day-to-day knowledge work encoding. Fabel is a different beast. If you need to get across the galaxy, use Fabel. If you need to get around town, use the best available tool for the job. So it seems like he's saying, look, this is going to be the day-to-day thing that you use. Fabel is what you pay extra when you really have a big job that needs to get done fast. Am I picking up on it right? Yeah, that seems to be kind of the sentiment of what he's trying to get across there. And what I think is interesting, the previous tweet from him, where he talked about 5.6 being a much better writer than Fabel. So honestly, what's kept me largely in the Anthropic ecosystem is the fact that Claude has always historically been a better writer than the OpenAI models. That's so much of what I use it for is creating content, landing pages, marketing copy, all these things. But if 5.6 is better, then there's really not a whole lot keeping me in Claude code or in cowork when I could just use codex. Right? So it's going to be really interesting for me to kind of test them side by side and see which one is actually the better writer. But I think it's good that Claude has some competition with that specific use case now because forever, there was no competition with writing. Yeah, I keep both accounts. I think I'm going to be $100 on each. $100 on codex. That's what I know. Yeah, 100 on codex. And then I have the $6.25 account on GLM 5.2. That's what we have the exact same. Yeah. Well, it's super cheap and you can throw a bunch of stuff at it. I do find that GLM 5.2 from their own servers. Rate limits me in the moment. I can get a lot over the week, but I can get a lot done in their small window within the day. I find that that's kind of a pain. All right, let's go. Claude, that someone else has said that because same exact experience here. We can get a ton of mileage out of it over the course of the week. But yesterday I was building a speed to lead Hermes agent. Right. I was running a cron job every 30 minutes to check inbound leads. And it'll run fine then two hours in. It'll get rate limited for the next two runs. And then it's fine the rest of the day. It's like, you can't do short bursts of work, but you can do extended amount of work over the course of the week is what it seems like. I hate that I can't count on it. It's just so frustrating. This is the thing we're going to close on. You want to talk about what this is? Yeah, I think this one's really cool. I've seen a ton of these videos mainly on LinkedIn, but it's people showing a little screen share video of the Claude prompt box where they're typing in a prompt or they're typing in a... They're basically dimmoing a workflow. And when I see them, there's no way that these people are going in and running these workflows and recording it. There's got to be... This has to be AI generated and they're using some sort of video editor to facilitate that. And so at Ole said, he's like, yeah, I was able to basically generate this little short clip of the Claude prompt window using Claude code by just giving it one screenshot of the Claude chat interface and then giving it the five prompts. So that to me, I think it's cool because it unlocks some use cases around these cool little interactive videos where you're teaching people specific prompts or how to build skills or just how to use Claude. Like that is the most popular and most engaging content on LinkedIn by far right now in the space. Oh yeah, yeah. So this is... Again, I thought it was cool because I'm in that world, but other people might not so much, but I think it's really cool. All right. I will say this. I think we should just give the mission statement here a little bit about what's going on. I think that the world is changing in such an exciting end to be honest to some people also a scary way. I think the people who are watching this are the excited group. The people who are saying, what? I can now edit with just text. I could take a video and just have Claude created for me. I could do all this. I could do all that. Tell me more. I want to know what superpowers are being given to me every week. I can't keep up with it. That's the group of people that we are talking to. Those are our tribe. That's what we're looking for. If that's you, don't just comment, find ways to get at us. I'll tell you my email address is high at the next new thing.ai. I want to hear from you. A lot of people have been asking to get on calls. I don't want to get on a bunch of calls, but I do want to get to know you. Let's start with text and see where it goes. We are in an excited moment and the best messages that we've gotten. I don't know about you, but I find that the best ones, Quarry, are from people who say, I built this. Now what? I built this. Let me show it to you. Here's another cool thing. 100%. I agree completely. Guys, feel free to reach out to me directly. Best place to do that is on X. DM me there. I respond to pretty much. If your DM is sensible, I will respond. I'm at QuarryGand I'm on X. Like Andrew said, send us things you've actually built. We love to feature people that have built cool things. Things that are useful, things that the audience can actually use. I don't care if you have one follower, if you have a million followers. If it's a cool tool, if we feel like it's useful, we'll feature it. Send it to us and we will see you guys next week. Yeah. If you want more videos like this or more tools like this, there's a link right here. Watch our other collection.