---
video_title: "Hyperagent: The AI that gets customers"
video_id: pIyqwrZ0x8Y
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pIyqwrZ0x8Y
video_date: 2026-08-12T20:49:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Hyperagent: Get $500 in bonus credits on any paid plan if you use the link from my interview with Hyperagent - https://www.hyperagent.com/tnnt
  👉 More at: https://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim show how Hyperagent can find prospects, build personalized websites, and automate outreach.
  
  Corey Ganim walks Andrew Warner through his Hyperagent-powered AI agency workflow: finding local businesses with strong reviews but poor or missing websites, generating personalized one-page sites with SiteSmith, building prospect lists with Prospector, and tracking the sales funnel in a custom CRM. They also explore Hyperagent's model selection, self-learning agents, Slack and Telegram integrations, and how the same system could be used to build and sell AI agents to businesses.
  
  00:00 - Hyperagent: Finding customers and building websites
  00:37 - Prospecting: Finding local businesses with poor websites
  01:45 - SiteSmith: Building personalized websites
  03:27 - Personalized sites: No templates required
  04:01 - Prospector: Finding qualified leads
  06:49 - CRM: Tracking the AI agency challenge
  08:27 - Hyperagent: Why Corey chose it
  09:19 - Prospector: Creating an agent in seconds
  10:08 - Agents: Models, tools, integrations, and memory
  10:51 - Prospector: Finding contacts without Apollo
  12:26 - System prompts: How agents are configured
  13:26 - Hyperagent: Context and artifact tracking
  14:22 - Models: Choosing between different AI models
  15:30 - SiteSmith: Building one-page lead magnets
  17:20 - Hyperagent vs. Hermes and OpenClaw
  18:13 - AI agents as a service
  20:09 - Hyperagent: Building reusable business agents
  20:32 - Demo workflows: Agents prospecting and selling themselves
  
  Media/Sponsorship Inquiries: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/sponsor
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
You're going to see how to create an agent that finds you customers that builds them a product that will get their attention customized to them and then sends out messages to them to land their business. It is incredible. It's all built on HyperAgent, the super simple tool. And Corey has been using it to get customers himself. So you'll have a link below to use HyperAgent and you're about to see how Corey does it. Let's get into it. Corey, what's that? So what we have right here is a dashboard. Actually, my HyperAgent built this dashboard for me. So this is a dashboard that contains 10 websites that my HyperAgent built for me for local businesses in my area. So I live in Charlotte, North Carolina. And what I had HyperAgent do is go out and find specifically tree services in and around Charlotte, North Carolina that meet two criteria. One, they have Google reviews. They have good Google reviews and they have a lot of them. And then two, they have no website or they have an ugly website because the idea is we're going to build them a better website that we can use as what we call a trip wire offer or like a foot in the door to be able to open a sales conversation with these companies to then sell them other AI services. Meaning you're building them a website for free, not you. HyperAgent is finding them. HyperAgent is messaging them. HyperAgent is building them a website and you feel like if I give them a free website, they're going to sign up for my other AI services. Okay. Exactly. So that's a whole idea is like, how can we add a ton of value upfront? How can we take the thing that used to be the paid product and make that the lead magnet, like make that the thing that we give away for free to add a ton of value to then like we set up sell some of those other services? Okay. Can I see one of the pages that it built? Yeah. Absolutely. And real quick, just to kind of go over this dashboard. So again, these are, this is just the first 10 from my list. It's got company name where they're located a summary of their Google reviews. So like this one, you know, has 127 Google reviews, four and a half star average and their domain is parked. Like they literally don't even have a website. So this is one that that hyper agent mocked up for them. So this company is called divine acts of valor. And I guess according to divine acts of valor is like Google business page, one of their biggest selling points is we do not ever top trees. And I had to look up with that man. Yeah. And it means that, so what it says like why that matters to you? Topping is the fast way, cut down the top, lead the bottom, and also kills the tree. So we basically we don't do that. Right. So hyper agent went out and found that information and we've that into this new website that we built for them. Now this is just a simple one page, right? To kind of get them interested. And if they if they are interested, then we can build them out of full website. But this is what hyper agent mocked up is everything in the top. Is do all. Oh, sorry, you're going to show me what this, what their original site looked like. Yeah. So that's, that's what's cool about this dashboard is so again, we can click into this particular site. We can go back to our dashboard if we want or in the top right hyper agent once has click out and compare to their current site. So again, this is the new one that hyper agent built in like two minutes. This is their current site, right? It's literally bugged or like doesn't exist. So yeah, what were you about to ask there? So now does it use a template? So every site has this design and is just filling in the blanks or can I see one of the other sites and see how different it looks? Yeah. So it's not using a template. So we could templateize it if we want. Like if we click on this one here, you see this is like an entirely different. Yeah. The grind is a big one for me here. Uh huh. And then same with again, if we look at like Morgan's stump removal, totally different, totally different vibe. We have so many stumps. It keeps knocking me off my lawnmower. So that's why I pay attention for that. Okay. So it built a site for each one. The next, the next thing is to find those contacts that you that you mentioned, highly rated no website. Can I see what that list looks like? And hyper agent put this together, right? Exactly. So what we did is I'll show you. This is the list here. We'll talk about, we'll look at the list and then I'll show you how we built an agent that did that. We built the agent like 30 seconds that did this. So this is a list of tree services in the Charlotte metro area that we verified a couple of weeks ago to make sure that these are, you know, active businesses, their in business, their legit. It found 98 potential tree services in the area, not just 98 tree services, but again, 98 tree services that have good Google reviews and either no website or a poor website. So what we can do is we can kind of scroll through here and, you know, you can see all the different things going on. We got like contact page, Google review, link to Google maps, etc. But hyper agent found these and it prioritized them. So it's like, hey, we're going to prioritize these at the top that have no functional website. And then it's going to come down and, you know, the first 20 or so of no functional website, then it's going to lead to ones that have a website, but they might be an ugly website. Like this one here, triple a trees dot net, you know, not terrible, but could definitely use some work. So that is the list of leads at hyper agent. I kind of like to be honest with you, but okay, I, that one I thought was a fairly decent site compared to some of the other ones that you showed me before we got started. Yes. And some of the other ones like, again, I can't find the exact one. It might have been this one here. One of them, one of the websites that it found is, so it's the tree services website. But when you click the link, it redirects to a crypto gambling website. So think about how, think about how easy of a cell it would be for me to call them up on the phone and say, hey, you know, I understand this is X, Y, Z tree service. I just tried to go to your website and, and book a quote, but I found that when I went to your website, it redirected me to some like cryptocurrency gambling website, were you guys aware of that? And like chances are they didn't even know that was happening. So you can say, oh, okay, well, well, actually, you know, while I have you, I actually could build you a, actually went ahead and built you a new brand new website. I'm happy to show it to you. If you'd like completely free, you can just kind of get a feel for how it looks. And if you want to implement it, we could have that conversation. And then you could just text them the link to the hyper agent page. Okay. But the idea is hyper agent will be doing that. You don't even want to make that call. You want hyper agent to send it out and you've got three agents. One that sites Smith that creates the websites that we just saw. The next is a prospector that finds the contacts that we're seeing here on the screen. And then the final one is an opener that we'll see later that crafts the pitches and messages them before we go to that. This is a lot of people you then said to hyper agent, I want you to create a CRM for me to keep track of this. Can I see what that looks like? Yes, exactly. So this is the simple little tracker that I built. And now some context around this because you see the headlines says like days since challenge start. So for the folks that are new to me, if you've never seen me before, I'm starting a challenge on my YouTube channel. Basically where I'm starting a new AI agency from scratch. And it's a challenge to see how many days will it take me to get my first paying client using hyper agent with this exact model here where I'm building free websites for businesses that don't have them and using that as a foot in the door to upsell other services. So I had hyper agent in like a minute, build me this little tracker that's going to track, OK, one episode are we on, right? We're on episode one of four because it's going to be a four episode series. And what is my pipeline? What does my funnel look like? So how many leads have we found? How many texts have we sent? How many replies did we get? How many of those replies are interested? How many free sites did we actually deliver? How many calls did we book from that and how much revenue have we closed? And then what's our recent activity? Right. So it's like basically documenting everything that I'm doing in real time. And again, hyper agent just like one shot of this for me in a couple of seconds. OK. All right. And just for people who don't know, you do have an agency where you've sold AI services, right? Exactly. Since you might go with a series is to is to basically destroy any limiting belief that anybody could possibly have around, oh, I'm not experienced. I'm not technical or I, you know, we're basically I'm stripping away all my advantages and showing that anybody can do this using a tool like hyper agent. OK. All right. So now that's a CRM. Let's look at how you set it up. Why don't we start with how you set up the prospect agent using hyper agent? And what do you like about hyper agent? There's so many different agents that you can use. You could have done this in Hermes. You could have done this in open claw. Why this? Yeah. So I like hyper agent because it's very much plug and play. Like I don't know about you. I'm pretty sure you're like me in the sense that you're not technical. Like you're not a developer. You don't have a coding background. I don't either. And that's one thing that hyper agent makes that very easy for people like you and me who don't know how to code. You just want to be able to click a few buttons and spin up an agent in seconds. So that's why I chose it for this particular challenge. Now, so we're inside the hyper agent dashboard right here and just showing people how this works. Is we can come up here and right here where we've got, you know, all of our different agents. So the three that we mentioned. So to build a new agent like how I built this prospector agent, you can just click view all. And that'll take you to all your agents and then you can come up here on the top right and click a new agent. So how I built the prospector agent just to show people an example, I click new agent, create manually. And then it's saying like, what should this agent do? So you can just give it like a brief description like, hey, I want this agent to go out and find me leads for my AI services business. And I want to focus on, you know, local service businesses in Charlotte, North Carolina. So I could just type that in just like a super rough off the top like sentence or two. And you can click draft identity and it will take that sentence or two that you gave and turn it into like a system prompt, almost like an identity for that agent. Yeah. So that way the agent now knows like, okay, I exist to help Corey find leads for his business, right? And then from there you can go in and customize, okay, what model do you want it to use? What tools and integrations do you want it to have? You know, do you want it to live in telegram? Do you want it to live in Slack? And then what knowledge do you want it to have access to? Do you want it to be self learning? Which I certainly want mine to be. So I just choose that option so that anytime I'm working with my hyper agent, it's going to get smarter the more I use it. And then, you know, 30 seconds later, I'm clicking create agent and the top right and it's ready to go and it's plug and play and I can start using it. Okay. Can I see the one that you'd created yourself the prospect one and see how you filled it out? Yeah. This is the one. Yeah. This is the prospector agent. So again, at the top, the description that it came up with for itself is prospector researches, local service businesses in a target Metro and compiles verified outreach ready leads lists with contact details, ratings and review counts, delivers clean, sortable data grounded and confirmed sources. So that's a summer, right? And if we look at it'll even give you your usage over time. So I've spent $153.79 all time using this prospector agent, right? Now, there are like lead services or like contact scraping services out there, they cost like this much per month, right? And I've spent this pretty much over the lifetime of using this agent. So all things considered, it's a much more economical option than going and paying for like Apollo.io or you don't want to. Apollo for this. You're just you're having the AI find the email addresses itself. Yeah. It's just going up the internet and finding what's already what's already out there. Again, you could have a Apollo. Yeah, you could have it plug into something like Apollo. And I mean, that would help. But again, I'm trying to keep I'm trying to make it like as bare bones as possible. Yeah, trying to make it super easy for people to plug and play without having to have a bunch of different like subscriptions and things with that. Okay. And so, yeah, again, I can one click at it to a Slack channel. I can one click connected to telegram. I can one click create an email alias, which is really cool. So I have this email account. Exactly. So if I click into its identity, that's where I can update its name, its description. I can choose a little icon. I can give it a color. And then right here, which is the most important piece is the system prompt. Right. So again, that description that I just read out to you is just like the human facing description so that we know what it does. The system prompt is really that instruction set under the hood that tells the agent what it does. So the system prompt is a little more detailed. Right. I'm not going to read the whole thing through, but it's basically just a more detailed version of that description that I just read to you. Okay. Why do you not use Slack? I use Slack to communicate with my with my hyper agent. That's one of my one of the benefits for me that was easy to set up. Yeah. And it is super easy to set up. And honestly, I just, I mean, I find it easy to work inside their UI. I mean, they've got a pretty, pretty easy to use UI. Another reason I like it too is when you use hyper agent inside their UI, you can. So inside each chat at the top here, it's got you can see your context window and how much context you've used. So like when I had it build those 10 websites earlier today, those 10 websites, like literally it built me 10 websites and cost less than $20. And I've only used about a quarter of my context window to do that. So it just gives you much more granular insight into like your usage and it's got this dashboard on the right, which I like kind of clicking into the video. That I like a lot that you can actually see the product, see the outcome here. Like the artifact, I guess is the word to use for it there where you can't really see it in Slack. And then I often will have to come back here to see it. Okay. So now now you built that prospect agent. Can I see how you chat with it? Where do you go to chat? Yeah. So again, right here from the agents tab, I can click on the three dots to the right of the prospector and just do new thread. Right. I see. So when I open up a new thread, it kind of looks like your claw or your chat. And the sense that at the bottom, you can choose your model. You can even choose plan mode versus action. Yeah. So that's what's great about again, having a harness like hyper agent is like you're not locked into just a clawed model or just an open AI model. So I might, for example, for this task, I might want to use Fable 5 or I might want to use GP T56 sole or I might want to use KMEK 3 if I want a really cheap option for a simple task, right. And from there, again, I can do it in plan mode. So if it's going to be more complex task, it's like, hey, I want my prospector agent to give me a plan first so I can approve that plan. Or if it's something simple, I can just have it go straight to execution. And I can run it on auto. So I'm not having to give it permission every time it needs to do something. And I have a Z data AI subscription. I don't even have to do it with hyper agent. I just pick it and they've got the subscription and I pay them. So I like that there's not that integration layer. It's just built in. All right. Why don't we take a look at then since we saw the product that we saw now the prospector. Can I see how you set up your site Smith agent? Yeah, absolutely. So very similar setup in a sense that it's going to be the same inputs. It's just obviously doing different things for us. So in this case, the site Smith, the description of the site Smith agent says it's job is to turn a business verified Google listing into alive, mobile first, one page site built around a single call to action, the phone call, shifts and minutes using only confirmed photos, reviews and services, then hands off the URL with any data gaps flag. So again, the whole role of the site Smith, it's very specific to this series that I'm running in the sense that I just want a simple concise one page site that I could show to a business owner to get them interested in talking to me further. Right. I just want to get my foot in the door. We could, if we wanted to have the site Smith be a much more robust agent that builds like full stack websites with a quote form and, you know, SEO optimized pages built in if we wanted to, but I've just purposely built mine to be very bare bones because that's what I'm using it for. Like at the end of the day, you should be building these agents around what you're actually going to be using them for and not over engineering them. If needed, right? OK. Yeah, that totally makes sense. You're basically sending out someone a free website, giving them a one pager that has a call to action with their phone number. If the rest of their site is not even there, they don't want to have a contact form. All right. And then they could also start asking you for changes if they want it. And now the chat is the same thing. You go to those three dots on the right. You start a chat conversation with it. And then the prospector, it seems like with all of these setups for the prospector site Smith, the opener, it is just you chatting into the box and saying, this is what I want you to create and it creates it. And then you pick the model. Do you do any other big changes or that's it? No, that's it. And again, that's one of the reasons I like a tool like a hybr agent because you know, you hear about like Hermes and open claw and all these other agentic tools. And you know, those are great, but they just take, they take a little more technical expertise to set up properly. I guess what I'm saying is, is a hybr agent is a lot more just off the shelf, right? So I can treat it just like I would treat clawed or chat GBT in the sense that all I ever need to do is just chat with it. I never need to go and like, you know, get in the terminal or like install something on the back end and connecting it to like a slack or a telegram or WhatsApp is just a one click. Okay. I can see people using this to create prospectlists for their businesses to start sending out messages with really nice designs to keep track of it all in a CRM. And so they could grow their own business. I could see them getting clients like like you just did here. I can also see them saying, you know what, I'm going to build agents for businesses or a lot of businesses that just need agents and maybe there's a funnel that would be similar. In fact, if I wanted just sell hyper agents as a service where I build it for businesses, what would that funnel look like? So funny enough that you say that because I've had conversations with some folks on their team. And from what I understand, they're actually, they're positioning hyper agent as a company around that use case. Like their goal is for hyper agent to be the go to platform that people use that that are selling AI agents to businesses. So they're actually building the entire platform around the idea of making it really easy for people like me and you Andrew to build hyper agents and then install them into our clients businesses and be able to build them for us managing those agents on their behalf. Right. So, you know, what that would look like today, same exact process. I mean, plug and play come up here to view all your agents. You can build you can click a new agent. Create manually. And you know, let's just say here's my idea bookkeepers for some reason. We've gone through a few bookkeeping companies for some reason bookkeepers are hungry or then I would have expected. And so you can then ask the prospector to find bookkeeping companies that do have a really nice website that maybe their founders have been active on X or their companies been active on X Instagram or whatever within a certain threshold within the last week. And then you send them a message saying, you know what, I like your site. I like your online presence. I think I could get you customers with I can build an agent for you that would get you customers here. So what would you do? Do you want to look at it? And that kind of a thing would maybe draw them in. What do you think of that? Absolutely. I mean, again, you could build that's that you could choose like, let's say we chose a bookkeeper as a vertical. We could build an agent that solves a lot of the recurring problems that bookkeepers tend to have. Again, I don't exactly know what those are because I'm not in that space. But let's say we're targeting bookkeepers. We build the agent one time and then we could have the agent. And this is what one of the folks on the hyper agent team was showing me recently. We could have the agent record a demo video of the agent in action. So let's say, you know, for example, say most bookkeepers struggle with, you know, getting documents from their clients. So we could literally build a bookkeeping hyper agent, program it, you know, the way that we would any other agent and then tell it, Hey, I want you to record a 30 second demo ready workflow of you requesting their documents needed from a bookkeeping client and record that. And then I want you to take this prospecting list that we built using our prospector hyper agent. And I want you to send it to all those people and, you know, see which one of them might be interested in hiring you as an agent. Right. Like that is something that's entirely doable and it can literally go do that demo, record its own screen while it does it. Save it as a loom, for example, and then go fire that out to 50 bookkeeping agencies that your prospector agent found. All right. I've got a link below. If you want to try out hyper agent with some free time from them, the details in the link below. And if you want to follow Corey series, I've got a link for you where you can go and see that and see how he builds us out and gets customers with it. Thanks, Corey. Thanks, Andrew.