---
video_title: "No Fable. No Sol. Use GLM 5.2!"
video_id: Cm1REvnij4A
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cm1REvnij4A
video_date: 2026-06-29T22:07:58+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane react to the frustration around GPT 5.6 being unavailable, then look for a practical alternative: GLM 5.2.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  They watch creator demos comparing GLM 5.2 against Opus 4.8 on design, coding, speed, pricing, and local setup. Andrew tests whether it makes sense as a cheaper model for Hermes Agent, Claude Code, and other high-token workflows, while Adam explains where benchmarks matter, where they do not, and why running big models locally is still harder than it sounds.
  
  The big idea: if frontier models are expensive, limited, or unavailable, builders need flexible backup models they can actually use. GLM 5.2 looks like a strong option for fast, cheaper work, especially when plugged into agents that burn through tokens.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Why Andrew is looking for open-source alternatives
  01:03 - GLM 5.2 benchmarks and why they matter
  02:42 - Using GLM 5.2 for Hermes Agent
  02:51 - GLM 5.2 vs Opus 4.8 on design
  04:30 - Speed and pricing comparison
  05:06 - When Claude subscriptions still make sense
  05:51 - GLM 5.2 vs Opus 4.8 on coding
  06:54 - Can GLM 5.2 run locally?
  07:39 - Hardware requirements for local models
  10:03 - Why local AI hardware may not be worth it
  11:06 - Using GLM 5.2 through z.ai
  12:27 - Andrew’s plan for GLM 5.2
  13:30 - Setting up GLM 5.2 in Claude Code
  15:45 - How to switch model settings safely
  16:21 - Why GLM 5.2 works as a backup model
  17:24 - Watch the Hermes Agent use cases next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
So OpenAI just launched GPT 5.6. GPT 5.6 is finally here. GPT 5.6 is here, but you and I can't access it. The in-between state it's in right now kind of sucks. This is really bad. All of us don't get the frontier model right when it drops. I'm so disappointed right now. I really, it's hard for me to convey in words what I'm feeling. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. OpenAI is saying that we can't get their latest and greatest model andthropic had already been scaled back by the government on what they can give us. So if we can't get the best out of the American companies, I want to learn how to install open source alternatives, whether they come from China or otherwise. So today I'm going to watch videos of creators who are going to teach me about GLM 5.2, which I hear is the best. I'm going to understand how to use it. And then I'm going to install it right here. And I've got support from Adam from Gateway X, the CTO. He's going to watch these videos with me. You'll watch the tutorials with me. We'll understand it and then we'll go and implement it. And you'll see at the end how easy this can be. Let's get into it. They're really only being beaten by anthropics, Opus 4.8 and Fable, which is now no longer available to most people. We can see on some of the benchmarks, they're definitely being beaten by open AI as well. Terminal bench is more of an agentic kind of benchmark there. And the one that probably is most interesting is this deep suite. This is a new benchmark that people have been talking about a lot to replace. We bench pro to replace some of the ones that have been going on there. What do you think of this? None of these people even explain why I should care about the benchmarks. Should I care about the benchmarks? You as a regular person probably shouldn't care all that much about the benchmarks. These benchmarks are they're all very specific things that are being tested. Each benchmark has its, oh, we're really looking for this. And we're looking for biological understanding and health advice. So we're looking for software. We're looking for, and like most of those things most of the time you don't care about. What you want in a model is one that solves your problems for you. And that's fast and cheap. And the easiest things for any of us like consumers out here picking a model to pick from are the ones that are fast and cheap. You can compare token price. You can compare speed. That's quite easy. And then sure, if you're in one that's in the top five, that's great. Also, like try it out. If you're not quite happy with what you've got or this one's a lot cheaper, the easiest thing to do is just take it on trial for a day or for a week. Okay. I have been trying this with my Hermes agent. And it's done really well because Hermes agents just choose through tokens. Because it's constantly doing stuff for me. A lot of it is petty. This is doing it. And I'm not ripping through my tokens too fast. Here are a couple of examples that I think we can relate to. We're really solid at design. I want you guys to look right here and see which one of these do you think was designed by GLM? 5.2 and which one was designed by Opus? So as we sort of scroll down here, you can see that we have similar style branding. And it's obviously the same company. But we have elements on both that are very similar. We have all of these things come up dynamically as well on either side. And there's even a CTA at the bottom. I think the dead giveaway here is this right side was Opus because it has these weird Fs that it loves to do. It loves that. Were you able to tell? I noticed the exact same thing. I was bummed he gave it away because it's like I think the right side is Opus. So for design, it's really good. By the way, my secret for that is I have my own design. And I always give it to Opus and to any tool that I use and say use my design style. Yeah. But it did a great job here. What's worth Andrew? I like the design elements on the left a little better than the right. Do you have any? I think there's this is probably just like a trend thing. So many people have been using Opus for design that is starting to get a little stale. And it produces the same stuff over and over again. And just seeing a slightly different perspective here on the left. It's a little fresher. So a couple of little differences that Opus just wouldn't do by default. And that's one like really positive vote for these open source models. Is as they're more and more open source models, it's going to be even easier to change and get the opinion of multiple models before you decide something for yourself. Can I say something else? The other way that I was able to tell which one it is is if you look at the tabs on his VS code, it says Opus design design. Okay. Let's move on to pricing on this though. The fact that you are getting this output for like five times cheaper. So these are the actual terminal sessions where we did those website designs. On the left side with GLM, we got this done in three minutes and 59 seconds. On the right side with Opus, we got this done in 14 minutes and 59 seconds. And not only did the left hand side GLM use less tokens, but its cost per token is also five times cheaper. Ish. That's that's huge for me on a lot of different projects. Are you swayed by this? Are you using this? Will you use it now? I'm interested to try. You know, there's one big downside here that that we haven't talked about yet, which is when I'm using the Opus models for coding, I'm using my cloud subscription. And so I'm already capped at $200 a month for a lot of usage. And that gives you for $200. It gives you about $10,000 in equivalent API credits. And so it's a little hard like five times cheaper. That's great. But is it actually cheaper than the subscription version? That's a very, very fair point. I will say this with the subscription, I still, if I'm working on an intense project, I will run out of usage and they'll say stop and I can't stand that. And so for me, that's where it's an issue. And again, with certain things, you can't use, you can't use cloud. They won't let me put it in my Hermes agent, for example. All right, let's look at a coding project. Where I gave them a homework assignment. You can see right here, we've got GLM. And then right here, we've got Opus 4.8. I had Codex create the homework assignment, just so there was no like cross contamination or anything like that. And then when they finished, I had Codex judge both results and tell us what it thought. Now, in this case, it said that Agent 2, which was Opus, was better because it handled one subtle edge case that Agent 1 missed, which were duplicate records with values like true versus one or one versus 1.0. So the short version is that Agent 1, GLM 5.2 was good, but Agent 2 here was more precise. And generally, the way that I feel about this so far is that GLM 5.2 is really solid, and it's pretty quick for most tasks that don't require heavy reasoning. Obviously, at the end of the day, Opus 4.8 is a better model. It's a closed source model. Okay. But it does seem like it is better. It does have its place. I want to start to use it. And we're going to come back to Nate. He's going to show me how I can use it in VS Code. Let's take a look, though, at one thing that you and I have talked about in the past, which is, can we host it locally? Hmm. Here's, by the way, his demo of his local model. So anyone who's watched my live streams before, by the way, they're coming back soon. You know the 3D First Person Shooter test. This, what I'm about to show you is the 3D First Person Shooter that GLM 5.2 ran completely locally on my Mac Studio. It is a good looking game. You can see a great environment, good enemies. You can see a lot of video effects. The colors are nice. You can see hit counters and all that. It is a very great. So, right. Yeah, it is. All right. So now people are saying what's great about this is you own it. It's the MIT license. You can do whatever you want with it. Put it on your own machine. I've asked you about this. He keeps advocating getting your own machine. Hardware you need. You can run local models on any hardware you want. If you have a Mac Mini with 16 gigabytes of memory, there are local models out there that you can run on there. And I'll tell you how to do that a little bit later as well. But for this model specifically, GLM 5.2, it is a beefy model. It is a chunky boy. You need hardware for it. I am running the two-bit quant version of it. Talk about that a little bit as well. That version of the model is about 250 gigabytes in size. That means you need 250 gigabytes of memory, which means you can technically run this on a Mac studio with 256 gigabytes. Do you agree with that? I agree. I think he's skipping over something. I've tried a number of local models. I've got a Mac Mini with 64 gigabytes of RAM. And so I've tried some of these smaller models that are capable of running on it. The problem is there's a big trade-off between using a model that's big enough to be intelligent. And it fits technically in the RAM, but then it's really slow. So if you want a fast model, you're not typically going to be using anywhere close to all of your RAM. Because you need the extra RAM space for inference. You need it to run multiple requests at one time. You need it for reasoning. And all of that says, oh, well, now I need a much, much smaller model so that I get a response in any reasonable time. Anytime for context here, Andrew, when I tap out the RAM on that machine using a model, I will get maybe one token every five seconds. That's like the computer is typing one word-ish every five seconds. And so writing out a LinkedIn post or coding a file that has 2,000 lines of code, hours and hours and hours for that. Like totally unreasonable, totally unusable. The only models I've had success with are much, much smaller models that are good for classification and tagging, but aren't good for coding or intelligence tasks. Let's look at the other option that he gives us. DGX Station, which Nvidia just started releasing across many different providers, that has 750 gigabytes of unified memory. So you can run it pretty easily on there as well. That is just a very expensive computer. Hold on, I just looked it up while you were saying that. Because it's like, yeah, yeah, that's true. Andrew, it's $85,000. So, okay, so there's a world where locally, you can run these models. But yeah, I mean, this is, if you're spending, this is what I've told you in the past, too. If you're spending $60,000 to $200,000, you can have pretty good performance with these things. Now, I'm not going to put $60,000 to $200,000 on some machine today. I'm, I would much rather pay the, the API rates. And especially as API rates for these open source models come down, why wouldn't you just call the API? It's so much cheaper. It's so much faster. And then you're not stuck with this like, hunk of metal in your home or in your office, that may or may not be worth anything in a year. Which one of my past guests has told me broke down on him. Okay, so that is not an option for me. Then the only option is to come back to Nate. And here it is. If you want to use it, there, there are two ways that you can use essentially. So anyways, let's talk about how you get set up. What you do is you're going to go to z.ai. And you might pull into something like this. You can go ahead and chat. You can make landing pages right here. You can do 3D modeling. You can build your own. A lot of that, by the way, is this kind of free usage because they want you to see what it does, right? I was surprised by how fast and easy it is to get started with it. And it's really good at this stuff. It's really impressive on the front end design stuff. So come in here and play around with it if you want to just test it out and see how it feels. I would just say for anyone who's listening, just go to their website. It's z.ai. And just start asking it to do dumb stuff to see what happens. And I think you'll be impressed by what you get. Yeah. But they didn't want to plug it into Cloud Code or Open Code or Hermes agent or wherever you want to plug it in. You're going to click on this button up in the top right. And that's going to take you to the actual API console. And so you've got the option to just pay per token, which obviously is not too expensive. If you come here and I go to my billing and I go to the model pricing, you can see on the input it's $1.4 and on the output it is where to go. $4.4. But you can also just get a plan. So you could go on $16 a month, $64 a month, or $144 a month. And if you go yearly, you can save even more money. Obviously, they're not a sponsor. I'm not working with them, but you can also get on a plan. So maybe you can be on a cloud plan for maybe $100 a month. And then you can be on a Z plan for $64 a month. That's my plan. What do you think? I mean, that makes a lot of sense. Do you get API access on the plans? Or is it just access to the user interface? Yes. You get API access on the plans. That's like that's banked up. Like you get some, you get a bunch of credits every month. Yep. So I've got now the light plan at, I only did monthly because I said, who knows what's going to come out next month? $16.20 a month. I've got it in my Hermes agent. I tried it to see, Adam, is it reasonable? Can I talk to it like a human being the way that I could with Claude and frankly, even with codex? Everything's been working great. It even will code up pages like the one you're looking at now for me. And so I figure, okay, this is good. Now I want to put it into VS code. But so far, I see liking this, right? Yeah, it's amazing. I didn't realize the plans also cover it. That's, I mean, now we're like in cherry on top category, do we get it set up in your VS code and make something? So inside of your dot Claude, you should have a settings.local.json. And this is where you can play with your permissions and your MCP servers and all that kind of stuff. And you can also set environment variables. So if you guys have activated agent teams, this might live here like mine or it might live globally. Wherever it lives, that's an environment variable. And all you need to do is you need to come in here and you need to set these. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to have this exact thing pasted in the description of this video. So all you have to do is copy this, put it into your environment variables. You can also say, hey, Claude, put this into my settings.local.json. And then all you have to do is switch out your own API key. So this is where you will put your Z API key that you just got in here. So you go to API keys and you added one right there. I think we're ready to do it, right? I think we're ready. Let's grab the screenshot of what you're doing here. As you can see, I'm going to take this. Do a screen capture. Actually, let's go back and make sure that we get it from here so that it's complete, including the place where it gets stored. And I'm going to stop sharing this. I will switch now to VS code, where I will open up a brand new experimental thing. So here we go. This is my Claude code right now. I'm going to get rid of this. I'm going to paste the screenshot and say, I want to use z.ai's GLM 5.2 model here. Take a look at this screenshot. In a moment, I'll give you my API key. Tell me what I need to do. There it is. Just type that in. All right. Let's do that. I'll get an API key, which I'm going to go to the same place that he told us to go. Okay. And this is what I need from you, the API key, which I'll put right here. I'll need to restart the Claude code in this folder. Okay. Yep. And then let's plug it in and see. Do you think it's going to work? Neat does seem to give good information. So I'm going to say, yes, it will. Okay. I think it'll work too. Okay. What model are you using? I'm Claude code. But I'm running. Okay. Great. That's unusual. The folder name goes in a way. Okay. How do I switch back? One easy way to actually take a file like this and sort of delete it is just to change the name. So if you wanted three different models in here, I'd have like settings.local.json. And then I would add like dot zai at the end when I wasn't using that file. Got it. You know, and so it's like anthropics going to or Claude code is going to see whichever one is called settings.local.json. But you could have three or four stand-ins ready to swap out with it. So this was pretty freaking easy. This feels like the answer. Pay for an extra z.ai account that I use in Hermes and places where I can't use Claude code. Have it as a backup so that I could come in here and switch whenever I run out of credits. Or if I have something that's really intense, I just switched to this and let it do the intense work. This is fantastic. And Adam, I'm a worst when it comes to this stuff. I don't want to mess around with anything that's called settings that local done anything. And now I was able to do it easily. Yeah, I mean, you can ask Claude to help you with it. I think that's the like the cheat code that most people aren't using is if people feel stuck, they feel afraid. I don't know what to do. Just ask. This thing is sitting here right here ready to help already on your screen. And you know, other people will try and create the file and paste the stuff in. You did it exactly how I would do it, Andrew, which is I give Claude the information that I have and my request. And I let Claude handle making the files, make the changes, set up the backup, all that stuff. Like it's going to be a lot better at that than you are. And honestly, it's going to be faster too. All right. And one of the best things about this type of video is that you get ideas for what you can do. The how do you act on it? Give it to Claude. It'll do it. The what can you do? You need ideas for it, which is why I've got your next video here. About my favorite agent, which is Hermes, you're going to get a ton of ideas for what you could do with it. And now that you've got an inexpensive brain for it, you're going to be able to do a lot more the videos right here. Click and follow. See there.