---
video_title: "Claude Fable 5 is Already Cloning $10 Billion Apps!"
video_id: mUOEGjJTV_o
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mUOEGjJTV_o
video_date: 2026-06-10T22:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude AI just changed vibe coding forever.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Brian Casel: https://x.com/CasJam
  
  Brian Casel joins Andrew Warner to break down the best Fable 5 builds — a Lovable clone, a 3D Library of Babel, an all-in-one productivity app, and more — then shares the three prompting techniques that separate builders from beginners. Andrew closes by demoing his own screenshot markup tool, built live with VS Code and Claude.
  
  Three tips you'll take away:
  → Use Claude as a thought partner before you build anything
  → Make it ask YOU clarifying questions first
  → Set verification criteria so it checks its own work
  
  ⏱️ CHAPTERS
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:48 Lovable clone built in 2 prompts
  2:10 Synthesizer / music production app (Brian's build)
  2:40 Infinite Library of Babel 3D game (Dan Shipper)
  3:35 Personal productivity app with Kanban + calendar (Alex Finn)
  6:55 Custom markdown editor
  7:50 3D virtual drum kit (Bijan)
  8:55 Studio lighting simulator
  9:25 McKinsey-style AI research presentation
  10:20 AI Monopoly with multiplayer (Justine)
  11:20 Motorcycle riding physics game
  12:05 Turbo Kart (Mario Kart-style game)
  17:55 Andrew's Markup — the screenshot tool I built
  
  
  🔗 CREDITS & LINKS
  
  Riley Brown — Lovable clone:
  https://x.com/rileybrown/status/2064540450317271356
  
  Brian Casel — MIDI synthesizer:
  https://x.com/CasJam/status/2064742065028645198
  
  Dan Shipper — Infinite 3D Library of Babel:
  https://youtu.be/GrdEid8H6H4
  
  Alex Finn — Productivity tool:
  The prompt: https://youtu.be/RwsUnvHYmyw?t=366
  The result: https://youtu.be/RwsUnvHYmyw?t=559
  
  Kieran Klaassen — Markdown editor:
  https://x.com/kieranklaassen/status/2064410431951925517
  Try it: https://pruf.kieranklaassen.com/
  
  Bijan Bowen — Virtual drum kit:
  https://youtu.be/9GLYsrMpprs?t=1722
  
  Josh Daws — Studio shooting layout:
  https://x.com/JoshDaws/status/2064453067773210677
  Try it: https://shotblock.vercel.app
  
  Riley Brown — McKinsey-style report:
  https://x.com/rileybrown/status/2064407515752722521
  
  Justine Moore — AI Monopoly:
  https://x.com/venturetwins/status/2064504760951304346
  
  Alex Ermolov — Skiing game:
  https://x.com/alex_erm/status/2064451759666307507
  
  Kiera — Mario-style game:
  https://x.com/kieradev/status/2064482704763085202
  
  💡 TIPS
  Dan Shipper's Fable 5 tips:
  https://youtu.be/GrdEid8H6H4?t=389
  Nate Herk's tips:
  https://youtu.be/8QQ_INxAhRs?t=1575
---
CloudFable is so good. One guy said create a productivity app for me and he got something on the level of notion. Another person said create Mario Kart for me and he got a fully playable game. Another person said I want you to create lovable for me. Now lovable is a $10 billion company that creates an app that you can build other apps with. He just too shot it. It told Cloud to make it and he got it. We're going to show you all these different things that are created. We'll give you prompts that will let you create it and I'll let you show you at the end what I built myself. Oh, and we'll give you tips for how to not burn through all your tokens, but actually use it to get the best value at the lowest cost. Let's get right into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. CloudFable or Mythos is absolutely insane. On the left here we have the actual level lovable mobile app and here we have a lovable mobile app that I built in two prompts with CloudFable 5. This is the chat thread. Here's prompt one and then I just said run it on simulator two and then go. So that just counts as one prompt and then it did some stuff did some stuff and then I just screenshot it all the screens on lovable. I just need you to redesign it to look exactly like this. Brian, this is incredible. We have seen so many creations with Fable. We're going to go through a bunch of them today and what this guy did I wanted to first because he didn't just create a new app. He created an app that lets you build just about any other app and he actually demoed it and it works really well. I'll show it in a minute. These are exciting. I mean, you've recreated lovable. Recreated an app builder. This is like a new form of content. I'm scrolling like Fable first reactions of people like one shotting incredible apps. And the thing is that they're inspiring me. I was able to build and I'd like to show everyone what I built because I saw what everyone else was building and the cool thing about this is he built an app that built other apps and he told it now build notion and so you can see on the left it built notion for him. This is lovable. We know that this is a what is it? $10 billion company is what lovable is on the right is the thing that he just created also to create notion. I can literally hello there. This was his clone of lovable to then build notion right? Like all right. Here's you you saw it and you said you created a mini what is this? I was just like you know playing around with this morning my first shot with it was a synthesizer, a music production like a DAW digital audio workstation's got a mixer got a little sequencer in there and that you know one shot like 15 minutes you know one sentence and yeah let's see crazy. All right this one I really love from Dan Shipper. This is the infinite library of Babel from the Borja story. It contains all of the books in the universe because we're just straight. If you can even go into bookmarks and click one of my articles after automation and it finds it in the library. It's truly infinite. Look I could go up the stairs. I can like look down and he's going to look up. This seems like it took a long time to make right? Wrong. I made this entire thing in a single prompt with Fable 5, the new model for Manthropic. Like literally let me show you. So this is a prompt. It's from four days ago or so. I got this model a little bit ahead of time. Read Jorge, Louis, Borja says the library about it. Let me zoom in on what he's doing. And then plan and execute end to end. A browser play with 3D game in which the player has dropped in blah blah blah blah blah. Loop until it's done. Just wrote that press enter and it just went off and read the story and then it just ran and ran and ran. You can see it's like looping itself and it's checking its work after three or four hours or so done. We're going to go and see something else. I want you to see another example of what Alex Finn did. And what I like is when people show the prompts. Here's his prompt. I want to build out a personal productivity tool. I want to include two-do lists, can ban board calendar, comprehensive note taking app, Pomodoro timer, and even a little game I can play to take a break. Before building anything, please ask me any questions you have on this idea so we can build a fully fleshed out app. I'm going to hit enter. And we're going to see what he did. And the thing that I like is that he did ask please ask me questions ahead of time and we're going to go over what some of the best practices for using this here as a result. UI is a little ugly but to be honest, I also answered the question to make it colorful and playful. So I guess it is very colorful and playful. Let's see we got it. It looks like it has absolutely everything in it. Let's do a quick task. Edit the fable 5 video, hit enter on that boom. It's on your plate. That's very, very nice looking. Let's check out the calendar full calendar. Let's give it an event right now. Check video performance. We'll give it tomorrow. We'll give it a date for Thursday. We'll give it a color at the event boom there. This is a fully working calendar. What he's showing there is something that could easily be done with Cloud Opus or even earlier versions of it. I think what is really interesting now with Fable is the level of detail and the amount of, how do you say it? Correctness in the very first prompt. It seems like my first impression of it is we're stripping away the need to have these extensive prompts and specs. I mean, the synthesizer I made, some of these crazy 3D rendering stuff. It's just going deep without needing to go back and forth and reviving it. That's true. It's the lack of back and forth that makes it feel magical. It just gets it. Before I show the next one, let me ask you this though. Now that you see this, do you think that this is going to replace notion for people? Are they going to start building their own notion? Are you going to do that? I mean, that is the real interesting question. I have already started building my own internal tools. I don't pay for a project management tool anymore. I don't even pay for a notes app. I built my own notes app. I'm doing that all the time, but I'm a builder. I've been a builder for many years. I love building with AI, of course. The real question now, as we're literally seeing people clone notion, I saw a guy clone slack. I mean, and it's like an identical, you cannot tell the difference on first glance. What does that mean for the business who would otherwise pay for a slack or for a notion? Just for the sake of killing your SaaS subscription, probably not a good use case. But if notion is just not a teller to the way that your operation works or your pipeline, or all the nuances, then yeah, spin up your own. I'll show you what I built that is like that. But let's take a look at one more. This I think is a sign of things to come. What he did was, he said, I want to build my own markdown editor. In fact, I love that even included the link for anyone to try it. Let's take a look at it. Oh, this is not his markdown editor. We're going to open it up right here. Here's his markdown editor. New document markdown, create markdown. And here it is. It just works. This is me typing on your editor. This is becoming the thing that like all the builders are building their own markdown editors. I've got mine that I've been using for a couple of weeks. Now that's becoming like it used to be build your own to-do list. Now that's like just build your own markdown editor. I could comment even. This is a comment and it goes over there. Nice. Incredible. Like this. Okay. Next. This guy, Vijon, he decided to create some fun. Of course, is the virtual drumkitsim, which I have already run in the web chat. I don't really like this is always just fun to run as like the final test, I guess. So let's peak at it. And I do have the speaker on. Click anywhere to power on the audio engine. That's very, very good. Spatially, this may be one of the best arranged ones. More often than not, they're not necessarily properly arranged. Good. We can move around the scene. We have some wood effects. We have some brass effects. And then it's in a nice little circular carpet stage thing. We even have a stool. So let's check the important part. Does it slap? All right. It does. Let me turn the speaker up here. I like that he can use keys to do it. This is just kind of like watching an elephant dance. It's not really useful, but it's interesting because it can do it. All right. Studio lighting. He said, you know, you set up your studio. You want to figure out. And he's another one who included a little. This is a cool one. Tell me about it. Well, you know, you can see how like professional filmmakers would actually use something like this. Maybe they already do use software that does this, but the sky just built it with the fable. You know, yeah, I can see people setting this up just for their own office. You know, you take some measurements of your office. You put it in and you want to know where the desk should go. Have it adjust it. It does seem like a lot of these, you know, demos that were seeing float around today. Again, like just like one shot, one small prompt can get you to that level of detail. That seems pretty impressive to me. Here's the guy who basically replaced McKinsey with a prompt. Let's let's look at it. He said, look, here is a McKinsey report. And I'm Paul that's I can read it. Create a presentation like this, except on AI and for the second half of 2026, make high-quality research predictions and create graphics. Make it the same style and everything. I wanted to feel like a professional doc that would pass as a McKinsey presentation like the one I uploaded. And here you go. The level of research, I think I'd want to take a look at and see, is it smart? Is it useful? Did it do it based on what I want? And that's where I think it would. That's where I think I would have to decide whether this is better than what we had with Opus, or if it's just another version of AI Slop. Just being said, I want a monopoly game. And instead of having all these new Jersey style places, I actually want it to be AI-focused. I was looking into this one. And again, just looking at it, it's a monopoly board. You're seeing the typical monopoly interface, if you will, if you were to make it a video game. So again, that's something that you probably could create with Opus a couple of weeks ago, or even a couple months ago, no problem. But then I started reading into it and she was talking about how like, you know, and it also took it upon itself to build in the multiplayer interface. So you can like share a link with someone and actually play a monopoly multiplayer. And again, it's just like a level above capability just right out of the box or right through the first prompt that's like, whoa, you know, that's fast. And because it comes now with our subscription for another few days, I want to see what I could build right now before it's too late. This one, I don't love when people do this. He's basically said, look, I one-shotted, no interventions, the riding physics are actually fun. First time a game crossed from somehow works, interesting to play. So he made a game for himself. This is kind of interesting. I like it. I don't know that it really makes much of a difference for me. Yeah, I don't know. Again, it's just like kind of like visually stunning. You can see that the movement mechanics. So there's definitely a lot of like processing under the hood that's happening here. I don't know. It's hard to know like how impressed I should be with this stuff on the very first day, you know? All right. Final one, this is TurboCart. It's basically him recreating Mario Brothers. Single shot, about 15 minutes of work. And then I want to go into some of the issues that people have had with this. I will say, I've been making games like this with my kids and giving them a taste of vibe coding, a first time game with Claude. There's just months ago. And it would do things like that and try to create some music, but it was just very rudimentary beats and stuff. That is in the flavor of a Mario Kart game sounding music and the level of detail and the graphics. So again, like this stuff has always has been possible, but it's the details without needing to prop for every little thing. Okay, here's what I'm going to do is this actually. My kids have an issue where they they're getting the my friend and I versus me and my friend use wrong. And so I created a game for them where they're asked the question and they have to answer it. I think what I'll do is if they get five of them right, they get to play Mario Kart like this or if they get 10 of them right. Okay, let's go on and talk about a couple of issues that people have found with it and how to get around them. This one's a big one. It's come up with a lot of people. I don't think it's that good for that. I mean, it's very slow. It's very expensive. It's extremely token hungry. One thing that's a sort of a pro tip that's not intuitive for this model is you can set it to lower reasoning levels like, you know, instead of max or extra high, you can put it to medium or low for more basic questions. That's not something that was very intuitive to me, but that's how people inside of I didn't notice that either. And you know what? And I had a friend, Josh, who I interviewed before here who asked for one request and it burned through all his tokens in the $200 a month plan. So that's actually helpful to be able to shift over into into the easier version of it. And then here's another set of tips. And this is something that I did do some usage tips here. So the first one is to treat this thing as a thought partner. This thing is really smart and involving it in your planning and your ideation is a really good idea. But you want to take that with a grain of salt. Don't just use it as a thought partner and say, okay, how would I do this? It gives you an answer and you say, okay, go. Let's do it. Use it as a thought partner, meaning brainstorm with it and make it play devil's advocate and you play devil's advocate. That I didn't do. I did say ask me questions. I didn't ask the devil's advocate to sharpen my thinking on it. Yeah, actually, that's another area where I will start to pay attention to like how much better is this? Because the thought partner thing is something that I've been using AI and cloud specifically for for a really long time, like well over a year on a regular basis, almost a daily basis. I am having a voice note conversation, strategic planning, strategic coaching conversation with Claude and how I would evaluate it as he's saying is how does it help me change my thinking on a decision or on a strategy? Rather than just kind of regurgitate back to me what I'm saying. But in general, because it can build so much and it does take a while to work, it is better to have it think with you before you build it so that it's going in the right direction and not just going in the magical direction. The ask clarifying questions, that's another really, really strong pattern. I think a lot of builders have been using it for a while. When you're creating a PRD or a spec, I'll give it like the raw requirements or my raw goals. Ask me like literally I type in, ask me clarifying questions on almost everything or another one I like is like let me know whatever I may have missed here or what I'm overlooking or what the gaps are. So that I told you guys you can get in there. And the Grimmy skill was originally from Matt Pocax. So shout out to Matt, but I changed it up a little bit so that it has like brain storm docs. So if I come in here and I go to my brain storm folder which is right here, which will automatically get created if you use my skill, I've got different sessions where it's grilled me relentlessly for I'm talking like 15 questions, 25 questions, 30 questions. And it's extracted so much more knowledge out of my head into my AIOS. So that's a really great way to start off too. You could literally set up your AIOS and say use the Grimmy skill to figure out. I find that that's incredibly helpful that I want you to make me think about it so that I think of things that I didn't imagine that I might want in this relationship map at the claw. The most important is to verify its own work. You'll notice if I go into clawed and I go to this session where I prompted it to build this you know this relationship map thing. At the end of my prompt here, I said I gave it some context. I said this is a demonstration for YouTube. So don't feel the need to make this production ready, but it should be easy to understand so not make it confusing. That's not even what I meant to show you guys. I meant to show you guys this. And then once you have built that, use a dynamic workflow to verify that everything is accurate and works as expected. I wonder if I need to do that. I think I can test. I don't know that it's important for all the things that I do, but I guess for what he's doing is he's basically building a second brain using using fabled. And so he would want it to be tested a few times. Yeah, the verification thing is coming up a lot, especially this week, but it's been a topic this year. If you're going to have these models, which are much more capable now of these long-running deep tasks, like go build something big. And I'm going to walk away for three hours and expect it to be done. The way to make that work is giving it really strong verification criteria, saying like it's done when these things are true. And these are these are hard checks that like you're not done until you can absolutely confirm with screenshots with, you know, tests written with whatever it might be. Okay, you know what? Let me show what I built here after I saw all these. I got inspired. I love to take screenshots and mark them up. I use so many different tools, but none has felt great. So here, watch, I'm going to take a screenshot of this. And I'm going to go into an app that I do like. It's called new markup or markup hero. I'm going to hit command V. I paste it in there. And then this is someone else's site. It's nice. And then I could, you know, mark it up. I could add arrows and so on. But it doesn't have everything that I like in it. So I built my own. Oh wow. Super easy. Look, immediately when I click mine, it automatically paste it. I don't even like the waste of time to hit command V. I'm coming in here and hitting the bookmark. And so I wanted immediately to come in. And then I have only the tools that I care about. I can draw on the screen circle. I can have an arrow go up. I can actually pick it up the arrow like this. And then I could either hit this button to copy or I could hit command shift, see the copy. And I do this so many times. It's one of my bookmarks on every single device. And it only has now the features that I care about. It's named Andrew's markup in here. Let me show you how I did it. It's like, I did some of what Nate was talking about here. I use VS code to access Claude. Yeah, it's just a clean shot for the, for the screenshotting. I do too. But I do not like having it on my computer because it's just another thing that uses resources. And I just don't like that. So here, I opened up a Claude in here and I said, what model are you using? Said I'm using opus 48. I said switch to fable. It said, I can switch to fable, but you can just do this command model and select fable five. So I did. And then I said, okay, look, I pasted the link. I said, I want you to copy this site and put my cloud and put it on my cloud fair account. Interview me about it. Make sure that you've got the features that are important to me. Here's what I think is important. Obviously, I just talked into it. So I dictated all these features. And then it started to, it started to interview me. The thing about interviewing, though, is it's mostly like what's it called? It's mostly multiple choice questions. So it's fairly easy. And then once I had it, it said now go over to cloud flare, click this link to connect it and there you got your link and it frickin worked. And I said, look again, I really think that that interview me or ask me clarifying questions pattern is so important, especially for the builders out there who are just becoming builders, right? Like if you're, if you're just running a business and now you're starting to like gain all these kind of superpowers to build any tool that you want, you know, the way to shortcut the level of experience that a real software developer would have at this point, you like, you don't have to learn how to code. You don't have to learn how to wire up every piece of programming logic, but you do still need to make key decisions, right? I think it's easy to say, like, all right, I just, I just let a fable run all day long and it built me some magical app. Like that's really cool. But does that app actually solve your problem in your business, the way that you need it to be solved? Like fable could make those decisions for you, or you can bake into it like what you actually need to build and, and, and having it extract that out of you through through questions is huge. Yeah, simple example for me was I didn't want like infinite color options. That's another distraction for me. I just wanted it to pick eight for me, and that's fine. And I wouldn't have thought to ask for that, except it asked me the question. All right, I've got a link to all these videos below. And if you're into fable five, Wade from Zapier, our sponsor has tested fable five, run it over 600 tests against, he did 600 tests on it. And then he compared how fable five responded to those tests versus how opus eight, opus seven, Gemini, and all these other platforms. There's a link right here for you to go fall and see it.