---
video_title: "Easy Hermes management"
video_id: 6A_HVTvxqxQ
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6A_HVTvxqxQ
video_date: 2026-05-12T18:40:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Link to the Resource Vault: https://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  Justin's X: https://x.com/agentskills_ai
  
  Justin Brooke tried every AI agent setup he could find. His current winner: Hermes + gBrain + Paperclip.
  
  In this episode of The Next New Thing, Andrew Warner talks with Justin about how he’s using AI agents to run real parts of his business: writing social posts, handling customer support, managing tasks, tracking customer history, and building out internal workflows.
  
  Justin shows how Hermes runs through Telegram, how Paperclip makes the agent’s work visible, and how gBrain gives the system better memory so it can remember customers, issues, and past decisions without constantly starting over.
  
  The bigger idea: AI agents are getting easier to run, but the winning setup is not just one tool. It is the stack around the agent: memory, project management, communication, and guardrails.
  
  Timestamps
  00:00 - Justin’s AI agent stack
  00:18 - Why Hermes became his best setup
  00:27 - Using Hermes to write social posts
  02:06 - AI handling customer support tickets
  03:00 - Training the support agent
  04:03 - Creating separate Hermes profiles
  04:57 - How Hermes updates memory and skills
  05:24 - Using Paperclip as the operations dashboard
  06:18 - Building an AI-run marketing agency
  07:03 - Managing tasks and approvals in Paperclip
  08:24 - Creating a newsletter task live
  09:45 - How gBrain improves agent memory
  10:30 - Customer pages and support history
  11:51 - Why Paperclip makes agent work visible
  12:45 - Why Justin switched from OpenClaw to Hermes
  13:48 - Security and setup differences
  14:33 - Why Hermes needs less babysitting
  15:09 - The full stack: Hermes, gBrain, and Paperclip
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I have tried everything from when Chatshipy T came out and then perplexity and clawed and open clawed and Hermes. I've tried it all and so far the best setup I can find is Hermes with G-brain and paperclip. I can just share my screen with you and show you. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. This is a post that Hermes wrote for me. I wanted, I felt like it would be a good Twitter post and just a good update for my audience if I just explained everything I built on Hermes so far. I couldn't remember what that was. I've just been building like a madman and so I created a new profile on Hermes. That's a new trick that I learned. You can create different profiles. Each of them having their own sold.nd files. They have their own unique skills. They have their own unique name and personality. So I created Niki really quickly. I trained her up on my voice and my writing style and all that. And then I just because Niki is Hermes, I said, hey Niki, what have we done so far on Hermes? I was like, oh here's the whole history of everything we've installed. And I said, okay. Now what I want you to do is I want you to write that up into a long form Twitter post. Make it viral. Keep it under 800 words and start with the sentence. Everything I've built and installed with Hermes so far. And of course she started with herself at the top. And then it just, you know, you can see it just listed everything out that we built. And this was her first post right out of the gate. Literally just copy-pasted. And by the way, Niki wrote this with a little kissy face down there. I just slapped a picture of me and my wife on there and 7,000 views on the first post. So that was better than the average that I post on a normal. And I was like, all right, I'm sold. You know, Niki Hermes. Niki is my new content marketer now. She wrote a couple of other posts and they've done well as well. Okay. So that's one thing social media. You also say that it handles your customer support tickets. Let's take a look at how it does that. All right. So here we've got telegram. This is Hermes and I've added him to a group with me and my wife. You can see there's three members here. This is our support group. And so Jeffrey handles our customer support. Niki is my content manager. And you can see in here that he's closing tickets and replying to tickets. Real customer reporting, reporting an issue. Did it handle that real customer reporting an issue? Yeah. We've been giving it more and more data and trying to connect it directly to the car. Okay. So, but this is not you. This is actually Hermes responding to those customer support tickets. I would say it's about 90, I'll say 90 to be like ultra conservative, but it's probably higher than 90% of what we're doing now. Yeah. What's the way that you're engaging with it and giving it guidance to respond to these support tickets? In the beginning, it was explaining what we wanted. You have to connect it, API keys, all this stuff. All right. Welcome. You're into our support box. Go read past tickets so you can understand how to write them. And then, you know, we realized, you know, the first thing we want is, you know, we do get some spam messages in there. We get a bunch of Zoom tickets. We get, you know, spammers. We get, so just create a cron job every morning at 6 a.m. to go in there. Just get rid of the stuff that's not actual customer support. Yeah. Then from there, we introduced it to our knowledge base and it was like, all right, a lot of these questions, you can just answer. And we started with Jeffrey would have to send us a draft and then we would approve it. But like, he was already started to write better than we were anyway. So we were like, all right, Jeffrey, just just go ahead and do it. We used to have an employee that managed this and it's writing better than we were. So we're just letting it do it. Can I see how you trained it? Yeah. Okay. Here's a little bit of training. Okay. So Jeffrey is kind of Hermes. Nikki is a separate profile on Hermes. And then we added Jeffrey to a group with me and my wife. That way we could just have all support stuff talked about in one specific group. And so Jeffrey knows when he's talking about support, only bring it to this group, not to my main chat with it. Okay. And here's here's a ticket for the ticket would said, this is wifey. We need to share the ad skills focus in Google ads platform and all of its potential as well as that got it. Okay. So you got that. She's guiding him. She's then guiding him further with more messages. Here's a draft for the person. It's honest and clear, etc. All right. The great part about Hermes is when you have interactions like that, it then saves that to memory, but also updates at skill file so that it'll always remember to handle those kind of situations. And then adding on G brain, now it creates a customer page for every single customer so that it's remembering issues past issues. And we can see serial refunders if there are. Yeah. Let's see your setup. We looked at a little bit of the customer support chats. Can you show me some of the Jeffrey chats? Paper clips, the project management software? Do you build it out in Telegram? Yeah. Oh, you do. You don't use the paperclip interface. I know. And I've even, in fact, let me see. I'll show you right here because I believe that this was, I don't think we are supposed to touch paperclip. I think you are. But here's what I said. I said, if I understand correctly, paperclip is meant to be managed by you, me giving you updates, you pressing the buttons and paperclip just makes things visible. That's exactly right. Think of it this way. You were the CEO, you said direction, make decisions, paperclip is the operation dashboard on the ops manager. I keep it updated, execute the task, make the agents inside of it. So then it, you don't even look at paperclip at all. Use that web browser navigation to look at it. Oh, yeah, I have it. Can we see it? Yeah, here's, so this is the one that I'm building out right now. This is a new one, so it's not everything is done on this one. But yeah, this is the one. So we see all the roles, which I, by the way, we've got a whole video with the founder of paperclip where Dota showed me how to set this up. But essentially what we're looking at here is the company structure. You've got the marketing director, you've got a media buyer, social media manager, etc. Okay, it sets it up beautifully and very simply. Yeah, I built my own marketing agency and all my products will be the clients of this marketing agency. And that's what me and Jeffrey are working on right now. Okay, if I go to this one, it's a little bit more active so we can see. Yeah, let's see a project in here. In the inbox, it shows you all the tasks. So like the same view, this one. Okay, so Faith Funnels is just a newsletter. So it's inviting churches to the free training and then it's also publishing a weekly newsletter. It's connected directly to my kit account so that it can go in there and publish as well as look at open rates and all that stuff. And I give it a database of contact information so it can just go outreach for me as well. And then so here's the organization. We place all of our skills in here. And that's how the employees have their training. And then the inbox is where you can track all the tasks of the work. It's your approval gateway. And I believe you're really just supposed to kind of look at this. You're visually. And then I can say like I see here, there's some things that are blocked and failed. And so I would. And now I use Telegram on my phone. I hold down the audio button. And while I'm looking at it, I just talk about what I'm seeing and what it should do. And then Jeffrey goes, okay. And then I can just watch it start changing the buttons and deleting things and green lights go on. Like this was all red earlier this morning. And now we've got some greens. Blue means to do red with it. X is failed. Red with no X means it's blocked for currently. Say something that would show up as a task over here. Let's see what that looks like. Give it a task that's fairly reasonable, but benign. Right another issue of the Faith Funnels newsletter based on. Okay, I'm looking for the action up on the screen. But I'm getting it. And we're going to go into YG brain next, but I'm getting why this is useful. While we're waiting for it to show up on the screen, this is a good time for me to say that my sponsor is Zapier and Justin for you and everybody else, you should know that the beauty of using Zapier is that they allow you to connect to your email and all your other tools without giving your agent so much control that it could delete or send messages without your permission. In fact, if you don't want it to, it can not ever send messages, but it can read your messages. All right, let's take a look at what it did so far. Zapier, MCP is what I used to do that. All right, there it is. Hobby Lobby CEO who gave his company to God, click it. Let's see what's on the inside of this. Ah, okay. And so now this is all done in here. It doesn't say I'm going to do it. It just did it in this case. Yes. Okay. All right, because I've already been through the like approval gates and all that stuff and yeah. All right, excellent. Let's now talk about G-brain. You love G-brain. Here's what I understand that it does. It's Gary Tan, the head of Y-combinator, recognizing that a lot of us love all these agents, but we can't stand how much they forget. And so he said, I think I know how to organize their memory better so that it so that they don't forget. And that's what you love and that's what you're using. And you're telling me here, what what are we looking at? Okay, so this is a customer page. This is one of the things I like about Gary's system is you can create pages about everything. So if you're, you know, if you're trying to pitch investors, you can have a page for each investor. And it's going to remember everything about those investors and you kind of build out your network and things like that. For me, using it for customer support, it's creating a page for every customer that writes in. And then so above the bar is this is the unique thing that his system is doing. Above the bar is kind of the summary. So as things are happening below the bar, below the bar is the accurate, you know, transactions, everything that's happened, right? And then as things are happening below the bar, it's then adjusting above the bar so you constantly have a good summary of the relationship with this customer. But then it can go down and track real stuff. Okay, so this is a customer record. And instead of saving everything into that customer record or just whatever it thinks it's useful, what it does is it saves a lot of information below the bar in that timeline. And in the above the bar section, as you call it, it summarizes it. So like I can see this support status, high sensitivity, resolve, flag for history, the profile, information about them. And so your agent doesn't have to read the full document. It gets the summary and then decides whether it wants to go in and read the rest of it. That's the beauty of it. And so this is just one customer. Can I see the overall structure to understand what, why and how it works? That's I don't know how I can ask Jeffrey if I can do that. But that's like on the server. I would have to I don't know how to be honest. I don't know how to access that. Interesting. So you don't even like access it on a computer. You're just doing it in the cloud. And all you see is files like this. I just like you saw me texting with Jeffrey talking with Jeffrey. That's all I'm doing. And then things are happening. And that's why I like the paper clip of addition is because paper clip makes everything that I'm doing visible. So that I can track what's happening, you know, because it does get to be a lot just in telegram itself. It does you it's hard to keep track of it. And then if you try to bring it into a standard project management software, it becomes difficult to keep it in there. It becomes difficult to have the interaction work. And so paper clip does keep that organized well. Okay. I see. So yeah, you didn't even you didn't even get that file from your computer. What you did was you said to Jeffrey your Irmese agent go and get me a file to show how G brain helps you organize your thinking. It sent that to you. And you're just showing it to me in a browser. All right. This is the easy mode. It feels like for running an agent. Why do you like Irmese as a tool better than OpenClaw? You even did a whole whole online video showing how you set up OpenClaw. I felt like that was a winner. The problem I kept running into with OpenClaw one, like the whole two-hour install is, you know, I did it live, which was absolutely brutal. It was one of the most brutal install processes. There's a lot of security issues with installing it. So you got to be very careful when you're installing it. With Irmese, the install process was super easy because I just installed it on an EPS and I used digital ocean and digital ocean has a CLI. So that means Claude can connect directly to my digital ocean account. I didn't have to know any terminal commands. I didn't have to know NPX, whatever, any of that stuff. I just told Claude, hey, I want to use digital ocean CLI to connect to my digital ocean account. Then I want you to install Hermes. It installed Hermes for me. I was done in like 20, 30 minutes. Security issues were almost none. There's never none with cyber security installed it with Docker. So that doctors like a container within your server so that it's containerized and you can't hurt other things around it. The other reason, when I used OpenClaw, it would constantly forget things. Not only would it forget things, sometimes it would just think it had a better idea on how to do something that I told it to do. It's like when I'm communicating with agents, I'm trying to be very specific about like do this. Here's a skill file, repeat over and over. And OpenClaw would just kind of run with new ideas and I'd have to constantly babysit and reset things up. Yeah, the run with new ideas and then the apology later on is just infuriating. Yeah. So Hermes just doesn't do that. Hermes just works from the get go. That experience I had with Nikki, that's been the experience with Hermes ever since the install. The install went like a breeze, setup was a breeze. My first couple uses with a breeze. You saw me. I'm using it live on this thing and I'm getting it to do things and it's just working. And it's constantly learning things, creating its own skills, remembering and the way that you've been able to get it all working is by connecting these three things together. Hermes, paperclip and, and D-brain for memory. All right, right on. This has been fantastic. Thanks for watching. If you watched this far, you should subscribe because I've got more good stuff coming up.