---
video_title: "Free, local audio dictation. Better than Wispr Flow, Superwhisper & Apple’s dictation"
video_id: q_BazF9CCsU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q_BazF9CCsU
video_date: 2026-07-04T14:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane test FluidVoice, a free, open-source dictation app for Mac that runs locally on your computer.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  FluidVoice: https://altic.dev/fluid
  
  They compare it against paid tools like Wispr Flow and SuperWhisper, looking at speed, privacy, setup, customization, and real-time transcription. Andrew shows how FluidVoice captures speech, displays words as you talk, and pastes text into any app, while Adam explains why open source control, custom dictionaries, and AI-powered cleanup make it more useful than a basic dictation tool.
  
  Chapters:
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:09 - Why Andrew is replacing paid dictation apps
  00:27 - Adam’s SuperWhisper setup
  00:36 - Why Andrew wants a local alternative
  01:03 - Introducing FluidVoice
  01:21 - Adam’s first reaction after trying it
  01:39 - Installing and customizing FluidVoice
  02:15 - Wispr Flow speed test
  02:42 - FluidVoice speed test
  03:09 - Why real-time text preview matters
  03:18 - Open source control and customization
  04:03 - Using AI prompts to clean up dictation
  04:30 - Custom dictionaries for names and company terms
  05:15 - Choosing between faster and more accurate models
  05:33 - Installation delay to watch for
  06:27 - Why Adam removed SuperWhisper
  06:54 - Watch the GitHub repo show next
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
This little dictation app is free, open source, and uses AI on your computer, and I'm going to show you how you can install it and use it right now. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Adam, everyone's using audio dictation apps on their computers. They're paying 15 bucks a month for it. I'm using Whisper Flow, and we've got a better solution, one that's completely free, and works way better. What do you use? What do you pay? I use this thing called Super Whisper. It's using all the same models that all these other tools use. I'm paying, it's about $10 a month, but I don't like to think about it too much. Ten is fine. This is, I pay 15 bucks a month because I pay monthly for this. I don't like it for a few reasons. Number one, I'm sending it up into the cloud, which I don't have any worries about any private information, but who knows who's going to subpoena what that I said. Number one, number two, if it's going up into the cloud, it's taking longer. And number three, I happen to believe that there's a better user experience, and Whisper Flow is not giving it to us, and neither are these other apps. So you and I did the GitHub show, and we talked about the top repos of the week, and then I said, I've got to attach something to it that people are not like starring enough, and it's this. It is something called Fluid Voice. Look, it's shot up after we did our GitHub show, which is incredibly popular. If you're not watching it, folks, you've got to watch it. We reveal these types of things all the time. I'm one of those stars, Andrew. I'm that star right at the kind of top third there. I was like, oh man, after I tried it, I started using it. Immediately came back to the repository, gave it a star, because I think these guys are going to be really successful. It's an awesome product. It's fantastic, because you get to customize it. You get to download this, or get the whole code base, and you could change it to however you want, or you could just go to their website, and you can get it. I got it and downloaded it from Mac. The setup is super, super easy. I then once I had it, I got to pick which voice engine I wanted, and I said, I want the blazing fast one, but you can go even, you can go for whatever model you like. Then you can customize it here by telling it what you want to use as your hot key, what you want to use as your continuation key. It will even do some edits on your text if you want it. Let me show you what it looks like compared to Whisper Flow. On Whisper Flow, I'm going to hit the FN key, and I'm going to say, my name is Andrew, and I'm just going to be talking directly into the screen, and I'm going to talk super fast, because I'm going to New York or at heart. I will always talk super fast, and you can see on the very bottom of my screen how all my wave files are coming in. Let's see how long it takes for it to come through. Let go. It's thinking. Not bad, right? Yeah. Okay. I think it basically got it. Now I'm going to switch over to fluid and watch this. My name is Andrew, and now I'm going to be using this fluid voice thing, and notice on the bottom of my screen, you can not just see that it's typing with the wave thing, but it's also showing the words, which lets me see that what I'm saying is actually going through. And it's letting me see what kind of features I've got on, and where it's planning to paste it. In this case, into Chrome. Let's let go of the button, the hot key, and let's see how fast it paced it in. That's amazing. Right. And the fact that I can see it in real time is fantastic. Really good piece of software. I'm so glad that we got to share this with people. What do you have to add on this? You've been using this a lot longer than I have. I mean, there's so much. So number one, I think you glossed over something. And I think it's really important here. Whisper flow, super whisper, all these other ones. They're all companies that are charging us to use this software. The models are either open or available, and these companies have packaged it into a nice Mac app for you. Fluid voice is open source. You could download the source. You could save it forever. You don't ever have to pay these guys money. Other people are going to come in here and contribute to it. They're going to change it. There's going to be versions of this. The fact that this is open means that this is free and it's going to be free. And you get the control. Now you don't have to customize it if you don't want to, but you could. But what you've already pointed out is when you go into the settings, there's a lot of customization available there, including running all of your transcriptions through AI prompts before they get pasted into the application. So you could have set up. I want to prompt for writing emails. So now it's going to remove your ticks. It's going to add a new line after deer Andrew. I love the show that we do together. It'll add the new line there. It'll add the comma. And you can customize those prompts. You can also customize the dictionary. I've already, when I get one of these tools, the first thing I do is I drop into the custom words and I add in all the names of the people that I work with that I say out loud all the time. Add the names of the companies that I work with because they're all spelled weird. And immediately once you put them in this dictionary, again, fluid voice is going to use AI to plug in those words. And so it's never going to spell your name wrong when I speak to it because it knows exactly how Andrew Warner is spelled. It knows how my name is spelled. My partner Jesse Pugi, it knows all of that. Is it J-E-S-S-I? J-E-S-I-E? J-E-S-S-E? Like, fluid voice knows. So I've put all of that in place and I agree I'm on the Blazing Fast Model 2, but I did actually test out a couple of the other models. I tested one of the even faster ones. I also tested one that was, I don't remember which it was, yeah, the coat here, high accuracy. It got like two more accuracy points, but it's a little slower. And I decided, no, I can't tell a difference. And so I'm on the same one that you're on. The only weird thing, you know, when I first downloaded this, I installed it, I clicked Blazing Fast, it started to install, and then nothing happened, and nothing happened. I actually wrote you a Slack message. It was like, oh, man, Andrew, I was wrong. In the video, I said this is going to be amazing, and it's not. I'm sorry, but you know what? I waited a couple more minutes. The thing installed, and it totally works, and I've already removed Super Whisper from my computer. That's a good note, because the same thing happened to me, and because it happened to you, I knew to watch out for it. What happens is it will say 3% installed, and then it just stops, and it won't do anything. And then a few minutes later, maybe 10, 15 minutes later, it shifts from 3% to 98 to 100, and then it's done. So that part wasn't working well. Everything was just fine. But little inconveniences to me like that are going to be worth the $10 a month. Plus, like, since it's installed, and since it's running, I've had zero issues. Everything is work great, the little pop-up works great. I love that you can see the text as you're speaking, instead of just the little thing that's moving, because half the time, like, wait, can it actually hear me? Is it connected to my Bluetooth headphones that are in the other room? Like, what is this working? The scene, the text on the screen is amazing, too. And it's free! Did we mention that it's free? I love that it's free. I love that it's open-source. Fluid Voice is one of many apps that we showed in the GitHub repo show. Click the link here, and we'll show you the others. See you there.