---
video_title: "Hermes: your video clipping machine"
video_id: yQkzwon5Kh8
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yQkzwon5Kh8
video_date: 2026-06-08T21:10:01+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Vadim Strizheus (X): https://x.com/VadimStrizheus
  👉 Vugola AI: https://www.vugolaai.com/
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Vadim Strizheus built an AI workflow that automatically clips, edits, schedules, and publishes short-form content from long-form videos using Hermes Agent and Vogola AI.
  
  In this episode of The Next New Thing, he shares how the system works, the results from generating over 166,000 views with automation, and the lessons learned after pushing the workflow too far.
  
  The real shift is that content creation is becoming an automated system—where AI can find moments, create clips, and distribute content with minimal human effort.
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 Intro
  00:29 How Hermes Agent turns YouTube videos into clips
  00:53 Training an AI clipping model on viral shorts
  01:16 Why Vadim switched from OpenClau to Hermes Agent
  02:04 Building Vogola AI without coding experience
  02:30 Connecting Vogola AI to Hermes Agent
  03:06 Reviewing the generated clip
  04:54 How the AI handles framing and video layouts
  05:15 Future plans for prompt-based clipping
  05:45 Results from a fully automated clipping experiment
  06:51 Why the channel got shadow banned
  07:18 How to avoid getting flagged as spam
  08:00 How clipping accounts generate massive reach
  09:11 Posting across YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok
  09:38 Building a fully automated content pipeline
  10:23 Can AI replace human video editors?
  11:18 The future roadmap for AI video editing
  12:13 Andrew Warner tests the workflow himself
  13:12 Where AI clipping works—and where it falls short
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Andrew look, Hermes agent is literally clipping and editing a video in real time right now. In four weeks I really got 156,000 views literally by just AI clipping and completely automated. And the best part is anybody and anyone can set it up and I'm going to show you exactly how to do it. Hang on before we get to the interview, I actually tried the software that you're about to see on my interviews. When we're done I'm going to show you what it's like for my experience. Let's get back into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. But team, let's see a demo. How does it work? Yeah, so all you do is go to grab your Hermes and your telegram and then you just go to YouTube. Let's say we grab a Mr. Beast video to clip, you just grab the YouTube URL. So copy like I dress, go to your telegram and say, Hey, Hermes, clip this video. And you paste it and Hermes agent will really clip the whole entire video for you. And we're going to see it when you say clip, how many clips is it make and how do I know if it's grab the right stuff? On our back, we built our own clipping model. Essentially it takes, it takes everything from the transcription from the visual cues, from the visual audio and also we have a clipping intelligence. So we studied over like 10,000 viral shorts and trained our AI customally on that. So in those like, what's a good hug? What's a good buildup? What's a good payoff? Therefore, when it gives you the clips or actually good high quality clips, train on our proprietary data. Okay. And now Hermes is showing you what it's doing and how it's doing it. Why do you like Hermes better than OpenClaw or even just using your site directly? Yeah. So the one thing with OpenClaw when I was using it, I was always running into memory issues. Like I watched all the guides about like five layer memory systems, five layer like obsidian, like MD file structures, whatever. And the thing is I always found some repeating my own answers to OpenClaw saying, hey, you forgot XYZ. You forgot this. You forgot that. And when Hermes agent came out and said they had like itself learning and self-improving system, like mine will try it out in real time because like, what do I have to lose? If it works, it works. And ever since I social Hermes agent, I never went back to OpenClaw. While it's doing this, let's take a look at the tool that you're using to clip. It's your own site. What's the site? Yeah. So for those who don't know, I'm completely a vibe coder. I have no tech experience, no coding experience. And I built VGoL AI.com, which is basically an agentsic clipping tool and software for you. So if you go to the homepage in VGoL, you can the clip of video, you can schedule posts, you can track posts. And also you can add captions to, for example, you have your own clips. You need to add some subtitles or captions. We have our own captions features as well in VGoL. Okay. And so if I wanted to connect this to Hermes, what would I do? And if you want to connect to Hermes, it's super simple. You just go down to our settings tab right here. You go to an API key. You make it API key right here. For example, just say Hermes agents. You like hit create key. You see your API key, you copy it. And then you grab a download and your code skill right here. Just simply go to telegram. You paste it and then that's basically it has its own MD file and it has its own API key. And from there, it was exactly what to do. Okay. So now it looks like it clipped it, right? Where do we see the video that it clipped? Yeah. So it's like, clip of a goal at API key worked best real, shutting down and say, Hey, can you download and send the clip here? So it should get the it should get the clip and it should send it here in telegram. So we can actually review before it schedules and pulls on our own behalf. So right now it should be grabbing the video and sending it to us via telegram. Yeah, you got the clip. The thing is with you, I'm not to download it because in telegram, it's it's weird. So yeah, I'm just gonna save it. We'll go look clip. There you go. Do you know what the clip that's created, it's got these bars on top and bottom. And it doesn't look like a regular YouTube short. Well, the thing is, the thing is for like those b-roll or screen content. In those identifying expand, for example, like there's a b-roll shot. Like the viewer wants to see the 100 b-roll shot. But if there's like a speaker in real time, then it goes from like a 16 by not until like a nine by 16, nine by 16. Let's see what it looks like when it's actually created. Now order. Yeah. What are we doing? Some of us on the set are like, oh, this is yeah, but low key. No one even knows we're here. We just got to the times where we odd usually that places filled with people, cars, traffic, if shunted all down for Jimmy. Okay, all right, that's the clip. How much of this is is so it's always going to be wide if it's a b-roll. And if it's a person speaking, it'll go narrow. Does it do? Does it let me decide how to show it? Like maybe I would do want to punch in a little bit more. Does it let me decide what the story that it's going to tell is or is it just all doing it itself? Yeah, so right right now it's completely just automated. But in the future, we're going to have a system where you where you the user can actually select a moment. You want to clip. For example, you can like, you can like prompt a clip. And we're going to add that feature. And so you can say, hey, find me the best moments where I like this is a swear word or there's a sat sat emotion, happy emotion, wild emotion, and single find those exact like moments in the video. So you can like prompt a clip it. But for us to make it easier for the users, we right now have just fully like automated and agents equipping where finds the moments for you on your own behalf. Okay. All right. How effective can this be? How big and short clips like this get? Well, thing I really ran a experiment and within four weeks, if you go to our article here. So back when I had a currently set up. So in this video, you can clearly see how like is the schedule is getting published. And in four weeks, I grew an account to over it's like 150 subscribers, but we got over 166,000 views within like four weeks within a month. And it was completely automated. All I had was just the crunch. I'm running with Hermes agent. That was really clipping videos and publishing and posting them for me. All automated. Like I didn't have to touch or edit anything. It was just picking shorts out of other people's content and posting it automatically. Yes. And the thing is either side like I'm like, Hey, I want this like channel. This faces the channel to be like more specifically toward like tailored for like podcasting stuff. So we went out and found like dire of the CEO, it found like impulsive. If I'm Mr. Beast podcast clips and it just clipped on its own behalf for like for me and just publishing the schedule for me on a crime job. Okay. And then the account did get shadow band. Why? Well, that's one thing I did not like I don't realize. So basically with this crime job, I was essentially expanding YouTube with these clips. Now it's like spamming them. I think I got shadow band because I was just like spamming through the through our API and YouTube's algorithms really like they're really susceptible. So like finding like AI generate content or AI like AI clips and like spamming. So they marked my channel. It's like a spamming channel and they just like shut it down. So how do we avoid that happening to us, whether we use Vagola or any other tool to create shorts? Yeah. So for context, I was publishing like about 20 to 30 shorts a day, which is like way too much with like the whole API and like to YouTube. But in moderation, if you're doing like five, it's end of day with like just a simple API key and you like you schedule them out meaning like, hey, like post the clip every two hours or every three hours. So like there's time like this time in between clips. So like YouTube is going to realize whole hey, like this is just like scheduled post. It's not like 20 to 30 within like an hour or something like that, which I was doing. Okay. All right, fair. How big can something like this get? Well, a good example like a clipping page wise. I leave made a article about it. So if you go here, like some of the biggest streamers and like celebrities, like blew up over clipping a good example would be like TGR. He's one of the biggest trader, like trader people like celebs like out there. And the way he blew up was through clipping. Like if you go finally this, for example, this is one clipping account and it has a real like 43,000 followers and just simple. Here, it's just at TGR clips is basically just a fan page and a clipping account for TGR. And so he's got a whole account just clipping his stuff and posting it on YouTube. 100% like the people on YouTube and you search up TGR clips, like you're going to find like thousands and hundreds of accounts purely of TGR and clipping fan pages for him. For example, like look at these YouTube short. So in here is just of him like a clip of his livestream of him trading right here, 7,000 views. And if you click on if you click on this channel, it's the same exact channel as it was an article. And here it's on YouTube short. So you see here is 14,000 subscribers. But if you go to the article on Instagram, he can see he's doing better. So when you're clipping and you're having all these fan pages, whether you're doing it for your own account, and you want to clip your own content or if you're a clip or doing it for other people's content, you want to post across all social media platforms. So on TikTok, Instagram and YouTube, because you never know, like for example, here, this guy is going more viral on Instagram than on YouTube shorts, but still on YouTube short, he's pulling like heck of views. Like if you look at with a vid IQ in the last seven days, he got about a million views just by clipping someone else's content. Okay. All right. So maybe that the approach you're saying is create a separate account just for clipping my account and then let it go automated. Don't post 50 times a day. Do maybe a couple of times an hour, 100% yes. And it's literally that simple. And you can really set up with Hermes agent and cron job. So it can be scraping like your YouTube channel. Let's say every five to seven hours, 10 hours. And it can detect when you publish a video, it can go grab a YouTube URL, use the Google API key to clip your video. And whatever ratio you want, because then if we can do like a nine by 16, a 16 by not all like a one by one box. I like and select what capital styles you want. And then from there, it just like a recurring loop completely automate your whole content pipeline for you. All right. Here's here's what I think. I think that I think this is good for creating quick videos. I don't think it's fully baked for creating videos that compete with a real editor. You know, and so if I'm trying to like launch video shorts, this would get me out of my stagnation and get me to start to launch it. If I'm starting if I'm trying to just create shorts from somebody else's content. This would be a good way. If I'm thinking about replacing our editors, I don't think this setup would work yet. What do you think of that analysis? Well, yeah, well, currently, if we go a little bit more tailored for like more of cooking fan pages or maybe just simple automation for like small content creators. But like I wish I could give you all like a roadmap everything for the goal. Like where I see the goal aheading like it will replace your human editor and like I'm gonna say on this podcast right here. Like it will replace your human editor just within a few months. Like we're going to be rolling out some insane futures for only clipping internal agent. Like all I'm going to say is like, Hey, like you're going to be able to add like your own like bureau library. You're going to be you're going to be able to add like your own like sound effects. Like like everything your human editor would do. Run on purpose bureau on purpose sound on purpose sound effects like the goal now is only get so much better as a I get better as well. So yeah, the current state of Google is like like very simple automation and content creation for your clippers where you're maybe smaller podcasts or just for people that want to just post clips. And now really like care and put like so much effort into it. They just want to get the views. But like just get something out there. Right. Yeah, we have a creator that's like really like detailed oriented and they want like I want exactly this. I want this to run boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Then yeah, the goal is like not there yet. But I'm selling you on this podcast. It will get that level. All right. I'm looking forward to doing the interview when it gets there. Thanks. Okay. Now that the interview is over. I want to tell you about my experience using a software and whether or not it's good for you. In fact, I'll let you decide by showing it to you. So what I did was I took my interview with Eric Reese just like he took an interview with Mr. Beasts. And I think he made a mistake using a Mr. Beasts video. Could have done better using a standard interview like this. And I put it into the Gula. I think the best way to show it to you is to show you on their website. And what it did was it created these clips for me. Now some of the clips are okay. Nothing is amazing. Now let's click on this first one. Is Claude going to take over every little MVP? Is it is the idea of going to the pencil where we could edit? And of course, you can see that it doesn't do the crazy bars that showed up in my conversation earlier. It actually did do a nice job editing and putting us in frame. It picked it picked the topic that I liked. Eric Reese talking about how vibe coding is going to be remembered for the next Chernobyl style disaster. That's his prediction. I actually created a video about this clip about this personally myself today. And it took me about an hour to do it because I cared about every single word that was in that clip. And so for someone who cares about every single word, this is not the right platform. But for someone who is not creating clips and wants to get into it and maybe wants to go for mass clips, I think this will work for it much better than it then it came across in the interview. And anyway, there you have it. So you get a sense of what's here. You see that even on the site, you get some editing tools. You saw how Hermes handles it. I will say in my experience, there aren't those stupid bars that showed up in the interview. In my experience, it doesn't do as good a job as I edit or my human editors do who I work with. But for someone who's not editing, this is this could work. And this could be the right flow for you. All right, if you use it, let me know. Links below. And if you care about Hermes agent, I've got a full walk through for you about how to set it up and how to get the full use out of it. There's a link right on the screen for you to use that.