---
video_title: "Anthropic beats OpenAI? + 5 AI Stories You Missed"
video_id: jWT8ZZC5wRI
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jWT8ZZC5wRI
video_date: 2026-05-19T20:42:45+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/corey-ganim-shownotes-20260519
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down the latest AI and business stories, including Codex controlling your computer, AI finance tools, Anthropic’s revenue surge, cheaper model routing, Grok coming to Hermes, and Google’s AI-first laptop push.
  
  They look at how Codex is moving beyond coding into real computer-use workflows, why businesses are rethinking expensive AI models, and how tools like Hermes, OpenRouter, SimpleFin, and Grok are changing the way entrepreneurs use AI day to day.
  
  The big idea: AI is shifting from chatbots into working agents that can use apps, handle admin tasks, analyze business data, and route work across different models based on cost and complexity.
  
  Timestamps
  00:00 - Intro
  00:36 - Codex can control your computer
  01:39 - The MacBook sleep problem for AI agents
  03:18 - Codex fights Amazon for a refund
  04:39 - Codex as a personal chief of staff
  05:15 - Presented by Zapier
  05:51 - ChatGPT adds finance connections
  07:39 - Claude and QuickBooks for business finance
  09:18 - Andrew’s SimpleFin and Supabase finance setup
  10:39 - Anthropic catches OpenAI in revenue
  13:21 - Businesses start routing tasks to cheaper AI models
  16:30 - Grok comes to Hermes
  18:36 - Google’s AI-first Google Book
  22:21 - Closing
  
  Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
And Thropic is beating open AI in revenue, but that also means that they're taking money away from users like you and me. We got a solution for you. Codex now can control your computer and one user had it fight Amazon and win him a refund. GROC is now enabled in Hermes agent and it can superpower your social media will show you how. Google is coming out with a new laptop that's an AI first laptop. Ooh, one stupid thing about it, one useful thing we'll talk about that too. And finally, why are people putting their fingers in Macbooks when there's a terminal command for that? All that and so much more coming up in this week's news, let's get into it. I think the best news story this week is that open AI's codex can control my computer. In fact, here, this is from their demo. I'm going to show how they're using codex and telling it to go and create a reminder in the reminders app. Because whether it's from your desktop app or the phone, you can now control apps. What do you think of this? So I think it's a huge update, right? Computer use isn't a new thing, but they built it right into the codex app. And with codex becoming a lot more popular, I mean, I feel like the vibe and kind of the sentiment in the community has shifted away from Cloud code and toward codex. There's going to be so many cool use cases that come out of this feature. And this is, you know, what we're about to see is one of probably a thousand plus use cases that you could come up with. I think so too. My top use case is I can't get YouTube videos easily without using a browser and computer. I can't get X data without using a browser. And so I use a browser all the time. My big disappointment with all this is that I need to keep my computer going. I don't want to have a computer going. I want the cloud again. That seems to be a big pain point that people are having. I mean, before we hit record, we were looking at different like crazy ways that people were using to keep their computer running while their MacBook was closed, for example. If you've got like a Mac many like I do, I mean, obviously you can just set it to never sleep. But for folks that are vibe coding on MacBooks, there are workarounds, but they're a little janky. Like you think that would be a built-in feature or something that you could easily set up. You're talking about something like this, which will, I did a show. He's using this little dongle, connecting it to his computer and keeping the Mac open and on, even when the lid is closed, by the way, windows people are laughing at us. I will say as ridiculous as that is, I'd rather carry my laptop that way than put a finger inside it because I've got it doing something. And just the other day, I was going out for a drink with my wife and on the way over, I needed to finish something. And so I had to do something like that. Having said that, I think this is unnecessary. There are multiple ways to do this. I think that there's something called amphetamine. Well, in the fact that it's 2026, like we literally have LLMs and we don't have a way to keep our MacBooks all low. I hate that we even need it here. This is amphetamine. It's the MacBook app that's free that we'll do it for people. And here's an on Reddit, you can see that people are showing that you can clearly use a terminal command to keep it on when the lid is closed. I still think that the big issue is I don't want to have to keep my computer on for all these tasks. But if we need to, it's great to know that now with Codex, we can do it. And it works really beautifully. I want to show a great use case here. This is Jason Lu. He is on the Codex team. I love what he did. He used at computer. This is how in Codex, you get to fire up the command to use the computer. And he said, I want you to wait on hold for me with Amazon for 25 minutes because a packet was stolen. And I want you to talk to a human being. Here's the prompt that he gave it. And he essentially said, once the human being comes on, I want you to start negotiating with them. And by the time he got out of the shower, the refund was done. This is another great use of Codex beyond codex. And this was in a support agent chat on the website, right? This wasn't like a voice chat. Exactly. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I mean, that's again, one of probably a thousand use cases you could come up with. I mean, there's so much nonsense that you have to do inside the browser. I mean, even think 30 minutes ago before we jumped on here and hit record, I had to file my annual report for my LLC. And that's something that's very straightforward that there's not much to that. I so easily could have fired up Codex, had it take over my computer, submit that and be done. You know, it only took me seven minutes, but that's seven minutes that I didn't spend on a sales call or, you know, writing a tweet, stuff that could actually make me money. Here's what I'm going to use before. There is a site that you can use to reduce junk mail, you know, junk US paper, postal mail. And it's so annoying to go through. I'm just going to tell Codex to go through and do it for me. All right. Other uses of Codex here from Jason. I love. He's basically using it as a chief of staff. He's saying every 30 minutes, check my Slack and Gmail for unanswered messages that need my attention. Help me prioritize what matters most. If someone asks a question, research the answers deeply as you can and drafted, he's finding that often the draft reply from him is just as good as the one that he's sending himself. It allows him to monitor feedback. Obviously, I talked about getting a refund. And he's just using it for a lot of personal use, not just for Codex. Codex is really done well and it's getting a lot more traction with us after it was crushed by Claude code. By the way, I'm sponsored by Zapier, which I use to connect about 10,000 apps to any AI agent that I use. I mean, when I'm in Codex, I've got it, when I'm in Claude, et cetera. It's what allows me to bring all the apps that I want with the restrictions and protections that I want into every agent and tool that I love. Go check them out. They're MCPS fantastic at Zapier.com slash MCP. All right. Speaking of open AI, here's the next thing that I think we should talk about. The next new story is that they have released this new finance feature. Now in ChatGPT, if you have one of the pro accounts, I think it's $100 or more, you can now start to import data from your bank accounts. I love that you can connect directly to them here. This is Shraushwab. It's American Express, et cetera. You import data in and you can start asking questions. I freaking love that it's doing this. What do you think? Yeah, so it's so funny that they're doing this. I actually saw this coming from a mile away because perplexity has had this capability for probably the last three, maybe even four months. I have no idea. Yeah. I'm not sure if ChatGPT's connection goes through Plaid or if these are all like native bank and financial services platform connections through ChatGPT. But in perplexity, you connect to your bank, your credit card wherever through Plaid, and then you can pull in all your financial information and basically do exactly what ChatGPT is saying it can do here. Now, obviously what ChatGPT did is they saw perplexity do that three or four months ago. They saw it really elevate their platform, like a lot of people joined perplexity to have that ability. And ChatGPT has the distribution to literally copy and paste, plug that into their existing user base. And I'm sure people are now leaving perplexity to come back to ChatGPT just for that feature. So they're just going to sit back and watch what works for other labs and then copy it because they have the most distribution. It does look like they are using Plaid in order to do this. And yeah, I guess you're right. All they have to do is see what everyone else is doing. And because they have such a big user base, they can copy it. That hasn't worked for Google with Gemini, but we don't, but Gemini is becoming a mess. All Google products are becoming a mess. With ChatGPT and Claw, there's like a streamlined effect here. All right, this is one way you could do finances. In related news, Claw just announced this and you've actually pointed out that this is not really a new announcement. Even though this came out like what was it six days ago now? So it's almost a week old. They have said that they can, that they will use their quick, quick books connection. There it is. The Intuit, QuickBooks Connection to let you analyze whether you've got enough money in the bank for payroll to help you understand your company's finances. Let me scroll through this video and show some of the charts. It goes into spreadsheets. I still don't like this connection. This one's pretty terrible. And I have a few reasons why I think it's bad. Well, it's so funny to me because this is so clearly a marketing play on the part of Anthropic. Like Claw just had a QuickBooks native connector for I don't know how many months at this point. So all this is, as Anthropic probably saying, like, oh, we don't really have a big update to ship this week or this month. So we're just going to take a feature that we've already had, package it into a neat little announcement and position it as a, you know, Clawed for Small Business suite of tools that literally every one of them already existed. So again, is it helpful to small business owners for sure? I mean, who doesn't want to get visibility into their P&L and their payroll and be able to analyze their finances and their existing tools with natural language? But this is already existed. This is just a marketing spend in my mind. I also don't like it because this connection is not very good. QuickBooks is not looking to be generous with their data. They have very big limits on how much data you can get into here. They are, it's a slower connection. I actually spent the weekend trying to figure out my, my finances. I really love being able to ask Clawed or chat GPT for data. I wrote this up about how I did it. I found that my best connection, my best approach was to use SimpleFin for a buck 50 a month. I can get all the finance accounts that I have put through SimpleFin. Then SimpleFin sends it over to Superbase, just a basic database that I use for free. And then I use Clawed to chat with it and ask questions like, tell me where I'm spending a lot of money. Tell me about my recurring expenses here. They put together my recurring expenses for the family. Tell me where we went wrong last month. Why is it that suddenly our expenses are high? It created this beautiful chart, which by the way, I don't know that I want to call this beautiful anymore. Clawed has their own look and I'm getting tired of it. I've got to say I can very easily tell this is a Clawed design. Like Clawed design, generated design, you know. I hate it. It's so annoying. It's tiring. We've seen it everywhere. But okay, it's on me to pick a different one. But if I was writing about it, I wanted people to see. Yes, it is a Clawed thing. It's not me faking it. Having said that, this is great progress. I want them to have more information about our finances. And I want to, I want more help with my finances. And I find that AI is doing a great job with that. Right. In other news, it looks to me like what we are seeing is that that Anthropic is now basically neck and neck with OpenAI for revenue. In fact, they've actually inch a little forward. This is from the information. Anthropic can claim about half the amount as it's revenue recently surpassed OpenAI's. By half the amount, it means like basically they're saying that the majority of revenue in AI is going to Anthropic and OpenAI. I thought that was interesting kind of obvious. But the part that stood out for me is we're seeing that Anthropic's revenue now is passing OpenAI's. In a moment, we'll see what's happening in small businesses too. But this is interesting. It's super interesting. And I feel like, you know, if we were to rewind, let's say about a year, everybody was pretty much, well, maybe even more than a year, a year and a half ago, everybody was on the OpenAI chat GPT frame. Just because they were the 800 pound elephant in the room, right? They're pretty much the only AI provider that anybody knew about. At the time, Plaude was ranked like 160th in the Apple App Store, something like that. And it really wasn't until I want to say the OpenAI deal with the US government went south. Or sorry, the deal with the US government and Anthropic went south, right? When Dario Amadeh walked from that deal because he didn't want to give the government what he thought was oversight that wasn't warranted with using Claude's technology and OpenAI swooped in and took that deal. I think it was that moment in time that the public sentiment shifted more away from OpenAI back towards Claude. And I remember it specifically. Katie Perry tweeted a screenshot of her downloading the Claude app and it got like 10 million views. And I remember thinking, okay, if Katie Perry is talking about using Claude, this thing has gone crazy mainstream. It went from nobody in the world to have heard of Claude except the nerdiest of nerds like me and you to 30 days later, that's what everybody's using. That's all you're seeing on social media. And the vibe was heavily skewed towards Claude code, but now it's kind of shifting back towards OpenAI and Codex. That's something I've noticed. I think that Geeks like you and me and whoever's listening to us right now, we're the ones who really are at the forefront and determine what's happening in the future. It just took them a little while to catch on in mainstream and what did it is, like you said, that one new story, but they were killing with Claude code. The AI that could do more than answer questions can actually do stuff for you. They built it up. They got us excited about it. We then were, I mean, not to pat ourselves on the back, but we are the tastemakers when it comes to technology, all of us nerds. And that's what happened. Look at this. This is from a ramp. They basically look at all of us ramp customers to see where we're spending money and what they're seeing is for us, and Thropic has already beaten OpenAI. But the reason I wanted to bring this up is not to just show like another group of people within this big group who are using Anthropic more. What's interesting here is they're also noticing that a lot of companies are now starting to use the free models more. And that actually is an eye opener. And I need to think about how I could start using more of the free models and how I could start creating automations that will shift my stupid tasks to the cheap models and the complicated ones to the expensive one up until now. What I've been doing is just saying everything should go big. And in fact, this is what they've been saying. Anthropics incentives are misaligned with business customers. They want us to purchase the most tokens. They're incentivized to drive us to more expensive models, even when cheaper models are sufficient. We've seen Uber CTOs say that the company already blew through their 2026 AI budget. Anthropics going to lose market share if cost-cutting drives firms to identifying route towards cheaper models for what it's worth. This is also true for OpenAI. But they're already starting to see people use the cheaper models here and find ways to incorporate them. And I think that's an interesting eye opener. And we should all be doing more of that. I agree. And so what's interesting to me right is you think about the everyday the average business user or the average AI user right there. They're probably in one ecosystem or the other. They're using clawed chat or clawed coerc or they're using chat GBT or codex right now. Obviously when you're in one of those two ecosystems you're locked down to those models. You can't go and use an open source model or you can't use a chat GBT model within a clawed code for example. At least I don't think you can. Now where it gets interesting right is for the folks like you and me who are using these open source agent harnesses like a Hermes or like an open claw and using tools like open router right. I mean I know when I first when I first started using open claw I had no idea what I was doing and at the time you could run your clawed subscription through open claw. So I was just running opus on everything. And once they took that away and I was spending 30 50 100 bucks a day on API costs running clawed models through my open claw. I was forced to use something like an open router and actually get you know tactical with deciding when am I going to use which model and for which tasks. So you know for the folks that are using the open source agent harnesses something like an open router. Yeah. So you know route lightweight tasks like a mini max and then heavier tasks like an opus or a GBT 5.5. Last month some of the fastest growing vendors on ramps platform were AI inference platforms that give companies access to cheap open source models. All right that is where we're going with it. Let's take a look at this next news which is that super groc is welcoming armies. Unlike clawed and entropic in general the the groc team is saying bring on the agents. What do you think of this your big armies user? I think Elon knows exactly what he's doing. I mean he if anything first hand he sees all the hermys hype on the timeline. He knows that the sentiment is a way you know shifting away from open claw towards hermys because it simply works. It's not as finicky. It doesn't break as often. So why would he not make groc more easily compatible with something like a hermys and try to gain market share for that small niche of the ecosystem that's that's going deep into hermys people like me and you and you know when it comes to this now being available. I think it was boring marketer had a really good tweet today. It was actually like a screen share. He did a recording of his iPhone talking about how he incorporated super groc with his hermys agent and he was just talking to his hermys agent and letting his hermys agent go and do research on X for trending topics in his niche right. So he was asking his hermys agent hey go find trending topics of people talking about AI for marketing and you know traditionally it's been notoriously difficult to get your AI agents to pull information from X because X has a lot of anti scraping and anti measures. Right. But now that this is built in I mean it pretty much opens the opens the opportunity for these open source agents to go out and and be on X or early scrape information from X a lot easier. Here it is I just set up super groc with hermys this might be the biggest cheat code for social growth right now. He's saying what are the what use cases are discussed on X around autonomous agents especially around I missed it and then it's showing it. This is the example also that was on the screen before this that I was showing which is it is really good for getting information from X and that has been incredibly difficult. All I do is find the work around for how to get access to X information and so I get where that's coming from and why that's appealing. All right we're going to close it out with one final new story. I don't know exactly what to make of this but I think it's interesting. This is the Google team. They're coming out with Googlebook I really like Chrome on Box because this guy is a passionate user of Chromebooks and I thought Chromebooks were the future but they're so freaking slow. They're now associated with stupid slow and crippled computers that kids get from school and so they're coming out with a brand new thing called a Googlebook not a Chromebook but a Googlebook. It is putting AI and Gemini of course specifically right at the forefront and it's got this thing that I thought was interesting here which is you shake your mouse when you're looking at the screen and then it is aware of what you're looking at and it suggests some kind of action. The example that they had given was you've got a calendar invitation you shake your screen and it says okay do you want me to put this on your calendar or somebody brings up a date you want me to put on your calendar. Really interesting you can also then take these things that it sees on the screen and turn them into widgets which I am not a huge user of Chrome. Chromebooks I didn't realize that they didn't have widgets but I take his word for it he is he's all over this I didn't realize that you couldn't do a lot of things with with Chromebooks this is adding it I also will say that the other nice thing is where is it here is that you can run Android apps on here and so if you've got something going on on your phone and you want to finish it up you can run the Android app and get it going I'm not finding it here but what do you think of this you think it'll work? So a couple of thoughts I mean one why why is the action to shake your mouse like why is that what initial initiates that that process I mean I think with my own mouse usage habits like I especially if I drink a lot of coffee like I'm moving that mouse all over the place right that's right so you're right there's there's got to be some sort of calibration to where it doesn't just trigger every time you move the mouse rapidly like why would they not just put in a button that you can press right to to activate that feature and then the other thought or observation is it's interesting that this is Google's hardware play when it comes to AI like we've seen that Chromebooks at least from what I understand have not been that commercially successful I think the sentiment around them at least my sentiment it when I think of a Chromebook I think of the cheapest possible computer money can buy that is not very powerful at all right so it's like of all the plays they can make around hardware and all the resources they have why this I'm sure they're seeing something that we're not but at the end of the day I mean Google has so many different things going on they have so many different AI products they're I think they're spread so thin nobody knows them for anything specific at this point aside from search and and certainly nothing when it comes to AI so I don't know we'll just have to see how this plays out and we'll also have to see how the other model companies react in terms of what hardware plays are they going to make like we've seen what Met is doing with Ray Bans I've heard rumors of an open AI smartphone I don't think I've heard any rumors around anthropic and hardware but we'll just have to see where things go and these people are a lot smarter than we are so I'm sure they know but I know it's a consumer Google has always been so freaking confusing too many things competing with each other adjacent to each other just versus open AI they're saying look you got chat GPT now they're switching the branding to code to codex it's still one product essentially and I think as they start to shift to both it becomes confusing cloud has one perplexity basically one and then everything else is a feature within it I'd like to see this work I don't know that it will it's interesting to to wait and have it come out for now I'm going to use my Mac and I'm going to experiment with products like clicky which is way I think more interesting and more powerful all right and there's a news we will have a report below this for anyone who wants to see it all and read it with with all the links that we've shared and give us feedback this is an experiment we'd like to see what you think of this yep we'll be back thanks