---
video_title: "What Codex 5.6 is amazing at!"
video_id: 6osxCi89ET4
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6osxCi89ET4
video_date: 2026-07-11T17:00:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Videos featured:
  Nate Herk | AI Automation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EthxaDswUFo
  How I AI: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAWbvEwUoiI
  Peter Yang: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mY9wx_iMSU
  Nate Herk | AI Automation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J_jswzXhYJA
  Every: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=13tHN3iP5kQ
  Matthew Berman: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mD1F5DsC5tc
  Bijan Bowen: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=euoJuJC6vh4
  
  Andrew Warner and Bryan McAnulty react to the first wave of GPT-5.6 Sol reviews, comparing it against Claude Fable 5 across real coding, design, video, writing, and agent workflows.
  
  They look at creator tests from Nate Herk, How I AI, Peter Yang, Every, Matthew Berman, and Bijan Bowen, including browser games, dashboards, video clipping, browser automation, skill cleanup, writing, image prompting, and a Vision Pro drum kit. 
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Nate Herk tests GPT-5.6 Sol vs Fable 5
  00:36 - Open-world bike game comparison
  03:09 - Fable 5 wins on creativity, Sol wins on cost
  03:54 - Fable as manager, Sol as worker
  06:09 - Bryan introduces LatchLoop
  07:21 - How I AI compares Sol, Terra, and Luna
  07:39 - Sol’s dashboard design and functionality
  09:36 - Creative pack website comparison
  10:21 - Video editing with GPT-5.6 Sol
  11:06 - Why iterative prompting beats one-shot demos
  13:39 - Browser automation with GPT-5.6 Sol
  15:18 - Peter Yang’s video post skill
  16:30 - Why AI-generated clips still need judgment
  17:24 - Using GPT-5.6 to clean up skills and workflows
  20:24 - Letting GPT-5.6 and Fable review each other
  21:27 - Zapier MCP and safe agent access to email
  22:48 - Nate Herk’s fully AI-generated video
  23:06 - GPT-5.6 Sol pricing vs Fable 5
  25:03 - Every’s writing review of GPT-5.6 Sol
  26:33 - Fable 5 still wins on image prompt design
  27:36 - Dan Shipper’s personal AI workflows
  28:48 - Matthew Berman on GPT-5.6 pricing
  30:00 - Sol, Terra, Luna, and reasoning levels
  30:27 - Bijan Bowen builds a Vision Pro drum kit
  32:06 - Watch the next AI reaction episode
  
  Send us your AI tools, demos, or builds: hi@thenextnewthing.ai
---
So we finally have GBT 5.6 Soul, Terra, and Luna. And the benchmarks are insanely impressive, because it basically shows that Soul blows Opus and Fable out of the water and is significantly cheaper. We're gonna look at what many creators who've had time to look at this and play with it, have done with it. I wanna see what they created with it. I wanna see how it compares to Fable 5. And we're gonna look at seven different videos here and I picked the exact spots for us to look at, presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Brian, here's the first one that I want you to see. I want you to see what he is built with it. I'm flawed on the same prompt. Same for Fable 5. I've got codecs on the right here with GBT 5.6 Soul, and I gave them both the exact same prompts. So I gave them both a slash goal, and I told them to build a genuinely fun, playable, open world-bite game that runs in the browser. I gave them these other rules. I'm not gonna read off his whole prompts, but if you want to take a look, feel free. I gave them creative freedom, and I just wanted to see what they could come up with. Okay, so I haven't played any of these yet, but I'm not gonna tell you which ones which. We're gonna see them both and then I'll reveal. So W-A-C-D-D-Steer, Space to BunnyHop, Q&E for AirTrix, Shift for Boost. Okay, let's go ahead and drop in. Nice, okay, so we can move around. We have a city here. The camera's a little bit hard to maneuver with. You can't drive through the building, so that's good to know. Okay, just got a little trick in the air there. So this is honestly working pretty well. I don't love the actual way that this works. Like the top downwards I view, I don't think I like. It's a little bit hard to control, but hey, functionality-wise, the coins are working, the controls work, I just jumped over a building, and I can bunny hop. Okay, cool, and it doesn't look too bad either. Considering this didn't take it very long. So that was the first game. All right, and now here is the other version. Let's go ahead and see, it's pretty similar controls. So let's hop in here. Okay, so this one is more like a 3D, almost more of like a POV sort of style. I can jump, I can spin. Interesting differences so far. But I'm in a city, I've got the coin still. Let's see if I can go try to get on this ramp and see what the physics of that look like. Wait, am I on the wrong side of the ramp? What do you think of this, by the way, which one do you think is better? So I think probably the first one was GPT 5.6, and that this one is fable. That's what we're guessing at least so far. I think so. First one had what seems like to me some of the remnants of GPT's design sense. GPT 5.6 is a lot better, but it still has a little bit of that same kind of look that's coming from a GPT model. If I'm correct, but this one I would guess is fable because of the attention to all this 3D detail and stuff. Yep, that was the wrong side of the ramp. But this definitely has more of like that, I don't know, like more of a GTA vibe, like an open world game that you can actually like, I don't know, explore. It feels like it's more fun, I think to play. It doesn't make me nauseous. This is definitely a clear winner. So I think that we've decided that. All right, so this is it. Yeah, that one's definitely better. Which is the one I thought was the winner here was fable 5. So that's on the left hand side here. This took 21 minutes and 37 seconds, whereas the other side, GPT Soul took 23 minutes. So similar on the timing here, but let's look at cost. So this fable run would have cost me about $14.22, whereas the GPT Soul run would have cost it $4.5. Now, what I think is really interesting here is the output tokens. Fable output at about 90,000, and Soul only outputed about 31,000. So we've consistently seen that codecs and GPT are way more token efficient. And sometimes that's better and sometimes that's not. So that kind of brings me to what he thinks. And this is what a lot of the people who've messed with it have told me. Here's a difference. I feel like fable is a better manager. And that's how I think of it. I think of it as a co-founder. I think of it as a manager. Soul is just a really, really good worker. Really good worker. Like I think that having fable orchestrated a bunch of Soul agents would be amazing. I gave them each their other things that I would say, like they are better than the other end. So let me ask you this. So yes, you can obviously see in the fable example, there's a lot more creativity. And we'll see as we go on how it does with advising. Brian, when you use multiple models, how do you shift between one and between multiple models? So yeah, it's interesting. I think I'm agreeing with what he says so far in relation to this. Fable has that like the big model smell as they call it. And that is not something that's really present in my experience so far with Soul. However, Soul is a very important tool. Soul does really feel like the worker. And I think that I would challenge him actually that if that prompt was tweaked, I think you could probably get a closer to the fable result with Soul as well. And so if you wanted to say I want to be hands off as much as possible with this thing and look to AI, come up with things for me, then I think you'll get the better result of like fable is the planner and then Soul is the implementer. But I think most of us we want to, we want to still be in the loop in some way, right? And so if you're able to work on that plan still with Soul, then I think you can get a similar result. Because you're telling Soul more specifically what to do like a boss. And that's what it means. So like yes, fable has better ideas than Soul, but I believe as a human, I still have better ideas than AI. And I think that's where we're supposed to still be involved. So yeah, interesting to see so far. My personal opinion has so far been leading towards like, yeah, Soul is the the workhorse. And if you could do 90% of things like, yeah, maybe fables a little bit better, but is it like more than two times the price better? And for me, that's, that's not true. Okay, but then when you switch, let's just quickly introduce you. You are the creator of latch loop. What's latch loop? The latch loop is a coding agent platform and general agent platforms. So similar to the new chat GPD work that was just announced and cloud co-working codex or cloud co-working code. So just final question. How do you then shift between two? So let's say that you buy into this and you say, fables are going to be the manager. It's going to create the task list and check on it afterwards. So it's going to be the worker. What's your process? And we'll go to the next video in a moment. What's your process for going back and forth? So typically I am sticking with the GPD models. Oh, you are. But you're not, you're not getting one to create a plan and the other to act on it and then. No, I'll still use probably, well, I'll see what I think about GPD 5.6 here. But I'm anticipating that I'll still be using it for the plan as well. And then have a separate instance of it, separate context window go and do the implementation. Yeah, fable has been good in my experience. But it just cost too much and I'm spending like 400 a day in API credits and to then say, well, I'd have to spend 800 or something for fable. That does not make sense for me. Okay, let's go on to the next. This is how I AI. She's talking about how sole Tara and Luna came out. Let me show you one of the things that she created. And why I really liked sole compared to other models, although what where fable did perfectly. She got more creative with her tasks. I like that you didn't do games. This dense operation dashboard. It's basically like an e-vow for a dock scheduler app and it's full design. And what you can see here is both were pretty useful. Soul on the left and they won't write. I just think soul was the most unique. All of the other ones really just looked like this dark mode. A monospace kind of layout. As you can see here, soul actually has like a really clean, kind of like neutral color layout with great visual hierarchy, semantic color, and this thing was functional. So like everything I expected to be able to click and work in a sign and do all of it actually worked. And this was just my experience across a bunch of the different prototypes is the soul ones were just a lot more functional. And that made a big difference on how I'm evaluating things. Now let's look at the fable design again. It's pretty good. It's actually a lot harder to read though in the design. I would say is not as unique. And even some layout issues like this white space here at the bottom. Now it did do a lot of design issues with it. I agree. I think the this kind of dark look is kind of. Kind of the AI slop look that that we're all used to in sick of. But I have seen people talking about that. They have found that 5.6 will so commonly do this this new design that that we're seeing here in the light mode that while I agree it looks way better. I also wonder like will we will we get sick of that? Will we say that that's now that's the new AI slop. But for now I agree. It's definitely. I see you're saying it is better but maybe it's so consistent that we're going to get tired of it to fair point here. Take a look at the. Yeah, if it gets stuck too much in that same kind of style. It was this creative pack. A website again. Both of these got fives from me. I just really preferred that soul went ahead and had like a personality. Look at these placeholder images versus what they will came up with. Which I will say is beautiful and clean and worked really well. And like I have no complaints about it. It's a good one especially for side of sort of a wireframe style prototype. It's great. I would just say it's not this. This is pretty interesting. It's got. Well, we'll pause here because we're going to see this over and over again. I think we'll see it from Dan Shipper in a moment. Let's go on to another use case. This one comes up a lot and it's a lot of this. Oh, I didn't expect that type of moments. She's the first one that I saw do this video editing look. I have to do a lot of social clipping. And it's really tedious to go through and clip videos. So taking something really long and shortening it. So recently I spoke at Kirscher's event and gave this talk on the future of PM and got the recording from the cursor team. Thank you very much. And I really wanted to make it a hype video. So all you have to do is literally drag the file in here. And I said, can you cut this video into five clips for social? And I gave some feedback. I said, I want them horizontal. I want them height video cuts from various parts. I need them to be faster. I need them to be tighter. I love this. She's showing how she's giving guidance and not just one shoting it. The one shot looks great in a video, but it's just impractical once I use it. Yeah, well, I agree. I think one of the important things to realize in using AI is that all we're all doing is just distributing attention. And so if you can get the AI to spend more attention on these other details, either in the initial prompt or through like increased runs and extra turns on it, you end up with a much better result. And then I got these like sharp and funny height videos. Let's see if it opens up. This one's for my own care. I'm curious to see what it means to be a product manager in the age where anybody can build anything. We have been coming up with creative ways to avoid building things forever. Yes, PRDs, like these complicated documents where you had to describe. So like that would have taken me so much time to like find the right cute parts, clip it, cut it. I was able to drop it into cap cut, put some music, ship it on social. It's like a really cute height video. But this is one of my favorite use cases. I'm pretty sure it can do even more color grading sound. All this kind of. Yeah. This has been really impressive. What do you think? Yeah. Yeah, I think it was pretty good. Is she going to compare it to any other model of like a difference with it? No, she's not. She was just doing it straight up. And I haven't seen anyone except for Nate, her cool show in a moment who did a long video, really do a straight comparison. And he didn't even do it side by side. He just said there's another video for it. What were have you done any straight up video editing where you give it a file and you tell it to edit? I have not tried it like through like regular coding agent interfaces, but I tried some like AI video editing products like over a year ago. And they were useful for certain kinds of cleanup, but like it didn't stick with with us and how we used it. At least for for my video editor. But yeah, makes me curious. I want to get I want to get my video editor trying some of this out and see what he thinks about it. You know where it's good. It's in the let me give my zoom video to to a GPT five six and ask it to just pull out the part of the video where the person complained. So that I can show it to the team where my meeting went sideways. So I can go and analyze why it went sideways. I think that was interesting. We're not talking about codex the app, but I like how she's using Chrome in the app. Go with the stars and do some stuff and like I'm sorry, LinkedIn. I know I'm not supposed to do this, but I opened up LinkedIn and I said can you use Chrome to reply to messages that are very high value to chat. So I can't do it with all the link in requests. So like only accept them if they're executives of tier one companies. I don't want random sets of connections. It went through and burn through probably 500 messages. It replied to people that I needed to reply to and said thank you to people who said nice things about the podcast. Thank you to those people. I do mean it. But it just rocked through browser use. That is so impressive. I want to try that. I wish she had a demo of it, but I want to try that use case. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't tried too much with the browser use outside of like having like the agents like test things in software development. But I don't know if you can see that. I haven't tried too much with the browser use outside of like having like the agents like test things in software development. But yeah, I think it's really exciting to see where this is all going for like knowledge work related tasks now, not just coding agents. I think the big like unlock recently has been people realized working with these coding agents that really the coding agent is the everything agent. And what I mean by that is the knowledge worker agent is basically a coding agent. But instead of anything code, it is making changes to a doc or presentation or doing things on on your web browser. So let's go on next. I don't even know if I want to show this. So I have this video post skill that I built. So that makes clips from my long form podcast videos and then post those clips to several different social platforms at once. And here's how it works. So first I type slash video post and give you a link to one of my YouTube videos. Then it's going to suggest five parts of the transcript that thinks is interesting to clip. So you can see here there's five different steps and a transcript. This interview that I have with KUN who is an AI engineer. Now what I need to do is tell it which transcript I like so clip for. And then it's going to go off and use ff and peg, which is open source library to basically make the actual video. So you can see here if you look at the last gave you. And let's open this. It's basically made the video here. And it's even added captions right. And you can see here that it can also make the vertical version as well at the same time. The vertical version looks a little bit off because yeah. Yeah. I'm a bit skeptical of some of these things. I think there is the cases that you described for like finding some certain area in the video or like making some kind of like. Small cut of something you can share with somebody else but it's not like you're full produced YouTube video. It's not that stressful but yeah, I'm skeptical because you know like this. There's companies like Opus clip and all that that are putting so much effort into. And then how can we we optimize to create these good clips. But yeah, I still it's hard to say like if you were to use a skill that could do this. Yes, it can produce something that at first glance looks impressive. But are these the kind of videos that will actually end up getting views on the platforms? I agree. I think that every time they do this, it's impressive. Like watching an elephant dance. It's like, wow, it can do it but not really useful. And all right, let's move on to what the other thing he did. Oh, as project. So this is where I keep all my skills and workflows like the video post skill that I share before. So over time this repo can easily get messy because I keep adding new skills and automations to it. So periodically, I like to ask something like this. Take a detailed look at my repo based on your understanding of my workflows and our conversations. How can we improve it? What skills can we build or consolidate? Please list your suggestions in a number list. And here's what GPT 5.6 came up with. It's suggesting that I built an ops review skill. That's like an Uber skill across all my other skills to keep me on track. Let me pause here for a second. I do this for individual skills. I want to now do this for all of them. I don't like doing it the way that he did here in chat because there's too much back and forth on these. I ask to get an HTML file or an HTML page with each one as its own number. And then I want radio buttons underneath it that says do it. Explain more, reject it, say for later, et cetera, and an input box underneath where I can ask questions or give it some guidance. That way there's a little bit more involved with each one of these. I don't want just a yes or no or to respond in a chat. I don't think everything fits in a chat window. Yeah, I agree. I think I would do it the same way that you are. Yeah, the way that I'll typically work with an agent is that I'll have it focused on that one thing. And then for the other details, I'll have it go and spawn off other tasks. And then each of those things, I will give some additional input or reviewer needed. But I think the exercise of somehow approaching this process of like how can, where are the other things that I can do to improve and get the agents working in better for me. Yeah, going through this exercise in some way to improve your skills improve the automation and loops and things that you have is valuable. It's saying that I have four different sponsor skills. I should consolidate all of them. And it has a bunch of other suggestions here. Now, I like to do this because then I can actually read through each of these suggestions and say, Hey, go do one, two, and three, but skip four. So I actually give some feedbacks where it just goes off and doesn't do this. But one piece of advice is if you have a very active support like this schedule, a recurring job so that every week or so, it will run this skill and automation to clean things up for you and get your approval. But now let's take a look at what Fable came up with. So it's saying that there's a bunch of document drift across different skills and I should clean stuff up there. It's also suggesting that I should consolidate a bunch of thinking skills and emerging a bunch of other skills around research. And so on so forth. And it has the same suggestion to try to consolidate my sponsor skills into what. So it's encouraging that both GPT 5.6 and Fable are suggested the same thing. And maybe there's actually a way to get 5.6 and Fable to basically bounce off each other. Pretty sure in Codex and chat GPT, you can actually call the clot CI to trigger Fable. Like just go back and you can do that right. In fact, OpenAI has a skill that they are repo they put together to allow you to have Codex check the work of Opus. Yeah, there's the Asian client protocol can be used to kind of connect all these agents together. I use that myself sometimes. But yeah, I worry if sometimes this can there's a distinction between turning into a mess and being useful. And a second opinion. I think this was an interesting to not actually I don't think it was that useful. We learn really that it wasn't anymore insightful than Fable. And frankly, I would just probably run both for something like this. It doesn't take a long time. It's not that important. Let's move on. Oh, sponsor, Zapier real quickly. I will tell you something Brian that you may not know that Dan Shipper, founder of every, gave an email address to his Codex within the Codex app, which I guess now is called the OpenAI app again or the chat GPT app. I don't like the whole thing. But you have to check GPT work or yeah. Yeah, he gave it, he gave it its own email address, but it's like a sub email of his email address. So it's like Dan plus agent name and some numbers so that it could check messages so his team could email it in. Here's the thing. He's basically giving it access to his email. The way I would do something like that and he might have already is I would use Zapier MCP. And the reason I would use Zapier MCP is since it's his own personal email, you could say read my email but don't write it. Draft email for me but don't send it. That kind of granular control from a third party tool that's trusted is really helpful, not just for him. For first team, he may never make mistakes and so this is not an issue, but probably does. His team probably will make mistakes and could use this. And so I like Zapier MCP as a way of taking all these tools that I have again. It's over 9,000 tools and put it into one bundle that I can give my AI and be entrusted. If you use it, go to Zapier.com slash MCP, try it out for free and let them know you heard about it from Andrew Warner or the next new thing. Alright, next. Oh, okay. One last one about video. This is a very impressive video. Watch this. 5.6 sold this prompt, walked away and when I came back, I got this. Okay, so you're looking at Nate and you're hearing Nate, but Nate never stood in front of a camera for this. He didn't record this narration and he never opened the editor. He gave me one prompt. That's it. I'm GPT 5 points. That's cool. Impressive, right? Let's look at pricing. We can see that the sole pricing is much cheaper. It's basically half of Fable 5. So GPT 5.6 sold is similarly priced to Opus 4.8. That's one of the things it just keeps coming up also. Lower price. But it seems like Fable is the one you want to reach for when you want the really strong work. And GPT 5.6 is the same. I would say strong work. I would say like the maybe like the better understanding of certain nuance in what you're trying to talk about. But I think like, yeah, like the actual implementation, like the reliability of the implementation. I think I would still even trust 5.6 on that. And it's going to be more affordable at the same time. I think by reliability. Like so if the code's going to be correct and it's going to pass the test, like I think OpenAI is very much designing these models of like, how can we make this work for enterprise and what people are trying to accomplish with these tools? And so like GPT 5.6 even sold is undoubtedly a smaller model in size than Fable 5. But yeah, I think OpenAI really realizes like, okay, how can we make these efficient enough that we can serve them at a scale? And I think that was a challenge for Anthropic with Fable 5 to begin with. And why they had like, okay, well, there's mythos and they say it's dangerous. But then they have Fable 5 now, but the pricing just seems very expensive in comparison. I wonder, I wonder where this is what's going to happen a month from now when enterprises have really had time to spend a lot of time with each of these models, if they will actually think Fable's worth it or not. Let's look at this Dan Shipper. I like his feedback on writing because he cares about this a lot. I think Fable, both 4.8 and Fable have this tendency to over explain to be a little bit literary. If they will in particular often runs for so long that it creates almost its own private language that it ends up speaking in. And GPT 5.6 is just to the point, it's simple. It clearly expresses the thing it needs to express. It doesn't have a ton of AI's isms. I use it, for example, to compose emails and like, here's an email. Talker 430 ET on Tuesday, the 14th works for me. Hope that still works on your end looking forward. I like also that it's so natural that it has lowercase letters, Tucker, Mike, Navi, lowercase. Our head of growth Austin uses it to do marketing emails. And he's like, this is the first time that I can actually one shot marketing emails with this thing with any model. I'm very impressed by its ability to be such a good programmer and to have this level of. Yeah, I actually want to talk to it. It's a good writer. It doesn't overthink things. It doesn't overdo it. It's fantastic. It makes me curious to try it for more writing things and see how it responds. Historically, I think GPT models have been worse than anthropic models for writing tests. But I know Dan has involved in like, he spends a lot of time writing. And so, if he thinks this, yeah, I'm curious to try that. My challenge is that we don't get to see enough of these writing tests because they don't demo well, which is why we see endless video games, you know, everybody's creating a video game. All right, look at this. I was trying to use it to make an image of this way of working that I think 5.6 makes this is available GPT. And it made this and it's fine, but it's, I don't know, it's too complicated. It doesn't look well considered. Same problem. Look at what Fable did. One shot. Same image model too. That's what Fable looks like. Fable is just playing on a different level. They're both using the GBG image model, but the way they prompt it is so different that it makes, they will make stuff like this 5.6 makes stuff like this. So if you care about designers, that's interesting. So they both wrote a prompt for the GPT image model. But yeah, what Fable came up with there, I do like better. It is more simple and it's the thing you would want to look at versus the first one. It tells you the thing, but it's a bit more complicated to one visualize that. Let's look at his personal work. It also works for your personal life. For example, I have this app right now that it just takes all the meals I've eaten, anything that I leave in a voice note in monologue or anything I take a picture of in Apple Photos. It just grabs it from my photos, figures out the macros, and then records it for me. So it just does this working in the ChatRVD Codex app in a loop. I do this all the time. I use it for buying stuff on Facebook Marketplace, for helping me decorate my apartment. These are all the things that you can do if you have it running in a loop doing work for you, that were previously not possible or it would require too much work. It just wouldn't be worth it. He's basically living in that Codex app. And he has talked about how he'll take a picture of his room and ask GPT 5.6, how would you furnish it, show me pictures, and gotten some really good responses from it. He's making me want to, not making me want to, I am now because of him keeping that app up and running and trying to do as much of my work through it as possible. Let's take a look at this. Like a six in the ChatRVD Codex app, ChatRVD Work app, it's the gold standard. It's where I and most of the team spend most of our time working with AI. All right. I got to do more of that. Let's look at Matthew Burman real quick here about costs and different model levels. The pricing is also much better for GPT 5.6. Not only is it less expensive, but it uses one to get to the same result. So $5 per million input tokens versus $10 for Fable, much cheaper on cash hits, and $30 versus $50 per million output tokens. This is basically going to be the model that I'm going to use day to day. And then Fable, I'll reach out for occasionally when I have a really big project that I want to bring in the big guns for. I know you don't agree with it, but that's what I'm taking all this. I mean, I would agree, but I would give, I would always give the first try in 5.6 probably. I see. Unless there's some specific reason I thought, oh, I believe Fable is going to be better with this from the start. Because I think a lot of the problems that we have can just be sold by 5.6. And even if you say, okay, 5.6 one, not good, I'm going to throw it out. I want to try Fable. Because there's so much cheaper, you can still just try it, throw it out, and then try Fable. The other thing that is very different about GPT 5.6 versus Fable. It comes in three different model sizes. Luna, the smallest, Tara, the medium, and Soul, the largest. But even within those, you have multiple levels of reasoning. And if we choose Soul, you get all the way up to Ultra, which is basically a quota burner. Okay. I always forget about those. I stick with one, and I just mindlessly continue. I like that. Last one from Beijan, who always seems to, whenever he checks out a new model, has it create a drum set? It is usually a really nice drum set. This one is next level. Check out what he did. Make a vision pro app that is a virtual drum kit. I want to be able to hit the drums with my hands and play them in mixed reality. The ABP. That's cool. That's cool he's doing it for the Vision Pro. It started out and gave us this, which was basically just kind of like a 2D thing. It wasn't necessarily what I had envisioned. I wanted something 3D. So I told it that I want a 3D photo realistic kit. Not some on screen 2D. So apparently this is running now in the Vision Pro. I have no idea. I have not looked at it yet. The external battery on this device is, you know, some of the decision was made. Alright, so it even put an actual like app icon for this. So let's just see. Okay, we have sensitivity. We have kit height. Let's just. Wow. That is getting inside in the title. Don't tell me I can. Can I? Okay, so you can. I'm going to destroy everything inside. This is not. This is really. If someone walked up here right now, they'd be like, uh. That is cool. That is. I thought good. I got to try making something for the Vision Pro because I can imagine it's even more of a surprise when you get to put the thing on and experience it rather than just see the web page or the flat thing that it generated. Absolutely beautiful. I love seeing this. I love seeing all the examples. Alright, now that this video is done, I've got another one for you to check out right here below. And I'll see you in that next one.