---
video_title: "The automated way to create it"
video_id: MpODjBf46m0
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpODjBf46m0
video_date: 2026-06-04T14:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Grain CEO Jeff Whitlock built an AI knowledge management system that turns every meeting into a searchable company brain — and he demos it live with AI meeting notes, Claude, and VS Code.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Resources from this episode: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/jeff-company-brain
  Create a personal AI brain (single player mode): https://youtu.be/ty49TiLlKPM
  
  This isn't a chatbot. It's a structured wiki that automatically ingests meeting transcripts from Grain, Intercom conversations, and internal documents — then uses Claude to synthesize everything into a living knowledge graph your entire team can query.
  
  Jeff opens his laptop and shows Andrew Warner exactly how it works:
  
  → How he asked the wiki for Grain's strongest strategic proof point — and got a specific, data-backed answer in seconds (15x MCP user growth with almost no investment)
  → How the wiki identified a critical communication gap between what Jeff says in leadership meetings and what his team actually hears
  → Why raw files are sacred — and the append-only rule that keeps your wiki from degrading over time
  → How to start with just one data source (meeting transcripts) and build from there
  → The VS Code + Claude Code setup that powers the whole system
  → The roadmap from single-player to truly multiplayer company wiki — and where Zapier fits in
  
  If you're a founder or operator trying to turn your company's institutional knowledge into a competitive advantage, this is the most practical demo you'll find.
  
  ⏱️ CHAPTERS
  
  00:00 - Personal Wiki vs. Company Brain — What's the Difference?
  00:45 - How Grain's Collective Context Engine Works
  01:21 - Why a Wiki Beats Querying an LLM Directly
  02:24 - How Claude Synthesizes Raw Data Into a Wiki
  02:33 - Live Demo: Finding Grain's Strongest Strategic Proof Point
  04:12 - Uncovering Communication Gaps with AI
  05:42 - How to Improve Your Wiki's Instructions and Context
  05:51 - Building Your Own Company Wiki (Step-by-Step Advice)
  06:27 - What Data Sources Feed the Wiki
  06:45 - Technical Setup: VS Code, Claude Code Plugin, File Structure
  07:57 - The Golden Rule: Raw Files Are Sacred
  09:00 - Raw Files vs. Wiki — How Storage and Synthesis Work Together
  09:27 - Automating the Wiki with Webhooks and Grain's API
  11:06 - Single-Player vs. Multiplayer Wiki — What Comes Next
  11:51 - Visualizing Your Knowledge Graph with Obsidian
---
Ever since Carpati talked about having a personal knowledge base, people who are into AI started creating personal wikis for themselves with all the information that their LLM needs to help them make good decisions. Well, what happens if you have a team? What if you have multiple people who you want to inform and you want to have access to the data that they need and that you want to get data from what they're doing so that you can make better decisions? Well, the CEO of grain.com is coming on. He's got Millie's in revenue. He's got a big team. He's got tens of thousands of users. He's taking everything, organizing it automatically into a wiki and he's going to show you how useful that is and how you can set that up for your team. Let's get started. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Everyone's talking about Carpati saying that you need a personal wiki and that's what makes your LLM a lot smarter and your AI engagement a lot better. You all at grain have got something bigger. What's your version of it? Taking the main idea and basically making a a wiki with all the context of the company. Essentially every conversation at grain, we record all of our meetings. We capture all of our meetings, team meetings, except for the sensitive ones and give access to the whole team so everyone can have that collective context and intelligence. And then you have Claude somehow take it and structure it in a wiki so that everything is organized on your wiki. Why? Why not just say to Claude? When I have a question, go to grain. Look at my call transcripts, my teams call transcripts and look all over and bring me my answer. Why do you need the wiki? So I do also that. It oftentimes depends on the type of task being done. The wiki gives a lot bigger context. Not only are we pulling all of our calls but I'm also pulling in intercom conversations for context. I'm pulling in things that have clipped from the web, documents that have important context, things we've written. And so it's broader. And if you're every single time you're pulling context from an MCP, it blows through tokens pretty quickly. This has everything already synthesized. So when it pulls the meetings, it does save the raw transcripts but it compiles them into a wiki with information about companies, people, projects. I see. So you get all the transcripts on your computer and at the same time you have summaries of it so you can find what you need fast. Okay. Let's look at what it compiles into recursive knowledge about different entities, topics, people, companies. All right. So you asked it this question earlier. Today it's, what's my strongest proof point for grains, agent first strategy? What did it come back to you with? And is this, does it make sense? Yeah. It makes a ton of sense. So we built an end, we built a really early MCP, back when MCPs were maybe not as well developed and supported by the ecosystem. We shipped it. We got some additional early interests but there was still just like a lot of gaps. We're a startup. We have limited bandwidth and so our attention went somewhere else. And then we out of nowhere, starting early this year with some of the improvements, we just started seeing our MCP usage climb astronomically. So as it says, MCP weekly users grew 15x with almost no investment. So that was just what we'd already built. We saw this signal and we have to, this is a bright red center of the sun. We need to put everything behind it. So that's basically been the company focus for the last several months is improving our MCP capabilities, improving the documentation, improving the examples, doing customer stories of how people are using it, just to inspire customers on how they can get value from it. And even with no investment, 15x more use came out of it. The documentation was not very good. No marketing push, no dedicated team. And still it just absolutely popped. And as we scroll down, we'll see that there are even people who were switching from codex from chat GPT to cloud just so they could get this access. So this is the kind of thing that you would say, all right, I'm trying to make a decision here. I'm trying to understand if there's the right move. I need a place to ask and I don't want some generic LLM. That's one example. Let's see another example of how you use it. And then we'll see how to build it. Yeah, so I asked this one this morning, based on my own meeting transcripts, where's the gap between how I communicate strategy and how my team understands it? You know, a strategy is only as good as it is used to focus your team and help everyone on the team make coordinated decisions. Huh? So it came up with several gaps that I think as I'm reading, I'm like, wow, this is really good. So the first is that the strategic conversations happen in a small circle. And then I don't do as good a job as, you know, expanding them to the rest of the team. It gives some evidence from different meetings. Wow. Let me read it. Evidence in May 15th Capture Strategy session, Jake says outright, I haven't seen any of that or viewed it. My could state of very late building the design and shared it only to Jeff when asked why it hadn't gone wider. Quote, I just ran out of bandwidth. So that's one issue. Okay. So fair analysis for you. Gap number two written objectives are thinner than the conversations that shaped them. Here, let me read it. Q2 board follow up. Mike reads the objective document and immediately says he doesn't know if they're aligned, even though he was part of the conversation that produced the thinking. So now when you see this, what do you do based on this? So the thing is right, it's using the context it has, which is the conversations, which what you want it to do. So some of the times it's going to be like that is 100% true. And it's helping me see a blind spot. Other times it might say, you know, this is partially true, but it's missing some context. And then I ask, how do I get better context into the wiki? So make better judgments. Okay. Let's see how you put this company wiki together. And you specifically went in one of these chats and said to to opus, he said, analyze this for me. How did how did we put this together and how can someone else do it? Yeah. So I basically just said, you know, I want to teach people how to do this, look through what I built and explain what's represented here. How is it structured? How does it, how does it decide what context to use? Because it's not going through every single context every time. And this gets to the last question. I'll talk about in a second. What advice would you give someone to build their own? And then like, what's a prompt prompt you could use tonight? So we'll give this to people in the in the description. Absolutely. So it says what sources, like I said, it's meeting transcripts, customer feedback, web clippings, and other other this inbox, which is manual drops of files and other things that I want to manually put in there to give a context. Okay. And just just to work clear on the app that we're looking at, this is VS code on the left. You see the files that are on your computer structured the way that a cloud had structured for you on the right is a chat window. The same kind of thing that we see with any kind of a chat. It's using the docs as reference. Yeah. I'm just using the cloud code plug-in in VS code here. That's what I use. I love it. Yep. Then you can see how it's structured, kind of explains how it's structured, and then how it decides what to use is it reads wiki.index. It tells, it kind of tells, gives instructions on how where to look for files, what to pull. And this is to your point of like, what do I do sometimes when the answer maybe doesn't feel quite right is you can also think about, okay, how do you pull better context, but also how do you improve the instructions so that they all can kind of decide what to wait and what to pull. You know, we had a conversation earlier about maybe it's maybe in this case my knowledge graph is biasing a bit too much to older context, and so I want to add a little bit more recency to it because we're constantly learning and changing. So these are things you want to tweak. Respect the intent. Only structure. I like that. Yep. Then, advice for someone building their own. These are, I don't know if I endorse these. These are LLM. This is LLM advice. We start with one source. Raw files are sacred. Append never overwrite. You just mentioned that. All logical. I actually think if we were to start with one source, and it's not because you're the head of grain, the transcription service, but I would start with that. There's just so much value in our meetings, and we don't go back in and mine it unless we're hunting for the one thing somebody said. Meanwhile, the way our company really runs is in there. The way our companies, the things were really working on it. Ideas, alignment, decisions, these all happen in meetings. The context is just so rich. So I would start with that. It's really a API for your company in many ways. Yep. Exactly. Say, did take everything in my meetings for the last month, and we're all using meeting notes. Take it in there. And if we've got grain, we've got MCP access. Go take it and create a wiki for me using this structure. Or if you want, you could adjust the structure. I totally believe in this one first and then build beyond it. Raw files is sacred. Never edit them. I really like that. Actually, I hate when they edit because there's no version control. Yeah, 100%. Exactly. That's why the way the structures you have raw is very different than the wiki. They're in separate, separate folders. So raw is, is what? Raw just stores everything as it comes in and the wiki organizes it and makes sense of it. Correct. That's right. Exactly. It compiles raw compiles into the wiki. The wiki actually synthesizes pulled out information into companies, people, topics. How do you create the automation that does that? So this is what I'm still trying to work on. I think there's something we're all figuring out. It's like, what's real here versus what is something that's more theoretical? These are huge contexts, right? And so we're trying to figure out how to use those efficiently. So right now, I just have a skill that's raw compile or compile raw. Okay. So I just run that. I have not done it. I use grains API webhooks with a local endgrock server to basically pull every time there's a new meeting. So I've automated those coming in. Other things I'm currently, but I'm currently still compiling raw as a skill might change that to be maybe a cron job host of on br cell or something like that. But for now, I'm just kind of compiling raw when I trigger this with the slash command. I see. So I did an interview with a founder who does this for a personal wiki. He doesn't use a company wiki, though it's basically only company information, but it's only his information, not whatever everyone else is doing. And what he did was he used co-work as a way of triggering this automation since it's happening on his computer anyway. Oh nice. Yeah. So co-work does it and then everything is on his computer and then he can use it from there. Okay. We're going to give this to everyone. Is there anything else we should know about this? Yeah, you can see there's a starter prompt here. I think it's pretty good. Okay. And of course, we'll give it to them. And since I mentioned that wiki that you can use, if you're looking to do this in single player mode, I have a link for you right here where you can watch a video to see how to create this for single player mode. Yeah. And I would think one one caveat there is I'm still personally using this. I have, we've actually had conversations about how do we create a true multiplayer version of this? It's effectively like a GitHub repo. That's our next iteration of that. So right now, it's multiplayer in the sense that it's pulling context from everyone's conversations on just mine. Everyone's that I have access to. But I think that's the next step to make it truly multi-plair is like putting it in a in a GitHub repo. Everyone writes to it. I think there's questions about how do you manage context there? And so that we're still kind of figuring that out. But I think that'll be the next iteration of this. And then the other thing that I think is fun to show here is the way I've set this up is I have it writing to Obsidian. So this is not writing Obsidian, but a city in it is synced with this this vault. To entry. And so you can see like the knowledge graph build as you as the as the because this is a city in the context. At the same markdown files that we just look at them want to go and VS code, but now in an organized structured way. Correct. Yeah. And you can it sees all in all the context from the different entities. By the way, Zapier, my sponsor, they've got a new product. I can't talk about it yet that we'll do what you're talking about. Take it from single player mode to multiplayer mode. I can't wait to talk about this. Amazing. That's going to be amazing. Okay. All right. Hey, my agent says that if you watch this far, you're going to want to subscribe and Google thinks that if you watch this far, you'll want to watch that video.