---
video_title: "Matt Pocock Built the Skills Repo Every AI Coder Is Using"
video_id: LMpMmOWTtVk
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LMpMmOWTtVk
video_date: 2026-08-17T18:05:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Link to Resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/my-resources
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Andrew Warner sits down with Matt Pocock to learn how his popular AI skills help coding agents plan better, build more reliably, and improve their own workflows.
  
  Matt’s Skills: https://github.com/mattpocock/skills/
  
  Andrew Warner talks with Matt Pocock about the skills he uses to get better results from coding agents, including his popular Grill Me, Grill With Docs, To Spec, To Ticket, Implement, Code Review, Writing for Agents, and Teach skills. Matt explains why developers should align with an agent before building, how low-fidelity planning can prevent expensive mistakes, how specs and tickets allow large projects to span multiple context windows and agents, and how workflows can be automated with tools like Sandcastle. They also discuss pruning unnecessary instructions from skills, removing "no-ops," maintaining a shared vocabulary with agents, and using a stateful teaching skill that learns how you learn.
  
  00:00 - Grill Me: Align with your coding agent before starting the work.
  02:42 - Low-Fidelity Planning: Start simple before committing to a full implementation.
  04:30 - Pre-Alignment: Catch requirements and design problems before they become expensive.
  05:06 - Security Review: Compare a general Claude Code review with the Grill Me workflow.
  05:42 - Grill Me Questions: Define the adversary, assets, scope, and deliverable before reviewing.
  07:03 - Custom Skills: Why a small reusable skill can encode a process you repeat.
  08:06 - Agent Alignment: Surface priorities and assumptions that the agent cannot infer on its own.
  09:27 - Grill Me Skill: See how Matt's 22-line skill works behind the scenes.
  12:45 - Skill Workflow: Start with Grill Me, then move from specs to tickets, implementation, and review.
  15:09 - Shared Vocabulary: Use consistent terminology so agents understand your project more reliably.
  16:48 - Implement & Review: Build, commit, and automatically review completed work.
  17:24 - Specs & Tickets: Break large features into manageable pieces across multiple context windows.
  18:18 - Multi-Agent Development: Assign tickets to different agents or Claude Code tabs.
  19:30 - Sandcastle: Orchestrate agents by looping through tickets and clearing context between tasks.
  21:54 - Writing for Agents: Improve the skills and instructions you give to AI agents.
  22:30 - No-Ops: Remove instructions that don't actually change an agent's behavior.
  24:00 - Skill Pruning: Keep each meaning in one place and eliminate unnecessary instructions.
  25:21 - Automatic Skill Editing: Invoke skill-pruning workflows when creating or modifying agent instructions.
  25:48 - Teach: Create a stateful AI teacher that remembers how you learn and builds lessons around you.
  27:36 - Primary Sources: Have the teaching skill research and learn from original source material.
  
  Media/Sponsorship Inquiries: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/sponsor
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
This one skill pack will make your coding agent so much smarter and get all your output to be much better. That's why it's one of the all-time most popular projects on GitHub with over 200,000 stars. Series developers, whereby it puts so do new builders like me. You're about to meet the creator, Matt Pocock, and he's gonna teach us how to get the most out of it. Let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Alright, Matt, what are we looking at here? What is this? So, I have just done something interesting with this application, which I have... This is the application that I use in my work repo. And before it was an entirely local application, but I have bumped it up so that part of it is sitting in the cloud. And what I've not done is I've not done a security review on it. So, what I'm keen to do is I'm just gonna prompt Cloud Code. This is Opus 5, medium effort, Claude Max subscription. And I'm just gonna say, I just deployed a large application, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it's going to do its security review. Right? Now, this is okay. But what I really prefer doing and what I think you're going to get better results from is aligning on what you actually want to get from the AI before you commit to something. If you think about the process here, it's kind of like we are doing something with the agent, usually implementing some code or conducting a review or something like that. And then we're going to review it at the end or review it at some point. And so there's a kind of plan, implement, review setup. Now, most people don't spend enough time on the pre-alignment face, right? On the aligning before you do the thing. And so, what I much prefer to do is if I open up a new tab here, I'll run Claude again. And this time I'm just going to prepend it with Grilme here, which is kind of my most popular skill. It's the skill that does this alignment for you. And what it's doing is it's going to invoke the grilling skill. And then we're going to actually chat about the things that it's going to do, the things that it's going to focus on and find before it goes and does the review. So I'm keen to kind of sort of see the two different approaches here. I mean, these are non-deterministic, right? Like, so who knows what's going to happen, but that's the main idea. Now, I have a hard time using a skill like this before I get started, because I almost need to see it. Not almost. I need to see a version of the finished product to touch it, to feel it, to then have some opinions about where I want it to go. When it's just an idea, it's too hard for me to think it through. And so, both the eagerness of just getting started, keeps me from going through a set of questions and planning with Claude. And the need to feel it keeps me from doing it. What do you say about that? So what you're describing there is the fidelity of the thing that you're talking about, right? And when you're working on anything, this is like, this is an old idea. This is from ShapeUp, this Ryan Singer's great book about designing planning stuff. And what he talks about in ShapeUp is that people often feel like they're operating on, or they want to operate at a higher fidelity than they need to. So actually, when you're first starting out, it's often really good to operate at a really low fidelity. In other words, just text. And then maybe from text, you can work up to, let's say, diagrams or breadboarding or various techniques. And from there, maybe then you can go to prototypes. But what everyone seems to be doing or the default mode for agents is to just go to a massively high fidelity immediately and just say, okay, I'm going to produce the entire feature for you and then we'll review the whole thing. But then, because you've produced the whole thing, review becomes really expensive, right? Because you're having to review the whole thing, maybe there are bugs you didn't expect. Maybe it's just not done the thing that you wanted to do or if you were to spend five minutes just aligning low fidelity first and then you actually understand what you're building together, then you can ship something really, really good. You know, it's still the cost isn't really an issue for me because, you know, you have the subscription. I have the $200 a month plan, not that big a deal where it doesn't up biting me is there is something that I hadn't thought of that is a problem. Like, I have a tool that will analyze YouTube videos related to AI and then tell me who's got more, more than their average views. And then I realize a month later, oh, I didn't think through that it has to daily keep track of what their regular view counts is to know when something is an outlier. And if I would have spent some time thinking about it, I would have caught that. But boy, I just rushed to build so fast. Exactly. And that means that something very simple, something very quick, a little quick check at the start would have been able to catch that. Right. And I don't always think that you need to operate at low fidelity. Sometimes you need a prototype before you're building the thing. And what I'm often talking about here is building really complex apps, apps that are supposed to go into production. These are the apps that I spent my career building. And before you build anything real, you have to align, you have to figure out where you're going. Okay. Let me know when the questions come up. I want to see what Grilmi looks like with this new forum. Totally. So let's see. So on the first one here, it basically just went and this is the one where we ran it without Grilmi. And so it just produced a security audit. Right. So it's done a very general security audit. And it's go, okay, Vacel credentials in the public history. That's not good. I actually looked at this and it is actually fine. So we're okay. Drisler are on the deployed path low practical risk blah, blah, blah, blah. Now this is very general. It's okay. It's going to probably give me some decent advice. But what if we actually talked about it first, just did a very small amount of conversation. So this is what Grilmi looks like. So you essentially just have a bunch of questions where this little red check mark here, this is the question who is the adversary. And then you have a little recommendation from Grilmi on what it's thinks you should choose. So which of these do you actually want to defend against anonymous person on the internet who finds the Vacel URL, etc. What is the asset blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, what is in scope, what is the deliverable. So it's just a little tiny set of questions, which I will then read through and dictate out my answer to. And so it's asking these questions in sensible batches. It's going to ask multiple rounds of these questions. So when I submit an answer here, it's then going to find the next round of questions and ask them to me too. So here's that's where you go into it. Here's my challenge for how to respond to something like this. I don't know. Do I say well for your first question and then repeat the question and then give the answer or do I copy and paste the whole thing in and then write underneath it? Yeah. What I would say is for Q1, yeah, I accept your recommendation for Q2. The worst thing that can occur is probably data loss and probably database abuse. I want to make sure I'm not getting dedost for Q3. I think apps remote is the only thing that's in scope. You get the idea. So that's why they're labeled with the numbers. So you can just reply to the number very quickly. Okay. What's the difference while you send that out and we're going to get the next batch of questions. Do you want to, I guess you didn't want to answer any more other questions. What's the difference between this and just saying, Claude, ask me some questions before we get started. Force me to think about this well. I mean, it's a really small skill. That's the thing about Gromit is it's very, very small. It really is just a case of, you know, you aren't, like, quiz me relentlessly about these things. Use this certain format, ask them in rounds, and there's really not much to it. So anyone could have written this skill. This is not a special source. Makes it very easy to audit, very easy to bring into your organization. It's a teeny, teeny little thing. And so, yeah, of course, you can just do your own thing. But I noticed that whenever I want to encode a process and do it again and again and again, I think that a skill is a really nice place for that. And grill me, you know, you just modify it yourself. You figure out exactly what you want to do with it and then you get to go. Okay. I do want to see what the skill looks like in a moment, but keep going with this. I'm curious what the result will be. So let's see. So it's asked a bunch more questions here. It's asking about rate limits, right? So the whole first answer was just like, okay, here is your security audit. But now it's actually thinking a bit outside the box. It's extending the scope a little bit. I don't have any rate limiting today. So I probably need to add maybe the Vasell firewall rules. Health is unauthenticated. So I probably need to figure that out as well. Last used at right. So some very stuff here. So this is really going into depth. It's sort of become like begun the security audit already. But now I am involved in it. And so it's kind of trying to align to where I need to go. I think what most people underestimate when they start new work is that they have an internal kind of hierarchy of values, right? A set of things that they want to be done and a set of priorities that sort of they hold that the agent just doesn't understand. In other words, there's a communication gap between you and the agents. And that's always going to be there, right? Because we as the user, like the AI can't anticipate that hierarchy of values. So it has to figure them out. And this I found is the best way. Would you open up the skill and just show me how it works? Then this is part of a collection of skills. And it has so many other things like how you you personally learn, how you get your agent to communicate with you more clearly. I think there's also how you write, which is in here. It's basically your set of personal skills. I'd like to see what's in it. This is so where is the skill itself? I see this is the exact file that I'm that I'm looking at on GitHub. It is just this a relentless interview to sharpen a planner design. Yeah. So there's a little more to it than this. This is the Grille me skill. And one important idea about skills is that you can have skills that the model can invoke or that the user can invoke. And this one, this skill is actually invisible to the model by default. But the skill grilling is really where the meat is. So let me pull out grilling just here. And grilling is a little bit longer. It just says interview the user relentlessly until you reach a shared understanding. Map this as a design tree. Every decision branches into the decisions that hang off it. You work the tree in rounds and the frontier is every decision whose prerequisites are really settled. These by the way, these bolded terms here are what I like to call leading words. Their words inside the skill that are designed to essentially trigger the agent's reasoning traces. And it's encouraging the agent to think in these terms, leading the agent to do its things, sort of like life. And so essentially that's that's the skill. It's just 22 lines long. It's grown a little bit since it it was fair bit smaller actually. And it's just little things like finding fact is your job. Never the users. When a frontier question needs a fact from the environment dispatcher sub agent to find it. Don't block the user. So this is the sort of skill is really. And it's just one utility just for creating this grilling style interview. And by the way, as someone who personally creates and lives off of skills all day long, anything that I do more than once actually more than multiple times I have a skill created for it. And I never did one of the things that you just showed, which is have a skill that basically just invokes another skill. Why would I do that? So it's a kind of constraint that I have, which is that I have two grilling skills. One of which is grill me and one of which is in my engineering directory and it's grill with docs, which essentially just has run a grilling session using the domain modeling skill. So it's a little layer on top of grill me. So it's just it's a little bit of code sharing basically. There's nothing actually in the skill spec that describes how you should share code between skills. And so this is my kind of hacky attempt at it. Okay, I got it. I have my own little hacky attempt. I created an orchestrator, which then pulls the different skills that it needs in. Okay, I get it. You basically are saying, look, I have one format for grilling, but there are two different ways to grill. One is ask questions and the other is use these documents to get the information you need. Okay, so back to what we were doing before. Do we have a response yet from the version that it's still asking more questions? Yeah, I haven't answered these questions yet. And I could do we could just sort of keep running through, but I think we can know where it's going. We're going to end up with a document kind of like the first one, but just way more detailed way more tailored to what we actually want. Okay, all right. So the discipline here is first of all to just have this on my system by giving the GitHub link over to Claude or codex and saying, now I want you to start using this. And then the discipline is before I start a session to say grill me about this thing I'm starting to launch. That's one thing. By the way, if you're listening to this and you're building software that you want to bake in something like HubSpot Slack, Geora Gmail, or over 9,000 other apps, if you use Zapier SDK, you can do it easily and you can have the controls that you need over it. Go to Zapier.com slash SDK and check it out. Okay, why don't we look at some of the other skills and just talk to me about why they're there. What's the wait what that's a new one that I saw you publish. So if we look here, this is my documentation site for the skills. We should be there we go. For 214,000 GitHub stars ridiculous. I want to talk first just about this main flow, basically, because you talked about like the discipline and this main flow like going from the grill with doc skill to the to spec skill to the ticket skill to the implement skill to the code review skill. That's essentially a software development lifecycle there, right. And when we're talking about skills, you can encode these processes that last more than one session. It's very, very cool. And so all of these, these are all of the skills in the repo. Can you go back for a moment, just repeat what you just said. I want to understand I'm not a developer, but I build tools now all the time for myself and my team. There is a what a product life cycle that you said. And then you also said that they will start off on their own. Tell me about those things. The way these work is that a lot of skills repos and skill setups, they try to give the model, they try to make the model really powerful and try to make the harness really powerful. So for instance, superpowers, which is a very, very popular set of skills, they're designed to give the model superpowers, not necessarily the user superpowers. As a mind, they take a little bit more learning, a little bit more understanding. But once you've learned essentially these five skills, you can build anything of any size. Like it really is a very powerful setup. And you've got Grill with Docs, which is essentially Grill me with a little bit of, um, little bit of an extra layer on top. What's extra layer? What are the docs that I would use instead of the questions? Great question. So it's, it does, it's essentially, um, the same thing is grilling. You have a, um, a grill me session where you're answering questions, but it does two things. It's, first of all, creates a glossary of the thing you're building, which sounds incredibly dull. Why would you do that? But when you realize that, okay, the glossary, if I name everything consistently throughout the application and I name all the folders like that, I name all of the concepts that have. And I find the right language for what I'm building. The thing about agents is that they thrive off consistent language. And so if you say, okay, change this, uh, let's say two sentences of long blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, the way that ghost lessons materialize into, um, ghost sections into blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, very complicated. Whereas if you just say make a modification to the materialization cascade, right, a term that you have agreed on with the agent, it knows exactly where to look because the functions are named properly, the folders are named properly, and everything is aligned. So actually, aligning with the agent, creating those glossaries is so important. I see. So grill with docs, the differences, the output is the docs that have the understanding that we've gotten from the grilling session. And then that helps make the rest of the process better. But I've also got a doc of how I work of what I got it. Okay, so that's the first step. What's the next and the rest of the process? So the, there's, there's another thing in grill with docs too, which is it creates architectural decision records, which help explain the non obvious stuff about the code, which if you've done any coding that you'll, know how important those are. And so it's essentially just layering on good software concepts onto the grill me skill. Once you've had that conversation, you can then you've then got a decision you need to make. You can either if you think that you've got enough juice left in your session, if you've got enough context window left to work with, then you can just implement it, right, and just jump to the implement skill, which just does a very simple set up. It's just implement the code, create a commit, and then review it. So do an automated review on it. Okay. Or if it's like a massive feature that you're building, if you know, okay, there's no way I'm going to squeeze this into the good bit of my context window, then you need to schedule that over multiple context windows. And for that, you need two things. You need a spec, and that specification is going to be essentially a huge document that describes what you're building. And that description of what you're building means that you can then review it afterwards. And it also means you can pass that into every session that comes afterwards to say, this is what we're building. And then the tickets is we are building this slice of the spec. I see. So what that means is you essentially describe your destination. Okay, we're building this huge feature. And then ticket one fits in one context window, you're going to build that bit ticket two fits another context window go back build that bit. So that's the whole theory. And then you implement each ticket and you review at the end. Can I also use I've never never even thought to use the ticket skills, but now I understand it. Can I also then use it to break up the project so that multiple agents or multiple tabs in my cloud code can do I can't. That's what I do. So start by grilling, then create a spec. Now we know exactly what the finished product looks like. Break it up into parts, assign them to different agents or different like basically tabs within the window. I've got everything ready. Now now the implementation puts it all together because all the features have been built and now we need to connect them all. Got it. You got it. And then the thing about it is, is like the cool thing is that you can actually just schedule this with a process, right. Once you've created the tickets, you can then create a workflow which you don't even have to monitor that just build the thing, right. I've had specs that have like 30 tickets and I have a setup in GitHub actions where it just basically turns through just says, okay, implement this thing, clear the context, implement the next thing, clear the context. And that can run overnight, right. I don't need to be there to monitor it. And I wake up in the morning, I review it and I see what's what's been done. So yeah, that's the idea. Yeah. And that creates a PR for you. Does human review you get the idea? I'm still a bit of an amateur on this. I'm sitting in a cloud code for example. How do I tell it schedule it and parse this out and then wait for the context window and clear it out. You need a layer on top of the harness. Basically, you think there's like the model itself and then the harness and the model and harness together form the agent. You need a layer on top that's going to say, right, do this, tell the agent to do this and then clear the agent's context window. Do this, clear the agent's context window. And because like you think of a set of tickets, that's just a loop, right. You just have just loop over that and that can be deterministic. It doesn't have to be an agent. And so I've built something for that called sandcastle, which is pretty good. There's also things like the AISDK which allow you to build these things in tap script. But you can you can think of even like Claude workflows for instance, the workflow set up in Claude where you essentially just schedule a bunch of sub agents using a script. That's exactly the same thing. So you can think of that as kind of like an orchestrator over your agents. Okay, I see sandcastle. It's another one of it's on GitHub. Another one of your projects. I can just go there and get it and it's the orchestrator I might use. Exactly. You get the answer. Okay, I see that. How about if we take it away from now that I understand the way that you build and that you think about and lead the creation of something? When we go to more personal stuff, writing, what type of writing are you able to get the agent to do with your skill? Well, so this is actually a skill that I've recently taken out of the repo. So I don't actually, I didn't end up using it that much. I can talk about a different skill which is sort of similar. Oh, I actually know. I know. Okay, I'm thinking of the wrong thing actually. If you ask me a question again, I think we can hit it around that. Basically, oh, I see you've got writing for agents in here, but the writing that is like the output writing you don't have in here anymore, right? No. Well, it might be like writing beats or something, but it's not very, that's an in progress skill. I'm not sure it's quite ready for content. Okay. All right. What's a non-development skill then that I could look at here and get an understanding of the way that you personally work? These are for engineers, basically. This, this skill set and the stuff that isn't for engineers, it's also sort of for engineers, but the, I tell you what, I have a skill that I would love to talk about, which is a sort of new skill. I think what everyone is doing, what you're certainly doing a lot of is writing skills, right? I'm writing instructions for agents, writing prompts for agents. And this writing for agent skill is essentially everything that I've learned about writing skills in a skill to help you write skills. Okay. Essentially allows you to take all of the crap and all of the crud out of agent writing. Usually when you get an agent to write something, it's just going to be full of a specific type of garbage. And that specific garbage is no ops. So if I search in here, I'm pretty sure I've got these. There's a specific mistake, I see all the time with people creating skills, which is that they will write things inside the skill that do nothing to change the actual outputs of the skill or the behavior of the agent reading that skill. And I call these no ops. This is sort of programming term. You can remove it and nothing will change. And if you look at skills that you've written or look at popular skills even that go viral, you can probably go through there and delete about half of it. And not much about the output will change. And I definitely have that. I know it confuses my agent. And largely the more I use the skill, the more of this junk gets built in, but I don't know what's junk and what's not. And when I say to somebody, I'll have to go and read it. They laugh at me and it's true. I can't go and read the whole skill. I'm just saying to it, at the end of each run, what could we do to improve next time? It gives me some suggestions. I say, okay, implement these, but not those. It implements it. And then I just trusted it's there. And the very next time when something wacky comes out, I can't audit it because it's so much text. And I bet a lot of it is junk because frankly, even when it writes for me, it's junk. So that's what this is about. 100%. That's exactly the thing that I'm trying to kill because what you need is you just need essentially a little pass over the top, whereas it's skill.md. And this does a whole bunch of stuff in here. This is certainly one of my longer skills because it surfaces a lot of important ideas. The main one that it's got in here is pruning, right? Keep each meaning in the skill to a single source of truth. And if you have duplication, the same meaning in more than one place that costs you maintenance and tokens. So you check every line for relevance. Does it still bear on what the document does? And you hunt no ops sentence by sentence and instruction. The model already based by default pays low to saying nothing. That's an awkward sentence. I don't like that one. This is why reading the skills is actually a little bit important because that's a nasty little sentence. I think Opus wrote that. But what you get the ideas like things like be thorough, right? Be thorough. What does that mean? You know, people will often say, you know, it's almost like saying don't make mistakes or something. It's just, there's a no op, right? That's not going to do anything to change the agent's output. And so this is definitely something that I think you should run on your own skills just to have a check and see if you can remove some stuff. It's like once a month take all the skills that I've written and say, run it against this and see what you can remove. Do I just trust it to make these decisions or do I need to see it? I mean, you can read the diff, right? Read the before and after and see what it's done and see if you agree with it. It will often really curl skills down into smaller sections. It's pretty opinionated, you know, it contains all of my opinions. And also if you have this on your system, this is a model invoked skill. It says use when creating or editing skills on modifying agents.mdlclaw.md. So this will get invoked by your agent when it's making those crucial edits, which is very, very, very good. Okay. So it's an automatic one that I can just set and then keep using. All right. I think that makes sense. Why don't we just close it out real quick with the conversation about the one that you use to teach you to teach yourself? Yeah. Yeah. Teach is great. I had a bit of a boring day because I was traveling. And this is one that I actually wrote by hand. I didn't get an agent to do anything to this. I'm very passionate about teaching before I was a, before I was a dev, I was actually a voice coach. So I taught people how to speak and how to sing and like I did that for about six years. So much one to one teaching. And so between that and between now teaching devs for about four years, I was about 10 years of teaching experience. And I wanted to encode that into a skill just for fun and see what would happen. And this has been a blast because it's, you essentially just create a new folder on your system and then teach you can run it in that folder and say teach me something. And the usual thing you get with agents is that you know, it's, it's good for that conversation. Maybe it remembers, but it doesn't necessarily remember the next time you infoke it. Whereas teach what it does is it creates a stateful workspace where it saves information about you. It understands how you're developing. It keeps learning records. So it's just like a sort of teacher that you have sessions with. And then it creates these lessons in HTML which try to teach you skills or concepts depending on what you're doing. And it taught me how to, so what is it taught me? It's taught me how to get my son eating better foods. Who's about two and a half. So that's a bit of a challenge. And taught me how to solve a Rubik's cube. It's been teaching me how to do better like folk harmonies as well. Like I've been using it for all sorts of stuff. And it's absolutely joy to use. It's great fun. Now what does it know what it's teaching you? Is it researching it on a tone? I know that it keeps up with what you've done. So it remembers for next time to keep you developing. Yeah, basically on its first run, you say, you interview you about what you want to learn and what your mission is, what the reason is you're learning. And then it goes out and finds primary source resources to pull in and teach itself essentially. I found it's really good actually for academic stuff because a lot of like those resources are in PDFs which are publicly available. And so it goes pulls in those PDFs, scans the stuff and really understands it very deeply. And so yeah, it's working from primary source information. But of course, it's an LLM, right? And so you should never really trust an LLM. And so it does push you to go and read those primary sources as far as I know. There we go. Each lesson should recommend a primary source for the user to read or watch. All right. This is fantastic. I think that this is, it seemed to me like you were a little surprised by how popular this got. You then inspired a few other people to start putting their skills on. I actually even noticed one or two people who you interviewed then started putting their skills on and they were excited. I think the most exciting thing about seeing your skill online was seeing how you work and think about your own personal skills helped me think about mine. And now that I've dug in a little deeper, I've picked up some more understanding. And I think this is really exciting. I interviewed this guy, Mads, who had lost his job, who went to get a job himself. And he used claw to do it and he wrote all these skills from himself. He said, you know, I'm just going to put him online. And as a result of that, it became the most popular skill for the week. And he didn't even know it. He just said, you know what? I'll put it on GitHub. And he saw our show and or someone saw our show and told him and he was shocked. And I said, you know how many people you're helping just by saying, this is the stuff that's working for you're passing to others. Matt, you've done the same thing. You're inspiring me to do more of it. I'm now finally getting started. And I'd love to see more of what our audience is creating. They literally are now emailing every day what they're you what they're creating. When I get permission, I will show it on our weekly show. And I will say to you, Matt, you've been featured on our show several times because I go through every week the top 10 GitHub repos of the week. If you're watching us and you hadn't seen the show right yet, I've got one where you can see just like I learned from Matt about his skill and his repo every week. I learned about the top 10 and I've got one for you right here that you can learn along with me. See you there.