---
video_title: "Your new manager: Lovable AI"
video_id: 66rQ-F0E0_E
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66rQ-F0E0_E
video_date: 2026-05-14T17:16:05+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/chandler-lovable-adds-sales
  
  👉 Chandler Bolt (X): https://x.com/chandler_bolt
  
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  
  Chandler Bolt runs an eight-figure company, and his team used Lovable to build an AI sales management hub that helped add half a million dollars in sales last month.
  
  In this episode of The Next New Thing, Chandler shows how selfpublishing.com is using AI to grade every sales call, give reps detailed feedback, surface improvement opportunities, and turn call reviews into a repeatable system. Instead of managers reviewing a few calls per week, the AI hub reviews every call against a rubric, summarizes what happened, and gives specific coaching on what the rep can do better.
  
  Chandler and Andrew also talk about what this means for the future of management. The big shift is that AI can take over the repetitive parts of management, like quality control, call reviews, scorecards, and accountability, while human leaders focus on coaching, encouragement, strategy, and recruiting.
  
  The big idea: AI is not just helping individual employees move faster. It is starting to replace entire management workflows, especially in call-heavy businesses where feedback, coaching, and quality control can be turned into systems.
  
  Timestamps
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - The AI sales management hub
  01:12 - How every sales call gets graded
  02:15 - AI feedback for sales reps
  03:00 - Building the hub in Lovable
  04:12 - Letting the team update scripts and rubrics
  05:15 - Replacing managers with AI
  06:36 - Automating call reviews and quality control
  08:24 - Where human leadership still matters
  09:27 - The librarian for sales stories
  10:21 - Managers vs. leaders
  11:42 - How much time AI saves
  12:54 - What happens to manager roles
  14:06 - Closing
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I run an eight-figure year company and we just added half a million dollars in sales to selfpublishing.com Last month and it's all because of this tool that I'm about to show you Look at this you can actually see Individual sales people getting better. This is live literally as we speak. There's calls coming in here We can see the team as a whole. It's pretty crazy We're replaced managers at the company with AI starting with sales management people watch this video They're gonna have a bunch of revenue to their business Presented by Zapier the AI automation company Chandler this hub is what you all built using levelable. What am I looking at over here? So this is pretty crazy. So this is if you think about what does a sales manager do? They give good feedback to sales reps based on individual calls What's the problem with that though? They can only review a couple calls per week maybe per rep Well now we have every sales call that happens in the business being automatically graded Based on this rubric we we got quoted. I want to say it was 12 grand to build it in six grand a month to maintain it We built this in less than a month ourselves using the prompts on my show Unlovable and lovable such an easy tool. I mean, we're gonna show this screen It's so baby-ish that I hadn't even showed it. Let's click in one of them a tab number two You've got us clicking into like one person so this is actually Matt on our team the prospects name is here We've got you know, this was an 83 out of 100. This is a great call And so if you think about what makes a good sales call this might be different for your business We've got the whole skill and Rubric and everything on how you can actually create this for yourself But for us this is kind of what it looks like So do you have a good first two minutes? We'll Matt had a nine out of ten framing and expectations setting for the call This was a six out of ten and segment and enthusiasm Nine out ten and it keeps going you can see throughout the whole call because it's easy to just say Did you make the sale or not and so if you made the sale it was a good call if you didn't it was a bad call No everybody who's in sales know that that's not how it works You need the full kind of sandwich here. So this grades everything. What's this down here? Here's that so this is a summary he opened with a Be in for more than here in Nashville It ripped on Colorado blah blah blah It was fun and personal not transactional. Do you know what they could have done better based on this and we're gonna talk about how people can build Oh, yeah, oh, yeah, and so it says right here at the end And so it says hey to reach and eight Matthew would add a phrase like and if all that makes sense We can go and get you started and schedule with a coach at the end of our call today directly into the opening frame Dude, this is way better than a sales manager. I mean this details less personal All of this is actually in HubSpot in our CRM But it's just pulling it in in a way that's far more helpful for our team. Okay So it's kind of becoming more and more of a hub for sale success It started as oh, how do we just give them feedback on calls now? We're saying oh if we can get them living in this well then what's all the things that they need to do that to do their job Well, obviously they need to process orders So we've got everything linked up in here for them that you know They probably want to know what the script is so that they can then go look at You know the actual script itself. Okay, perfect. They can click into this use it follow them on with it So this becomes really really helpful for that. Okay, and speaking of this is something that wasn't there last time you and I talked Which was we're recording on Monday. It was Friday that we talked so this wasn't there on Friday It's in lovable can we see that last tab that you have open and lovable to just show how you asked it This is lovable for people who aren't familiar with it on the left is what you ask for on the right is the finished product and There's a there's a prompt I'll read it add a new page to the hub at slash and then has a URL that lets the team view scripts and rubrics for every call type and let's owners and Scope managers edit them with the draft, etc Okay, so that's all you did and then you ended up you ended up with this page Beautiful this is the beauty by the way of lovable It really is and literally just this morning You know my ops manager who's building all this he shipped this and he said to the team hey Everybody was DMing him like hey, how am I being graded? You know how how can I change this? I think the grading needs to be improved whatever else now they can just go in directly and see it and Updated so now which I think this is the problem a lot of people probably watching this video or listening to this have is You've got one builder in your organization and maybe zero builders But one if you're lucky in a lot of companies and maybe that one person's you so then there's just continuously a bottleneck So we're saying hey, how do we get people in the game making this better and that's why it's starting to iterate And and get better so quickly Okay, we're not going to have you scroll through it because it's in personal data in but you will show this doc and the Prompt that will give people if they want to study their best sales calls and Compare them to your self publishing comm sales calls to figure out how they can improve But this is the prompt and you guys made it look nicer here So where do managers fit in the future of companies now that we all have AI? Yeah, so we've all seen the headlines You know whether it's Jack Dorsey or whoever else that management is going to be eliminated Using AI and I think you hear that and you think wow yeah, and some distant massive company land where they have thousands of employees That probably makes sense for me, but that doesn't really doesn't make sense to me as a small business guy but I started thinking about this and I truly believe this is going to happen at any size company and it's going to be great for the business It's going to be great for your customers. It's going to be great for people at the end of the day And so we're replacing all of our managers and so if you think about what is management? Well management is sameness Can you just hope people accountable to a standard or in this case the rubric the script? Give them feedback. It's quality control leadership is uniqueness So if we think about man about automating management Then what basically what you do and I did this with AI as well is you list out all your leaders and managers in your organization you get clear on what they do that drives value Maybe you have job scorecards. Maybe you prompt this with AI Do you order those things based on revenue and then you start using AI to get quick wins? And so what you just saw is an example of that where we said okay a sales manager what do they do? They review calls they recruit great reps You know, it's it's they coach people so then Well sales call review and let's just stop right there for a second and say call review If you were in a call heavy business, which a lot of people if you're in the service business you are you've got sales calls You've got customer calls you've got business development I mean you get calls calls calls happen in all over the place and for us coaching calls as we coach off through the process So if you build it once you can now all the sudden knock out all of this management layer and I'm talking about For us is five plus people doing five to 20 hours a week of of call reviews and quality control Which might sound insane to people But now our people are getting better We're building this out and we're replacing this component by component And I mean I can go into more of what this looks like But that's kind of the in thesis of we're gonna be able to do that and it's gonna provide better result for our customers Better coaching for employees and better outcomes for the business. Okay, I can see how it works in sales a little bit But I have a question about it. I can see how it works with working with your authors Right, you don't need a manager who's going to listen to the sale to the conversations with with your authors You can just have software watch what's going on and improve them just like you did for the sales calls What I don't understand though is the component that you mentioned earlier A salesperson struggles with telling a story shouldn't a manager then be the person who goes and talks to them and says look I know you're looking at the same stats. I am you're clearly not doing as well with storytelling Let's work on it together. Isn't that still what a manager does or how do you replace that? I think yes and no I think The management is the same this so I mean that's the cool thing about this hub, right as you saw that where it said Hey, you're doing a not a great job selling with stories. Well, here's what you can do and Like it'll literally coach this which by the way we built this out as well Which was we call it the librarian Mm-hmm. So you know we've published over 7,000 books over the last decade So an issue that we started kept running into is a sales person would be on a call and They would say oh, I need a good story that resonates specifically to this person and then we had a you know A handful of them cataloged and if they could look them up real quick You know, maybe they could find it or if they had a memory of it But it was really just this handful of stories and what they would do is they'd say hey coaches Can you tell me about this nobody would get back right like it just your life on the call you need it right away And so now what we just built into it is in slack They just say at librarian and they named the category and it will Literally in the thread link the top five to 10 books that we've published in that category I see how many reviews did they have with the average number of reviews so all of this is repetitive Now to get back to your question though Andrew what I think what you're saying is leadership Which is the soft skills I don't think AI is gonna I Put this down at the bottom the punchline is the AI will eliminate all layers or sorry all all managers But not leaders or Individual contributors for now because the leader is gonna give the encouragement The leader is gonna show up to the one-on-one and yeah has is armed with the facts and the data and whatever else But can personalize it to the human So are you just renaming the manager job as leader and you're giving them more responsibility? I don't think so I because I think you know, I've always like This shows up in my company. I don't know about yours or other people's but in some places I have really good managers that don't know how to lead and so their teams flounder and in other cases I have really good leaders That don't aren't good at the management piece and so they're the potential of their teams is capped I see this allows me to say hey good leader here's an AI manager Alongside you now go be personable go Encourage people go recruit go do all the things that are really important. That's way harder if not impossible at this point for AI to do And then we're gonna automate all the wrote and knowing stuff that just ends up slipping and and or You know some people is just gonna eliminate that manager all together and we'll just say all right What do you want to go back to being an individual contributor and? And doing the thing for the client and then that's better for the client and that's better for the business and it's better for them because It cuts out all of this it's at the end of the day is waste so How much time would you say that a sales manager spent listening to calls checking in on why I called it and work that kind of a thing in the past what percentage? Yeah, I'd say it's probably roughly five to fifteen hours a week Okay, and I've got two of those sales managers in the organization. So this is automatically saving you know 10 to 30 hours a week But even more importantly than that it's doing it it's doing 40 plus as you can even do this in 40 hours a week It's doing the job of like if you just had a dedicated call reviewer Right doing that job and giving better feedback to the rep so that's what that gets me so excited because that's It's better for our people and it's better for our customers. Okay, so now it's on the manager to say I'm gonna look at the same data as a salesperson and see if I could level them up If I could level them up by helping them tell better stories by hanging out with them so that I could find the stories that they might want to share by Giving them a little bit more motivation push whatever that person then will continue to lead a group of people if they can do that If what they were really good at is looking at a chart of requirements and seeing who's fulfilling each one of these requirements Those people are either gonna leave the company or go to being individual contributors meaning they're gonna start to make sales calls in this case That's where you see the company going That is and so that's kind of where I put down here like basically once this is complete because we're still very much early days of Building out the whole AI management layer, but we're going one step at a time Once that's complete well then obviously you need someone to maintain and improve the systems And then you can eliminate or repurpose your managers now in a lot of cases you'll most likely be eliminating that layer altogether Mm-hmm and only repurpose if they can do one of these three things Which adds value to the company so if they can build more AI stuff to grow the company faster If they can drive high-level strategy that improves results or if they can pivot back into being an Individual contributor so if they can't do one of those three things That their role is going to be completely eliminated But if they can then great that adds more value to the company into our customers It sounded scary when you first brought it up and I kept telling you Chandler's has got to be a way for you to not come across as a jerk as we as we talk about getting rid of managers I said you kept saying no Andrew that's not the issue. This is actually good. I get it now It's really giving more power to people to do their work better and to not spend time in that annoying stuff like going through Scales called transcripts and so on all right You saw how a founder is replacing managers with AI Let me show you another founder who's merging both AI agents and employees so tightly that it's almost difficult to tell It is difficult to tell who's an agent who's an employee, but it makes the company so effective watch that story next