---
video_title: "We Stressed-Tested CLAUDE Fable 5. Here's What We Found"
video_id: kqh_cPPXPqU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqh_cPPXPqU
video_date: 2026-06-09T18:33:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Anthropic just dropped Fable 5.0, and on Zapier's Automation Bench, it's crushing every other model.
  
  Zapier's founder & Andrew Warner break down the numbers: 27% on operations-specific tasks, a full 7-point lead over the previous best, Gemini 3.5 Flash at 20%. No other domain even touches 20%.
  
  The real story isn't just the score. It's how Fable operates.
  
  When it hits a 404 error, it doesn't hammer the endpoint 22 times like GPT-55 did. It immediately pivots: checks the spreadsheet, scans the inbox, and finds another way. It stays on task in messy Slack channels instead of wandering into unrelated threads.
  
  This is the first generally available model that actually knows how to recover from failure.
  
  In this episode, we cover:
  
  - Why Fable 5.0's error recovery changes the game for AI agents
  - Head-to-head: Fable vs GPT-55 vs Gemini 3.5 Flash on real automation tasks
  - Concrete examples from the Automation Bench: lead routing, Slack monitoring, and API failure recovery
  - What "the first available version of Mythos" means for Anthropic's roadmap
  - What this unlocks for AI startups building on agent workflows
  
  Presented by Zapier:
  https://zapier.com/
---
Who andthropic just released Fable 5.0? Everyone's talking about whether it's good or not? Well, you know what? Here's the big question. Can it actually get work done? Can it actually use multiple tools to get the outcome that you expect? And I know a man who's been testing this hundreds of times. In fact, he's tested every one of these major models, hundreds of times, and will tell us how it scores against all those other models. Let's get right into it. What do you think overall? This is a strong model. So at Zapier, we have a benchmark, automation bench. We specifically like to test how good these models are at evaluating an AI agent on realistic business workflows. This is what Zapier has tons of data on. We've been operating for 15 years. We know how these workflows work in the real world. What's a workflow that you all test? Like a good example would be something like lead routing. In any company, you've got leads that are coming in. They're often coming in from a bunch of different sources. Maybe some come from your website. Some come from Event-E-Run. Maybe someone comes from the CEO's inbox. Maybe someone landed and leaped in inbox. So you've got all these leads that are coming in. And you often need to get them into a CRM. You need to get them scored. You need to get them triaged and sent to your reps. Maybe you want to send it to the next available rep. Maybe you want to send it to a rep based on a certain skill set that they have. And so we're trying to understand, if you want to put a model inside one of those workflows, how good is it going to be at helping you with various components or the entire task itself? OK. Where it's especially good is operations. What did it score? Yes. OK. So here's the kicker. Inside Automation Bench, we test it on domains. Sales marketing operations support finance. The headliner is, it is crushing on operations specific tasks. So the prior best model for operation specific tasks was Gemini 3.5 Flash. And it scored at 20%. This new model for Manthropic Fable is scoring at 27%, a full 7% percentage points improvement over the prior model high. And that is better than any other domain either. No other domain even touches 20%. HR is the closest at which comes in at exactly 20%. That means when I give it 100 tasks, 27 of them are going to get it right. For on this model, previous models, Gemini Flash, 20%, meaning one out of five, it got it exactly right. Let's talk about a specific example. So let's actually talk about lead routing. Like we were just mentioning that. I think that is a good example. Other models will often fail in a particular way. They'll hand off a lead that didn't quite qualify. It might email the wrong rep and say, hey, you're giving it to the wrong person. Whereas Fable is going to more consistently qualify those leads correctly, route them correctly, et cetera over time. So that's an example of a type of task that is like a very operation specific task and Fable will do a much better job with it. What's another example? Other pattern that we find is that it tends to do well at what we call experimentation and recovery. So you give it like a task that is, you may not tell it how to do the job. And it's able to sort of figure it out. So let's give you an example might be, here's one from HR. You've got to go harmonize like the employee benefits across countries. You got to pull the benefits plans, you got to reconcile them against the policies. Then you got to go notify all the relevance teams. Now in this task, say one of the systems, let's say the HR systems benefits plan has an API. And when you try and go hit it at 404s, minute, it can't find it. It's not. Yeah. But the data is available elsewhere. Like the data is found maybe in a spreadsheet or an inbox or something like that. So Fable, how it does on this task, it will go hit that HR endpoint once. It gets the 404 and it immediately says, I'm going to go try a different way. I'll go check the spreadsheet. I'll go track the inbox and go find the data elsewhere. Now other models, it doesn't do, they don't do this. They'll keep hammering that 404 endpoint, trying to see if they'll get a different result. What's that old saying? Like the definition of insanity is trying the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result. We call it experiment, recover, experiment, recover. Try thing. Does it work? Yes. Great. Does it not work? Okay, recover. Try something else. And it just does that loot better, where these other models will get stuck. The specific example you're going to be before we start was GPT 55 would hit the site, get 404, then do it again. Do it again. Do it again. A total of 22 times would get the error and just keep trying. Gemini did better. It hit the site, got a failure stopped, got, I mean, or continued again, got a failure, continued again. Did it a total of five times before saying, okay, I will find another way and then it went and found another way. So we're looking here at a system that really knows how when there's an error, when there's a roadblock, how to recover from it. How about one last thing that it does especially well? It operates better in like messy environments. So let's consider a slack instance. In most companies, there's a channel for sales, a channel for marketing, a channel for engineering, a channel for all sorts of different stuff. And the channels don't always stay on topic. And not everyone uses threads the right way. Not everyone does this the same way, et cetera. Maybe you want it to go flag any off track ad budgets. And you could say, hey, all the ad budgets are listed in this alerts channel. We have this alerts channel set up. And I want to specifically know about anyone that is like flagged for like being over budget, way under budget, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Now this, you know, fabled again, we'll do much better at this task. It will go track the very specific ones that are hitting those alerts, summarize those and report them back to you. The failure pattern that we see a lot of times with this is that it won't stay on task. And it will, you know, prior models will find maybe, it'll find all the ones that do qualify, but it will go wander off and it'll include other contexts, and include other things. Maybe it pulls an unrelated task that was inside that same channel. Maybe it goes and looks at a different channel. Maybe it looks in a different thread. And it includes that in the response. And we probably all experienced this before. Where was it? You have a response for a model. And you go, what is this? Like, what are you talking about here? That doesn't relate to my query at all. OK, so overall, it's more precise. It stays on track. It's more resourceful. It recovers from its own failures quicker compared to these other models. Yeah, I still think there's an open-ended question for this type of use case. Do you want to use a model or do you want to use code or deterministic workflows for this type of task? I think that's something you should be really asking yourself. But there are definitely operations use cases where you're going to want to use an LL. And this is a good one to use for that. Wait, by the way, do you think this is, is this a version of Mithos? Is this Mithos light? I, this, so my understanding is this is a Mithos style model. I'm sure Anthropic is going to share it has a lot more details out there soon. But this is the first available version of Mithos that's generally available.