---
video_title: "Make Claude a better designer & builder"
video_id: C6WM0XlqxrU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C6WM0XlqxrU
video_date: 2026-05-01T17:25:04+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-claude-code
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  Most people using Claude Code are doing it wrong.
  
  In this episode of The Next New Thing, Andrew Warner and Adam Brakhane break down the best GitHub repos that actually make AI coding better—not by adding more power, but by adding structure, constraints, and better thinking.
  
  They cover design systems you can plug into Claude, full “skill stacks” like G-Stack, planning frameworks that force you to think before building, and tools that reduce token usage while improving accuracy.
  
  Some of these are simple. Some are controversial. But together, they point to a clear shift: the best builders aren’t just prompting—they’re building systems around how AI should behave.
  
  The bigger idea: skills are becoming the new layer of software. Instead of apps, you distribute how AI works.
  
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - VoltAgent / awesome-design-md
  03:09 - garrytan / gstack
  06:18 - obra / superpowers
  08:15 - Zapier MCP
  09:27 - BehiSecc / awesome-claude-skills
  11:42 - TheDecipherist / claude-code-mastery-project-starter-kit
  16:48 - anthropics / skills
  19:03 - JuliusBrussee / caveman
  24:00 - forrestchang / andrej-karpathy-skills
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
If you're new to coding with Cloud Code and Codex and all these other tools, we're going to give you tools that will make you a better developer by helping you stop and think through and plan out better by helping you improve your designs and you're going to see some before and after shots and by helping you think through how you can keep improving your work. All of these are free and available for you. Of course, we've got the report that I'm going to share in the description and let's get started. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Adam, this one I've seen for so long. Awesome design MD. Let me click into it and show what it is. I'd love for you to just talk about it for a moment and then I'm going to show what I've done with this. Yeah, I mean, I want I want to I would love to see what you've built with it, but I think a lot of these LLMs are bad at design by default. They don't know how to build designs that are that are both interesting, compelling, but then also coherent. And so what I'm seeing a lot of and this is a great example is a set of skills and a package that helps constrain the AI's power and then add in all these layers of what does it take to make a user interface that looks good and that's easy to use. All of that comes through when you use a package like this. And then the big problem that I see is all of us are creating websites that look exactly like clawed code same color saying everything and claw design does this today, and so here we can come in and we can basically pick the design that we like like maybe we like loveable. And they basically distilled loveables colors, loveable style into a package that we can use in clawed code and now even in claw design. And so I have actually taken this and said what if we use the X dot AI design language in here, but that would look like on these slides. And what if we use design language of say this is loveable this one is Spotify this is zappier and that's what it does and it's really easy to use in fact let me see if I can share how I did that and show people how how simple it is. I use VS code as you know, since you're the one who introduced me to it, I just said I want you to a topic that text directly from their site and then I said I want you to design it created design.md and then it created the image, the page for me, and then I did the same thing for other other designs that I wanted. Like Spotify very I would point out you know you're using this to mimic these other brands designs, but but a really powerful way to use this is let's say you want to build a new PowerPoint or a new web app for your business, but you've pointed at your businesses website and suddenly clawed knows your design language knows your logo your colors your font and it'll pull all that into everything you create. So everything is automatically going to come out custom to you and looking very on brand it's super easy to use I highly recommend it and like I said they even have a version that you can use if what you're trying to do is is do it in claw design which I really appreciate. Alright let's switch something else go to the next one this one is G stack we've seen this talked about so much is from Gary tan it's his collection of basically. Specialist packaged as a skill have you have you seen this do you have any strong opinions on it because i'm about to show what it looks like I've seen it i've used it let me tell you why I think someone that's trying to learn how to vibe code app should should use this. You know you look over there on the right it says 23 specialist and eight power tools the reality is if you're a software engineer like myself and you've been doing this for for a decade or two. Well you you bring a lot of expertise to the table and you know how to act as a designer and a front end engineer but if you're just vibe quoting from scratch you really need a set of skills like this to plug in so that it can fill in your gaps the things that you're not going to think about a stack like this will help you think about them will help you remember to do it it'll be much more powerful. So it's not just a proactive and say hey have you thought about this have you tested it this way so these it's almost irresponsible to not be using a package like this honestly if if you don't come in with the experience. He gets so much flack on on Twitter for this because it's justice at his skills what do you think of that. I think it's not just a deal off the sours. Yeah I'd be one of the people giving him lots of flack for that I think in some sense these things are easy to create and I don't know that it seems all that authentic coming from him obviously he's got experience I'm sure people on his team are helping him put this together it's not just him coding every day although it may be. Yeah I mean I think that what I don't love about such a large package of these is that it takes away your ability as the creator to do something wild and different and unique to you you know some of the other ones we're going to look at today I think are far more customizable than than what you're showing me right here and so I worry that using someone's pile of skills like this is just going to shut down creativity and now you're going to be building apps that look like everyone else that's that's using the g stack. But it's not just for design it's also for thinking through your ideas for retro for pair programming yeah but it'll suggest the same technologies over and over again it'll suggest the same frameworks it'll suggest the same user behaviors like it has biases built in and because there's so many files in there you you really couldn't realistically customize all of that to to be genuinely custom for you. And again I've used this also it's such an easy thing to use that to me it feels like a simple add on you can see I actually had it in there before it's that way you you want it you already have it I said okay yeah right just remove and start over and then I got to use the design skill which is you saw it didn't really make much change to my slides but it's fairly easy right just everything's a slash away isn't isn't how I get to it office hours there you go. And then you just start clicking and it asks you some questions and then it moves you through it. Yeah easy easy easy this one is called superpowers stop letting your code agent jump straight into code it asks it makes you ask what you're really building first or answer what you're really building first then it dives into the workflow. What do you think of this one first of all it's an amazing pattern and it's an anti pattern I see a lot with new AI builders is they walk in and they say AI I want to see an app build me an app that can do this this and this and that's just not how experts are using these tools when someone that's really well versed in both AI and product building they sit down and they spend a lot of time planning they spend a lot of time researching they spend a lot of time thinking asking questions answering questions. And then by the time you're ready to build the thing that you build is nuanced it's good it has a point of view on why it should exist it's not just some like average AI thing so anything that can get you to slow down will help the AI to slow down so I like this cycle of tools that that focus on it and it's not you know compared to maybe Gary's package like this one has a clear point of view which like hey I'm just here to bring you a handful of good software engineering. And I'm going to help you plan this project better than than you would if you just sit down with regular cloud code. How much time do you spend thinking through before you start building something because I just go right into building and then I figure it out yeah if you know let's let's say I've got five hours to work on a project I might spend an hour and a half or two kind of researching and planning I'm pulling design examples I'm gathering data I'm looking at other apps I'm defying the data and finding functionality maybe I'm looking at mockups or little prototypes and then it's not until the hour and a half or two hour mark where I decide to say great now let's start building our app and that's the minute the first line of code is is ready. All right let's go into the next thing which is Zapier MCP here's what this does it basically brings in thousands of apps thousands of tools dml calendar sauna notion so many others into anything that I build and what I love about it is I can go and decide what I want to give it access to so I'm not just saying here. Cloud code you have access to my gmail what i'm doing is i'm going into Zapier MCP i'm saying. I want you to have access to my gmail but only to reading gmail and writing draft and I want you to have access to calendar and sauna and notion and so on and once I decided what I want to give access to I get a single. Connection that I can give back to whatever on building whether it's a personal assistant or I like to play dashboards to give me insights and what's going on online all that is what zapier MCP makes really easy to do and what I love about zapier is these aren't just people who are by coding the solution for me there the company that's been about tested for over 10 years and i've been a customer there's for as long as they've been around highly recommend them they're used by enterprise or use by small creators. And i'm glad that they're here to superpower everything we do as my sponsor. Alright awesome clawed skill this is something that you said to me you've seen so many times what is this yeah this this pattern of awesome. Something is a common pattern you'll see in in software and product spaces and it's basically someone that's that's taken the time and put in the effort to go and figure out hey and all these different categories like if you scroll up to the table of contents here there's a bunch of different categories of skills that you might want and i'm sitting here and i'm like oh man i want to edit video edit images well great i'm going to go to the media content section and i'm going to oh yeah this YouTube trends that's actually i might download this one because that's a problem i have all the time i'm trying to get. My AI agents to grab transcripts from youtube and so it's nice to have a repository like this bookmarked because it's just the the best like yellow pages but but for all of these awesome skills that you can plug in so it's not this isn't anything on its own it's just this it's just a list but it's it's definitely worth a bookmark i've been really looking for a good YouTube transcript service i i don't know if this is the right one for me to try but i i'm looking for it. And i want to make sure that i get a good one you know that you would start i would always start from these and because i bet there's a thousand different youtube transcript skills out there but it takes a little bit for something to make it onto a list like this and so great they've like taken away some of the work instead of testing 10 maybe you only have to test this one and you're ready to go. Oh, look at this video downloader we do this all the time using shady web apps. By the way my background is not as cool as it usually is because i'm in your office here in st. Louis anything i should be doing long here. You know go climb the arch eat some emo's pizza Ted Cruz it's a little chilly today but otherwise i'd say let's go get some Ted Cruz after this frozen custard. Climb you can actually climb the arch you can well you don't climb it you go up in this like rickety old elevator that. It takes you the top you get to hang out so it's a wonderful view. I was going to say i was i'm a bit of a wuss when it comes to hiding so i wanted to sit in the office at a desk but i'm up for going out alright let's go on to the next one. This is the claw code mastery project starter cake we're talking about a set of slash commands and hooks you like this when you and i were talking before we got started what do you like about this yeah. You know all of these skills and by the way this is a this is a smaller project only 296 stars i just wanted to use it as an example what do you like about this all these skills are nice because they. They let the AI kind of have a little bit more information about what you're trying to build it makes the AI a little more proactive. This one blends together those skills but also some template you know when i start a new web app in claw code i'm not starting from scratch i'm not starting from skills i copy and paste a template just like this but that i built for myself and it's got all the tools that i want to install already it's got a handful of skills. And what i would take from this and her is i'd say well awesome this looks like a really good template everybody here should start from a template so that you can build consistently you know what to expect and it really giving the that structure along with the skills helps the AI figure out oh yeah this is how adam wants to build and because this one is a little bit smaller than some of the others this is easy to customize so you could. When you say when you say template what are we looking at here exactly what is this normally when when we're looking at one of these skills projects you know if you click on the dot claw folder there at the very top. Got it and then inside here there's skills there's hooks there's commands these are the things you're downloading when you're downloading. G stack or one of these other packages of skills well in this you notice there's other folders there's a source folder there's a scripts folder there's a project docs folder a docs a content folder so all of these things are are basically placeholders for how the lm is actually going to build your app so instead of the app having to decide oh there should be a docs folder oh there should be a content folder oh there should be a scripts folder they're already there so So claw code doesn't have to invent all this stuff from scratch every time I see and so they're saying when I when you create start with these sets of folders that with this structure and build from there yeah yeah I've got a you know one word that's used a lot as boiler plate I've got a boiler plate template that I use that comes with some skills but it's also got my design language already baked in it's got my logo already in there all this stuff that I don't want to the you know claw code to have to figure out every. Time because it's the same for every app I build. So should I be using this or just learning from it or do I custom on it how do I use this I would I would either take this one and and point you know give the URL here to claw code and say I want to customize this for my own purposes or if you have a project that you've already built take that point claw code at the project you've built and give it the link to this and say hey claw code I want to make a template that's using all of the design language and you know user experience decisions I made in this custom app and then I want to make a template that's as robust as this one that's here on GitHub combine those for me and make me a custom template that's just for me. So when you sit down to start building using claw code or whatever what's the tool that you use you don't use VS code when using I use VS code sometimes I use T3 code which is this tool by Theo Vaughn. There's a bunch of different ways to do it they're all talking to either code excerpt or code under the hood and then I have my own set of templates that on my computer I basically copy and paste or all point clawed to the folder where it isn't say that's the template I want to use for this project let's get it going and then clawed will copy all the files got it. So when I start a project it's not an empty folder there's there's a bunch of empty folders there's some folders that have content and context in them like logos design context about who I am what our business is all that just comes into every project for me for free and I have a handful of these I have one for creating memos one for creating internal web apps another for creating external web apps you know we've got we've got a pile of them. They almost always start from scratch and then I pull in files individually one at a time I feel like okay I've got a brand new empty container yeah I honestly I found it interesting out trying to like build all that stuff and I it's just repetitive and you know as a software engineer if I do something four times I'm going to I'm going to automate it the fifth time and so yeah I make a bunch of templates and they're so easy to make I built them out with clawed code right I did exactly what I told you which is I pointed it at an couple apps that I had built and said I wanted it to create a template that would let me you know bootstrap one of these apps up up from nothing and that's just what it did. Let us know in the comments if you want us to do a session where Adam just walks us through how he creates templates or the template city has when he's when he's building. Alright and the topic skills this is actually like the most popular thing I think for people who are getting started right yeah it's the collection of dependable skills that do useful things that we should all be aware of yeah these guys are testing these they're they're validating them tons of people have used them so if if a thing that you want to build is a skill on this list like I'd be using I'd be using this skill over anything else it's just. Going to work and as they keep updating the models you might not think about this Andrew but the new models work differently than the old models and so as the new models change and therapists going to keep skills like this up to date with oh here's the way that you need to instruct the new model and so you're basically getting that for free from the source rather than relying on one of these third parties that may or may not update it may or may not be good may or may not be tested like this stuff is all super legit. It's a great one use this skill whenever the user wants to do anything with PDF files and includes reading and extracting text tables from PDFs combining emerging multiple PDFs into one splitting it's so on and this is the PDF one I use the Excel one there's an Excel one I think the but yeah there you go that the bottom of the list XLS X there it is that one what do you use this for so so. Claude sometimes struggles with Excel files because you know the context it's not like a paragraph where kind of all the information is self contained like the headers are maybe thousands of rows away from the piece of data you're looking at and so I find that it loses its place it loses structure it will transpose rows across each other but when you use a skill like this they basically give it at the instructions to understand how to process the Excel file how to either create it or read it. And so it just makes the anything you're trying to do far more reliable. All right, and of course you can get the full report with all of these links below in the description just click the link and you'll get everything that we've talked about here will continue with one more. This one is so fun caveman you've got to tell people what this is and how it can actually save them money on tokens and on usage yeah caveman make less spend. Andrew this is this is exactly what it sounds like which is you know the AI is very verbose were very verbose we give it a lot of information and all those tokens that's money and in some cases it's even worse it's time you know if the AI is going to spend all the time to send back a thousand tokens well what if it could have sent you a hundred tokens you would have gotten it cheaper and faster and what these guys have proven if you if you click in it actually run a bunch of past on this lowering the amount of tokens improves the thinking accuracy as well so somewhere in here I think go keep scrolling down I think there's a chart where they've gone. Yeah, where do they do that I thought there was maybe I've sought in another so saved yet somewhere there's a quality one. Eval yeah no that's the emails and maybe it was a news article is reading. But essentially what we're looking at here is I love the demos and they they've got a small medium and large but look they're saying normally clawed code might have might talk with you with a lot of words like this and you would off course just use a lot of words to communicate back to it if you can shorten what it says to you and what you say to it to something like this from something like this you go from 69 tokens for this message to 19 tokens for this message you still communicate essentially the same thing but with less let me ask you this though Adam this really demos well it's kind of fun and you can really shorten things the thing that I think is sometimes there's more nuance in the big in the very close response how why do I care about saving 50 tokens yeah you know I'll give you a graph that we can put up on screen for this but it's it's been studied many times that the longer the chat session is the worst that the accuracy of the model so literally every token that the model generates or every token that the model consumes gets a little bit dumber gets a little bit dumber a little bit dumber and so in your conversation if you yeah you might think that the nuance is great but as it gets longer and longer and longer it's actually getting dumber it's not following along as well and so in a lot of cases that nuance is actually not helpful it's actively making the quality of the model worse and all these models have a have a limit as well called the context window where you know with the current clawed models it's a million tokens they literally cannot see more than a million tokens so if you want to have a long conversation if you want to build something if you want to process a book well after a million tokens it can't see it so the tokens that it looked at first those are just gone those words they're out of the memory so if you use something like caveman what happens is it compresses a little bit well now you can fit more of the story you can fit more of the application you can have a longer conversation get more done all in this one window without like losing data from the beginning all right so it is improving accuracy and as it says right here it's also making it more fun when you when you're basically talking to a caveman but this is also this is something that I do appreciate the wall of text that you get from Ella Lens just to find themselves are the pleasantries just fries me freaking speciality on opus 4.7 I have so many times that last week had to write back I'm not going to read all of that tell it to me more concisely like I wish I had had this as like a little toggle where I could have just no caveman it for me please but be open with me you haven't installed this even though you shared this with me you don't use this day today why not I'm lazy you know installing stuff on my computer takes even a moment of my time I think I would like to try it what I what I would like to see though is like I would like it to be a toggle where sometimes I can turn it off and sometimes I can leave it on I think that's probably not really how it works this gets installed and what it does is there is a little bit of a little bit more for hooks so that every time you send a message to A.I. or every time A.I. sends a message back to you you can actually and when you install something like caveman it'll interrupt that it's a who Adams about to get a response from the lm let me change it for him and then it'll send me the caveman version automatically but that's like not again always easy to turn on and off. So you know I don't know that I always want to talk to it this way. I get that. We'll have it of course in a report for people to see including some of the demos that we have here. This one keeps popping up at them as like the most popular repo of the week. We've talked about it before. It's always worth including. What is this? Tell people. Yeah, I mean this guy is like one of the most pre-eminent AI researchers. He's created a lot of the the research that is driving this boom of LLMs. So he clearly knows what he's doing and then he's still with it. He is at the forefront. He's testing things. He sees not just where things are going, but also what's wrong with the way things are today. And so these skills are kind of his bridge based on his advice the way he talks about the models. This is a bridge between how Andre would would like the AI to work, but it doesn't quite do it yet. And so if you give the AI these skills, it sort of almost does things the way that it should do it instead of the limited way that we've got today. So this isn't by him, but this is based off of his advice for the world. He's on tons of podcasts. He's producing research. This is a kind of distilled version of his knowledge. And if I start using this, what's going to happen? How is it going to change the way that that I interact with cloud code and the results that I get? Yeah, I mean, look at look at those four. So number one, we've actually seen pop up in a couple of the records you've showed me today, which is, Hey, it's actually really useful to do a little bit of research and thinking and planning before you start to build. But the LLMs will very happily just run and build. If you say build me an app, yes, sir, I'm going to build you an app. And so having a skill like this top one slows the LLM down, which improves the quality, both of your thinking and of the LLMs building. These other ones, it's the same deal like simplicity first. Oh, man, I was just reading a report where, you know, the LLM in in almost 70% of cases will rather build a package that exists. Let's say you want to like load PDFs. The LLM would rather build a custom PDF loader than find off of the shelf some existing package that we've been using for 20 years that loads PDFs in code. The LLM is like, no, I want to build it. And so it's like not simple. It's always trying to create custom stuff and custom things can be nice, but they're also really hard to maintain. They can be buggy. And then here like if 200 lines could be 50 rewind it. Like, yeah, I don't like LLMs just produce, produce, produce. So you need to slow it down. You need to constraint it. So surgical, surgical changes is something that as you, you won't see this in your first week vibe coding. Because when you're vibe coding, you know, at the, at the start, like your app is 20 files. It's really simple. You have three screens in your app. By the time you've got 20 screens and there's a thousand files, every single change that you try to make in your app, the AIs get to say, awesome. Here's the 80 files I need to change. And it's slow. It causes bugs. It breaks behavior that you know, you've already fixed 10 times. And so you need to remind it constantly. And you know, me as an engineer, I do this just as I'm prompting. But if you're not doing it, you need something to remind it to, to make really, really, really surgical changes. I mean, that's a final one goal driven execution. Yeah. Define success criteria. That's a, that's a thing another like footgun that new vibe coders will, will not do, which is they don't, they don't tell the AI what great looks like they tell AI what they want it to do. Build me an app that can search maps for restaurants. Well, that's not success. Success is I want an app that can search restaurants that can really show things that match my preferences and my criteria. Like it takes again, a little bit of thinking and like, what does great look like? Not what is done? What is great look like? And so a skill like this that's plugged in will not just help slow you down so that you can define great. But then it's also going to build in these checks. So in software engineering, we call them tests, which is, hey, if I'm going to process some data, I should have a little test that can run and test my logic. So instead of just waiting for me to go in and test the whole app every time, it can in an automated way, check to see, does the math still work? Does the output look right? And so this, this skill kind of does all that for you. All right. We got a lot going on here. Here's the number one. And of course, people can download this report and they are doing this. This is like our most, most downloaded anything here on the channel. People keep wanting these reports. And so you'll get to see all the cross cutting themes. Here's the big one for me that I'm taking away. It's skills at a new unit of distribution that skills are how I've now learned to stop repeating myself. And the big thing is people like Gary now are taking their internal skills and they're packaging it for other people to help them get more, be more disciplined. Yeah. If I'm a new entrepreneur right now, man, I need a set of skills. I don't just want to create some SaaS platform and try and get people to invite and use it like, no, I want to build something as a skill. It can seem a little funny because mostly you can't charge for them. People can download them. They can share them. But man, like this is like go and look at all the charts there of how many stars these are getting. How many times people are downloading it? Like this is the way to get in front of customers right now. I see. So it's a way to promote yourself. Yeah, I absolutely see that. The other thing that I'm learning for myself is it's a way for me to be more intentional that how I'm creating things and repeat with improvements instead of just start from scratch. I have a skill now that creates this. I will say this to you Adam. It does take for fricking ever to create these skills. I think that what I'm going to do is I'm going to say, Hey, Claude, just create the skill out of everything we said. I'm going to get it quickly because it's just markdown files. It takes for fricking ever. I have it on a separate monitor. I give a feedback and it's worth it. Well, go back to some of the skills that you're looking at. Andrew, you got to slow down. You've got a plan. You've got to have some tests built in like the process is really, really well known. We've been doing this for a long time. Just just because AI is here and can type really quickly doesn't mean that the process isn't still worth it. And yeah, all this stuff is a little bit harder to create than you would think. It's very easy to make a demo. It's very hard to make something that's legitimately awesome. All right. Thank you. See you all in the comments. Bye, everyone.