---
video_title: "New AI Drops: AI does your work, Claude in Slack, cheap AI & more"
video_id: SMIuRWtbO9Y
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SMIuRWtbO9Y
video_date: 2026-06-25T20:17:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down the biggest AI releases of the week, starting with Record & Replay in Codex: a new way to record yourself doing a task once and turn it into a reusable skill.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/ai-releases-jun25
  
  They also cover Are You in the Weights?, Claude Tag, Zapier MCP, Bluerails, Claude Code artifacts, Revid, WorkClaw, second brains, OpenRouter MCP, and more. The episode focuses on what these launches actually make possible: giving agents better memory, letting them use your tools safely, turning meetings into apps, making websites easier for agents to access, and choosing cheaper or better models for each task.
  
  The big idea: AI tools are moving from demos into repeatable workflows. The winners are the products that remove setup friction, connect directly to the tools teams already use, and help agents do real work instead of creating more dashboards, reports, and slop.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Record & Replay in Codex
  01:12 - Turning screen recordings into reusable skills
  01:48 - Are You in the Weights?
  02:51 - Fable 5 returning?
  03:45 - Claude Tag brings Claude into Slack
  06:00 - Zapier MCP and safer agent permissions
  07:12 - Bluerails lets agents use your site
  09:36 - Claude Code artifacts
  10:48 - Revid and one-prompt video creation
  12:54 - Turning meeting transcripts into apps
  14:06 - WorkClaw and one-click agents in Slack
  16:39 - Building a second brain with Codex
  19:21 - FIFA in your menu bar
  20:42 - OpenRouter MCP for model selection
  22:48 - Why Andrew is rethinking token costs
  23:42 - Watch last week’s AI releases
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Do you want a one click way to give you and your team open claw? Well, I've got two different companies that launched away for you to do that. Hate spending money on AI costs? Well, I've got a new thing from OpenRouter that will make it super easy for you to save money and get the best value and the best results. Ooh, and I've got an easy way for you to take any idea you have and one shot have it created and so much more launches week. We've got links right here so you can click along and follow. And of course, everything will be in the description. Let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. All right, Corey, the number one story of the week is record and replay in codex. We've all seen this video. I'm going to show it again because I think it's so freaking impressive. Let's talk about this. He's basically saying he's going into his codex app and he's saying record and replay. Then watch me upload this YouTube video so you can handle it for me in the future. And he's doing all the stuff that you and I have done. You get your title for him. It's in a spreadsheet, his description from a spreadsheet. He's getting his image. He's putting it in. He's doing all the stuff that he does. And just doing it naturally the way you ordinarily would. And at the end, he gets these skills that he could use with codex in the future and have codex now that it understands how to do the work. Do the work. What do you think of this one? I think this is a long time coming. So I'll tell you the way that I used to do this. I used to record myself doing a task with loom. Then I take the loom video uploaded to Gemini because Gemini is the only model that can watch video. Interesting. Then I have Gemini give me the step-by-step checklist for what I just did. I take the checklist, I copy it into cloud and I have cloud turned it into a skill. And then I've got to iterate on it two to five times to really perfect it. This literally takes that whole process and makes it a one shot where I can just watch you the first time and build the skill once. So I think this is awesome. One of the most impactful updates we've seen in a long time. Fan-freak and fantastic. By the way, I had no idea you were doing that. That's so smart. Okay, here's a cute little one. This was huge on hacker news. It's basically a place where you can come and see how you're doing on all the different. I love the sound effects on all the different models. You type in your name. We're not going to wait here while it does it. But here's the result for your name. It's telling you that, oh, wait, it found the wrong person. It found the professional poker player actually. I didn't. Yes. It says in American. It's a things I'm a professional American poker player known for his success in high stakes online and live tournaments. So that means you really need to improve your AEO. Yeah, I guess. That's probably more on me than it is on this tool at the end of the day. Agreed. Especially bigger than it understands. This is me. Strength. Top 3%. Here's where I'm showing up. And it does have me, right? Andrew Warner, Mixergy Founder and Podcaster. We need now the updated stuff for the next new thing to show up over here. Pretty interesting to see how it shows. Oh, look, Cloud Opus 4.8 says entrepreneur and Podcaster who founded Mixergy, where the interviews start up entrepreneurs about how they built their business. Fantastic. I like how it show up. Nice little cute tool. Of course, we'll have a link to that in everything else below. Let's go on to this X-Post. This is a quick one. Apparently, the betting markets are saying the Fable 5 is coming out. I think it is. What do you think? I think it is for sure. I think it's only a matter of time. I heard a lot of chatter. I guess in the most recent cloud code update that was pushed, there is something in the source code or something the developers look at that, you know, mentions Fable 5 coming back, which is exactly why we see that spike in the prediction markets. I mean, 60 plus percent chance that it's coming back before July 1st. I've seen people say it's coming back today. Today's June 25th. I've heard people say next week, I think 100% before July 1st. And I think it's going to come back bigger than ever. If you think people were freaking out about it the first time, well, once they got a taste and then it was taken away, now it's going to come back with a vengeance. I can't wait to use it. I can't wait to use it. All right. I also really like this from Anthropic Tag. It basically puts Claude in Slack tag. Get it like as your tagging Claude by app mentioning it. And what it's doing is it's letting you and more importantly, your team interact with it. And it's pretty fricking smart. Like here's an example of Mark is saying at Claude, check out error rate, the jump from 0.3% to 6% right after the 1,400 hour deploy. Can you dig in and figure out what broke? It's on it. It has access to the tools it needs and it gets responses. It can also read what's going on in our chat history and understand that. It can schedule tasks. It can do things proactively. Here's an example. Claude, every Monday at 9, post a pipeline update for the team, pull the latest from Salesforce. Claude says, got it. I'll pull the pipeline from Salesforce and post a digest every Monday at 9am. And here it is, Monday at 9am. It's doing it. I think the upside is, my team is now going to have a more unified experience with Claude. Claude is going to have more information on us. The downside is I can imagine more fricking slop. I do not want other people's dopey reports that don't really get me showing up on an automated basis. What do you think of this tool? I also don't want a million notifications in Slack because I already get a million and one of this. But so this is really interesting because this is Claude one trying to kill Victor. The AI startup that we just saw raised like 70 or 90 million dollars. Their whole Victor Soul business model is, hey, we give you an AI agent in Slack. That's literally what Claude is doing is trying to kill them specifically. And I think it's going to work because it's meeting people where they already are. I think that's one of the biggest friction points. Why not everybody is currently using Claude? Is because them having to open up the Claude desktop app is not a learn behavior yet. But when you can use Claude inside the tools that you're already using, aka Slack, it's going to get even more adoption. So I think this is going to be a hit. We were actually going to build something similar. Now we might have to pivot a little bit. But all in all, I think this is really good for consumers and for anthropic. Yeah. And I think people are using Slack and Chatchy PT but they're not getting it to do real work. And if they see others on the team do real work, they'll understand it. By the way, this is available only, of course, in Claude Enterprise and team accounts. But really, for most people, that is the account that they need because if you have a team, then you're going to want a team account. All right, let me talk quickly about Zappi MCP because I had a great experience with it this week. I tried to give one of my Hermes agents access to a Google account. I wanted to have its own email, its own this, its own that, its own calendar, its own Google Drive account. And I didn't like it using my browser. I didn't want to give it full access though because I was a little worried about what it might do. Partially, actually, it's that I didn't want to give it access to my account in addition to its own account because I was worried what it might do to my account. I don't want it sending out messages, deleting any of that. So I went and one of the first things I did was I went to Google's new tool and I signed up to give it access. The thing took me a fricking hour and I still couldn't get it to work. And I worked on it with the Googler who created it. It still couldn't get it to work properly. And I said, oh, Zapier MCP. I went to Zapier.com slash MCP and I quickly was able to just select the radio boxes or the check boxes for the tools that I wanted my agent to have. And then within that, I wanted to give it specific access to specific things. It's email send, receive, do everything you want to go at it. My email, you can only read and draft messages and that's the kind of power that you get with Zapier MCP. It is so easy, people do not realize it. I want you all to go check it out, Zapier.com slash MCP. Next, we talked about that. Let's talk about Blue Rails. This was number one on Product Hunge one day this week. And the reason it was number one is what it's doing is making your site more visible and more accessible to agents. So agents can find it and recommend it and they could read it and they could also act on it. So we all, well, you can talk about the importance of this. Yeah, so I think this is a much needed product. So let's talk about kind of what it does specifically. So you know how when you're using cloud or chat GPT and you say, hey, go to this website and pull the information or summarize it or whatever. A lot of times it can't read the website with web fetch. It fails or the website's blocked or for whatever reason. So it looks like what Blue Rails does is it fixes that. It makes your site accessible to agents so agents can crawl your site, scrape it, interact with it and eventually transact on it. So it looks like that's, it's a two part service of part one is they make your site more accessible to agents, which is a huge need. Part two is they make, they give your, I guess they give agents the ability to transact on your site. So think about, you know, back in the early 2000s, every website started having a pay with PayPal button on the website. That was like the early days of e-commerce. Blue Rails is kind of trying to do that for agents, essentially adding the checkout button for AI agents to your website. So I think this is gonna be huge. I think there's six to 12 months too early, but they're clearly trying to claim market share before this really takes off. And I think if, you know, if the service does what they say it's gonna do, I think it's gonna do great. I think now is the time for hustler go getters to make their sites more accessible to agents. If you take a look at agent mail, agent mail in many ways is similar to Gmail. It's just giving an email to your agent. But with Gmail, I had to go and sign up for a Gmail account or add it to my network. And then I had to go to Zapier to connect it. With agent mail, I told my agent, just go and create an account and it did and it said, Andrew, there's an email for you just to confirm you're the human behind this. I clicked that and I was done and ready to go. And the only reason I used it was because of that. It's not a better product than Gmail. In fact, I'm messaging the founder to give them some feedback on it. But I'm using it, other people are using it because of that. All right, next story. I hope we're not rushing through these stories too fast, Corey. Let me ask everyone in the audience, give us feedback. We're doing this, we're trying to improve. We wanna get this right for you. So tell us, do you want more time on each story? Do you want us to fly quicker? Give us feedback in the chat. All right, this is Artifacts from Cloud Code. At first when it came out, I said, this is not new. We've had Artifacts in Cloud forever and then I realized, no, when I'm chatting with Cloud, if I'm using co-work with Cloud, I can ask for a document and it will create the artifact on the right. When I'm in Cloud Code, now I can get that kind of experience too. And you could see here on the left that you've got a Cloud Chat experience in Cloud Code. And on the right, what you have is the artifact for Cloud Code and it's shareable and it's updated in real time. Valuable? Definitely valuable. This is the one thing that Cloud Code didn't have. Their Cloud Chat and co-work did, right? So now, there's really no excuse not to be working inside of Cloud Code for just about anything, especially if you're writing solo. If you're doing stuff with the team on things of that nature, it might make more sense to still live inside Cloud Work and Chat. But I think this is like the missing piece for Cloud Code that really makes it the hands down best tool in the Cloud Arsenal by far. I think Cloud Code for many people feels scary, but if you just switch over into that tab and give it a stupid task, you'll see it's not really that scary. Not at all. You like this one. This was one of your suggestions from Tibo TiaDa for us. Yeah, so this is full disclosure. I'm pretty sure he owns this tool. So he's just a little biased here. But I think this is one of the cooler demos of one of the, I guess, prompt to video tools that I've seen out there called Revid. So he generated this video with one prompt. And it's pretty good. It's kind of like an infographic style video. And I feel like we've seen AI video get so much better over the last three to six months, starting from the Hagen and some of the other, like the earlier video tools, Hagen is still big, but this looks good. And Figma came out with something similar literally 23 hours ago. So it seems like a lot of the AI video tools are moving towards you put in a prompt. You get a pretty solid version one in seconds. I will say this. We're seeing more and more of these types of videos on X. What he did was he took Paul Graham's article here about how to earn and he automated it. It's cute. I don't want to sit through this. I don't want to sit through the ones on X. I don't want to sit through the ones that come out from founders who are so excited about their beautiful looking founder video, a further their new product that has nothing but text and images. Why am I not reading it then? Why is this? Now I'm reading it at your slow pace. I think this whole style needs to go away or add some fricking text to it. Like it would have killed them to add 11 labs. Voice, let me see. Bet you he has music. Let me see. No. It is a matter of simple, exponential math. Oh, OK. And I was reading the audio. No cheating required. Two simple numbers determine how. OK, all right. Now I've got something to listen to with a little visual. I take it back to you. Well, you're right. This is good. This is a sight. And he's done a good job of creating viral videos that are automated in the past. All right. Enough said from Andrew. I'm going to shut up now. This is something I'll just cue this up and then talk about the bigger picture here. He said, this is your daily reminder that meeting transcripts are the best contacts you can get. Just dump the whole transcript. No summary. Plain Json will do. I one shouted this ROI calculator based on one meeting note. What's the big picture here? So I think this is just a general best practice at all. What he's saying is like, look, there's so much context trapped inside the meetings that you're having with your team already. Why not just take those transcripts, dump it into a cloud code or a codex and have it build out the tools that you talk about in your meetings. This is something that in hindsight is a no brainer, but you could connect granola to cloud code or granola to codex or whatever. And just kind of run that as an automation. Say, hey, every time there's a new granola transcript, if there's something that we talked about that would make sense as a web app or a mobile application or anything, build it. And if we never use it, who cares? It was practically free and very quick to build, but it's just a good exercise. If somebody set up that automation, which I think I'm going to go and do with my team, I'd be shocked to see all the cool little software apps and tools that we build out over the course of the year. Yeah. I think that's fantastic. WorkClaw. This is very similar to what came out from a Thropic Cloud Tag. But they're basically saying you could have multiple agents, different types of agents. Maybe you have one agent in your Slack that is your writing agent for your team, and it knows the way your whole team likes to write. And another one that is your social media agent and so on. And so these are clause like OpenClaw get it. This was also number one. It was built on top of OpenClaw. And it's a way of easily adding multiple agents to your team's Slack. So the fact that if you scroll up above where it's a one click add to Slack and then a one click talks with other clause, check the box. That in my mind was the biggest friction point when OpenClaw first came out. One, it set up was a freaking nightmare. The fact that this is one click. When OpenClaw first came out, that's something that me and Michael found or tried to do for two weeks. We tried to create a one click where we didn't have to host it because we didn't want to be liable for anything that could happen. And we weren't able to solve it. A ton of one click solutions came out. But they were taking on the risk of if something goes wrong or there's a breach, they were screwed. So I'm assuming WorkClaw has mitigated that in some way, but they made it to where it's a one click install and a one click to where it can talk to other agents. Like with a traditional OpenClaw setup for it to be able to talk to other OpenClaw agents, there's so much nonsense you've got to do on the back end. One technical two, it's one of those things, if you don't know how to do it, you're gonna spend two hours figuring it out. Looks like they made it pretty much plug and play. Like this is like you said, CloudTag, but the ability to have multiple agents, they can be specialized, they live in not only Slack, which is where CloudTag lives, but also Teams, and seems like pretty straightforward pricing and not something that's gonna break the bank. I think I'm gonna set this up for our team. I've been trying to get Victor, which I really like, which also does this into our platform. It's not working well. It's not their fault. I was one of the early users of it, and now we can't disconnect my previous account from that. My one concern with it is, I don't like how everything, like the credits just keep piling up. I wish that they would use one of the other cheaper models, but I'm still willing to try it because it's such a big need, and I think my bigger issue is not that my team's gonna overuse it, but that they're just not using it enough. So let's get them up and started. Okay, next, what's stopping you from building a second brain? Talk about what Nick has written here, and why it's so important. So I think second brains are, it's starting to gain in popularity, and it really blew up when Carpathi started talking about it a couple of months ago, but this whole concept of a knowledge base that contains all of the context about you personally and your business that is searchable and maintainable by AI agents, and that doesn't lock you into one model ecosystem. So if you have a second brain, maintain properly, it doesn't matter if you're using cloud, it doesn't matter if you're using open AI, or open source models, that knowledge base is the foundation of every AI deployment or project, you're initiative that you're ever gonna do. So having, setting one up is critical. It's the biggest, single biggest asset you can have in your company hands down, it's not even close, that literally is your mode. And what Nick is showing us here is that he ran a slash goal prompt inside Codex, and he gave away the prompt too, this prompt is super robust, like it's incredibly long. I mean, I'm shocked that he gave that away for free, it's incredibly valuable. It basically tells Codex, hey, go look at every single data point that you know about me, and all of my connectors, everything that's connected to you, and build and maintain an obsidian database. Like that's literally the gist of the prompt, and he ran it as a goal, and he said it ran for about 12 or 13 hours, and at the end of it, he claims, you know, literally when that prompt is done running, you have personal AGI. Every single thing about your personal life, everything about your business thus far is queryable. I mean, think about the insights that you could get from that. Imagine being able to query every, you know, call transcript you've had for the last three years and say, hey, what are my top three opportunity areas? Or hey, what's one thing I could do better on sales calls to increase my closing percentage? And imagine being able to do that across a team, or your sales team, or your product team. I mean, again, I had a YouTube video that came out 45 minutes ago about how to build and sell second brains as a service. So this is something that I swear to you. So it's gonna be so big. That's why I'm fired up about it. This is huge. I don't think people appreciate it. By the way, I should tell people that you could subscribe to Quarry right now. It's right below this video because it's a collaboration between the two of us. If you just go over below the video, you'll see him subscribe and you'll get to see, he's very practical with his advice and guidance on how to use AI. And he's not just learning about it. He's using it, selling it, and teaching people how to do it every single day. So follow, subscribe. Next, this is very relevant to the World Cup. I wanted a Mac OS YouTube TV menu bar app so I could watch the World Cup game while working. I asked Codex, one shot it with slash goal. We live in the golden age of ideas. I don't fully understand what he did here, but do you, and then tell me what the bigger vision is. Yeah, so it's my understanding that, again, when he's watching YouTube TV, he's probably watching that in a browser tab. And he's essentially saying, like, well, man, I wish I could work inside another tab and have YouTube TV as kind of like a little box in the top right of my screen. So I can be working inside of other tools or inside other tabs and still be able to watch the game. And he just went into Codex and said, like, hey, can you build this and set it as a slash goal prompt? And it did. It one shot it it. So now he looks like he's inside of other tools and other apps and he's able to watch the World Cup on the same screen. So that's just like one of those little mini applications that anybody can do now. Like previously, that would have taken a software team weeks to put together, probably. And it's different from picture and picture because he's showing with that mouse that it's a menu item. So whenever he wants to bring it up, he brings it up from the menu and then he could make it go away. All right, finally, this came out moments before we launched. This is from OpenRouter. They want to make it easier for you to pick the right model every time and sometimes the right is the one the smartest, sometimes the one that's cheapest, sometimes the combination, sometimes we'll hear. The top coding model is right now under $2.00 per million input. And I should say this is their OpenRouter MCP. And now he's asking for information on what the top models are for under $2 million. Using the OpenRouter MCP, we can see that Cloud Code returned the live results for the best coding models at that certain price. I hear that GLM52 is pretty good. So let's go with that. He was saying, what is the best models for my use based on how much I am, how much access I want. And then he's saying, okay, I see GLM5.2 is the right one for me. What is the fastest provider of GLM5.2? He's then getting that answer. And then as we watch him continue on with this video, you'll see him say something like, I want to do some creative work. What is the best model for this type of creative work? And OpenRouter now will tell him what the best model is and then enable him to switch. And really what this is allowing is, you still have to switch your models manually. It seems like, but it's just, it's giving your agent live insight into all the models that OpenRouter has available. So like previously, if you wanted to know, okay, what's the best coding model or what's the pricing? You would literally have to go to OpenRouter.ai, pull up their model list, scroll through it or at least point your agent at it. Now it's built in. You can just ask your agent, hey, how about to do a coding task? What's gonna be the best model for this specific task? And it can just live search via the MCP, the model prices, the cost, everything associated with that. And it can just give you that information live and then you can just switch right to that model. So not like a, I think for the everyday user, not super impactful, but for people who are really trying to optimize their token spend and really trying to get that last 1% of productivity out of their agent where they're running multiple different models, this will be impactful for sure. I have said in past episodes that I don't really care about how much I spend. I'm just gonna use Open, sorry, I'm just gonna use Anthropic and be done with it, use the best model and just not care about the money. I'm now realizing that some of the work that I do really is using up a bunch of tokens and does get to be expensive. And I'm also realizing that if I'm not using a ton of tokens, if I'm not doing a ton, then maybe I'm just not experimenting enough. And GLM, what is it? GLM 5.2, I'm hearing is so phenomenally good. We talked about it I think last week and it's so inexpensive that I'm now switching more and more to it. And maybe I'll start using OpenRouter more often and switch to get the right model for the right job. All right, sometimes you know what Corey, you'll bring up a topic or I'll bring up a topic here and I'll go, okay, this is interesting, it's good to know not for me and I'll even say it out loud. And then a week later I'll have a problem. I'll go, there was that thing that I just heard. Yeah, exactly. And then I go back and I use it. So speaking of, last week we did a phenomenal collection. We showed a phenomenal collection of new tools that launched. You've gotta go check them out if you haven't and we'll have a link for you right there. See you in the next one.