---
video_title: "Free Claude Code + 9 other apps"
video_id: uizJfkoKgyU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uizJfkoKgyU
video_date: 2026-05-15T19:56:57+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/github-weekly-may15
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  This week, Andrew and Adam break down the hottest GitHub repos for builders working with AI agents, coding tools, finance workflows, browser control, and content automation.
  
  They cover Anthropic’s financial-services reference agents, CloakBrowser for getting AI agents through antibot walls, ByteDance’s UI-TARS desktop agent, Zapier MCP, DeepSeek-TUI as a Claude Code alternative, agentmemory for long-term coding context, AiToEarn for multi-platform content automation, 9router for model fallback, AI-Trader for agentic finance, academic-research-skills for research workflows, and Addy Osmani’s agent-skills for better AI software development.
  
  The bigger trend: AI tools are moving from chat interfaces into full agent infrastructure — browsers, terminals, desktops, memory layers, model routers, and workflows that make agents more useful in real businesses.
  
  Timestamps
  00:00 - Intro
  00:36 - anthropics/financial-services
  02:51 - CloakHQ/CloakBrowser
  04:30 - bytedance/UI-TARS-desktop
  06:27 - Zapier/MCP
  08:06 - Hmbown/DeepSeek-TUI
  10:03 - rohitg00/agentmemory
  12:45 - yikart/AiToEarn
  15:45 - decolua/9router
  18:45 - HKUDS/AI-Trader
  21:27 - Imbad0202/academic-research-skills
  24:27 - addyosmani/agent-skills
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
This week we've got a tool that's going to trick websites into letting your AI agent use them. Finally, we've got an Anthropics collection of AI investment advisors that will help you make money. We also have a way for you to stop running into rate limits whenever using Cloud Code and Codex. Keep that momentum going and we've got a free replacement for Cloud Code and so much more. This is this week's top 10 repos available on GitHub so everything's going to be free. Let's get right into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI Automation Company. Adam, your venture studio is going to be investing in a lot of the people who are listening to this. I hope, right? Yeah, I hope so too. Right on. All right, let's look at the very first one and the topic, just open source. They're full stack of analysts. Here's the thing about with this one. I hired an investment advisor who's taking one percent of every dollar managed in order to help us grow our finances and actually he's doing a good job. We are making good money from it, which is why companies like Goldman Sachs are paying hundreds of thousands if not millions of dollars for the right investment advisors. What Anthropic has done is a, all right, you people are going to be replaced with AI. We've got a collection of AI agents that will help people make better investment decisions, including a market researcher and earnings reviewer and so much more designed to help people make better investment decisions. They're basically coming after Goldman Sachs and the others aren't they, Adam? Yeah, I think they are. I mean, a lot of people are going to be able to take this and run their finances themselves and something I'm even more excited about. Like you've seen pasted everywhere. AI Native Services, Sequoia says it, Andreson says it, well here, this is a perfect example. If I'm a tech forward financial advisor right now, I'm going to give up my current practice. I'm going to download all these skills with get really good at using them, sell my services to the same people for the same amount of money, but I'm going to cut my work by 80%. All right, I'm going to give one caveat because I went on YouTube to see what people were doing with this and I saw this guy, Ben Amir, he did a really good job of actually using this tool to see what it looks like and he found a stock that you can see here. Let me hit mute. You can see a stock here that was going up and he said, all right, I'm going to sick it on it and have it really analyze my crime. And what was interesting is it's really easy once you put it in, you're basically chatting like you are with Cloud Code, but it made one mistake, Adam. He looked at the earnings and look, you end up with these beautiful spreadsheets. You looked at the earnings expectations. He said, actually, that seems too low. He told it to fix its numbers it did and then what he ended up with was seeing that micron was actually fairly valued based on this. So good skill. It still needs a human in loop, obviously, but that's the pitch for AI native services. Like, yeah, the practitioners that are using these tools, they're being amplified tremendously, but it can be sometimes the role of the dice if you don't know what you're looking at. All right. Next. Dude, I am now getting my agent to do all kinds of things for me online. The problem is they end up every one of these agents ends up bumping up against a screen that we all see. I'm actually going to show it right here from the repo. You go in, you want to return your Amazon packages, whatever, and you end up with one of these cloud flare things. Are you human? And then your agent stuck. And if you're away from your computer, you've got to come back to it or use one of these tools that lets you access your computer remotely. Look at this thing, though. It's tricking the browser, it's tricking the app into thinking that it's a real human being. This is magical. What do you think of this tool and how do we use it, Adam? You know, a lot of our websites and our portfolio upwards of 30% of the traffic to the site is agents now. And the web is built for humans. And it's still built for humans. There's buttons, that little copy button there. The agents don't know how to find and click those buttons. And the internet is really hostile towards this every time we try to build something. Even in our own sites, we realize we've been overly hostile to agents and our own tools struggle to load our sites. So I think this tool is one great way to kind of cut through that. And it's free, which is awesome. There are tools out there that you could pay for that do this, but they're really expensive at scale. So things like this that can run locally that can get past the bot detection. It kind of open up the internet to let your agents, whatever custom thing you want to do, it makes it possible finally. All right. Now this is a game of cat and mouse. So all these other platforms are going to find a way around it. Then it's going to find it or someone else might make an alternative. But for now, Cloak Browser is the tool that people are using and loving. It's number two hot on GitHub this week. Next is, all right, you and I probably have a situation where you want to go and buy something from like a plane ticket or you want to do something on your computer. And the problem that you're going to have is that your agent can't actually go and access all these browser, um, can't access the browser and take action. It can't click on your screen. Or frankly, if you just want to even send a text message, you can't do it. And so what we have here from bike dance is Tars UI Tars desktop and UI in Tensh and actually it's not just even a desktop. It's a browser tool and desktop tool. Here's what it does. We're going to take a look at Hassan tour who showed it online. There it is. It's actually clicking on the left. You can see that it's clicking in VS code. And on the right, if you zoom in, you can see it's telling you the action it's taking and it's telling you the thought that it put into taking that action. And now because of this tool, you can have complete control of your desktop or browser through your agent. Yeah, that's right. You know, you look at cloak browser. That's for kind of the more nerdy builders out there. That's something you're going to build into your tool. This is something anybody could use. You install this and now an agent can can access anything on your computer, anything that it can find. You know, the problem I usually have when I use tools like this is they're incredibly slow. And I know you've tried some of these too. And so every six months or so, I check out whatever the state of the art is and it's a little bit better and it's a little bit better. So I'm excited to dive into this one and see, you know, how is it a little bit better? But, you know, for big automations, you're going to drop into something like cloak browser for trying to get your reservation to that restaurant that's that's booked up. You know, this is the tool that's going to do that for you. Yeah, they are kind of speeding things along here. I find that the best approach to these things is to have a separate computer that's just sitting there and I keep an eye on it and watch it. It's kind of fun to do. It's almost like watching over the shoulder of somebody who's working for you in your office. You get to see what they're doing. It's kind of interesting. You're maybe watching for problems, but it's okay that it's slower if it's on its own device. All right, that's UI Tars desktop. Next is Zapier. This is why I love Zapier. Dude, I was using a tool that I wanted to be able to send out email to potential sponsors because I'm looking for sponsors, not for this, but for the newsletter. And it's okay. I can send out email for you. I said, all right, but how do I do it? It goes, just give me permission to access your Gmail. And I said, I don't feel comfortable with that because I don't want you to trust you. Right. And it said, don't worry. I'm going to put guardrails on it. I go, you're going to put guardrails on yourself. And you know what? Let's suppose it's the perfect AI system, right? I'm not the perfect human being. I sometimes would just say send it without paying attention. And as a result, I send out crap and I make mistakes. And that's just for Gmail. What happens when it comes to these other tools like Notion, where we've accidentally deleted Notion tables because I connected my open claw directly into Notion. Well, what Zappi RMCP does is, and I just use it again, yes, I use it every fricking day to design another collection of tools that I want to give my agent is, it lets you see over 8,000 tools. You click into them at them and then you see all the different permissions that you want to have. So for Gmail, it's not just, do you want to give Gmail access? Yes, or no, it's, do you want to let it read? Do you want to let it read that? Do you want to let it send? Do you want to let it draft? Do you want to let it read drafts and so on? I just checked all the permissions that I want. And then I have a single thing that I can give my agent and say, or whatever app I'm building and say, here, now you have it. And there is no reason for you or for me to watch out for mistakes because there can't be any mistakes. And if you have a team, this is even more valuable. You give your team the power and the protection that you need. I love this thing. This is so underutilized. Go try it for free right now from Zappier. Let's go on to the next one. This is the one that I have talked about as a replacement for Claude code. Right? Claude code becomes really expensive. And I went from paying 20 bucks a month to 100 bucks a month to 200. How much are you paying for it, Adam? Probably 800 or more a month. We don't use some extra credit. I have several seats that I switched between when one runs out of credit. Yeah, I see that a lot of us are doing the stance, even though we're not supposed to do it. We keep switching and switching. Don't tell you that. Throbbing please. No, they'll eventually send you a message or like my friend, they'll cancel you just out of the blue and you're going to have to figure out a solution. Well, what happened here is deep seek T UI is basically saying, why don't you use deep seeks model to use it for free coding. It's a free model. Use it for coding. And that's the way that I've seen it talked about. You said to me, Andrew, that's great. It's not going to be free for you, Andrew. Why not? Yeah, well, you already see it in some places here. It's like, oh, put your API key here. Put your API key here. Well, the free models that you can run locally on your own machine, they're very small. They're nice for text generation, characterizing something, summarizing, but they're not very good at coding. They're not very good at looking at a lot of context. And so to really get the value out of something like this, you're going to have to use one of deep seeks big models. It's very good at coding, but that doesn't fit on your computer. So you're going to be talking to their API or the hugging face API or whatever. And you've got to pay for those. So you're still going to pay for tokens. But the deep seek model is a lot cheaper than, you know, Opus or then GPT 5.5. So you're still going to save a lot of money. And it's possible to get into this using their free models. So I do appreciate that. And I appreciate that there's a bunch of like open competition in this coding agent space because I personally don't like being locked into the Anthropic tool set or the OpenAI tool set. All right. Next. You and I know what this is like, right? It's kind of like when you work with an agent, you hire some like it's almost like hiring somebody in the beginning. First day, you teach him everything. They feel like they've got it. You come back the second day and they forgot everything. It's like they have amnesia. That's the way it is when you're building online. And what this agent memory is supposed to do is remember it. Keep a long-term memory going for you so that you are facing an employee who gets smarter day after day because they remember what you talk them day after day. That's the value here. What do you think of it? Sorry, Andrew. What were we talking about? I'm just kidding. That was a memory joke. Yeah. I mean, I think these are the the sorts of things that are making the difference now. The people that I know that are still building on cloud without a memory system combined. They're struggling. They're burning tokens. Context windows are getting longer, but they're just burning tokens, rediscovering the same facts over and over and over again. So you've got to be building. Find a memory system that works for you. Test five of them. Test this one. Test five of their competitors. Luckily, they've benchmarked against some of their competitors. Awesome. Go and test all of those and figure out the one that that matches your workflow. You've got to pick one. Okay. Having said that, you said to me, Andrew, watch out for this one. Yeah. What is it about this that made you say, I'm not so sure. I mean, the first part of the graph here looks real. And then this part where it grows linearly and very quickly, like they're buying stars, right? And a lot of these places are starting to buy stars. When we get up, I started to talk about this. Yeah. So on on GitHub, you know, the way that these things are ranked is if you scroll the way up on the page, there's a little star thing you can click. And so you could click that right now and give them one more star. That's just people liking it, favoriting it. What I'm looking for, when I'm going to use a repository for real long term, or if I'm going to build something into one of my applications, I'm looking at the forks, usually, which is that thing to the left, which is the right to the left of your stars. To the left of the stars. This right here. I'm looking at that. And so well, how many other developers have forked this, which means they've copied the code, and then they probably changed it to be custom for themselves. It's like, who's who's really serious? You know, there's stargazers that are watching, and then there's forkers that are that are, you know, serious about integrating with it. And I think both are really great signals, especially for these more consumer tools. It's not going to be forked as much by developers and stars are relevant. But I'm suspect of a line that looks like that in a graph. Okay, fair enough. And now I've learned to look for forks. Next, you know this, Adam, because your venture studio gets a lot of inbound from people who want to work with you, from people who want to hire your companies, from people who want to actually build companies with you. All kinds of things come to you with good social media content. The problem is if you're actually building the way you are, Adam, the way that the founder of Gateway X is you don't have time to sit and spend hours not just creating for let's say X or YouTube, but creating for those platforms and then all these other platforms. So most people hire a human being and then they pay for software and that human being is social media manager, which costs money. The software is something like Hootsuite, which costs money. Well, what AI to earn has done is they've actually created a way to both turn what you already have into content that works on multiple platforms and post to those platforms. Here it is right here, Adam, what do you think of a tool like this? I mean, you hit what we believe is the most important part, which is how do you take what you're already producing and turn it into content? I mean, calls all day long. It's all recorded. We have our team meetings. It's a tool like this that can help take all of that content, sort out what are the things that are going to work for your audience and then distribute them out to these like 14 different platforms. And honestly, Andrew, for all these, like you might say, oh, it's going to be slap Adam. Like the quality is going to be low. Realistically, if you're just getting off the ground, what's way more important than the quality is your consistency. Are you finding interesting topics or are you posting interesting topics? Are you doing it every day? And as you do that on platforms, you're going to grow an audience. You're going to decide to invest more and the quality is going to go up as you grow your audience. All right. And I wasn't sure when I was first looking into this. Is this the kind of thing that actually can create content, both text and video? And here it is. And all my research for saying yes, Agent Automatically invokes video generation models. It actually can create images and text and it will actually both post and engage. So AI Smart replies, comment mining, brand monitoring, auto actions like bookmark, follow people, etc. Really interesting tool that that's come out. And I'm glad to see how far these tools have come. I don't know if this is going to be the one for me, but I do think that there's something in in using a tool to do it. Even if you could get 80% of the way there, it doesn't have to be as perfect as I am. I am, of course, as you've seen here with all the mistakes that we have to go through. All right. By the way, we've got this full report for you. Complete with links that I spent hours finding and putting together that will help you understand each one of these repos better by showing you real world examples of actual people who've tested this in much more skepticism than I ever could. I tend to like everything. A lot of these people will be hateful. I like to read them all. I put it all in a report for you so you can fully understand these repos and see why people are so crazy for them this week on GitHub. And there's a link in the description for you. Next is another solution for the rate limit issue, which is Adam, you get into this where everything is good, you're in flow, and then boom, you stop because you've hit a rate limit. What this does, nine router, what it does is it automatically switches you from one model to the other. My buddy, Eric Sue, who's one of the first interviewees on this channel, he famously loves spending hours on this stuff. I don't know if he has a family because he's like 12 hours, 14 hours a day, just playing with this stuff. He was spending thousands of dollars a month on tokens. Now what he's done is he's gotten smarter about switching. What this tool does, what nine router does is it automatically does the kind of switching that he is working on doing himself. I have some problems with this. I have some excitement about it, but I want to hear what you think before I come in because you know this better than I do. No, these are awesome. You know, and rate limits are one thing, but the these tools also help when the APIs go down. The anthropic APIs are down all the time. And if you're building a pipeline that's important or you're building something for clients, you've got to have a router like this behind it, whether it's this or open router, so that as rate limits change, you either hit rate limits or claw it is down today, you can seamlessly switch to another model that you've predefined. So in here, you get to set up the stack of I want it to use this first. And if that doesn't work, use this because all the models are a little different to Andrea. And so these tools are more than just saying, well, I'll try this and then I'll fire off in a request to hear. You need to actually have the configuration set up. You've got to have the system prompts that are appropriate. You've got to have the tools that are already connected. And so this tool helps organize all of that so that your tool, your customers, don't really notice when I'm using one model versus the other. Yes, speaking of last night, when I was working on this, I couldn't get the right answer out of cloud code. I couldn't figure out what it was. And then I remember to have to go to status dot claw dot AI, I think is what it was. And I saw that it was having trouble for hours. It's really frustrating. I guess the thing that I would really love for it to do maybe is to magical. I want it before it responds to pick the right place to go and respond. If I just need to change to file name, I don't think I need the latest model to do that. If I, you know, like that kind of switching is what Eric is doing himself manually. It's what some people are doing when they're routing to different agents with open claw and armies. It can't do that yet, right? I haven't seen one of those that can do that fully automatically, but that is the pattern for building. You know, we'll often have a really small, really fast LLM that's looking at the request and saying, oh, okay, I understand that request that needs to go to a big thinking model or oh, that's a really simple thing. Let me send that to a really cheap fast one because it's not just expense. It's not just the number of tokens. It's the time when you're talking to these smaller models, they can do the job way faster and that's better for you. That's better for your customers. Okay, but I know I haven't seen a package that can do that automatically for you. We've built it ourselves. Everyone I've talked to is doing it built it themselves. Yeah. Okay. All right. Next AI trader, Adam, when I was in college, I worked for Paul Cerbera, Guy on Wall Street. He was Wall Street headhunter and I did it because I wanted to get inside and see what was going on on Wall Street to really get a sense of what this Manhattan experience was like that I had only danced around in high school and college. And the thing that I noticed that stood out for me was how much freaking drinking they do. And in fact, Paul told me, Andrew, you've got to learn to drink. And I said, why? He goes, let me show you how many experiences happen after hours when people are having a drink. He's not saying go get drunk, but you need to socialize to understand the decisions people are making, who they're talking to, what they're learning, what they're finding out. You're not looking for, here's a tip, go make millions of dollars with tell dark paper, but you're looking for, here's the idea, here's what's hot, here's what's new, and then you make your own trading decisions. Well, that is fantastic for human beings. What AI trader here has done is it has created that kind of virtual bar for your AI trading agent where they could get together, exchange ideas. And of course, in addition to that, it allows you to do things like keep track of your trades that you've made so that you can keep track of how well your agent's doing. It can actually let you even paper trade with your agent. So maybe you're seeing all these financial AI tools come out and you say, I'm not ready to invest real money in this craziness, but I do want to paper trade. This will allow you to do it. And it allow your agent to talk to other agents. Adam, what do you think of this? Well, first of all, I love the paper trading here. It's a great way to practice and validate for yourself that, oh yeah, this agent works the way I want. And one thing I'd point out is you can paper trade on polymarket. And there's not a lot of money to be made for most of us in the stock market, unless you have access to a lot of information and computers and all that, but on polymarket, there's a lot of arbitrage available there. There's a lot of bad money in polymarket. So being able to paper trade get into that, that's really cool. But Andrew, if I wanted to give you the number one tip to make the most money using this tool in the next year, it's not trade on polymarket. It's not use this for what it is. It's prompt injection. If all these agents are going to talk to each other and my agent is learning from others, I don't think I trust other people's agents to give me valid tips. That's you know, well, wait a minute. I want my agent to give other ones. Oh, let's pump this stock. I see this signal. I see I'm going to suddenly sell that one. Like there's a, I don't know if that's legal, but there's a lot of opportunity there to kind of feed those signals back into the market. And I'm positive that they cannot protect against that with such a newly released tool. So I'd be, if I'm using it as a buyer, I'm very skeptical. I think some people are going to make a lot of money on these things with very shady practices. All right, scary then. A little bit. All right, 9 out of 10. This one is academic research skills. It's basically allowing you to do the kind of research that a student would need to do to put together their paper and gets you the writing style that you need to keep your writing from sounding like it came from Chatchee PT. That's what this is about. It is a skill package. It is something that the hacker news community has a very strong opinion on, which I'll show you in a moment. But first, what do you think about this? I don't, I don't love that people are trying to write research papers with AI and that they're trying to create it with AI and make it look like it's real. I don't love what that does for the scientific community, honestly. I'm also a little bit tired of these packages of skills, but I think the bigger implication here is, wow, it's going to be really hard to read a study and understand is this a real study or is this something that AI created from scratch on someone's computer? This does allow for human in the loop, but I can also see how this would become the kind of, it would lead to the kind of AI slop that we see online happening maybe in academic writing. Let's look at what the folks on hacker news said because they're right there in line with your thinking. I like this top comment. There needs to be a new name for people creating these with no obvious validation, maybe skill spam. The point here is what they're saying is that someone is just trying to get attention by creating some kind of set of skills. Basically, you could sit with Claude code and create something like this in half an hour and then post it to GitHub, get some kids from school to give it stars or maybe buy it as you've said and that's the problem with this. Yeah, I mean, it's not hard to create skills. They're just text for the most part and they're just plans and procedures. It's not hard to put these together. We don't know that these are any good. There's no validation of this. It's actually very difficult to test because every time you run these, it's AI, you're going to get a different answer every time and it takes a lot of work to set them up. So it's hard to evaluate when you're looking at these. If you're not an expert in what the skills are there to work on, it's hard for you to say, is this skill actually any good at writing a paper? Is it good at editing? Is it good at citing sources? I don't know how I'd validate that if I was looking at the result. I guess what I might do is just try it if I were writing. Here, look, they've given you a couple of examples here, a user who's a master student in education first time writing an academic paper. Here's a topic, impact of declining birthrate on enrollment strategies of private universities in Taiwan. Here's the goal. So they give you the input, then they give you the pipeline log and you get to see what it would look like if you did it yourself and get a sense of, well, maybe why not? I'm trying to write. Maybe I'll use this. I don't know, but I would try it if I were writing just to give me something to probe. At the very least, it's a partner to sit next to you and you can bounce ideas off with each other. All right. This addresses a problem at him that you keep warning me about and I keep falling into this trap and I think everyone who is a vibe coder does it. I had this situation this week where I sat down to write something that would allow me to go and get advertisers, not for this, but for the for the newsletter. And I said, okay, I know what I want. I'm just going to sit down. I'm going to tell the AI to do it and I told the AI to do it. And it was amazing. I was like, dude, after one prompt, I swear no exaggeration. I got something absolutely beautiful that was better than what I imagined. And then I was in this halacia situation of just going through it and changing and trying and pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, and fixing and I realized I hadn't thought it through ahead of time. And so this is a collection of best practices from an actual Googler. This is Andy Asmani who's saying, I'm going to show people how they can get better at creating and building software based on the experience that I and you have and other Googlers have. And that's what we're looking at here with agent skills. What do you think of this? Yeah, I mean, that workflow that you see there, spec, plan, build, test, review, simplify, ship. That's the workflow that us professional software engineers are using every day. It's what we've used for decades. Like we've learned how to do this well. And agents know how to do it well too. Cloud code knows how to do all these things. But if you step in and say, Cloud code, give me this and give it to me quickly. Cloud code is happy to throw the rulebook out the window and just give you something as fast as possible and skip all the steps that it knows would make you actually happy with the result. And so any of these types of skill setups, these are really nice because they help encourage claw to slow down. You can help encourage claw to slow down by installing the skills and then telling claw to hey, I want to use those skills on this project. Well, the first thing it's going to say is, Andrew, let's build a spec together instead of encouraging you or maybe enabling you to build your output really, really quickly. It's going to make you stop until you have a spec that you're happy with. And then you're going to use that spec to create a plan. And then you're going to use that plan to build and you're going to test that. So all of this to me is about slowing down the AI and enabling it to do what it can do to enforce these like good software engineering practices. But luckily, Andrew, you don't have to have 20 years of software engineering experience to put those in place. You install these skills. You don't have to know how to build a great test plan or how to build a great spec. That's built into the skill. So as long as you install this and encourage claw to use it, you're going to get a better result out of the gate. All right. Yeah. So before I start to find Cloud Firewoodman, what I'm going to build, use his interview me skill, the idea of finding skill and so on. We've seen this come up a lot. And it is a really good practice to get into. I've got to do better. I've got to do better. We've got to do better at that. All right. That's this week's top 10 set of GitHub repos. Last week, we looked at a set of tools that will save you tons of money and give you even more power as a developer, including a docuSign. How many people are spending tons of money on a docuSign? There's a free version of docuSign and so much more. I've got a link for it here on the screen. Click that and go watch it next.