---
video_title: "Your AI agent is missing 8,000+ tools... fix it now #aiagents #automation #tech"
video_id: yG5VXDsCBWE
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yG5VXDsCBWE
video_date: 2026-06-05T17:55:19+00:00
video_description: |
  We're diving into the power of Zapier, highlighting its incredible ability to connect with over 8,000 tools without needing any coding. This video shares a personal story of trusting Zapier with Gmail access, thanks to its established reliability and robust guardrails, making it a prime example of effective ai automation. Discover how Zapier's new MCP service exposes these tools as valuable resources for your ai tools and ai for business needs
  
  Link to the Resource Vault: https://thenextnewthing.ai/Resources
  (There is also a clickable link in my bio)
  
  Link to the full video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uizJfkoKgyU
  
  Imagine giving your AI agent access to over 8,000 tools with just a single MCP URL. No messy code, no duct-taping software together, and zero "glue" required.
  
  Zapier MCP lets you hand your AI agent exactly what it needs while keeping full control over permissions. You decide exactly what it can read, write, or draft—all with zero coding required.
  
  #zapier #aiagents #nocode #productivitytech #automation
---
This is why I love Zapier. Dude, I was using a tool that I wanted to be able to send out email to potential sponsors. And it said, okay, I can send out email for you. I said, all right, but how do I do it? It goes, just give me permission to access your Gmail. And I said, I don't feel comfortable with that because I don't want you to trust you. Right. And it said, don't worry, I'm going to put guardrails on it. I go, you're going to put guardrails on yourself. And you know what? Let's suppose it's the perfect AI system, right? I'm not the perfect human being. I sometimes would just say send it without paying attention. And as a result, I send out crap and I make mistakes. And that's just for Gmail. What happens when it comes to these other tools like Notion, Zapier MCP does is, and I just use it again. Yes, I use it every fricking day to design another collection of tools that I want to give my agent is it lets you see over 8,000 tools. You click into the mat and then you see all the different permissions that you want to have. So for Gmail, it's not just do you want to give Gmail access? Yes or no, it's do you want to let it read? Do you want to let it read that? Do you want to let it send? Do you want to let it draft? Do you want to let it read drafts and so on? I just checked all the permissions that I want and then I have a single thing that I can give my agent or whatever app I'm building and say here, now you have it and there is no reason for you or for me to watch out for mistakes because there can't be any mistakes and if you have a team, this is even more valuable. You give your team the power and the protection that you need. I love this thing. This is so underutilized. Go try it for free right now from Zapier. Download it in the link in the bio.