---
video_title: "Apple should have built this"
video_id: _WXIpV5YJAU
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_WXIpV5YJAU
video_date: 2026-08-13T21:05:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Link to Resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/corey-ganim-shownotes-aug13
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down this week's most interesting AI releases, from AI assistants and creative agents to explainer videos, browser tools, and AI-powered business services.
  
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim explore the hottest AI releases of the week, including Voice OS, GrokBot, Omni Work, Scrimba Explain, XAnnotate, AI watermark removal, vibe-coded apps, Shibadoku, and Operations.com. They discuss how these tools are making AI agents easier to use, helping people communicate with coding agents, creating personalized educational content, and applying AI and automation to real-world businesses. The bigger takeaway is that increasingly specialized AI tools are turning everyday tasks and creative workflows into simple, agent-driven experiences.
  
  Links featured:
  
  - Voice OS — https://www.voiceos.com/
  - GrokBot — https://x.ai/bot
  - Omni Work — https://www.omniwork.ai/
  - AI Baby Tracker — https://x.com/seyedehsanhadi/status/2087897410861224006
  - Scrimba Explain — https://scrimba.com/explain
  - XAnnotate — https://xannotate.com/#features
  - AI Watermark Removal — https://x.com/guillaumemeyer/status/2087275734608007415
  - AI Vibe-Coded App — https://x.com/HeyChunlyn/status/2085900198253842797
  - Operations.com — https://operations.com/
  
  00:00 - Voice OS: An AI assistant that can dictate, schedule meetings, send emails, and complete tasks.
  02:06 - GrokBot: An easy-to-use AI agent with its own browser and computer.
  03:27 - Omni Work: A team of AI agents designed for creative work and content creation.
  04:39 - Sloptrium: Remove generic, robotic AI writing and make content feel more natural.
  06:00 - Scrimba Explain: Create customized explainer videos that teach concepts in your preferred way.
  08:06 - XAnnotate: Record and annotate your screen so AI agents understand exactly what you want changed.
  10:21 - AI Watermark Removal: A new tool designed to remove AI-generated text watermarks.
  11:42 - AI Baby Tracker: A vibe-coded app that helps track a baby's feeding, naps, and diaper changes.
  12:45 - Shibadoku: A vibe-coded game combining Sudoku and Minesweeper with Shiba Inu dogs.
  13:39 - Operations.com: An AI and automation consultancy helping service businesses grow revenue and reduce costs.
  
  Media/Sponsorship Inquiries: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/sponsor
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
Someone just invented a better series. You can tell it to book meetings for you, send emails out for you, do basic dictation, actually create tasks for you and do them and so much more. There's a new tool that will explain anything to you with a customized video made just for your way of learning. Someone just created an agent that will design images for you, write copy for you and do it all artistically. We've got all that and so much more in the hot AI releases of the week. Let's get into it. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. All right, Corey, first product voice OS. This thing basically is everything Siri needed to be not only will it do the basic things like dictation and it does dictation well. It will also allow you to tell it book a meeting for me with someone schedule and send an email out. It's got agent mode in it and the agent mode is the part that's most exciting. You can say I got this task added to my task manager show me my calendar and it does the whole thing and if you look at the pricing. It is 12 bucks on the annual plan, which is a really good price. I don't see it here on their website, but we saw it earlier. What do you think? Here's pricing. I think they're coming for whisper flow with this. I think this is something that this is one of the first tools that we've looked at where I'm going to get off this call and immediately subscribe. Because I can't tell you how many times there's little tasks throughout the day that it would be pointless for me to stop and have cloud or have code X to it because it might take me 30 seconds to do on my own. But having something like voice OS where I can one click, you know, agent mode, tell it what I needed to do, solves that gap. And I think it would help me buy back, you know, 20, 30 minutes a day on average. So I'm going to be subscribing to this tool. I think this is really cool. One of my favorite ones that we've covered so far. Really nice. The only thing is it's really a good deal on the annual plan. 12 bucks a month. But as you pointed out, when you go to monthly, it's $30 a month. But there's a free trial. I'm going to start monthly. And then if I use it a lot, I'll do annual. All right. Next, Grockbot just came out. This is X.com's and cursors version of Hermes agent and open claw. It's the agent that's super easy to use. It comes with the chat app. It makes it easy for you to spin up a bunch of different agents. And each agent even has a computer essentially with a browser that it can control and operate and do things for you. So what I like about Grockbot is like you said, this is their version of like the open claw are the Hermes. But what's interesting is, you know, we're seeing a lot of these just like general use agents get commoditized. So they're all around the, you know, I guess technically Hermes and open claw are free. But like to power them, you're going to spend, you know, 50, 100 up to 200 bucks a month. But it's like the super specialized vertically aligned agents that do one thing really well for a specific demographic like a realtor or property manager or a manufacturer, for example, those companies are still willing to pay thousands of dollars per month for those very specific, you know, specifically vertical vertically aligned agents. So we're just saying more like mass market agents come to come to light. But I think they're still opportunity for folks that are building specialized ones. Before we got started, you said, so I've got a Hermes agent. I've got a hyper agent. What, why would I need this? And I think for someone like you, it's probably not a good fit for someone who doesn't have them who hasn't set it all up and wants the easy mode. That's what they're going for over here. It's the easy one for everyone to try out. And it's available for free trial right now. Next Omni work. This is another agent. It did though become number one product of the day on product on because it is super specialized. It's actually a team of agents that live on your desktop and will do your creative work for you. They'll create images, they'll create video, they'll create your writing for you. And they will learn from your taste as you guide them, they'll get smarter and more effective. That's the goal here. Yeah, so really cool new product here. I mean, like we said, a hit number one on product. It's just this is kind of like that. The agent studio for creative work is what it looks like. Right. So I think we're going to see a lot of these. These startups that come to light where you know, it's like your agent studio for creative work and it's your agent studio for coding. We obviously have already seen it for coding use cases, but again, going back to the idea of like vertically aligned agents or agent studios. This is one of them that clearly they're going for more of a mass market. But again, I think this is not the first time we're going to see something like this, but pretty cool concept. Yeah, and they also have a free trial will link to that and everything below. Let's go on to this one. This is from a user on Twitter who says, look, you write something well. You write something good is how he put it. Then you're a drops a few stock phrases in it. One robotic sentence, the whole thing reads like a template. So what he created was this thing called what's the name of it. It's called slap trim. It basically eliminates slap. Here's the before and after. And this is another one that I'm going to be downloading as soon as we get off this call. That's what I love about doing these these episodes is like I feel like we find these tools that we wouldn't find otherwise and a lot of them are really useful. And this is a problem that everybody faces like if you're using AI and any capacity. You're going to run into a situation where the output is very generic or it just sounds and looks like AI. And this fixes that. And like it said, I think he said it runs locally. It's just a plug in that runs in the background. There's nothing to copy and paste. It just works is what it seems. So I think this is an over an hour. Like go download this and use it. He just announced it. It only has 13. I love that. Yeah, that's what I love about a lot of the stuff we find is like it's not the mainstream viral stuff. It's the low key stuff that actually works literally two hours before we recorded he published it and you called it and shared it. Okay. Scrimba this creates videos that help you understand anything. So you ask a question like tell me what GitHub is explain it to me like I'm a founder of a non tech company who uses claw to create basic apps. So now there it is. GitHub is the professional home for the code Claude writes for you. Think of GitHub as a high tech filing cabinet for your apps blueprints. It doesn't just store the current version. It keeps a perfect record of every single draft you've ever filed away. When Claude writes code for you, you save it on your computer. This is really you then push that code up to get out. Yeah, which saves it as a numbered version. If you make a mistake in version three. I'm pretty positive. You can I will tell you sometimes I put a ton of work into a video for YouTube. I do all this research and I'll get maybe 10 20,000 views on it and I go great. And then I'll see something like this that explains it in this mechanical clearly I wrote it. Get a hundred thousand views, 150,000 views that happened to me this week. I wonder if there's an opportunity for people to basically download this and start loading it into YouTube. I don't know. What do you think of this? So I think this looks a lot better than so notebook I guess formally notebook LM now Jim and I LM has a feature where it does exactly this you can put in text or like a transcript and it'll turn it into kind of like this little explainer video. And so far I mean what we've seen from scrimba looks a lot better than what Jim and I produces. And like I, for example, friends of mine like people in our community they're they're taking their client deliverables and putting them into Jim and I LM and using that to output and explain your video that they send the clients to kind of preface the follow up conversation. And this just looks like it doesn't hire quality jobs so awesome tool clearly it works well and something that I mean again probably another one that I'm going to go and test out myself right after this. It's really nice. Next annotate you ever create something and then you want to explain to code X this is the change I want this is where I wanted to go and you start to do it in words and a couple of screenshots and it just feels off. Well what this does is it allows you to screen cast so basically you click around you say you know what I like this phrase but I want to move to the end over here this line over here feels a little bit weird I also would like you to put and then you draw an arrow even and say this thing I want moved up here and you draw an arrow you do the whole thing you hit stop and you end up with a little text and a URL to a file that you give your agent your agent will then understand what you just did with your screen cast and it could make the changes that you wanted and it works with any agent because you're just giving them. A file with a with text really nicely done. And this is another one like I feel like we've got so many good ones this week this is another one that's just super useful super practical this is like the loom of this is like loom for agents right yeah this is loom for agents in the sense that you can just one click record a little screen capture flash it over to your agent and it knows exactly like it has the context of what's in that actual screen cat. And that's a lot easier than even using like a whisper flow to voice to text yeah exact changes that you want because sometimes it's like I know what I want but like it be so much easier for me to draw a circle on the computer or you know as an overlay to explain what I want here as opposed to me kind of like talking it out so super useful I think this is cool what what is their pricing like how do you how do they price this I don't see their pricing on here now of course I said it is incredible someone in our audience will tell me look it says free local. Mac OS I don't know I don't see I don't see any pricing for it I've seen people use it for free there's got to be some upsell on this right I think unless they're just like farming all your data. I just I don't see it though the big issue I see actually is not so much the price it's the fact that it's Mac only I know a lot of people are still using windows and they get really irritated when there's a Mac only option. Okay next if there is a price somebody in the comments tell us I know you all have been on a better job of finding where the where that trigger is for pricing okay there's this big new story where now in order to comply with the AU with the EU. Cloud is going to watermark even the text that you put out to let other apps other tools know that what you've got is a I written content and so this guy created a watermark removal removal that will get rid of that. Didn't say well smart I mean that's it's like been the whole that's been like the big news this week really the two big news items have been. Drop bot and the watermarks from anthropic and I've already seen like this is one of probably 10 that I've seen on my timeline this week of. Of repos that claim that they can remove the watermarks and I'm sure they all work but like anthropic has so many resources I'm sure that there's. Either some like deep watermarking that they're not even telling us about that like is unremovable or or maybe I don't know maybe this is a way to get it done fully but either way this is needed and I think a lot of people are going to start using solutions like this to strip out all the underlying like metadata around what was a I generated. The challenges that it's part of the words it's not just hidden data in it it's also the words that they're using to watermark to keep track of the fact that I wrote it. Okay let's go on to the next item this was created by user you got to tell the story you found this one. Yeah this is just one of those cool little applications it just shows what is possible these days this was this was a grandmother on X tweeted this and it's not like it went viral I think it's got like 1000 views but she if that so she she built an app that monitor it's basically like a baby monitoring and baby tracking app for her granddaughter so it it it checks like when was it when was she last fed ones the last time change the diaper when was her last nap. And then you can press a button to be like basically you can one click let the app know that you just did a feeding or change the diaper or a nap where you can leave a note like this is just one of those really cool practical applications of vibe coding to make your life easier and I'm sure this person is not a developer this is a grandma. Yeah so just one of the examples. I like this comment that you wrote wake window predictor learns her actual nap pattern over time that part was the most fun to build I love that okay yeah next is she but doku it's basically a new game that combines she boot we knew and games. Okay I'm the music is going to drive me a little bit crazy. What is it about this that attracted you to it somebody just vibe coded like this little game that it's basically what do they say it's like a mix of doku and mine sweeper instead of instead of mine here it's like you have you're using shebo it's like the dogs. It says it's like so doku X mine sweeper both shebo you just need to find them all so again not like nothing crazy nothing groundbreaking just another cool example of I'm sure some guy just sitting around being like oh this would be cool and probably 60 minutes later he had this thing built. So it's one of those cool cool vibe coded projects in action. Finally operations dot com what's this yeah so this is one that somebody brought to my attention this week so the guy behind this I forgot his name I forgot his name I'm going to butcher it but he has a background in like systems design I think he's written it's him right there he's written books on systems design but bottom line him and his partners or whoever's behind operations dot com went out and bought that domain which probably cost at least a million dollars if I had to get. And they vibe coded the website which personally I think it doesn't look very good like it looks 100% by coded it's like you're going to spend a million dollars on a domain for the love of God you know build a site that looks legit but all that aside what I like about operations dot com is it validates at least my business model in the sense that these guys are targeting service businesses doing 5 million to 50 million year in revenue they come in they do an audit they uncover the opportunities. And then they implement AI and automation and agents and all the things into their existing workflows seems like they've got some really good case studies again the founders have a track record and again it's just validating like what I'm doing what people in my community are doing what I think a lot of us are starting to do to make money so it's cool to see. And this is like so your business and their businesses essentially going into business and saying I will show you how to implement AI to grow revenue or reduce costs. Exactly three things it's grow revenue reduce costs increase the quality of your product or service so it's doing all three of those things at once and yeah they're they validated that by probably spending a million dollars on a domain to build that brand for themselves. Alright if you created anything send it to us don't wait for us to find it on Twitter and other places send it over and if you want to watch more about what's been launching in AI we've got a link for you right here see you in that one.