---
video_title: "Free: STOP Amazon knockoffs, vibecode apps, OpenAI replacement & more!"
video_id: PK9PT_MBEXo
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PK9PT_MBEXo
video_date: 2026-07-15T20:41:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/corey-ganim-shownotes-jul15
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  This week’s AI Drops: tools for avoiding Amazon knockoffs, smarter dictation, app-generating search, agent CLIs, local AI, and company memory.
  
  Andrew Warner and Corey Ganim break down this week’s AI Drops, covering Knockoff for hiding fake Amazon products, Farza’s screen-aware dictation tool for writing with context, JustVibe for generating apps from search prompts, social for giving agents access to LinkedIn and X, SceneRoll for short-form video editing, PrintingPress for self-learning CLIs, Maker Skills for builder workflows, PlugThis for vibe-coding Chrome extensions, Osaurus for local desktop AI, and Screenpipe for turning desktop activity into company memory and automations.
  
  Apps we covered:
  Knockoff: https://knockoff.co
  Farza screen-aware dictation: https://x.com/FarzaTV
  JustVibe: https://justvibe.com
  social: https://usesocial.dev
  SceneRoll: https://sceneroll.com
  PrintingPress: https://printingpress.dev
  Maker Skills: https://github.com/coreyhaines31/makerskills
  PlugThis: https://plugthis.ai
  Osaurus: https://osaurus.ai
  Screenpipe: https://screenpipe.com
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - Knockoff: Hide fake Amazon products, sponsored posts, and low-quality alternatives.
  02:15 - Farza screen-aware dictation: A smarter dictation tool that reads your screen and writes in your voice.
  03:45 - JustVibe: A search engine that generates an app instead of a list of links.
  05:15 - social: A CLI that lets agents work with LinkedIn and X.
  07:21 - Meng To’s infinite canvas: Vibe-code a visual design canvas inside Codex.
  08:15 - SceneRoll: Create and edit short-form videos with reusable B-roll.
  10:48 - Printing Press: Build self-learning CLIs that improve as agents use them.
  13:12 - Maker Skills: Free builder skills for decisions, videos, CFO workflows, and more.
  14:51 - PlugThis: Vibe-code Chrome extensions with built-in AI and database support.
  16:57 - Osaurus: Run local AI models on your desktop without technical setup.
  20:15 - Screenpipe: Record desktop workflows and turn them into company memory, agents, and SOPs.
  24:00 - Watch the next AI tools episode
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I bought this knockoff battery off Amazon, it doesn't work anymore, and the company behind it is gone. Well today I've got a chrome plug-in that will solve that for you by eliminating knockoffs from Amazon. Use dictation apps to talk to your computer and have it type out? Well I've got a dictation app that has brains not just typing out what you say. I've got a brand new search engine that instead of giving you search results will actually generate an app for you. That and so many more of this week's AI Drops, let's get started. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. First thing for today is knockoff. This is by Josh Pigford who's constantly creating things, but this is really taking off 11 million views here. It's getting views all over YouTube when people are talking about it. Here's what it does. You know when you go to Amazon and you're looking for something and then they start to tell you about the knockoff stuff and you don't know what's real and what's a knockoff and worse, maybe you buy the knockoff and it hurts. What this does is it hides the knockoff from you and it also will get rid of sponsored posts and anything else that's not what you came to Amazon to look for. What do you think of this one, Corey? I think this is serving a huge need because I mean I know me personally when I shop on Amazon, it sounds crazy but I almost like go out of my way to find the more expensive option because I want to buy the real one. I mean I'm so sick of buying the Chinese knockoffs that are cheap but they fall apart after a week. So this is something that I personally would use and I think no wonder it's blowing up. I think a lot of people feel the same way. He doesn't know how he's going to make money from it. He's been asking people on Twitter. I'm the opposite of you. I look for the cheap one so I needed a MagSafe battery for my phone and so I saw two of them. This one was cheaper than the anchor and I said you know what I want, anchor but this one's cheaper. I bought this freaking thing. It even has this kickstand and then I took it on a trip. The battery is dead. It will not restart. I plugged it in. I've done everything I could and the company behind it is gone. You go back to Amazon to say well what happened? The whole listing, the whole company is gone. I ended up with this one. This is just bulletproof from anchor. I make this mistake all the time. Maybe this is why so many people like it. Yeah. I've made that mistake so many times. That's my lesson learned. That's why I always go with the expensive option. Never works. Okay. Next is Farza. Let me hit play on this video that you found. Let's say I want to write a reply to this email but I'm not quite sure what I want to say. I can just say hey, clicky type of reply to this email and say something like thanks. Appreciate you and ask him what his use cases are for the product. This would take like five seconds but it will actually generate a reply directly in my text box in Gmail. I pasted your reply and it'll be in my voice based on Hey clicky's memories of me. And what's interesting is it reads his unlike other dictation apps. It reads what's on his screen but also because it's clicky and their site is Hey clicky.com it watches again, watches everything that's going on in his computer and it will then understand how he talks and clicky does that and so much more clicky also will like you can say Hey clicky turn on my Spotify and play Ozzy Osborne and it'll it'll do the thing. So clicky sounds to me almost like a better Siri which I think is much needed for sure. Yes. But what's interesting is that dictation tool specifically it's almost like a context to where whisper flow is what that seems like to me. So if you're paying for both men that's probably an opportunity to ditch whisper flow. So instead of having to dictate exactly what you want to say word for word, you can say kind of like what he showed like Hey send a reply that's something along the lines of send three product examples but read the email that he sent and give me ideas and then it'll generate an actual reply based on that context and by reading the screen. So I think it's cool. I think it's needed. All right. Next just vibe. This is a search engine that instead of giving you search results will actually build a web app for you. So I'm going to say I'm going to rake you Vic. I'll be there in a few hours for 48 hours on the ground. I want you to find fun stuff for me to do at night and since I'm a runner places for me to go run. And that's me dictating it in. I'm going to hit send. It only takes a few seconds but just to speed it up I'll show you this is what it did when I did it a few minutes ago. And it's basically an app. I could now click in. I could ask it what to do what I want. It's not a great app. I can't even X out of this. What's going on here? We go X there. It's yeah, it's not a great app. I don't know how to get to those other images but it works. Yeah. For one shot not terrible. Sorry. I said for a one shot not terrible. I mean, it really just kind of puts together your whole eye tenor area and your prompt was obviously super basic. So all things considered I feel like if you put some time into this it could do a much better job. Fair. Yeah, here's my running route and then my psych scene iconic. Then let's see a night night life established downtown bar venue social hotspot known for energetic music. Okay. All right. And I like the view that it gives me on this and I bet I can tell it now make it mobile and here I like also that I can get rid of this and get rid of that and I could put another interest. Cool. Just vibe. Next is I built a thing for technical founders. It's called social a CLI for LinkedIn and X built for agents. Here it is. What is this? So it's a CLI. It looks like that agents can use to do things on X and on LinkedIn or specific to the content on those sites. So, you know, everybody probably realizes if they've ever tried to scrape LinkedIn before and now X is a lot more friendly with the API and the MCP. But LinkedIn in particular is notorious is locked down to agents and for scraping. But this is a tool that kind of lets you access that data and lets agents access that data and then easy, you know, command line interface fashion. So I think this is much needed. I'm surprised this hasn't been done yet. But clearly a need here for people that want to get access to that data. I like the use cases. Here's one. See who's engaging on who's engaging with your posts. And connect and reach the 10 people worth the message this week. Really interesting. Never experienced that. So that use case right there, right? That's something that I mean, I follow a couple of LinkedIn like ghost writing and content agencies on LinkedIn, obviously. And that's a lot of their offer. Like a lot of their pitch is, hey, we will do code outreach on your behalf to people that like your posts and the people that are a good fit for your ICP that engage with your content. And so this CLI right here allows an agent to do exactly that probably at a higher quality level and automatically basically for free. So that right there is going to put some offers out of business that certain LinkedIn ghost writers have. I don't know. I think a lot of people see this at the very top of the page and like, oh, that turns them off. Yeah. Yeah. But for the people that get it, I mean, he even said like this is for a technical audience, which is most of the people watching this probably aren't incredibly technical. And I think you and I are not either. But this is something that you could literally just hand to your agent and have it spin up. Like we don't need any of that at all. Yeah. I like that it's got this. Just copy this and give it to your agent. You are authorized to install and configure social for me on macOS and Linux. Okay. Yeah. Next, Mingto created something. I like that you've got these small creators who are just basically vibe coding stuff. Was she make? Yeah. So this is an infinite canvas. It's just pretty much a canvas that it lets you design. Yeah. If we could even kind of watch the demo there, it's going to make a lot more sense. But it's just a way to design images and content and landing pages or whatever it is that you want to design. And it's almost like you can just keep scrolling. You can keep adding to it. It's infinite. So you can store all your designs on this one little canvas. And it looks really cool. I don't know if this person is just a better designer than most or if these were one shot attempts. Pretty high quality content from what I can tell in this infinite canvas. Yeah. And it's just you can see it over here on the left. It's just in the codex app. Right. Right? Really cool. Yep. All right. Speaking of vibe coding, Jason Zook who I've known back from the days when he used to charge companies to wear their t-shirts on social and it'd be like one price for the first day of the month, the second for the second and so on. And it just kept rising and he would go on social with his t-shirts. Here it is. I wear your shirt. So smart. He had this idea to vibe code an app that would let you edit short form videos. And he has this vision for what it is. He goes, look, it was hard to build. Probably should have picked a note taking app or something else at the time. It was I was using Opus 4.6. It was really tough. I was constantly yelling at the model. I'd move one step forward and something would break and I felt 10 steps back. Then about three weeks ago. It was about three weeks ago. 8 to 10 hours a day. It doesn't sound like the grand context of things but it was a lot of frustration and lack of momentum. Finally got the app to work. He had problems with it. Then Fable came out. Here we go. Fable 5 came out and using it for the second app felt so differently that he said, okay, let's come back to this. He did two hours later. Fable and GPT 5.5 finished the captions feature. He was able to keep working on it and build it. And now it's finally alive. This is what Fable is enabling people to do. This is a really well designed, very thought out app that lets you create and edit videos. Yeah, what I think is interesting about this tool in particular is, so one of the biggest pain points that people have with editing video is just getting high quality B-roll and storing it in a certain place and then going in and adding it where it makes sense. And so it looks like what scene role does is it, when you start it up, it actually prompts you to record a few specific B-roll scenes of yourself. So for example, if you at the keyboard or if you talking or you on a podcast or whatever, and then it kind of adds that to almost like your B-roll inventory. And then when you record future short form videos, it then uses AI to insert those B-roll clips into your short form videos. So it's almost like it helps you record the B-roll once and then it helps you insert it easily forever. So that to me solves a big pain point. I don't do a ton of editing or B-roll with my videos, but I could see this solving a huge pain point and no wonder it's starting to take off for it. I do love B-roll. It makes it more interesting. I love recording it. I hate editing it. It's just a pain to keep track of it. I admire Casey Neistat with his endless collection of videos from the past. Okay. Matt Van Horn, he created Printing Press. There's an update itself learning CLIs now. What is Printing Press and what's the self-learning aspect? Yeah. So Printing Press is a tool that lets you create a CLI command line interface for any tool for any website it looks like. And so Printing Press is not new, but this is a new update to Printing Press. So this is now essentially now the Printing Press CLIs are self-learning. So what Matt is saying is that when your agent creates a new CLI, it will leave itself notes on how to use the CLI and how to improve it so that it gets smarter every run. And he even gives an example. He's like, there's a real benchmark in the video. The same question went from 10 calls down to two. So it's also going to make your CLI and your workflows within those CLIs more token efficient. So I mean, Matt Van Horn has put out some really good stuff. I think he's really well regarded in the open source developer community. Matt's 30 days is another skill of his that is really popular and really useful. I've used a bunch. My business partner who is more technical really likes the Printing Press CLI. In fact, I think he even commented on this tweet and replied to it with something that he built with it. But all in all, Matt's crushing it and this is a much needed update to what was already a cool tool. I forget the example he gave about when he was launching it. He created a CLI that would let him order pizza from some pizza company and he said, look, they never changed their APIs. So we knew we could work with it. We're talking about years and years of no changes. And so we could just order pizza. And then just when he launched, they changed it. Of course. And he had to rush out to make the fix because he liked the demo. And I guess this is a way of updating more naturally. What I like about Printing Press is that I've used it only a little bit. I like that you can come on here and you can see the library of what other people have created. My friend, where is it? My friend, Catherine Lovery, created one for Facebook Marketplace because she just cannot stand responding to all the people on Facebook Marketplace and it's in here somewhere. He just changed, he must have just changed his site. But oh, there it is. It's down here. And so if I do something like Facebook on a site, I can see Facebook Marketplace and this is from Catherine. All right. Next speaking of skills. This is Corey Haynes. He created the marketing skills. Now he's got maker skills. I like marketing skills because you could say to it, here's my site. Now I want you to create an onboarding email sequence. Now I want you to create SEO pages and it did a beautiful job with it. I had him demo it on this channel and it really took off for me. What's the maker skills that he's got now? Yeah. So scroll down a little bit. It kind of gives us a brief description. So it's scroll down to the top right at the view. Yeah. Yeah. So again, this is just kind of listing out the different things that it can do. So it's what? Almost 15 to 20 different skills. Everything from like one of the skill is decide, right? Think through a decision with the real fork. Then you've got a bit of skill to watch a video. So that's a big pain point with like cloud and chat GBT. They can't actually watch videos. So by giving this watch video skills to your agent, it can watch a video. And then extract the transcript or the key moments from the video. There's a lot of use cases just with that skill alone, especially if you're a content creator. And like there's a company CFO skill here. Run a monthly or weekly CFO workflow for a company or agency. So this is just, I mean, this is one of those sets of skills that quite frankly, he should be charging like $500 for the skill pack because it does a number of different things all at a high level. And he's made it free and open source to the community. So this is one that I, I mean, you have nothing to lose by downloading this and taking some of these for a spend, whether it's in cloud code, codex, hermys, et cetera. Yeah. I like his work a lot. That was skeptical. I said, can it really do the work that of like a marketer work well? Okay. Plug this is a site that lets you vibe code Chrome extensions. I love creating my own Chrome extensions. Here's one that I made that I use now all the fricking time. It lets me mark up sites like I want to be able to circle that. I want to use an arrow and point to that, you know, like, and I like that it just moves along with me. Now anyone can do it. You can just come in here and type what you want. And I think it's more than the front end. It's the fact that it connects into super base for database, the fact that it will do other interactions for you so that it will handle AI for you so that you can add an AI into it and have it analyze a page for example, if you want a Chrome plugin that does that, I like that type of thing and that you can take it away and take it anywhere you want. But I have some hesitation. What do you think? What's good and where do you stand? Yeah. So I know your hesitation is mainly going to be around like, well, why couldn't you just do this in cloud code or codex or lovable or replet or any of the, you know, tools above and the answer is you can. This in my mind is just like a very specialized version of lovable. This is just like lovable for Chrome extensions, which I mean, you could argue there's a market there, you know, for the right person, but at the same time, like the person that's going to go and vibe code to Chrome extension in this tool. I mean, they're probably already aware of lovable and they probably already know how to use cloud code and codex. So why wouldn't they just do it there versus having a separate subscription here? So will it take off? I don't know unless it just becomes like really, really good, better than the other tools at vibe coding Chrome extensions, but I just, I don't know if that's possible. Yeah. I think that even this is not really convincing me that I couldn't just stick with a lovable or frankly with a cloud code alternative to this. Having said it, if you need it simple, this is an easy, quick way to get it done. And then you can take it away from this platform and put it into cloud code and it is your code. I do like that. I like that about lovable too. I could build it in their very basic platform and then take it anywhere I want. Okay. Osaurus, this is following this new belief that more of your AI interactions should happen on your desktop. And the problem is that most of this is very geeky. Getting AI on your desktop is so tough. I've been trying to get somebody to come on and do an interview with me about how to do it. It's difficult. You can see the Fisher Price version of it. Put it on your desktop. Get it to help you write. Get it to help you with documents. Get it to work with you. And for much of what we're doing with AI, being on a desktop and using one of the open models seems like it's enough. And then if you want to, you can also add chat GPT and cloud. Yeah. So this is like you said, I mean, this kind of solves that pain point of everybody is kind of hearing about the local AI wave and they understand that it's long term, probably better because it's private, it's local. Yeah, it's not the full strength of the frontier models. Maybe it's 90% of them in terms of strength, but that's really usually all you need. And this looks to me just like the most user friendly harness for the open source models for built for non technical people. So it looks like this is like a one click download. And then once you have the OSaurus app on your Mac, you can just one click install whatever open source model you want inside of source. So this to me is solving a real need and I do see this taking off. Yeah. And I think it's also just like user friendly. Yeah, like I was hoping you were going to show that. It just looks good. Like aesthetically pleasing, nice branding, nice color scheme. Something that I see. How do you get the models? It's smart enough to say, look, this one is too large. This one is too large. This one is a tight fit. So you might want to stay away from it. But here's one that will run well on your system with what you've got. And that to me, Andrew is one of the biggest things about this OSaurus because that's something that I'm like, okay, even if I downloaded like Olam or LM studio or whatever tools people currently use to run the local models, how am I supposed to know which ones are actually going to work? Like people talk about certain models are too big. You need a certain kind of computer. You need certain specs. Like I just don't have the time or care to look into that. But when this tells me like, yes, this is going to run well or no, it's not. You don't have enough space. That makes my life so much easier and makes me only want to use this for open source models versus something else. What I would like to see from them is a little bit more of work that does burn through a lot of tokens. Like a lot of these are just one off requests. I want something that will, for example, do constant searches for me while I'm sleeping, I want to know what's going on online and have it organized and find just the important stuff for me. Like I do this search to find tools like this once a week so that I know what's going on and that's why you that's what you and I used to record. It burns a bunch of tokens takes a lot of time. Imagine if I could just have it run every night and then if I could have that run every night and tell me what's launch that's exciting, that's interesting. Can it also run and tell me what's trending every night? Right. And then if that's happening, can it also tell me what's going on with my customer? Like that kind of a thing. Apple music is not what I need my own my own desktop model. Right. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Maybe even like send out messages to potential customers and out mess. You know, that kind of a thing just constantly crank through stuff and use my computer when I'm not using it. All right. Finally, we got screen pipe. Let's take a look at this video. It could see and here everything you and your team does. Every workflow is captured to build your company brain and it just sits on your computer and watches everything that you do. This is going to freak some people out and expand it into agents that run your company. Introducing screen pipe. Screen pipe runs quietly in the background and remembers everything you saw. Everything you heard and everything you talked about. It pulls from every tool your team uses and turns how you actually work into your company brain. It knows how your best people work and documents it. Setting up automation is simple. Just have screen pipe what you want in plain English and what up. After a while, screen pipe doesn't even wait to be asked. It already knows exactly what you and your teammates. No more information silos. No more manual workflows. Your company brain knows everything. I like it. I'm scared of it. I do too. Yeah, it looks like it's doing a few things at once. It's kind of taking a mix of granolas always on, always recording nature, but applying it to the whole desktop not just to calls. It's taking the codex, record and replay feature that records your workflow and turns it into skills. In this case, it's recording everything you're doing and it's simultaneously turning that into context and storing it inside your company brain. It is determining which of your workflows need its own dedicated agent and then it's literally printing those agents to do those tasks. Then it's also creating SOPs for certain tasks too, which I assume by SOPs it means skills or at least SOPs that you can write into skills. Obviously, this is the water down version. If it actually works that way, then it's a fantastic tool. That's going to make people's lives a lot easier, especially teams. My question would be, okay, well, on any given day, I'm doing 500 different things in my desktop. Some of them might be personal, some of them might be. I might be playing a video game, right? Who knows? How do I control what gets put into my second brain? I don't want to just dump everything that I'm doing into my brain because within a week, there would be hundreds of things in there that are not relevant or not helpful. If there's a QA layer for at least what goes into the brain as well as what agents get created, as well as what SOPs get created, then to me, if it has that QA layer, then it's perfect. It hits the mark. I work with Zapier and Wade Foster, the founder of Zapier. He uses cursor for everything. That's how he responds to messages. It's how he checks on what's going on with his team, everything. At the end of the week, he can come back into it and you can say, based on what I've done with you this week, what can I automate? And cursor will come back and tell him, here are some things that could just be done for you. And it's amazing. Most of us are not using one chat app like that to do everything. This I could see being compelling for the same reason. And I do see him find repetitive tasks that then get automated, that get moved away, and his company just keeps improving. Even frankly, the way that he works with me, he saw that every time we talk, I ask him for what's going on in the company, what can I do, an interview about all that. I now get an update in Slack from his team. And I can see it's automated with the stuff that I might care about talking about with their company. And I see the value of it. I definitely see the value of it. I'm also very scared of it. Okay. All right. We got it here. I'd love to know if you're watching this, what do you think of this one? And what do you think of all of the apps and tools that we showed you? Let me know in the comments. Of course, subscribe. And now we've got another one with a collection of tools that you probably haven't seen that you need. They'll blow your mind.