---
video_title: "How to have Hermes run your business"
video_id: T4gibRVtt-I
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T4gibRVtt-I
video_date: 2026-05-18T16:49:34+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Link to the resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/antoine-hermes-tools
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  👉 FlyHermes: https://flyhermes.ai/
  👉 Antoine's X: https://x.com/AntoineRSX
  
  Antoine Rousseaux runs multiple businesses using Hermes agent. In this episode, he shows how Hermes helps him create ads, monitor competitors, handle support, build websites, and improve its own skills over time.
  
  Andrew and Antoine walk through the actual workflows behind his AI agent setup: scraping Meta ads with Apify, using Hermes to generate and edit ad videos, managing slash commands like queue, steer, background, goal, and stop, and comparing Hermes with OpenClaw for repeated business tasks.
  
  The big idea: AI agents are moving beyond one-off prompts. Antoine’s workflow shows how agents can monitor markets, generate assets, run support workflows, build websites, and continuously improve the skills they use to get work done.
  
  Timestamps:
  00:00 - Intro
  00:18 - Antoine’s AI-built businesses and revenue dashboard
  00:45 - How Hermes creates and monitors video ads
  02:42 - Using Apify and Meta Ad Library for ad research
  04:39 - Breaking down AI-generated ad videos
  06:18 - Editing videos with Hermes, FFmpeg, and Python
  07:57 - Slash commands in Hermes
  08:42 - New, compress, queue, and steer
  10:21 - Background tasks and goal mode
  11:24 - Stop command and model switching
  12:27 - Building websites with Hermes
  13:12 - Deep research and the Tinder-style personal site
  15:36 - Customer support and Stripe disputes
  17:06 - Hermes vs OpenClaw
  18:54 - Self-improving skills in Hermes
  20:06 - Closing and Paperclip preview
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
I run multiple businesses with Hermes agent. Look, it's creating even video ads for me. Most people don't know the power that it has. It's doing customer support for me right here. Let me show you a few comments that everyone misses, you know. Andrew, let's do a screenshot. I will show everyone how to do this. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. What are we looking at here? What is this? This is my Stripe revenue dashboard from the businesses that I built with my AI agents. Okay, and so we're looking at one business. It's got 56,000 in gross volume, the other 44, and then another 18. And it's AI agents that you're using. Is it mostly Hermes? It was open at the beginning, but we switched the most of it to Hermes. Yes. All right, let's take a look at how it's bringing business for you. How about the ads? So this is what telegram that you're using to interact. Did it create these video ads for you? Yes, it created all those ads for me. I just had to give a point that was two or three lines. That's it. Can I see the way that you interact with it to get it to create video ads like this and how you know that the ads are going to work? So the way it works is my AI agent Hermes will give me daily reports on which are the best ads that are running. So it keeps monitoring what is going on. And for example, here you see that is so there was 42 new ads and 33 disappeared. So we know that those ads are not that good. But what is this is ads? This is ads for others or is it ads for your business? This is ads for others. This is people advertising open-close on meta ads. I see because one of your businesses, Hermes, one of your business flyermys, which helps people install Hermes. So you're watching how other businesses that make it easier to install agents are doing. And so what's it using to figure out which ads are running and which ads are not? What access does it need to do that? Well, it access the Facebook meta ad library. So it's going to go scrape it every day to see which one are ranking. Okay. All right. And so it's checking to see which one's ranking and it's learning from it. And then it creates video ads for you. Exactly. So because it checks all those ads, gather the text, can download the images and even sometimes if they have video, watch the video and start to understand the video that's something that I'm implementing right now, then you know what's working. What are the angles that other people are using? And we can reproduce the same ones. We use videos that we generate. What's the stack that you use or what access do you need to give it in order to have its study rank, watch the videos even and then create videos for you? You need something that's going to scrape Facebook ads or a meta library or that you can have your machine directly doing it. And it's going to open the page. I use a personally directly with appify to scrape. It's easier. I use appify for all kinds of scraping, right? So you basically are paying them for API calls. They're scraping and they're charging you every time you use it. Great. That makes a lot more sense than doing it on your own computer because it's wasting tokens and then it's not that efficient. I mean browsing with agent is good. It works most of the time, but it's not as reliable as API calls. Takes forever, takes a lot of tokens, not as reliable. Okay. So it's appify for scraping. What else are you using to study these videos and create your own? So to study those videos, like first of all, like for the one the research that we're doing here, like the open clue ads, not many people are running videos. It's actually mostly static images. And I think it's the best way to start actually for ads on meta. It's easy. You can throw like 12 directly on the same day and test those. But otherwise there is a meta actually that released a model called tribe V2 if I'm not wrong. And this AI model can analyze a video and see what's happened on the brain when people watch that video, which is very good. Otherwise, if you don't have access to that, which can be possible because I think it doesn't run on every machine, you can upload your video into Gemini and ask it to describe what's happening each scene and to define a prompt that will help you to recreate this video if you were asking an AI. Okay. And we'll of course have list list of all these tools that you're referring to in the description. Okay. Scroll down. Let's see the video that I created for you. And just walk me through what it's doing here. Okay. So the three video we have, as you can see, AI is not always perfect. No, he has the new MacBook maybe. He's too in advance. Yeah, the screen is on the wrong side of the lid. Yeah. We have some sound before. But basically the angle that he wanted to play on is that everyone is struggling to install AI agent on their strangling with too much work. And then once they have fly Hermes, wow, life is good. And then they change the thing. Most of the AI videos that we see online are actually heavily edited. So what you would want to have is like multiple scenes. And then you plug those scenes together. Because video models, like I think sit-ins to the max output is around 15 to 30 seconds max. And still you're not going to have like the greatest thing. Like you want multiple shots and then combining them together. But once you get few reactions, you could actually split test different videos. So it's not creating the full video. It's creating snippets. You're personally editing it and then you're running the ads. Well, those ones I could try to run them like that. But I'm not sure if they will work like eight seconds is okay. But I think you would rather want 15 seconds. And I have like different scenes. So I would ask and probably like someone who is really struggling. And then another one that will be like now it's not struggling anymore. And then to edit the video, I will use AI. I actually have an example of a video that I edited with AI online Twitter. So this one for example, OpenClaw just shipped its biggest update in months. Two things matter. It now joins your Google Meet calls. Which one are you using when when Hermes puts together all those reaction videos? What are you using to edit them together? Directly Hermes can attach them together and it can also add text on top of it. So you can just tell Hermes to do it and it'll piece it together and can you tell it to do it now? I can try to do it now. Let's say okay. Okay. And normally I would give also an example if I want to put some text you have like the kind of social media style where you have a rectangle that is white at the top with some text. Right. You give it a little more guidance. What does it need in order to do this editing? Are using any any third party tools? Now this is going to be probably FFM Peg you see it's calling it here which is the easiest tool for managing video formats and is using a Python and then in now it's trying to plug them together as you can see it's used to sit dance to generate the UGC here. Okay. All right. It's done. Obviously you would have told it not to put that first clip in there. Yeah. And you give it a little bit more guidance. All right. I see how it's working. I see how it's helping you with the ads. Let's go on to some of the slash commands. You are actually going to show someone today about the power of slash commands how people aren't using it enough and so you created a slide. Can I see how you created the slide? Sure. Okay. Let me see. It's said you said to your agent I want to create a slide presentation to show how we use Ernie's agent together. What are the best options? Give me the read because I want you to create the presentation. Got it. Right. And so it started talking with you. You then got the slides at the end. Can I see what it looks like? Yeah. Okay. All right. So why don't we go through some of them because these are the things that are important for people to know. What's new? New is when you're in the same chat window but you want to go on a totally new topic or totally new thing. So for example, if you have the sub topics like I do on Telegram, you're not going to have to use so many times new unless like you have a channel that has like tons of different topics and around it. Compress. It's if your chat is too long but Ernie's does it itself most of the time. So it's not that useful. Q is super important because when you start to work on a task and sometimes you make takes 15 minutes and I quote frustrating because then you have another idea. You can just do slash Q and then say the next task that you wanted to do. Tier is also really important because as you can see, I'm French of time I do a mistake or there is a word that when I did the voice to text didn't get it. The tier I'm going to be useful. I do slash tier and it's going to adjust the direction but it could be also adding information because instead of stopping the current task like if you said to Hermes like, hey, what's the weather like today is going to start to search and then if you send another message it's going to stop the task. So you don't want that but tier is going to be okay. The next tool that you use is going to be let me get that information and add it to what I'm working on and if you see it for example, it starts to not use a skill or not use a tool which can still happen because AI agents are not like perfect. It's going to adapt and you're going to have a way better output. Okay, so you're not interrupting the action. You're just kind of guiding it to do whatever it's doing a little bit better background. What's this one? This is a little bit like a sub agent but for like small tasks. So if it's working on the task like let's say those video they're going to take 20 minutes to generate for example. I can do slash background and say like give me how much we spend in ads in the last 10 days and then it's going to do that little task on the side and that's pretty helpful too. I saw you using the gold command earlier when you're scrolling through your chats. What are you using for? Yeah. Basically gold is like hey this is really important for me. I allow you to spend a lot more time on it and by that it means you can spend a lot more tokens and you can have multiple loops. So the budget of loops go from like 20 to 150 I think on Hermes most of the time and that means it's going to allow itself to go through like prompting, reprompting, analyzing and going again again again again again. It's just going to be a lot more token intensive but also the result will be way better. Okay next stop is super important. Stop is just kill the task that you're doing right now. If you see that it's doing something dangerous or whatever you do, just slice stop. Okay and with Flyer means do people switch models or does it come with just one model? It comes with multiple models. There's also smart routing if you want so like this it would direct it to the best model you want but you can switch model easily here. You have all of them and you can switch on Telegram as well. And this is Flyer means and in addition to using Telegram people can use the chat within it and it seems like a lot of people prefer to use the browser chat. I mean the browser chat has the advantage of having better displaying than the Telegram. For example if you have some kind of dashboard or tables or things like that it's not always so well displayed on Telegram but here it's going to be a way easier to read. Okay let's see how you're using Armies to build. Are you going into Armies to ask it to build sites for you instead of Cloud Code? It depends the size I mean of the website. If it's anything like content wise or whatsoever I can do it directly in her means it's fine but if we're going to build something that is let's say that we acquire a lot more work then I'm probably going to do it directly in her Cloud Code or Codex. So here we here. I saw that. Was that a hilarious Tinder something? Yes you're going to see. So like this one this one it did a full research about me. Okay let me read that prompt for a second. Go up a little. You said deep research. Find everything you can about me, YouTube channel who I am etc and then search for and install any research skills you need. You have two prompts left after this one. Tell me about why you're telling you you have two prompts left after this one. It was because I was doing a challenge at that time where I was like comparing okay like how fuck can I go with just a few prompts. Let's say for building a website or something like that. Okay. Oh here was a deep research like they had the three two prompt max for the deep research. I mean if it was wrong after it was off. So I told I told it like okay we're going to do this this game. Okay and right and I see that I got a whole lot of data on you. It actually got data that I wish I had before you and I started but this is great. Okay what's next on this. So then once I had that I say okay like it will build me a Tinder website that shows like who I am and everything around it and it did in one prompt. So let me show you I wanted to like have a like unfortunate text is over like we could arrange that by correcting it but otherwise it was pretty good like you had so many issues. Yeah but you had like you have the tweedle links you have the YouTube like it can have like I did a pretty first good version of the website I think. What was this for? This is like a replacement for your personal website. I mean I wanted it. Yeah it's not going to be but like yeah I wanted to see it out here like a simple yeah display website but still with an original thing like I wanted to have something different and then it went fast to build it like an easy it's on GitHub and Versailles and that's it. I didn't have to do much with it. It created that and then after like I bounced back and forced a little bit to modify some stuff. All right. I get how this works. How did it know that you wanted to see it on Versailles and that you wanted it to be on GitHub too? I told it to do it and I give it a GitHub key and a version key but that's not here. That's in one of the skills that you gave it. I know it's actually it's in the prompt I adjustable but I didn't show it. Okay I didn't see that. All right great. Let's look at customer support. So for customer support. So how many disputes do we have here and it's at 18 active disputes total. Six need response. 12 are under review meaning like Stripe is checking them out. One is one and 22 lost historically. So the urgent number is number six. Yeah. So actually it's since before we were doing the disputes manually and now we say to her me to I mean this one is run by open club to run the disputes kill to to be able to answer them and then since then it started to win one. Let's see if it's going to win the other ones. So wait is this an open club chat that you're having right here? Yeah. Okay. Can I see how her me's is doing customer support? Is there a difference? No it's going to be pretty much the same like it's because how they handle the mailbox and everything is going to be pretty much the same. There's no no big difference. Okay. What are they disputing? Oh it's just like we had like on on this one on the point call get like 500 people and more. So it's like it can happen that the people like they say oh I they subscribe and then they try to get a reform from it. What's that website? What's that business? This is a Heracloh we do open-close thing. Okay so you're running both open-cloth in armies. Which do you prefer and why? What's the difference in your experience? Well me I don't really want to to pick your side right but I have to be honest and then like recently the one I use the most is Hermes and I don't know it's just overall I just got better outputs and I came from different things like open-cloth often broke after updates. A lot of people complain about that happens to me once or twice as well and that's a bit annoying and then after I found the Hermes way better at using skills and tools on repeat which is why like with open-cloth I was often like repeating now you should use that you have to use this skill to be sure to use that and sing that out. The way like it's self-revolving for Hermes I just find it more efficient. I have heard a lot about how it knows what to do better it doesn't break as often and it learns from its experience. Yeah it's I mean already when you chat with it when you see like how it's working and how it's building the skills automatically it's just night and day like the thing is for example open-cloth at the beginning like now maybe with some updates they're changing that but it didn't automatically build the skills unless you say like build the skill around this now and and then it would not always use it that's why people have actually at the right beginning of open-cloth and I had those where you had the cron job that will analyze all the chat and build some things around to make your AI agent self-revolving it was not built to be self-revolving at the beginning that's what people need to understand. Can I see some of the skills that it might have built for itself in the skills tab what I like about Fly Hermes is that you have all the skills easily accessible on the lower left. So here you see boom for example self-improvement review skill follow AI video generator created so here created for example a skill because I'm running different tests on some agent and this one I was like okay I want to make some UGC ads for match a brand okay and it did those ones which some of them are like very good like this one is these a few movements are wrong but like otherwise it's pretty impressive and we have those ones that's like it's on its own improve the skill or created the skill can I see that. Yeah so here like after it was done with creating the ads 3 AI generated you say self-improvement review skill file a file video generated create so it's using file AI here to be able to generate those thanks Antoine and for people who want to they could just go to flyermes.ai to sign up and try it themselves I think you've got a seven day free trial exactly. All right and we'll have a list of the resources below to anyone who wants them thanks everyone. No sit Antoine uses both open and ermies many people run many instances of each of these agents and it becomes hard to manage the next video you should watch is how one woman is managing multiple agents using an open-source tool called paperclip you'll watch me install it see how easy it is to set it up and you'll see how easy it is to both use on your own with multiple agents and if you want to bring your team into it how to make it easy for them to interact with them so we got a link for you to watch that video next see you in that next one