---
video_title: "8 Playbooks You Can Try"
video_id: Fu8-M6uTHI0
channel_name: "The Next New Thing"
channel_id: UCNZEktrsM5oJZ-MK4jKPMOQ
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fu8-M6uTHI0
video_date: 2026-06-17T23:28:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Andrew and Hiten Shah break down real AI businesses that are already making money, then separate the strong opportunities from the hype.
  
  Presented by Zapier: https://zapier.com/
  
  👉 Link to resources: https://thenextnewthing.ai/l/playbooks-hiten-shah
  
  Today's special guest: Hiten Shah, cofounder and CEO of Crazy Egg
  👉 Hiten Shah (X): https://x.com/hnshah
  👉 Company: https://www.crazyegg.com/
  👉 New company: https://typeahead.ai
  
  
  Andrew and Hiten Shah break down real AI businesses that are already making money, then separate the strong opportunities from the hype.
  
  They look at founders using AI to build power dialers, app builders, AI video tools, niche mobile apps, SEO directories, and simple utility websites. Hiten pushes past the revenue screenshots and asks the questions founders actually need to answer: where is the distribution coming from, what are the real costs, how much churn is hiding underneath the numbers, and whether the business is software, services, or AI arbitrage.
  
  The big idea: AI makes it easier to build, but distribution still decides who wins. The easiest opportunity may not be another app. It may be learning a valuable AI workflow, selling it to companies, and turning that expertise into a repeatable service or software business.
  
  Timestamps
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:27 - AI Businesses Making Real Money
  00:36 - The AI Power Dialer Built With Claude
  03:45 - BuildShipper and the New App Builder Market
  08:51 - The Fractional Chief AI Officer Business
  14:33 - Zapier MCP
  15:09 - Revvid and AI Video at $600K a Month
  18:35 - The Cut Coach and Niche Mobile Apps
  21:00 - AI Explainer Videos Built With Base44
  24:54 - Luxury Restroom Trailer Directories
  27:54 - Simple Web Apps Monetized With Ads
  30:18 - The Easiest AI Business to Start
  33:00 - Closing
  
  👉 Join us: https://thenextnewthing.ai/
---
How did you make money with AI? I built a mobile app that makes me $20,000 per month. Do we just hit a million dollars in AR? From zero to 50k monthly. Four and a half million in annual recurring. You're about to meet eight people who did it who will show you how they did it. We've built an AI coding without any coding experience. By the way, I don't know how to code, right? This is my first experience vibe coding. The entire infrastructure is managed very easily when you do vibe coding. We'll watch their videos and talk about how you can do it too. Presented by Zapier, the AI automation company. Pete, and I want you to take a look at this founder right here. Let's see. So we just hit a million dollars in AR with our SaaS product, which we use Clog Code to build. And is the SaaS that's called Clarebo? It is essentially an AI-enabled power dialer. And just to unpack those words, what this does is it allows us to make more calls per unit time and then have more of those calls picked up on the back end. Then that works really well and is very powerful if you're in an industry that is traditionally pretty call-based. So I wonder what you think of this business. I'm going to play a couple of clips here and then let's talk about him. So how do you actually use ClawD here? Well, I should know that we didn't actually know how to solve this problem. When we started, we actually had ClawD walk us through every possible way that it knew of to improve pickup rates and increase the total number of calls we could make per unit time. And most of the ideas were absolute trash. But after a mining ClawD for 200, 300 ideas, a couple of them were actually pretty good. And so the process, if you're interested, is we literally said, hey, we're building insert product here. It is, in our case, an AI power dialer for local service businesses like HFAC, plumbing, roofing, et cetera. Our core metric to optimize is call pickup rate, which is defined as the percentage of dial numbers that result in a one. OK. He specifically told ClawD go fire up a bunch of agents. And with these constraints come up with ideas, he said most of the ideas are absolute garbage. And then he hit on this one idea that became clearvo. Do you think that's a good, in your experience, having invested in companies, launch companies, is that a good model to launch? I think the part that's really valuable that he described was the fact that there were 200 ideas that he had ClawD sort of go after. And then I'm assuming he or with ClawD's help, dug into the ideas and found the good ones. So that part is a process I use for almost anything, which is because with AI, we can generate more concepts or ideas or it's just things. So generate a lot of them. And then I would just use the AI to help find the right one based on my judgment and criteria that I'm feeding to the AI. Did you do that with type ahead, the business you recently launched? Yeah. A lot of the way that we thought about this product and the copy and the reason it lands when people go there is because it's all fully baked on research and options and different things we tested with the AI to find the exact right word. Like this whole idea. That's coffee. But did you actually come up with an idea because ClawD code gave you 20,000 ideas and you picked the one that made the most sense? No, but this is different. So Andrew, we have to go a layer deeper. He did? Say I came up with a business idea. That's not what he said. He said, I came up with the way to optimize this product idea I already had. That's what he said. Got it. That's very different. I'm not saying you should have ClawD come up with 200 business ideas and you pick two or three. That's fine. That's nuance. Here, think of it this way. He gave AI the container. And within that container, the AI decided to come up with all these ideas and you picked one. That's my interpretation of what I heard. It wasn't that. You're 100% right. 200% that nuance. That makes sense. And he basically said, look, here's the problem that my customers have. Here's the number that we're trying to hit for them. Help me come up with a solution for it. All right. So AI is good at that kind of ideation. Let's go to the next person. I want to know what you think of this one. Here is, I interview this person. He's fantastic. Listen to what he does. Build Shipper, which is an AI app builder. Essentially, it's kind of like lovable or replate. But with some more, and we'll talk about what they do here, actually. How much does that mean? This thing is making. So we're currently 25.6 KMR. As you can see here, net volume 65K. That's last month plus what we did this month. AR is 307K. So the majority of AR is here. But with migrated Stripe accounts, just. I love the demigrated Stripe accounts. Really, it's a founder. You just want to show people, look, I have these both bank accounts. They really are all come in. Next up, he's saying that he's different from lovable because of this. So most of these other apps, you can only build websites or web apps at this moment. With Shipper, you can build websites, web apps, mobile apps, from extensions, and all sorts of bots. OK. And we're both non-technical. We never really like to code. So instead, we've decided to learn marketing. Our first real success was a luxury goods of any. OK. And then finally, I have seen their ads. Here's where they promote not ads. I have seen their ads. They got our first user through PowerCunt, Reddit, SEO, and then X Twitter. Have you seen them on X, by the way? No, I haven't. They are so good at getting my attention. They will get over a million views on their tweets. And it's something like, Cloud 4.8 is so good, it's scary. Or Opus 4.8 is so good, it's scary. And then they will link over to their other tweet, which says that you can use Shipper and Opus to build a site. Here's the thing that I wonder about this. They are very similar to these bigger companies. What do you think about non-developers competing with lovable and all these other businesses? Is that an option? Well, these products have made the market. So lovable and bold and emergent have essentially made the market by essentially marketing to the market. So every dollar they spend on marketing is like valuable if you're in that category to you as well, because these are all new categories. So this one, to me, is in this category where I have this concept where X is like the new website. And when I say that, what I mean is we had a lot of website creators back in the day. They were all different shapes and sizes. You had your neighbor who could do use HTML and Dreamweaver to be able to build a site for you who might be in your 30s or 40s at that time. This is going to date us. This is when we were younger. We would be that person. There were people like us that knew all this stuff about how to build a website. And their neighbor, who's a dentist, needed a website. So in some ways, the way I view, and that is, I don't even mean the website creation or any of that. It's really the idea that there are people that have skill sets because of the knowledge they have and they're manifesting those into helping other people. So these folks being non-engineers are essentially doing some version of the same thing because the market is just so massive. At least that's what people think. And with Loveable's revenue, bolts revenue, emergence, growth, ray, these things are basically saying that there is just a massive market out there. So that's all to tell you that the reason this is working is because they are good at getting the distribution. I don't know what their turn looks like. I don't care about the differentiation they said because it's temporary. So that's not going to last. And with a few tricks, you can make all these other tools make Chrome extensions too. So is that really the thing? So the hidden secret here is the fact that somehow they got to 16K followers on the account. But it's likely this was an old account. Maybe. I don't know. This is the account for their business. Individually, they have stronger accounts, but also they're very good at getting attention. They're very good at these one liners that tap into what's going on on X. OK, so what you're saying is Andrew, it doesn't matter if they're these bigger players. In fact, it's helpful that they're these bigger players that are doing essentially the same thing. The differentiation in the software doesn't matter. They have a really good chance because they figured out this one type of marketing to this type of person on X on Reddit. And I don't know how long that will last, Andrew. And even that line you said is like, think of it this way. If they say, I think they're more careful from what you're saying, but if they say these crazy lines, and that gets attention, cool, if their product can do crazy things or say it does crazy things and they can't do it, they're going to have a high turn. So it's likely this actually has much higher turn, than I used it. No, the vision does well is because they built it on a cloud software, essentially, on those models. All right, let's go to the next one. Oh, this guy I interviewed. Listen, how much money this dude is making. I think people can copy this, tell me what you think of this model. I'm on here, you're making your sitting at about four and a half million in annual recurring ice. Here's what he did. A fractional chief AI officer model. And let me just emphasize that fractional chief financial, a fractional chief AI officer, essentially, is what he is. He's the guy who comes into your company and says, do you the way you're doing things is old? There's a new AI way. Let me help integrate it. That's not ARR, Andrew. That can't be ARR. You know what he ended up doing? Yeah. You know what? I think you're you're you're right. They're saying it's ARR and it's not. Let's let's hear what he said in the video. Good call. How much money are you making? We're sitting at about four and a half million in annual recurring. But but he's charging subscriptions now. But you still don't believe that that's really ARR. Why? If it's four and a half million dollars of AR, okay, there's two two things. Yeah. I can I can say I believe that. Is it recurring? What is the churn? Like those are the kind of questions. It's not usually this ARR is not the same as like full 100% software ARR. Right. So the second piece of it is he's actually just augmenting human with AI and doing a services business. You and I both know it's easier to get a services business to higher numbers than a software business these days with caveats. So my my criticism here, if there is any is this is not a software business. If it was vibe coded, he's teaching people how how to use AI and all that. That's what everyone's trying to do and everyone wants that because everyone's trying to do it. So in some ways, that last idea was lovable, bold, they're drafting on the marketing and the market. Those products have created those businesses have created. This thing is drafting on the fact that everyone wants to implement AI, right? So it's same thing. Very big market. They're taking their chunk of it and he's probably figured out some distribution on it, but this is a service. What do you think of the fact that it's a services business though? I don't think that's bad. I'm just saying which call it what it is. I don't know if that's ARR. I just don't know. You know what? I think you're right. There are a lot of people who use annual revenue and ARR in the same way because they assume that if they earned this money last year or expect to earn it this year, they're going to next year because if they get customers, we'll leave the return. Recurring means the same customer keeps paying. If you get churn, if you get churn and not the same customers paying you, but you have a high top of funnel or something like that. But if they pay you for three months, is it annual? It's ARR's annualized recurring revenue. The recurring part is the part where I usually have a bigger gripe than you annualize because annualize is by nature times 12 of whatever they're looking at, but it only is times 12 actually recurs. My argument here is I don't know. And okay, fair. Let's tell me what you think. All right. So fair about that. Tell me what you think about his business. Here's essentially what he does. Like I said, he sees how your business operates. He comes in and he becomes your chief AI officer. He implements software. He comes back in and makes sure that the software is hitting your goal. So every month you're paying him to do that. His next thing is he's installing a version of open claw that he created that is built on the NVIDIA's model of open claw that you will feel more safe in. And that way he's shifting into software, but he's not now. What do you think of this as a business, as a way of making money with what you know about AI? I think it's great, especially if you're using a transition to transition to something recurring. I think some of the ways he's thinking about it, I can poke holes in like the NVIDIA sick more secure or less secure. Like I could argue that five days to Sunday. No, it's just like it's a narrative. The narrative is NVIDIA's version of open claw is more secure. I'm not saying whether it is or isn't, but the point is even coming at it from I'm doing my version of open claw off of this thing. That doesn't matter. It's just software running a bot for you in Slack. So how the software runs, nobody really cares about. They don't really care that it's open claw except that open claw is marketing today. And NVIDIA's version of it is more secure, which it probably is, but does any of that matter to the person that you're selling to maybe? But it doesn't really matter how it's running. So I guess it's really awesome that he's found a thing to go sell to companies that can make money that's like helping them with AI. Moving to this model makes perfect sense. If you think about what he said, which is, I go in, I help find opportunities for AI. I help them realize those opportunities. Then I have a recurring fee to help them maintain what I created for them. Yes, that should ideally be sitting in some software. It's essentially a mini version of what open AI and clawed and even Palantara doing with their forward deploy engineers. And that's the concept here. So he's a forward deploy AI transformation officer. Cool. Like, I'll challenge your design. No, FedEx. You like the big cloth. It tries to do it for every area they can. Even open AI is trying to do it. All the consulting companies are trying to do it. So again, massive market makes sense. There's money to be had if you're doing new stuff like this. Let's go to, I like your skepticism. I honestly thought that two of us were going to go at these businesses and go, oh my, this is great. This is what people can copy. I didn't think you'd be this skeptical about them. I like it. Keep it up because I'm the person who's like, cheerleader for entrepreneurs. Oh, by the way, speaking of cheerleader for entrepreneurs, my sponsor is Zapier, Zapier MCP with one simple thing, collection toolbox. I get to bring heat and everything into all the AI tools that I use. And one day I might be on Claude, the chat app, the next day I might be on Hermes agent, which I freaking love lately, the next day I might be on. I don't know what else is coming out. And what I like is I have one collection of tools that I can give them with clear restrictions so that I don't have my Hermes agent sending messages to heat and as me by accident. Go check them out at zapier.com slash MCP. Next, Peter Yang had this interview. Do you know this guy with Tibo? You see them on Twitter? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Here, listen to how much he's making with, I'm just gonna highlight one of it. Doing a little bit more than 600,000 per month right now, which is insane. It is insane. 600,000 a month, that's just one business, that's Reved, here's what Reved does. Reved, which is a tool to make a viral short on social media. And it was right at the beginning of AI videos. And so it took off multiple times, like at every new model, increasing the capabilities of AI videos, it just got way better. And so it's doing a little bit more than 600,000 per month right now, which is insane with a team. This is great. Here's how he's getting his customers. Asil is the number one acquisition trend for Reved. So it's, it's totally, search engine optimization. He's creating AI videos. And let's talk about how he's using AI. That's a forward. Honestly, you have a very basic setup. So I'm using Cruiser. I'm constantly experimenting with the best models. Like right now, my go to model is our GPT 5.4 for like bold. You know, like the, like stuff. Let me pause right there. What do you think so far of what you're seeing here? I wonder what his costs are. Ooh, because you're saying that because he's reliant so heavily on AI to create these AI videos. The cost might be just. I just want to know what the cost are. That's the, that's the piece that I would dig into. I mean, it's all a fair business and all that. And, you know, like, you know, to, to hit on something you said earlier, like, I'm, I'm not a cheerleader for founders. I'm a coach. If you're the cheerleader, I'm the coach. What they need to know is like the good, bad, and ugly of what's happening here. So the good here is that he's found something that AI has a cost advantage to humans doing it, which is essentially making these kind of videos, right? OK, cool. But if he's making 600K, I want to know what his costs are because the cost of making a video with AI is very expensive. So I doubt the cost is 500K. That could be wrong. But the cost is probably like 2,300K in that thing. And if not, if I'm more on the aggressive side, if they're using the better models, cost could be closer to like 4,500 than it is 2, or 300K, just for producing those videos. I don't know the answer. If the costs were expensive today, would you still get in the business? I'd only get in any of these businesses, frankly, Andrew, if I had a distribution advantage, or those I wouldn't get into any of these businesses. OK, fair. I think one of his distribution advantages is that he is so popular on Twitter also. And so that's why Peter Yang probably invited him on. That's why we're all following along. He's also talked about his failed businesses, like that feather, which is the second from the top on the chart, is actually so low on the bottom of the chart that you can hardly see it. That was a tool for turning notion pages into websites. He bought it, and essentially the day after, notion came out with the exact same feature so you could build websites in notion natively and the thing just tanks. So, but he talked about it publicly. He got attention. I like what you're saying there. Let's go on to the next one. I have a few more here. All right, from starter story. I built a mobile app that makes me $20,000 per month. This is my app of the cut coach. It helps combat sport athletes cut weight for their competition or fight coming out. And the started building the cut coach app in June of last year using cursor and chat, UBT. It took me around a month to build the MVP. And I gave it to my wrestling club to beta test after I finished building it. All right, I wanted you to just see also how he's getting customers. So for marketing, I would say to start off with organic posts. I got the ideas from social media pages that were in the same niche as mine, which I then adapted to my app. An example of the first video that I posted organically was a video where I showed what a UFC fighter looked like on a weight cut and what they looked like after their weight cut. I also added a call to action at the end of the video to give users an incentive to download my app. I noticed that the videos didn't get that many views, but I also noticed that the people that were viewing my posts were very high in 10 viewers. As I noticed around 10 to 15 downloads per day from posts that got anywhere from 200 to 500 views. That's really killer. What do you think of this business? I think that there's probably unlimited amount of niche opportunities like this if you're willing to do organic social and organic social meaning TikTok and Instagram. If you're willing to do that and do what he did, you can find opportunities like this. Is this a business that gets to 2 million a month, probably not? Is it a business that can get to like 100K, 50K all that? Probably. And I'm just sharing that criteria just so that if someone gets into these businesses, they understand this could do maybe 200 a month max. It probably can't do a lot more because there's just not that many people that need something like this or want something like this. At least I'm imagining that, right? Or it'd be really hard to get to them outside of these organic channels. So give me a little bit about your background so people understand why you have such insights. For the last 20 plus years, I've just been doing product and marketing for online businesses, software and stuff like that and built my own businesses. A bunch of them you went quite and tried to build them. You have no problem telling people that the AR is not real. But when it comes time to telling me about your background, so you went quite. All right, let's go to the next one. All right, this guy's got good money. Later we're at $100,000 AR and more than 5,000 users meet guy. It's a platform that takes away the work of having to combine multiple tools in order to produce an AI video. So today people use multiple tools from multiple platforms. They pay multiple subscriptions and they need to have some technical knowledge to teach everything together. The owner is aimed to. Hey, I explain our videos next level. Here's the thing though. What are you built it in? The number thing is managed very easily when you do web coding, especially with base. So without having to give up on my studio completely, I was able to build something on the side. He's a developer. He's not developing. He's you don't like to phrase vibe coding. I think he's vibe coding and he's using base 44. Can we say anyone who's in base 44, that's like lovable? You're basically vibe coding? It's a better tool than the other ones quality wise from really every. Yeah, we've studied a bunch of these and it actually produces better results than other ones right out of the box. Vibes coding or not, I think this, you know, the other business was a AI video, Jen business. This one is I think one thing to keep in mind is that there's an arbitrage right now of people who know how to do these things and people who don't. And the arbitrage is basically people know who know how to do AI in this case is people who know how to do AI generated video, which is not. He's right. It's not easy. It's not easy to get it to be good or great is a whole nother problem. We actually completely built our type of head video. It's on our YouTube. It's fully AI. It's not on the home base on the website actually doesn't need to be. But it is on YouTube you type in type ahead. You should find it. But that video is a minute long. It's fully AI, but it wasn't built in an hour. It took days and days because we wanted to use AI to build it. Yeah, you should just type in type ahead. You should see it. And it's a minute long. It's the first time. Yeah. And it's fully AI and even to have been trying the exact pain. The pain. I personally know the pain of trying to do what he's saying. And that pain is really hard. I mean, even in this case, we didn't want to pay for the stock audio for typing. So we actually made it with AI like things like that. Little things, but like this was like days and days of work. Like this wasn't something we could do overnight. And you do one prompt and it'll come out like this or you give it a script. So I totally understand the business he's talking about and how hard it is to get that right. And if you get it right, then of course you might have that right idea to go do this, you know, and build a product for it. But again, I just want to be specific here. There is a mental model where it's like things that took humans and cost hundreds to thousands of dollars are now able to be done for literally a fraction of the cost. If you know how to use the tool, okay. And so the interesting thing is again, he's using base 44 super easy and look at how he's getting customers since you've said, look, the distribution is a big question. Is it going to play? If I tell you that I've added code to this, I'll tell you he's just using organic LinkedIn. He's not even buying any ads. Okay. I see. Oh, I like that too, right? Yeah. No, it's great. I mean, the thing is he said studio. Because I wonder if he had a video production or some kind of studio prior, then that's what gave him the idea and understanding of how to get these clients to. Okay. This is one of my favorite people. This is Greg Eisenberg doing an interview with someone who's doing $737 a day. Look at this business. My code directory, luxury restaurant trailers, boring, but awesome. People are spending $1,000, $2,000 a day renting these out for their weddings. You know, there's corporate events, film, just sets. Looks totally like the kind of thing that you can, that I'm going to say vibe code that you how I'm using cloud code and an open source skid hub repo called Crawford AI to handle any kind of data curation. So. Okay. So fairly easy to build these things. Frankly, he and I think have been easy to build even going back to the WordPress days, right? Super simple, systematic. The big question you're probably going to ask is how is he getting these are top three ways to get distribution nowadays are ads, organic social and SEO like those are the big three. So choose your distribution. I made the mistake of not focusing on distribution first and directories are a distribution first model. They kind of have an unfair advantage when it comes to SEO because if I create this directory or when I publish this directory, I kind of have this topical relevance where I have like a thousand pages all around luxury restroom trailers. Great idea, right? He's looked for Austin luxury restroom. He could come up. Yeah, it's really smart. I think this is again a niche idea. He has an advantage of understanding it from some background or whatever it sounds like. This is good. This I would call vibe code it for sure because it's less software and more like you said, things and directories and things we did. This is vibe codeable. I think the hard part back in the day was getting the data. No, it's much easier to get the data. So now if I wanted to come up with another idea like this, the luxury restroom trailers of something else, how do I find other topics, other things that I can set this up for? So how we found this back in the day with the directories was we did a bunch of keyword research on what people were typing into Google and then we structured the directories around what people were typing in, meaning like Google trends type of thing. No, like using a a-trefs or or sam rush or one of those products or uber suggest and trying to figure out like what keywords are popular enough where building a directory around them makes sense. So for some reason this luxury restroom trailer, it's really restroom trailer I think or even like portable restrooms, things like that. I don't know the terms. Obviously this person does and so it's probably restroom trailer is my guess and that build a directory entirely around that if it's like Austin restroom trailer or you know San Francisco restroom trailer or whatever. Although all of San Francisco is a restroom right? That's what they say. So yeah, these are big in Austin. Here we go. This final line. I don't think he's doing this, but his model is interesting and I'd like to see what you think of this. Here's his model. Basically what we're going to do is we're going to build out a web app tool and monetize it using ads. Now just to give you guys some examples, we'll I'm talking about we're talking about things like mortgage calculators, typing tests, business name generators, other types of calculators. Those are super easy to create. Here's how much revenue he says you can monthly traffic of let's say a million people. You're making between three to six thousand dollars. It's got. Do you think by the way that that's possible having done this? Yeah, this is possible. This is totally possible. It just goes back to the research. Like how are you going to get the traffic for these things? If it's Google, then you've got to figure out how to get Google and he's right. It's low bounce and utility. Exactly what that summarizes exactly what it is, which is very simple and well known. But most people don't understand this or do it, which is if someone comes from Google search, your job is to make sure they don't bounce. And that means you're providing utility for them so that the intent of the keyword they put in matches the landing page, which then matches the next step that they take. Thus they're not clicking back to Google. And if you have that, you can rank because your product's better than someone who should in theory. Yeah, correct. Here's how he's building it. I never wanted to explain the experience. All you basically do is use English to help guide the horizons AI builder. It's going to understand the prompt that you submitted. This is very similar to shipper where you just prompted whatever you guys put. So as you can see, it understood what we are asking. And now it is starting to build out the foundation of our app over here on the right. If you want to make any changes to what it's doing, you can do all that right here, just with written English. Might also ask you some questions or have you input certain information. It's all done within here, right? So you think about your basically. Okay. Basically, we've got to add in what this works. And he's five coding these. Here, there it is that calculate your perfect mortgage payment. Good business model. Easy to create. Probably can spend three, five hours to make something like this. Don't you think? Yeah, you can make it pretty fast. Yeah. I don't know about distribution. You still need to do things to get it promoted. So Google will rank it and seize it. But outside of that, yeah. The hard part isn't the actual website of all of these. Which business do you think is the easiest one to create? The AI, the AI learning, the AI, you know, the one that's the AI. What is it? Chief AI officer? I think that's actually the easiest. Oh, you're right. And he's the one who is I think making the most of all of these people. I think that's the easiest business right now. I think all the other ones are almost circling around the same thing. Not all of them. Not the mortgage one. I think that's AI is circling around this idea that there's AI arbitrage. AI arbitrage means you know how to do something with AI that other people don't. Whether it's the video gen or this stuff, it's all the same category in terms of framework of how to come up with ideas or what kind of ideas that you can come up with. Learn something that's valuable for companies, not individuals, but for companies around AI and go try to go sell it. That's what he's doing. It's great. Why aren't you in this business? You've never been afraid of the consulting or agency based on it. I think there's most of my software will be in a business like this if it scales or as it scales because deploying AI is what companies are thinking through right now. I think the consulting and the training part, you still need distribution. I do free AI lessons every week. Share about 30 minutes of a lesson and then a bunch of Q&A. This week's topic is about GitHub and I'm doing the GitHub for non-engineers. Sort of topic just to give people an idea of what you need to know about GitHub if you work at a company that uses GitHub even if you're not an engineer. That's a way to understand AI better. For me, it's more like trying to figure out what is worth helping people with that isn't going to be this kind of rocky journey that doesn't need to be so rocky. What I mean by that is new model comes out, you want your product or business to be better not worse, right? Things like that. I think it's a good business. I think more people should consider it. But again, to me, these agents or this AI is like the new website. If you have skills on building a website and other people don't, you can essentially help them do it and get your money that way. Okay. So all those others make sense. This is the one. If I had to pick a business to start, this is the one I agree with you. This does seem like the surest success, especially when you think about how he got his first customer. So I just jumped on LinkedIn and started messaging some people and eventually, you know, that same day had a CEO, local CEO that I didn't know really well, but we kind of had crossed paths a couple of times. So I would call it a lukewarm lead. How LinkedIn. All right, Keaton. This is exciting. Thanks for doing this with me. I'm looking forward to seeing more businesses. I want to interview more entrepreneurs who build using these tools. All right. Your point about this guy, John Cheney being the person who has the easiest model is a good one. I interviewed multiple entrepreneurs who do it. In fact, on a video right here, you're going to see me tell the stories of all those entrepreneurs and you'll get to the follow up there. Go there next. See there.