---
video_title: "Private ChatGPT with Ollama & Open WebUI!"
video_id: 1oSiuxiSv_U
channel_name: "Neurix"
channel_id: UCUOlY1VUTHMdkLph5ORHF2Q
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1oSiuxiSv_U
video_date: 2025-06-26
video_description: |
  Private ChatGPT on Your PC with Ollama & Open WebUI? No Subscription, No Cloud, No Limits!
  
  In this video, I’ll show you how to run powerful LLMs like LLaMA on your own computer using Ollama and Open WebUI, no cloud, no coding, and no subscriptions needed!
  
  By the end, you’ll have your own private, offline AI assistant, completely under your control.
  
  ▬▬ ⏱️ Chapters ▬▬
  00:00 - Intro  
  00:30 - What is Ollama & Open WebUI?  
  01:49 - Installing Ollama to run AI models locally  
  06:47 - Setting up Open WebUI for a clean chat interface 
  10:23 - Testing the AI models
  
  #artificialintelligence #ollama #openwebui
---
Do you know that nowadays you could run your own chat GPT style AI right on your own computer for free with no coding skills? With no internet needed, with no big tech spying, just you and your own private AI assistant. In this video, I'll walk you step by step through setting up your own local AI chatbot using two amazing tools, Alma and Open Web UI. Whether you're a curious beginner or just value your privacy, this is for you. Let's break it down in simple terms and give you a real understanding of what these tools actually are.

Lama is a tool that lets you run large language models like Llama directly on your own computer without needing the internet or any cloud services. It does three key things. First, it downloads AI models like Llama, Mistral, or Gemma. Second, it runs them locally using your computer's CPU or GPU. And finally, it lets you interact with them via the command line or another app. Think of Olama like the engine

inside a car. It's doing the heavy lifting, powering your private AI brain. Open Web UI is a user interface, a clean, easy to use chat window that lets you talk to the AI in a way that feels like chat GPT or Google Bard. It does three key things. First, it connects to Alma behind the scenes.

Second, it gives you a modern chat experience in your browser. Third, it lets you save conversations, switch models, and customize behavior. If O Lama is the engine, open web UI is the dashboard and steering wheel. It makes using your local AI feel familiar and smooth. No coding needed.

[Music] Let's start with Olama, the tool that actually runs the AI on your computer. It's free, it's open source, and honestly, it's one of the easiest ways to get started with local AI. But first, can your computer handle it? Running an AI model on your own device does use a bit of horsepower. So, here's what you'll need. A computer running

Windows, Mac OS, or Linux. At least 8 GB of RAM, but 16 GB or more is much better. Around 4 to 8 GB of free disk space depending on the AI model. A decent internet connection, but only for downloading the model once. And of course, a little patience and me to guide you through it. If your computer

meets those basic specs, you're good to go. So to install O Lama, we visit olama.com or let's go to Google and search for Olama. And there it is. We click on download.

This bring us to the download page. As you can see, there is an installation method for each operating system. for Mac, for Windows and for Linux. I am using Linux, so I will choose the Linux method. But if you are on Mac or Windows, the process is almost the same. So for Linux, we copy

this link here and paste it to our terminal. This will downloads and executes a shell script from the O Lama website to install the O Lama software on your system. So let's press enter and see what happens. As you can see, it is installing Olama to user/local. And voila, it is installed.

As you can see, it has also detected my Nvidia graphic card. Now that Olama is installed, we need to load some model into it. Right now, we have just installed the Olama software, which is expected to manage the models we will run, but it doesn't have any model yet. The installed Alma software will now recognize any Olama command we enter. To download and run a model, it is very easy. We just type O Lama run

and the name of the model. To find the list and name of models supported by O Lama, we go to the O Lama web page on the model section. Here you can see a list of models. You can also sort them by newest or popular model. The popular model are the most downloaded while the newest are the most recently added model. You can for example see that the

most recently added one is the Mistral Small 3.2 model while the most popular are the DeepS R1 and the Gemma 3 model. A better way to view the models is to go on the GitHub page. There you not only have the model name but also the download command on the right. Let for example copy the command to download the Gemma 3 model with 4 billion parameters.

It's a small but quite powerful model developed by Google. Now that we've copied it, we can paste it into the terminal and press enter. Normally, it takes some time to download since the model is about 3.3 GB in size, but if you've already downloaded the model previously, it just launches it. That's what happened for me. I had

already run the O Lama run Gemma 3 command before. Although the model was called Gemma 3 latest at the time, but it's the same model. So, Olama simply loaded the model from local storage, making it ready to use. The nice thing is that the same command O Lama run followed by the model name works for both downloading and launching. If the model is not installed yet, O Lama downloads it for you. If it

is already available locally, it just runs it. Now, our chat GPT like large language model is ready to use locally, fully secured on your computer. No internet connection required, no data sent to the cloud, and no surveillance from big tech, just you and your private AI assistant. This lightweight model developed by Google is a smaller version of Gemini or Chat GPT. With 4 billion parameters, it's not as powerful as the full-scale chat GPT, but it performs well for everyday tasks. If

your graphics card has enough power, you can also download and run larger models such as Llama 3, Mistral, or the Full Gemma. All available from Olama. So, let's play with our model and ask it for example, what is the capital of France? [Music] And here comes the answer. The capital of France is Paris.

Straightforward, accurate, and delivered without needing the internet. Not bad for a tiny genius running right on your machine. Running Olama in the terminal is nice, but you will probably want something more userfriendly like a proper chat interface similar to chat GPT. That's exactly what Open Web UI provides. a clean, beautiful web-based interface that connects directly to Olama.

First, open your favorite search engine and type in Open Web UI. The first result will take you to the project's official website. There, click on get open web UI. That redirects us to the project's GitHub page. Now, we scroll down until we find the installation section.

There are two ways to install open web UI. With pip, the Python installer, or with Docker, the industry standard for running applications in containers. We're going to use the Docker method because it's reliable and consistent across all platforms. Under the Docker section, we see a command labeled if a llama is on your computer. That's the one we should normally use, but it often causes issues where Open Web UI can't detect the Alama server. Luckily, the developers included

a fix. We scroll down to the troubleshooting section. There we see a Docker command that solves the problem. It explains, "If you are experiencing connection issues, it's often because the Docker container cannot reach the Alma server running at 127.00.11434.

To fix this, use the network equal host flag. Also note using this fix changes the port from 3000 to 880. So we will access the interface at localhost880. Let's copy that docker command. We open a text editor like Sublime Text and paste it in. Now technically we could

run that long docker command directly from the terminal, but it's cleaner and more scalable to use a docker compose file. Here's what that command looks like as a docker compose file. As you can see, nothing changes. Same image, same container name, same networking, just more organized. We are going to save this inside a folder called something like dev open web ui. Docker compose

file are saved as docker minusmpose. Let's delete the docker command above that we copied from open web UI website. Now let's open a terminal and navigate to the folder where our docker compose file is located. From there we run the command docker compos up minus d. Seems like we need to add the pseudo command.

Docker will download the image build the container and launch the service in the background. Now that it is completed we can open the browser and head to localhost880. [Music] We land on the open web UI setup page. From there we click get started and we will be asked to create an account. Here we will enter a username, email address and password.

Don't worry the email does not have to be real. It's just used locally. As username we type nurix. As email bob at nurix.te as password something simple. Then we

click create. And voila, you're inside the open web UI interface.

As you can see, the models installed with Olama are already listed. If you're not sure which ones you have, you can always check in the terminal with the command Olama list. This give a list of model you installed in O Lama using O Lama run followed by the name of the model. As you can see, the model I have inside O Lama are the same models appearing inside Open Web UI, ready for us to chat with. All right, let's go back to Open Web UI and play around with one of our models.

Let's pick the Gemma 3 model, which has around 4 billion parameters. Now, let's try asking it a simple question. For example, what is the capital of Spain? Here's the fun part. We'll intentionally make a small typo.

Instead of writing what, we'll write which and see how the model handles it. It gets it right. Despite the typo, the AI correctly understood the question and responded. The capital of Spain is Madrid. So now you've got powerful local AI models like Gemma, DeepSeek, and many others, all running right on your computer. And with open web UI, you've

got a clean, modern interface to chat with them, just like chat GPT, but totally private. You can experiment with different models depending on your needs. Some like Gemma, Mistral, or Llama 3 are great for casual conversations, answering questions, or helping you learn something new. Others, like Deep See Coder, Code Lama, or Wizard Coder, are designed for more technical tasks like coding, logical reasoning, or summarizing long documents. And that's it for today. You

have just turned your computer into a personal AI assistant. No cloud, no coding, just you and the machine. Pretty cool, right? Give a like if this helped you. Subscribe if you want more beginner friendly tech tutorials.

Drop a comment if you ran into trouble. I will do my best to help and answer every question. Until then, stay curious, stay safe, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye. [Music]