---
video_title: "4 websites that know more about you than Google"
video_id: 82Hs_NB8zD8
channel_name: "Neurix"
channel_id: UCUOlY1VUTHMdkLph5ORHF2Q
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=82Hs_NB8zD8
video_date: 2026-08-07T13:58:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Four public websites that will show you exactly how much the internet knows about you
  
  This video is for educational and awareness purposes only. 
  
  Chapters:
  0:00  Prologue
  0:18  Website 4
  2:05  Website 3
  4:17  Website 2
  7:03  Website 1
  9:34  Outro
  
  Join Neurix to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUOlY1VUTHMdkLph5ORHF2Q/join
  
  #ethicalhacking #hacking #osint
---
The Internet has Watchers, Public, Free, Completely Legal. And yet the moment you visit them, they'll tell you exactly how much they know about you. Today, we're looking at four of them. Bookmark the ones that don't make you nervous. Number four, have I been pond. Have I been pond is a site by Australian Security Researcher Troy Hunt. The idea is simple. To enter an email address and the site shows you any publicly known data breaches where that email address has appeared. Let's watch Sally try it with her own email address. She types in Sally at gmail.com and clicks check. And there it is, 180 breaches. That's not a typo. Sally's email has appeared in 180 publicly known data leaks. Let's scroll through some of them. Here's a recent one, Operation Endgame. A law enforcement takedown from June 2026. Authorities disrupted a malware distribution network and handed 4.3 million compromised email addresses over to have I been pond. Sally's email was in there. Here's a stranger one, Goose Creek Candle Company. 6.6 million customer records leaked in June 2026. Email addresses, phone numbers, physical addresses, purchase history. Sally might not even remember ordering candles, but someone did on her account. And now her data is out there. If we scroll further down, we find another familiar category. The accounts you signed up for years ago and completely forgot about. Anemoto, 2018. A video making service that Sally tried once and never used again. Yet the account was still there. And when the breach happened, information like passwords, dates of birth and location data was exposed. Have I been pond is free? It doesn't store your searches, and it's the standard tool for finding out what's been leaked about you. If your email shows up in a breach that included passwords, change them, starting with any account where you reuse that password. And if you find yourself in more than 100 breaches like Sally, welcome to the club. Most people are. 3. MI Unique Here's a fact most people don't know. Your browser, just by loading a webpage, leaks enough information about itself that websites can identify you without using cookies. Your operating system, your screen resolution, your installed fonts, your time zone, your language, and so on. Individually, none of these identify you, but combined, they form a fingerprint that's almost always unique. MI Unique runs the test in your browser, then compares your fingerprint against a database of over 5 million others. For Sally, the answer is unique. One in 5 million. There is not another browser in this data set that looks like hers. And you can see why. Look at these four attributes. The number under each one tells you how common it is. Windows at 44% means about 44% of all tested browsers run Windows. Pretty common. Chrome at 48%, half the browsers on the internet use Chrome. Also common. English at 66%, two thirds of tested browsers use English. Common again. And then time zone UTC plus 1 at 16%. Less common. Only about 1 in 6 browsers sit in that time zone. Each of these attributes alone is harmless. Millions of other browsers share each one. But the combination, Windows and Chrome and English and UTC plus 1 time zone all at the same time, narrows the field enormously. Add a few more attributes and Sally is already down to a population of 1. Scroll down and you see exactly why. The percentages get much lower. User agent at 0.03%. That means 3 in 10,000 browsers share her exact user agent string. Canvas fingerprint at 0.24%. The specific way her graphics card renders a small test image. Basically nobody else has that signature. Each of these is a line in her identity. Combined, they're not a fingerprint that might be unique. They are her name spelled out in numbers. Even if she never logs in anywhere, even if she clears her cookies every day, that fingerprint follows her across the web. Number 2. Google's own ads page. Google itself has a page where you can scroll through everything you've done while signed into a Google account. Every search you've made, every YouTube video you've watched, every place your phone has been, every question you've asked Google Assistant. Google shows you the three biggest categories of activity it tracks. The first one is web and app activity. This stores every Google search you run, every site you visit through Google, every use of a Google service on your phone. The second one is timeline. It shows every location your phone has visited if you have this turned on. And finally, YouTube history. This remember every video you watched and every video you searched for. Sally has web and app activity and YouTube history on. Let's look at what that captures. Here's Sally's activity from today. At 10.19 at night, she searched for wireless headphones. That same minute, she searched for what's the weather today. Google even keeps track of the things you asked out loud. One minute earlier, she watched a YouTube video called The Hunt for the King of the Dark Web. At 10.09 at night, she searched for coffee shops near me. At 10.08 at night, she looks at how to make sourdough. If we scroll further, we see more. Four minutes earlier, she opened Airbnb looking at vacation rentals. At 4.40 in the afternoon, the same day, she watched a veritasium video called The World's Most Important Machine. Everything Sally has done online this evening, including things she would never think of as worth remembering, is sitting here, timestamp to the minute, saved by Google. And this is just today. She can filter by date, scroll back weeks, months, or years. Every search she's ever run, every video she's ever watched, all of it's still there. Luckily, Google lets you set auto-delete on this history. Let's look at YouTube history as an example. Right now, auto-delete is turned off, which is the default. This means everything Sally has watched going all the way back to when she opened her account is still saved. If she clicks the setting, a configuration window opens. She can turn auto-delete on and pick how long Google should keep her activity before erasing it. There are three options, three months, 18 months, or 36 months. That's it. Nothing shorter than three months. Sally picks the shortest, three months. Now anything older than that will be deleted automatically. But here's the thing, most people never visit this page, so the default stays where it is, that means off. So every search, every video, every tap stays in Google's records forever. Number one, webk.robinlinus.com. This one is genuinely surreal. It's a single web page. You don't type anything. You don't log in. You just open the page. And then you watch it fill in with everything your browser is voluntarily telling any website that asks. Sally opens the page. And instantly, without clicking a single thing, it begins revealing details about her device. Her operating system, Windows 10, her browser, Chrome 151, or her list of installed browser plugins. In the hardware section, it is discovered details about her CPU, when 32, two cores. It has even identified her graphics card, right down to the specific renderer, angle, and the driver version. It also found her display resolution, 1920 by 1080 with 24 bits per pixel. These details might seem harmless on their own, but combined together, they can help create a unique fingerprint of her device, a way for websites to recognize and track her browser. Furthermore, it can even see her battery status. It sees that it's currently charging and that the battery level is 100%. Take a second to think about that. There is no obvious reason a website needs to know whether Sally's laptop is plugged in or running on battery. It doesn't ask for permission, it doesn't show a warning, the webpage just knows. Then it moves on to her network information. It can see her public IP address. Basically, the address that identifies her internet connection when she goes online. It can even measure her download speed. And then comes something even more surprising. Google logged in. The webpage detected that Sally is currently signed into her Google account. When Lara's computer, a friend of Sally's, the website went even further. It detected that she was logged into other services too, including Spotify and Blogger. Neither Sally nor Lara clicked anything. They didn't approve a request, they didn't give the website permission, the webpage just knew. And here's the one that usually stops people. Any webpage including this one can scan the local network Sally is sitting on. Which means any site she visits in principle can enumerate the devices in her home or office. Her router, her printer, her smart TV, her home assistant, everything. The page has a button scan my network that demonstrates it. A malicious website wouldn't need the button. It could do the scan silently in the background without consent. So that's it for today. We've walked through four websites that will show you in real time. Everything the internet has quietly been collecting about you. None of them are hacks. None of them are leaks. Every single one is a public tool run by security researchers by privacy foundations or by the companies doing the collecting themselves. They just show you what's been sitting there recorded all along. That's it for today. Thanks for watching. If you found this helpful, hit the like button, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next episode. See you there. Bye bye.