---
video_title: "How Hackers Hack Subdomains"
video_id: R7fjmiXPVLY
channel_name: "Neurix"
channel_id: UCUOlY1VUTHMdkLph5ORHF2Q
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R7fjmiXPVLY
video_date: 2026-08-12T11:10:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Hackers don't always break in through the front door. Sometimes the way in is a subdomain nobody remembers publishing, a staging server, a dev environment, an old admin panel, quietly running in the background.
  
  In this video, you'll see how a hidden subdomain can leak an entire startup's production secrets, using common tools and real-world techniques, all inside a controlled cybersecurity lab. 
  
  This demonstration is for educational and awareness purposes only.
  Always hack ethically. Only test systems you own or have explicit permission to assess.
  
  ▬▬ Tools Used ▬▬
  Kali Linux: Attacker machine
  Ubuntu: Victim
  Subfinder: subdomain enumeration
  CT logs: Public subdomains data
  Django: Web framework
  
  ▬▬ ⏱️ Chapters ▬▬
  00:00 Prologue
  01:24 What Are Subdomains?
  02:16 Running the Subdomain Scan
  05:47 Exploring the Staging Site
  06:17 Credentials hacked!
  07:55 How to Protect 
  
  
  Join Neurix to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUOlY1VUTHMdkLph5ORHF2Q/join
  
  #penetrationtesting #websitehacking #cybersecurity
---
This is Sally. She's the founder of a brand new software as a service startup called SallyCloud.io, a project management tool for small teams. She just launched her main website where customers can sign up, create projects, and collaborate. But behind the scenes, like most developers, Sally didn't just deploy the main site. She also set up a staging environment to test new features before pushing them live. And then there's a dev sub-domain where she pushes experimental code. She thinks nobody will ever find them because she never linked them anywhere, but she's wrong. Because there's Kim, he doesn't know Sally personally, but he knows one thing. Every startup has more than one server. There's the main website that everyone sees, and then there's everything else. Staging, dev, admin, API, mail servers, old forgotten projects, all of them tied to the same domain, all of them potentially exposed. Kim is running Cali Linux, the go-to operating system for ethical hacking and penetration testing. He visits SallyCloud.io and everything looks clean. A polished landing page, a pricing section, a login button, nothing suspicious. But that's exactly why Kim is interested, because the interesting stuff is never on the homepage. So let's see how Kim uncovers Sally's hidden subdomains and what he finds there. Before we dive in, you may ask, what exactly is a subdomain? When Sally registered, SallyCloud.io, that's her main domain. But she can also create subdomains like blog.sallyCloud.io for her blog, staging.sallyCloud.io for testing, or dev.sallyCloud.io for development, and so on. Each subdomain can point to a completely different server, run different software, and have different security settings. And here's the problem. Developers often protect the main website very carefully. It's public facing after all. But staging and dev subdomains, they're often forgotten. Debug mode left on, default password still in place, and sensitive data lying around. For an attacker like Kim, finding those hidden subdomains is like finding the back door of a house while everyone's guarding the front. To find these subdomains, Kim uses a tool called subfinder. Subfinder is a fast modern subdomain discovery tool built for penetration testers and bug bounty hunters. Unlike older tools, subfinder works passively, meaning it will not send noisy traffic to Sally's servers. Instead, it queries dozens of public data sources like certificate transparency logs, search engines, DNS databases, and threat intelligence feeds to gather every subdomain that has ever been associated with SallyCloud.io. Here's why passive discovery is so powerful. Every time Sally created a subdomain and issued an SSL certificate for it, that certificate got logged in a public database called certificate transparency logs. These logs are searchable by anyone. So even if Sally never advertised staging.sallycloud.io, the moment she gave it an HTTPS certificate, it became public information. Subfinder just knows where to look. Let's see Kim in action. He opens a terminal and checks if subfinder is installed by typing subfinder. As you can see, it is not installed, so he installs it with pseudo-apped install subfinder. And voila, subfinder is now installed. If he now types subfinder-h, a usage guide appears. If he scrolls up, he can see all the available flags. The most important flag is dash d, which tells subfinder which domain Kim wants to scan. There's also dash all, which tells subfinder to use every data source it knows about. In other words, it checks all the sources available to it rather than just the default ones. As mentioned earlier, these include search engines, certificate transparency logs, DNS databases, and other online resources. Finally, there is dash o to save the results to a file. Now Kim is ready to hunt. He opens a new terminal and types subfinder-d, sallycloud.io-all-o-subdomains.txt. Let's break it down. Dash d specifies the target domain sallycloud.io. Dash all tells subfinder to use every possible data source. And dash o saves the output to a file called subdomains.txt, so Kim can review the results later. Kim presses enter and subfinder starts working. Behind the scenes, it's querying dozens of sources in parallel, certificate transparency logs, virus total, showdown, DNS databases, and many more. In just a few seconds, results start pouring in. And boom, subfinder found eight subdomains. Let's look at what it discovered. It found sallycloud.io, the main website. Kim already knew about that one. Then there's mail.sallycloud.io, probably an email server. A few more show up, api.sallycloud.io, which looks like the backend API, blog.sallycloud.io, a blog, and cdn.sallycloud.io, likely a content delivery network. And then there's admin.sallycloud.io. Interesting, but it's probably locked down. Finally, Kim sees dev.sallycloud.io, a development subdomain, and staging.sallycloud.io. That last one catches Kim's eye. Staging environments are where developers test new features before pushing them live. They often have weaker security because nobody's supposed to know about them. Kim decides to dig deeper into that one. He copies the address, opens his browser, and enters it. And just like that, a page loads, but it's not the polished login page from the main site. Instead, it's a raw Django application. And right at the top, a bright yellow banner reads, Debug mode enabled. For Kim, this is Christmas morning. Debug mode is meant for developers testing locally. When left on in production, it turns the website into an open book. Kim spots a link on the page called Dashboard. He clicks it. And instead of loading a normal dashboard, the server crashes and displays a full Django Debug page. And what does that page contain? It contains the complete source code of the failing view right there in the browser. The full stack trace showing internal file paths on the server, the name of the exception, the exact line that failed and every function that was called along the way. But that's not the interesting part. What Kim wants is a few clicks away. Kim scrolls down to the trace back section and finds the top frame from Sally's own code. It's a Python function called Dashboard, sitting in a file called Views. Next to that frame, there's a small link labeled Local Vars. Kim clicks it. And there they are, every local variable defined in that function with their current values. And what did Sally's code just happen to load into local variables? The database URL, the AWS Access Key, the Stripe Live API Key, the Django Signing Key, the JWT Private Key, or the Send Grid Credential. Real production credentials sitting right there in plain text, all because a single crash exposed the internal state of the running application. With those keys, Kim could connect directly to the production database, access Sally's AWS account, or even sign fake authentication tokens for the main site. All from a subdomain Sally forgot existed and a page that crashed at exactly the wrong moment. This isn't just a demo. Exposed staging environments with debug mode on are one of the most common findings in real bug bounty reports today. And the fix? It's simple. First, never leave debug mode on outside your local machine, not on staging, not on dev, never in production. Second, protect non-public subdomains behind authentication, a VPN, or an IP allow list. If it's not meant for customers, don't expose it to the internet. Third, monitor your certificate transparency logs. Tools like CRT.sh or search spotter can alert you whenever a new certificate is issued for your domain. That way, you always know what's exposed. And finally, run subfinder against your own domain regularly. If Kim can find those subdomains, so can you. And that's for today. In just a few seconds and one simple command, Kim went from knowing nothing about Sally's infrastructure to holding the keys to her entire cloud. That's it for today. Thanks for watching. If you found this helpful, hit the like button, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next episode. See you there. Bye-bye.