---
video_title: "What’s new in Gemma 4?"
video_id: 6VV5Gvmtrl4
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6VV5Gvmtrl4
video_date: 2026-04-13T09:30:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Gemma 4 is our newest family of open models. You can now run advanced reasoning, native vision and audio, and agentic tool-use on anything from high-end workstations to mobile phones. Learn more →  https://deepmind.google/models/gemma/gemma-4/
---
We have three or two announced JIMMA 4. Built from the same world-class research and technology behind JIMMA 3, JIMMA 4 is a family of open models designed to run directly on the hardware you own. Fun, laptops, and desktop. For the first time ever, we are releasing JIMMA under an open-source Apache 2.0 license. JIMMA 4 is built for the Agent Tegera. It can handle complex logic, multi-step planning, and Agent Tegua Flues, making optimal use of tokens for its intelligence. The bigger model performs well with a context window of up to a quarter of me and tokens, allowing you to analyze entire code bases and all multi-tone Agent Tegua cases. It features native support for tool use, allowing you to build agent that plan and act on your behalf. Let's break down the model family now. First, a 26-B mixture of experts and a 31-B dense models. These provide frontier intelligence directly on your personal computer. We can run state-of-the-art local reasoning and coding pipeline without needing to upload data outside of the control environment. The 26-B MOE with 3.8-B in activated parameters is exceptionally fast, while 31-B is optimized for output quality. Then, we have our effective 2-B and effective 4-B models. Engineered for maximum memory efficiency, is more bring a whole new level of intelligence to mobile and IoT devices. With combined audio and vision support for real-time processing, they can see and hear the word. All of this, while natively supporting other wonderful languages. Now, let's test our effective 2-B on multi-lingual and agent Tegtask. Hey, Jim, can you find a French restaurant in Francisco? Please reply to me in English. Thanks. Amazing, we have a winner. As open model become more central to enterprise infrastructure, security is paramount. Developed by Google DeepMine, JMA4 undergoes the same rigor security protocols as our proprietary models. Giving enterprise and developer a trusted foundation to be on top of. We want you to be able to use JMA4 with the tools you already know and love. You can download the weights and start experimenting today. We cannot wait to see what you create next.