---
video_title: "AlphaGenome author roundtable"
video_id: V8lhUqKqzUc
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V8lhUqKqzUc
video_date: 2026-01-28T12:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Join the Google DeepMind Genomics team for a deep dive into AlphaGenome. In this video, Dhavi (Product Manager) is joined by Ziga (Genomics Lead) and AlphaGenome first authors Natasha, Jun, and Tom to share the story behind AlphaGenome, their unified DNA sequence-to-function model recently published in Nature.
  
  They discuss how the team built a system useful for decoding the 98% of the human genome that is non-coding - helping scientists predict the functional impact of genetic variants with unprecedented accuracy.
  
  Plus, hear about the engineering breakthroughs required to process long sequences at high resolution on TPUs, model complex biological processes like splicing and contact maps, and how the API enables researchers to rapidly score variants for accelerating disease understanding.
  
  Read the paper https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-10014-0 and join the AlphaGenome community https://www.alphagenomecommunity.com/
  
  Chapters
  00:00 - Intros
  00:39 - Part 1 The Big Picture: Why AlphaGenome?
  06:28 - Part 2 The Model: What’s new and how we built it
  19:26 - Part 3 From Model to API: Opening it up
  23:29 - Part 4 The Future: What’s next and how to get involved
---
[MUSIC PLAYING] DHAVI HARIHARAN: Hi, I'm Dhavi, a product manager at Google DeepMind covering genomics. I'm joined by Ziga, who leads our genomics team, Natasha, Tom, and Jun. We've just released our recent work, AlphaGenome in "Nature." AlphaGenome is a unified DNA sequence-to-function prediction model that predicts the functional impact of genetic variants. And today, we wanted to talk about the science behind it, why we built it, how it came about, what we released, and what we're excited about next.

[MUSIC PLAYING] Maybe the best place to start is, why did we build AlphaGenome? Ziga, how does this fit in with the overall mission of the team? ZIGA AVSEC: So the mission of the team is to build an AI system that will allow us to decipher the genome sequence. The genome, or the DNA, is the source code that the evolution has programmed across millions of years and millions of-- for millions of species. So it's the source code of life.

And deciphering this source code would have enormous benefit in health and many other areas. And one way to measure our progress towards this goal is to look at how well we can predict the effects of mutations or small changes to the DNA on molecular mechanisms of the cell that read this DNA. DHAVI HARIHARAN: And why is this important, AI that helps us understand and decipher the genome? JUN CHENG: Yeah, I think improving our understanding of the genome has such a profound impact on everyone's life if you think about all the people suffering from genetic disease. And, in fact, a large fraction of the rare genetic disease remain in diagnosis today.

So AI is actually-- we have so poor understanding of the genome as a whole. And AI is such a good tool to read the genome and make meaningful predictions about the genetic mutations. For me, I think understanding the genome and predicting mutations is one of the most impactful application AI can make. DHAVI HARIHARAN: How did you get interested in this field? JUN CHENG: I started working on predicting genetic mutation during my PhD, and this has been my interest ever since.

I think when I joined DeepMind, I was leading AlphaMissense project, which was a method to predicting the genetic effects from mutations from the coding region, which was only 2% of the genome. But what about the rest of the 98% of the genome? That's why we're presenting AlphaGenome today. And this method is focusing on non-coding part of the genome, and hopefully share some light on the [INAUDIBLE] majority part of the genome. And also, speaking a bit more personally, the reason I got into biology is because, when I was at high school, I was reading a college textbook.

It was describing all these fantastic and complex, elegant molecular mechanisms of life. That's why I got-- so that's why I decided I should work on biology for my career. And, Tom, what's your experience there? TOM WARD: It's quite great to have such a multidisciplinary team. We all come from different walks of life and bring different things to the table.

So I think for me, and I think other people who hadn't worked in biology, I think genetics is a really fascinating field. It seems like such an unexplored problem space. And being able to work out what very small changes in DNA can cause in humans and other species is really quite fascinating. And the field is-- and especially in machine learning, the field in computational biology seems to be going really, really fast. And there's lots of things going on in that field.

So it's a really exciting place to work. ZIGA AVSEC: I can still remember, before I joined DeepMind, I worked on [? vp.net, ?] which was a tiny network in today's standards.

It took as input a thousand base pairs of the DNA and predicted transcription factor binding at very high resolution. And I was fascinated by how rich and precise this information could be at base resolution. But at the same time, it felt like very much a zoomed-in picture of a specific process. So when I joined DeepMind, I wanted to work on more complex processes. So we worked together with David Kelley at Calico on predicting gene expression from DNA sequence, which is a very difficult problem.

And for that problem, we had to extend the length of the sequence quite significantly in order to capture as many relevant pieces as possible. But in order to do that, we had to trade off the resolution that made [? vp.net ?] so interesting.

So it's always felt like a bit of a trade-off between these two things, the sequence length and the resolution. DHAVI HARIHARAN: I guess there have been many other models pushing this area forward. What was the real gap that we were trying to fill with AlphaGenome? NATASHA LATYSHEVA: There have been other DNA sequence-to-function models before. The most similar to AlphaGenome is probably Informa, also from this team, and Borzoi from David Kelley's group in Calico.

And there's also lots of more specialized single-task models. There's SpliceAI for splice size. There's Orca and Akita for contact maps, Chrome [? vp.net ?] for accessibility, and so on.

I think the gap that AlphaGenome has filled is it's modeling more modalities in one model than ever before. The input sequence length is very long, and the predictions are very finely detailed. So I think it's a really powerful combination of these three things, the modality coverage megabase of DNA sequence and single-base resolution outputs for many of the output types. I think that makes the model, yeah, quite useful for variant effect prediction and variant interpretation and, of course, also the increased predictive kind of accuracy across all these different outputs. The utility and convenience point, I think, is very powerful, actually.

So now with one model, you can look at the effect of a variant from many different lenses and consider the effects on different layers of molecular biology. Whereas, before you might have had to use many different models to do that analysis. [MUSIC PLAYING] DHAVI HARIHARAN: Why did we need separate models? Why is it so hard to do long context, high-resolution multimodalities all at the same time? TOM WARD: DNA sequence-to-function models work by basically taking a chunk of DNA and getting the model to predict real-world experimental data.

And so like you said, the complexity comes from when you want to make more longer range sequence predictions at a higher resolution and with lots of different from modalities, you kind of run up against these kind of computational limits and high-memory usage, which makes it very difficult from an engineering perspective. And so for AlphaGenome, we were really keen to try and break that, those trade-offs, and try and do all of those things in a single model. DHAVI HARIHARAN: And how did you really get around that problem then? ZIGA AVSEC: Yeah, we ended up using-- we ended up taking the sequence and splicing it into different subsequences and then using multiple TPUs to process these subsequences, which are then much shorter in length. And that allowed us to use much less memory on a single TPU.

The key piece we had to make sure is that they still communicate with each other, so that the TP1 can still communicate to the last TPU in sequence. And so instead of sampling intervals in the genome randomly, we sample them next to each other and then allowed these TPUs to talk to each other. I can still remember the day when we were having lunch with my colleague, Guido. And I shared this idea with him, and we started discussing. And at the end of the lunch, we weren't really sure if it's going to work.

A few days later, he comes to me and says, I have a prototype running with fake data, and it runs almost as fast as our informer training loop, and it can process these very long sequences at high resolution. And at that moment, I was really excited because I knew that this can theoretically break this limit of long sequence and high resolution. Although, in practice, it turned out that we were still quite far away from making it actually work, right, Tom? TOM WARD: Yeah, so once we got the model parallelization working, the next thing we needed to do was be able to feed this model with vast amounts of training data. I think at one point, we were loading kind of 40 or 50 gigabytes of data to try and keep up with the model's training.

So we had two big realizations. One was that the data was actually really sparse. It's kind of 99% zeros in some of the modalities that we were training for. So that meant that, actually, all we really needed to focus on was being able to compress and decompress the data as fast as possible. And so by doing that, we managed to break that loading the data fast enough for the model to be able to feed it and train.

And then the second thing we did was we were really ruthless on the data that we were feeding the model to train. We did kind of a pass-- a couple of quality check passes to make sure the data was either really high quality or it was added to the diversity of the model so that it could get-- train, generalize, a bit more or learn new capabilities. So once we got the data loading working, we were able to then train the model really efficiently and be able to iterate on the modeling as much as possible. And so we kind of got the 1D representation of data training and predicting. And so the next thing we were really excited about working on was two-dimensional data, so content maps and splicing.

So, Jun, I think you worked quite a lot on splicing. It was definitely a very tricky problem. JUN CHENG: Right. That was quite tricky. So splicing is a process that is needed for a gene to express a protein properly.

And it's a process-- the genetic information encoded on the genome non-contiguously. So if you want to express a functional protein, you need to bring all these non-contiguous information together. And that process is called splicing. As you can imagine, this process can easily go wrong due to genetic mutations. And, in fact, many genetic diseases are caused because of splicing defect.

I worked on this problem during my PhD, and the method [INAUDIBLE] published then was called MS Splice. We're trying to model the competition between junctions, but the model wasn't nearly as good. So I had these ideas how to do this properly back in my mind. And when we started working on AlphaGenome, I realized that this is a perfect, natural fit. And with the talent team, Guido, and Tom, and others, we finally have all the technical pieces together to properly do this modeling work.

And, yeah, speaking of that, it wasn't really that easy as it sounds because the output format and input format was quite different. And we were predicting these 2D extremely sparse arrays instead of 1D track. And, yeah, in the end, we finally got it to work. And I'm really, really happy with that. And this kind of capability is actually new to the field.

It's definitely also new to the team. And, yeah, after we get this part work, and the next big part is about contact map and, Natasha, how we made that work. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yeah, contact maps. So contact maps are two-dimensional matrices that capture interactions between DNA regions. And it turns out these interactions are very important for gene regulation, essentially.

So the genome in the nucleus is folded in these intricate three-dimensional shapes. And the proximity between regions is really important for things like promoter-enhancer interactions. So these are two types of regulatory regions, which can massively impact a gene's expression. And then there's also insulator elements that specifically prevent these interactions. And so these are fundamental biological processes.

And it's a bit of biology that we definitely wanted in the model. So yeah, luckily, we managed to add it in and get it training end-to-end. And actually, we were happy to see that adding this modality didn't lead to any degradation on the other modalities we already had. ZIGA AVSEC: Well, it was quite interesting to see that, how we were able to add these modalities, both 1D modalities, as well as then 2D modalities, like splicing and contact maps, without hurting the model's performance or slowing it down significantly. In the hindsight, it kind of makes sense because all of these modalities or measurements are measuring the same underlying process, like transcription or splicing.

However, it's still nice that this worked out. DHAVI HARIHARAN: And as you add all these new modalities, how do you check it's not hurting performance? How do you evaluate it? NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Our evaluation strategy was kind of in two halves, two-pronged. The first is checking, how well does the model do on new DNA sequences that it's never seen before?

How accurately can it predict all these different modalities, all these different signals along the DNA sequence? The second half, which we think is more interesting, certainly, for downstream applications is, again, variant effect prediction. So given a small mutation in the DNA sequence, this might cause downstream changes. And how well can the model recapitulate that? The way that we do this is, basically, we have two DNA strings, one with a mutation and one without, so just the reference genome sequence.

We feed that into the model separately. We get predictions out. And then we basically look for differences. We look for differences and we summarize them. So conceptually, at least, it's fairly simple.

But technically, this caused endless headaches. Essentially, the first thing that we ran into was speed, actually. So the model outputs are something like 11 gigabytes. And variant scoring was notoriously slow. TOM WARD: Yeah, so very much in the same vein that we had with feeding the model data, the next one we had was basically trying to get these large predictions back and summarize them into useful splice statistics that we could use to evaluate how well it's doing on a particular task.

And so we kind of realized that everyone on the team was kind of doing it in their own little way. They were coming up with their own aggregation strategies and doing it in script and on notebooks. But it was, like you said, really slow. It would take, sometimes, minutes to make these predictions. And so a few engineers kind of sat down and we kind of worked out how to create this kind of variant scoring API, where we could make these variant predictions and aggregate them on the same devices that we were training-- running the model.

And that meant that we could do it really fast and really efficiently, and doing lots of different aggregations in parallel. And that allowed us to do lots of evaluations really, really fast. And we did quite a few evaluations for the paper. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yeah, lots of evaluations and benchmarks, and benchmarks and evaluations stuffed into the paper. But I think the reason we did that is we wanted to evaluate the model as comprehensively as possible, really, given constraints of time, and space, and sanity.

One issue that we ran into very early on, actually, was how are we going to structure our evaluation strategy? How do we make sure that we're doing it in a rigorous, comprehensive way? Because the model does have so many capabilities, how do we handle all of that? And the approach that we took on was, again, parallelization. And so, essentially, what happened is each individual would take on one or two areas, maybe one or two modalities, and kind of own that section of the paper, really, end-to-end.

So they would ingest the data, design the evaluation, add benchmarks, make the paper figures. And this worked really well, actually. And the other thing is that a lot of these evaluations were already pre-existing in the research community. So in a lot of cases, we could just ingest them and use them directly. So that was extremely helpful.

DHAVI HARIHARAN: You mentioned different people started focusing on different areas. Are there different classes of evaluation then? NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Jun can talk to that. JUN CHENG: Yeah, exactly. Whenever possible, we try to evaluate our model in different ways.

For instance, we evaluate on the molecular level if we recapitulate the experimental readout well, and also on the organism level consequence if we can predict well a mutation is going to lead to higher disease risk or not. Also, we also try to show as many examples as possible, both examples where the model did well and examples model did not well. And this was just one example I found particularly interesting that we showed in the paper. The model was trying to predict some cancer driver mutations, and we're very surprised to find that the model actually did very well, recapitulate what the researchers found in the wet lab. And that was amazing to see, that the model ranks the driver mutations much higher than some other random controls.

Yeah, we are quite happy, and put in the paper. DHAVI HARIHARAN: Awesome. Yeah, I guess after the evaluations, it was kind of down to the paper writing. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yes, just the paper writing. [LAUGHTER] DHAVI HARIHARAN: Yeah, why is the paper so long?

It's practically a novel. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yes, it's so long. But I think, inevitably, it was always going to be long, just because the scope is massive, essentially, or at least I think it is. We really wanted to do justice to all of the other models that we compared against. We really wanted to dive as deeply as we could into all the different modalities.

So it is what it is. And I think we also suffered a bit from one more eval syndrome. We're all very excited in this field. And people would go off and see a new paper or a new data set, and they'd want to integrate into the model and add just one more eval, one more figure. But I do think the paper is a lot stronger for it.

So I'm happy that happened. DHAVI HARIHARAN: Yeah, and how long did this whole process take, I guess, from that initial prototype to having the paper? ZIGA AVSEC: I think the team has been working in this area for quite a while. But if we were to pinpoint that particular launch conversation and to when the paper was published, it was under two year. So I think the team worked really hard to get to that point.

At some point, we all got into one room, put a lot of monitors on the table, and we worked together on this. It was a very exciting time to do that and to see the progress. And I'm really excited and very proud of the team, what we all-- how we came together and were able to release the model and the API. [MUSIC PLAYING] DHAVI HARIHARAN: So I joined the team when the model was almost ready and we were starting to think about how to share this with the community. And there was a real eagerness to both share something quickly, but also try to find a way to make it easier to use.

TOM WARD: Yeah, we were really quite pleased with how we were-- built this kind of model API for interacting with our model, and making predictions, and evaluating and analyzing the results. And I think we quite quickly realized that we wanted to make the same thing available to people externally as well in as easy and accessible way as possible, whilst also keeping the versatility of being able to do lots of different things. So I think one of the cool things we did was basically making this API available at the same time as our pre-print. And the cool thing was that you can kind of just open up a notebook, and make a prediction, and visualize the results really quickly without the need of GPU or installing drivers and all the other faff that comes along with loading a model from scratch. I think that was really powerful.

So we were keen to do that and see what people-- how people used it. DHAVI HARIHARAN: With things like making it simple and easy to use, something that we spend a lot of time talking about as a team is also, what is this actually allowing people to do at the end of the day? Jun, what are you most excited about? JUN CHENG: Yeah, there's a couple of things I'm quite excited about to see how the community use AlphaGenome. I think the first is as a tool to help scientists to pinpoint what kind of mutations could be harmful to human.

Another is, use this as a tool to understand basic biology. If you think about it, biology is quite complex. And with this tool, hopefully, scientists can start to study-- make predictions about which part of the genome is functional, and which part of the genome is responsible for regulating gene expression, and which part is activated in which cell type. Things like that, I think, yeah, this is a fantastic tool for that purpose. With our genome, hopefully, scientists can start using that, and to maximize the return with the limited resource and funding they have, and, yeah, basically, to improve scientific research.

DHAVI HARIHARAN: Ziga, Natasha, you've both been in this field for a while now. What are some of the requests we've gotten? And has there been anything surprising here? ZIGA AVSEC: Yeah, people had lots of-- quite a few feature requests. One of the ones where, for example, people are asking, can they do not just single-letter changes to the genome, but multiple multi-letter changes, like insertions, or deletions, or large structural variants?

And for [? indels, ?] actually, this is a feature. We already had it implemented. It just wasn't highlighted in our quick start enough.

Although, one user did find a bug in this code, which is actually quite tricky, and we managed to fix it. And the other feature was people were asking, can they use the embeddings of the model? Or can they fine-tune it on their own data? Because there's quite a lot of more interesting data sets that we weren't able to include in our model, right, Natasha? NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yeah, actually, on the data front, I was intrigued, maybe not surprised, by the amount of requests for additional species, additional modalities, and additional cell types.

So as we've sort of mentioned already, we've tried to make the model have reasonably good coverage, although, not in species. That's still just human and mouse for now. But basically, people want more capabilities under one roof. And that makes sense, actually. I can definitely relate to that.

One thing I wanted to highlight is that this type of feedback signal from the community is incredibly important to us. It directly feeds into what we work on next and what we build next. [MUSIC PLAYING] DHAVI HARIHARAN: Now, for a question we get asked all the time, what's next? JUN CHENG: And if you go to our website and look at the API, we're predicting tens of thousands of scores per variant, which is obviously very hard for scientists to read and reason. So we're thinking how we can summarize all these scores to a single score per variant and, basically, aggregate the scores as much as possible so that users or scientists can make prediction per variant and look at the scores, and then pick the-- prioritize a list, short list, of variants they want to dive deep into.

And then they can look at the very comprehensive predictions per cell types and tissues, and then answer the questions that-- which effect this variant come from, which tissue the effect come from, and what genes are [INAUDIBLE] activated, things like that. TOM WARD: Yeah, then the other thing we want to do is support really large-scale analysis, like genome-wide association studies and things like that. Currently, the API, you can make many-- lots of predictions, but maybe not quite as many as those kind of really wide, large-scale studies would need. So, yeah, we're looking at basically trying to maybe pre-compute as many variants as possible so people can do those large-scale analysis much more easily. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: And we're releasing the model weights as well, of course.

TOM WARD: Yes. NATASHA LATYSHEVA: Yeah, we're really excited to see what people do with those. So that can be anything from playing with the embeddings, or fine-tuning, or extending with new data. And because the model is good at so many tasks, we're just really excited to see what people use it for. Hopefully, it can be applicable to many different, diverse problems, some of which we probably never even thought of before.

DHAVI HARIHARAN: I'm so happy we're going for all of this. And, hopefully, hearing it makes some of our scientists happy as well. Ziga, maybe going back to the team's mission and how AlphaGenome was sort of a step towards it, how are you thinking about what's next for the model? ZIGA AVSEC: Yeah, I think there's still a lot of headroom for improvement, a lot both in terms of predictive performance, as well as capabilities. In terms of predictive performance, we'll see how far we get.

And in terms of capabilities, one of the things I'm excited about is to leverage these new amazing single-cell atlases, such as-- because the technology has been really evolving quickly and improving. And this allows us to measure not just the molecular processes at the tissue level, but at the individual cell type level within the tissue. And if we could extend the model with these, then I think it would be more applicable to studying variants associated with diseases where, for example, this sort of defect arises in these individual cell types. DHAVI HARIHARAN: Thanks for watching. Those were some of our highlights on building AlphaGenome and releasing it.

There's a lot more details in our "Nature" paper. And we'd really love to hear from you as you start exploring and using the model, whether that's interesting case studies, or gaps, or ideas that can make the work more useful for you. Our user support team is basically us, so please get in touch with us on the Discourse forum. [MUSIC PLAYING]