---
video_title: "10 years of AlphaGo: The turning point for AI | Thore Graepel & Pushmeet Kohli"
video_id: qoinGjj60Fo
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qoinGjj60Fo
video_date: 2026-03-10T17:28:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Seoul, March 2016. Two players sit hunched over a 19x19 grid covered in a sea of black and white stones. They are playing the ancient game of Go  - a game of unimaginable complexity long thought impossible for a machine to master. On one side is Lee Sedol (Sae Dol), a legendary 18-time Go world champion. On the other, AlphaGo, a neural network based AI system built on a powerful technique called reinforcement learning.
  
  In the blink of an eye, the world changed.
  
  Exactly one decade later, we look back at the match that sparked the modern AI revolution. From algorithmic discovery to the solving of scientific grand challenges like protein folding, the foundation was laid right there on that wooden board. 
  
  Join Hannah Fry, Pushmeet Kohli (VP, Science) and Thore Graepel (AlphaGo team & Distinguished Research Scientist) as they unpick the legacy of AlphaGo.
  
  Further watching:
  
  🎥AlphaGo https://youtu.be/WXuK6gekU1Y
  🎥The Thinking Game: https://youtu.be/d95J8yzvjbQ
  
  ___
  
  Subscribe to our channel https://www.youtube.com/@googledeepmind
  Find us on X https://twitter.com/GoogleDeepMind
  Follow us on Instagram https://instagram.com/googledeepmind
  Add us on Linkedin https://www.linkedin.com/company/deepmind/
---
Welcome back to Google DeepMind, the podcast. I'm professor Hannah Fry. Picture the scene. It's March 2016. Inside a hotel suite in Seoul, South Korea.

Two players are playing the ancient game of go, a game of unimaginable complexity, long thought impossible for a machine to master. On one side is Lee Sae Dol, a legendary 18 time Go world champion. On the other, AlphaGo, a neural network based AI system built on a powerful technique called reinforcement learning. Welcome to the DeepMind challenge. Live in Seoul, Korea.

That's a very surprising move. Not a single human player would have chosen. Move 37 something. I pulled a tongue on it. After hours of intense gameplay spread over seven days.

Yeah, that's an exciting move. Lee Sae Dol placed two stones on the board to signal his final resignation, and in the blink of an eye, the world changed. The final result of four one gratulations to AlphaGo and to the entire team. That was exactly one decade ago, and the field of AI has changed unimaginably. Since then.

We have seen the rise of large language models, the growing sophistication of AI agents, and the solving of scientific grand challenges like protein folding. But in many ways, the modern AI revolution arguably began right there on that wooden board in South Korea. So in this episode, we wanted to look backwards and forwards to how a bold experiment in teaching machines to play games became the foundation stone for the AI breakthroughs of today. And with me are the perfect guests to tell that story. Thore Graefel is a distinguished research scientist at Google DeepMind, who was right there in Seoul as a key architect of the AlphaGo project and Pushmeet Kohli, who leads Google DeepMind science work and is the person to tell us how those early techniques pioneered in Go can tackle crucial problems today.

Welcome to the podcast, both of you. Tony, I know you're an accomplished Go player yourself. Just explain to us why Go was seen as a good challenge for AI. Yes, the the game of Go seemed like the perfect challenge for AI. Because the game has such simple rules, yet it leads to such complex gameplay with tactics and strategies and and complex patterns.

And, once the game of chess had been solved, as it were, or at least, you know, Deep Blue had, won against, the world champion. Then Go was this open challenge? It's much more complex than chess by many orders of magnitude. And nobody was expecting it to be solved anytime soon. Yet it it looks so elegant and simple for computer scientists.

And so it was the perfect game to tackle. At the time, I mean, the idea of nobody thinking it would be solved anytime soon. That's sort of hits the nail on the head, right? For me. I know you were working at Microsoft at the time, but just how complex was this problem considered to be?

I think it was considered extremely complex. And that is because not only because of the breadth of the search space, of the number of moves you can make, but also the depth, how long you have to reason and how long the games are. In the game of chess, you might think about reasoning about 60 to 70 sort of moves in a game of go. It's much, much longer. And that's, leads to the challenge of, of the problem.

Toy I know when you first that DeepMind being a, a Go player, didn't you didn't you play against AlphaGo on your first day? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So imagine I come first day at work, at DeepMind. I know a couple of people, including David Silva, and he asks me, Tora, you you're a Go player, right?

Couldn't you do us a favor and test our baby version off of something that wasn't even called AlphaGo at the time? Of course, you know, it was an internship project, and they had just about, taken, a few thousand or games from the internet and had trained, a system or a few hundred thousand games, maybe. And, I had the opportunity to be one of the first people to play against it. But you can imagine I was excited, but I was also nervous. It was my first day at work, and there I was, being dragged to a centrally located table on the other side.

I think it was Aja Huang who would later be known as the hand of AlphaGo with his poker face. And I got to, play against this baby version of AlphaGo with people watching present, with a lot of people watching all this and, you know, there was no escape. Later, Demis showed up, and of course, David was there the whole time. Yeah. And so what does one do?

Play conservatively. Right. I just I just don't make a mistake. Surely this can't be so hard. But of course, that was exactly what that version of the program was good at.

It was trained on human professional games, so it knew exactly what to do against conventional play. And so as this little test match proceeded, my position became worse and worse and I, I ended up losing by a small margin, but, I, I took the crown of the first person who officially lost the staff. I go, it was, quite the experience. And of course, afterwards everyone knew me. And it was a wonderful way of introducing myself.

A humbling way. A humbling way, exactly. Absolutely. Pushmeet, just remind us, I mean, okay, so I know that the algorithm advanced quite substantially from that early point where it was an intensive but just broadly explain to us how it works. And this, this idea about cracking the kind of combinatorial spaces in particular.

Yeah. So I think if you look at the game of go, the number of moves that you can make, at any given time, they are a finite number of moves. But if you look and reason about the the overall game state, it's exponential. And that exponential growth in the number of states that you have to reason about is what makes the game extremely complicated. So how did they crack it then? What?

Just remind us of the solution that they discovered. The beauty of AlphaGo was there is this element of thinking fast and thinking slow, and AlphaGo in some sense was the perfect combination of those thinking fast and thinking a slow process is coming together to take on this extremely large search space, so it matches quite well to how humans play the game. I think, you know, if you imagine how how a human would play a game of chess or a game of go, we also have the capacity to look at the position and pretty quickly appreciate if that's good for black or good for white. And we can also look at the position and already see moves that seem promising. We never look at all the possible moves, which would be maybe 20 or 30 in chess or, or 200 or 300 and go.

We immediately drawn to certain, maybe even esthetically pleasing moves that seemed like just the right ones, guided by our intuition. And, that element is complemented by planning where we explicitly reason through the possibilities. If I make this move, my opponent might make that move, and then I have to counter with this move, and these two different ways of thinking come together in how humans play these games. And they also come together in, in how AlphaGo plays the intuition in the calculation, as it were. Exactly.

So with that, the inspiration that did you sort of think about how you were playing the game, how other Go players were playing the game and, and draw that direct inspiration from, from neuroscience effectively as well? Yeah, I think that is definitely one direction because a lot of team members, were actually game players who were able to introspect and see how we tackled the game. And then of course, that comes together with, deep learning, that at the time, you know, since 2012 had had grown as a direction. And now for the first time, gave us the tools to to learn these approximate functions from that, for example, the value function that takes the board and tells us how good it is for either black or white or the policy network that takes the board and effectively ranks the available moves according to how likely it would be that a professional player would take them. And so deep learning was just ripe at the time to to tackle this problem, and gave us the opportunity to implement the fast thinking, the slow thinking is not unlike what happened in Deep Blue.

You know, it's the search of the game tree that was already known and that we might now called good old fashioned. Yeah. Okay. Well, I mean, you lost to this thing quite early, but once it had gone through a lot of the people on the team that say, I know that you tested it with a professional Go player because you had a fun way come into the office. Yeah. Exactly.

How confident were you at that point that it was going to be him? Yeah, we had different levels of confidence, which was really interesting. So we had been really lucky to find him. You know, he was the European, Go champion at the time. He lived in Bordeaux and, and came over, we lured him into it, into playing this, game with us.

And, the setup was that he would play ten, test games against the version of AlphaGo at that point. And I personally thought that, AlphaGo cannot possibly be at the point already that it beats the European champion, a professional player. And, so I had to bet with David Silva. David Silva was confident. He said, I think AlphaGo is going to nail it ten zero.

And I said, no, I think AlphaGo will lose at least one game. And the the bet was that whoever lost would have to show up at the office dressed as an ancient Japanese Go master and be in the office for one day. With that. Well, who showed up like that? It was me.

Because it was, in fact, ten nil. Yeah, but it, did give us confidence and, gave them confidence that we would be able to tackle even harder opponents in the near future. Which you did, of course. On a plan you got in 2016 to to South Korea to play against Lee Sae Dol I mean, just tell us, give us a sense of how phenomenal a player he actually is. Yeah.

So, Lee Sae Dol was really one of the or maybe the best players at the time with an incredible track record of, of winning tournaments. He was compared to Roger Federer at the time for his success and, intellectual brilliance. And so for us, it was a tremendous honor that he, accepted our challenge, to play against him. And, it was a tremendous challenge because we had to set a date. Right.

You can't just say, you know, we'll tell you when we're ready. The date was set, and we had to work towards that date to to actually make AlphaGo strong enough. And, what added, tension and excitement to it was that, Sedol was convinced that he would win. He found it highly unlikely at the time that, AlphaGo would win. And of course, he was basing his assessment on the game records that he had seen against Phan.

Wait, that and he assessed that he was better. But of course, what he wasn't so aware of is that, AlphaGo was constantly improving through the training and the algorithmic refinements and so on that we made. And so the entire team basically went to South Korea. And you wouldn't believe the excitement of people there. You know, the truth is, in England, Go is a bit of a niche activity, right?

Very few people would be able to play it or even know about it. But in South Korea, people were so excited. The best Go players are celebrities. And you know, we came there and there were hordes of photographers that, took pictures. We had a documentary film crew with us.

And so imagine typical computer geeks, as it were, suddenly, in the limelight of the world for this match. That was quite the adventure. Yeah. I mean, were you nervous about the performance of AlphaGo? Yes, we were definitely nervous.

So, of course we had a very, sophisticated evaluation pipeline. You can test against players that you have access to. Like from way. That was super helpful. You can also test against previous versions of the program and you can calculate what we called the Elo score of the system, which basically takes the outcomes of all the games that you play against, other versions, maybe earlier versions of your program and calculates how what the rating of the new version is.

And you can calibrate these things quite well. But of course, we didn't know where on that scale Lee Sedol would be. And of course we wanted a cushion as well. You know, it would have been, would be nice to be quite a bit better to have some certainty because this is the world stage, right? If you lose this, that's, a bit of a hit to the, to the reputation.

And so yeah, we there was we were nervous. We worked up to the last minute. We also needed to make sure that the system is really stable. You know, you don't want to make last minute changes to make it that little bit better. But the risk that it now becomes unstable.

But in the end, we were we were quite happy with it. And so we entered that now, kind of famous, hotel floor where all the action happened. Where all the press was waiting and so on, and, embarked on the match and people were watching from around the world, including Pushmeet. Yeah. So, I mean, where were you at this point where you were watching on?

Yeah, I was in Seattle. I mean, I really started getting into it, in the middle of the first game, it became so clear that, AlphaGo had reached that specific milestone. Then you could even see the reaction from, the press and, the commentators and Lee Sae Dol himself. Well, it's interesting you sit in the middle of that game because in the early stages of that game, was it clear who had the upper hand? I think from, like, from person who was just watching it.

I felt that in the early stages, everyone felt quite confident that, Lee Sae Dol would, would win. In fact, only as the game progressed and it became closer to the final outcome that they realized that as you count the territory, AlphaGo had an advantage. In fact, it came as a surprise to people. What did you think? Yeah.

So I had this interesting interaction on the site with a professional Go player, an American professional, a Go player who was sitting next to me while we were watching and and, there was some sequence unfolding in the corner, and he had approached me and said, you know, I always, tell my students not to play that stupid move that, AlphaGo just played. So, I mean, it was pretty hopeless. And I was like, yeah, I'm not as much as an expert. Let's just wait and see what my what's my reaction? And then after after that first game, this gentleman came to me and said, this is the most phenomenal thing I've ever experienced.

I'm so grateful that I'm allowed to be here to witness that a machine can play Go at this level, and there's going to be so much we can learn from it. And he was already embracing this. I mean, you have to imagine these people dedicate their lives to the study of this game, and they often trained from being young children, to their current age just to master this game. And so, of course, it comes as a shock to them that a machine might match or even exceed a human Go player, because if that was the first game when AlphaGo won in the second game, AlphaGo did something that I mean, really surprised everybody. Oh man, that's a very surprising move.

Professional commentators almost unanimously said that not a single human player would have chosen move 37. AlphaGo said there was a one in 10,000 probability that move 37 would have been played by a human player.

Just. Just explain to us what happened with the with the now famous move 37. Yeah. So this this was a remarkable scene. And I was sitting in the, the international English speaking commentating room and, and Michael Redmond, our American, commentator, he had this big demo board on the wall, and he would put all the stones up there on the board to show people what was being played and comment on different variations.

And so he took this stone corresponding to move 37 on the board, and then he stepped back and said, now this must be wrong. And he took it back. And then he looked at the screen again, said, no, no, that is actually what AlphaGo played. And he put it back. He was puzzled.

You could you could see it, that that was such a counterintuitive move for a human player. It was a shoulder move on the fifth line. And, this is typically something that human go players avoid. So often in go, there is some kind of, pushing going on along the, along the edges. And one of the players builds territory along the wall of the board, and the other side builds influence towards the center of the board.

And if that happens on the third and fourth line, this is considered to be roughly equitable. You know, both sides get something out of it. But what, AlphaGo was effectively suggesting is that it's still profitable if you do it on the fifth line and you give that much more territory to the other party. And that's what was so surprising to people that that could that there would be situations in which that would be correct. And so not only was it a very special move, but it in a way, it represented a new way of of weighing these two factors of immediate territory versus, influence towards the center of the board against each other, something that went beyond what a human growth would normally do.

Yeah, absolutely. I mean, there are moments like this where you see the true potential of any system expanding human knowledge, where people have regarded, in this, in this particular case, the game of Go as, as a thing to be studied for many, many years. And, there comes this particular point where that knowledge is expanded and people who are at first skeptical and which was the case in the game as well. But when the move was played, it was considered a hallucination or a mistake. Right.

For a for quite a bit of time before its implications became clear later on in the game. Exactly because it proved to be pivotal to the second win. Yeah, it was not just a moment in that game, but it was also a moment, I think, in the whole sort of history of AI where that particular moment showed us that there will be times when these systems will produce insights which we might not even be able to discern whether they are the right things or amazing breakthroughs, but yet they will have a lot of influence in how we look at all areas of study in a completely new light. Well, I also want to talk about move 78. This is a, a move that was played by Lee Sae Dol that confused AlphaGo, causing it to resign the game.

What is Lee Sae Dol up to here? He's just for like 7 or 8 minutes just on this move already.

Nicola. Oh, look at that move. That's an exciting. Oh, you know, I'm not actually sure what AlphaGo is trying to do here, but. The.

So by this point, AlphaGo has won three games in a row, and now Lee Sae Dol doesn't move. That confuses the system. Is that fair to say? Yeah, that's absolutely fair to say so. Moved 78 was an unusual wedge move.

That is a double play. There had been a very interesting, battle, as it were, at the center of the board. And, he still found this move and, it was also surprising to people, similar to move 37. And, from then on, we observe that, AlphaGo didn't have a good grasp of the position anymore. We saw that the moves that it made didn't really make sense to us in a bad way.

You know, 37 also didn't make sense to us, maybe, but these moves, even to to amateurs like us seemed, seemed strange. And so it had it had been confused by the move and, just to zoom out to give you a sense of why this still mattered so much. So you might say, okay, it's a match of five games and AlphaGo has won the first three. What more is there to move? But then we were thinking, well, if now Lee Sedol was to win the last two, what would you conclude?

He's got it figured out too, right? He's found the fragility. Exactly. So the human it would have been the human triumph. And so that's why that game and the last one were still very exciting to us.

But, it wasn't an entirely the case that we were disappointed. We were certainly disappointed. But also, we had so much admiration for Sedol, too, you know, as a human to be able to find this move, you just have to imagine this, this master who has dedicated his life to playing this game, in this battle that must have been so hard on him right? Just to see this machine play so perfectly and him struggling to find a way. And then in game four, he finds a way.

And as he put it in the, press conference, I think later he, he said that he was so happy and proud that he was able maybe for the last time on behalf of humanity, to find a way to overcome the machine, because some people called it the divine move, didn't they? Yeah, yeah. And I think, given the, the tension at that point in time and, and him really outgrowing himself at that moment and finding that move. I think it's a it's a good name for it. Well, the final score was four one to AlphaGo in total.

What was the reaction from the Go community. Yeah. So the Go community followed the match very closely. And of course the outcome was dramatic and for many people, unexpected. And so people showed very different reactions.

You know, some people were absolutely amazed and surprised about the outcome. Some people couldn't believe it. Others, of course, also thought that some era had come to an end because now maybe the strongest, Go player was no longer a human. But but the machine. But overall, what we found amazing is that there was an uptick in interest in the game of go.

I think more people play Go now than did before. And the Go community really embraced the learning from AlphaGo. So there are now many programs that work essentially in the same way that AlphaGo does, and people use it for teaching purposes. They analyze their games through it. And overall, I think it has provided a lift to the whole community.

Let me ask you about the reaction from the AI world to this match. What was the buzz? What was the conversation like? The Lee Sae Dol match, the AlphaGo Lee Sae Dol match, was a key pivot point where, a lot of people, especially in the machine learning community who have been sort of working on these, models and techniques, as a mathematical and applied, project started to see evidence that these systems can self learn and Go beyond human knowledge. And that is a very important sort of point, because, in machine learning, you train with, training data which has been collected, and your natural sort of expectation is that the model is going to just be consistent with that distribution and to show that you can Go beyond that distribution.

And that insight then can be utilized by, the world. I think, is an amazing sort of, insight that comes out of this whole experience. And, it really points to what is possible with, artificial intelligence in not just the game of go, but, in the understanding of world in, in chemistry, in biology and mathematics and computer science, what are these amazing analogs of move 37 that these systems will be able to, discover and and reveal to us, I think that point that you made there about going beyond human intelligence is, is just so fascinating. But one of the things that I find most intriguing about that, the AlphaGo story, even after the victory for one, is that you then built AlphaZero, where you took away all of the human data, all of the games of Go that it had been trained on, and discovered that once you take out the human intelligence, the thing actually improved, which is astonishing to me. Yeah, from a scientific perspective, one could argue that that is even an even bigger step than the original AlphaGo, because, as you were saying, the AlphaZero system doesn't have access to any human game records.

How humans play didn't have access to prior knowledge about the game, how the game was played, but really only had access to the rules of the game and means of representing and learning these functions that that we talked about the policy net and the value in that. So basically it starts playing entirely randomly at the beginning because it has no notion of what good or bad moves are, but it gathers experience from playing these games and it learns what are moves that are more likely to lead to a win. What are moves that are more likely to lead to loss? What are positions that look promising? What our positions that are not promising.

And eventually it it starts playing better and better moves. And now of course, it's not, limited by human knowledge. And what it discovered was amazing. So first of all, it, it rediscovered ways of how humans play. And that was totally reassuring.

You know, there are certain patterns in the corner in goal that we call it joseki or in chess, there are certain opening moves. The system was now more general. It could play chess, Go and shogi and could have played any number of other board games if we trained it that way. And so at first it rediscovered human knowledge and we think, wow, this is so cool. It's it's finds the same openings and so on.

And then we look at some of these openings and it stops playing them. We think what's going on. It has found a refutation. So it discovered rediscovered human knowledge and then it discards it because it has now gone beyond it. It has found there's actually better ways of playing.

I'm not going to continue playing in this human way. Stuff that humans hadn't found yet. Effectively. Exactly. For AlphaZero, when it played Go the way it played, Go looked alien to me in the end.

So this wasn't the kind of Go that I had learned from my Go teacher, you know, which is structured maybe in a way that enables humans to understand it. These moves looked very free and, didn't make much sense at the time, but 30 moves later, everything would fall into place. You see? Oh yeah. Oh, wow. That makes sense now.

And so on. As if it had the foresight in a way, which it did. Right. So that, that discovery from nothing to, to that level of play was very impressive. Okay.

So there's this something I want to show you. Something that happened actually when you guys in. So because you as you mentioned before, you were being filmed for this documentary for for AlphaGo and there's some footage that didn't make it into the film. But it was, it was captured by the cameras as they were sort of packing up, but the microphones were still running. I don't know if you've you've heard this little clip.

Let me play a few notes on this is Demis and David O. Having a sort of private conversation was just amazing, seeing how quickly the problem is seen as being impossible. Yeah, it's thanks to being done with this whole person photo that's like, I mean, this is huge. I'm sure we can do that now. I was I thought we could do that before. Yeah, not.

But now we definitely can do it. Yeah. Okay. Beautiful. Isn't that great?

Yeah. Thore do you think that captured the mood at the time? Yeah, that was the kind of door that, AlphaGo opened at the time. I. If we can do this, then what else could we do?

Because this is a game with ten to the power of 170 different positions. This is super complex. And if we have principled ways of navigating that kind of combinatorial search space, then it seems plausible that we would also be able to handle other large combinatorial search spaces. And at the time, one of the favorites, was, protein folding. Absolutely.

And this is now the point, really, where you come on board with the DeepMind team because when it came to AlphaFold, I mean, you're an integral part of that story. Did AlphaGo, did that project directly influence what you guys went on to do, or was it sort of like the confidence of a victory that made them say things like that? No, I think, massive. From very early on, I think, he has a very strong notion of what AI is being developed for. He really sees this as a tool that will help us, understand the world better.

In fact, at the time when, when the AlphaGo matches were happening, I was at Microsoft working on AI for programing. Now we have coding is everywhere. But at that time, not many people were working on program synthesis and AI for coding, and Demis wanted me to join DeepMind. And my question to him was, I am really interested in having AI systems and machine learning systems, for solving the most challenging problems in the world and to make sense of what's happening. And I think his reaction was, if you want to understand the world and if you want to solve the most important problems in the world, then you have to join DeepMind, because we will need AI to really understand the world deeply and to tackle these problems.

So if you are interested in sort of, learning to program, if you are interested in cybersecurity, if you are interested in, dealing with climate change, if you are interested in understanding how to deal with impossible to treat, sort of diseases, you have to come and really lead the charge on how can I be used for these applications? I want to ask you about some of the, some of the innovations that you guys had made in, in AlphaGo and how they ended up finding their way into that, the science projects that you guys were doing. One of the big things that AlphaGo did was to make that gigantic search space more tractable. So how have search algorithms changed since then, and how are they being used in science? I mean, search, is such an integral part of many problems that you encounter in the real world.

We just spoke about, protein folding, which which could be considered as the search over the space of all possible structures. But, just to give a more sort of simpler example, you can think of, search as also, the search of, algorithms for solving a particular problem. So everything around us that computers do, has some form of matrix multiplication underlying it. So even the fact, that we have these machine learning systems and neural networks that are changing the world today, these neural networks are based on matrix multiplication, essentially taking large, series of numbers and multiplying them together and even the very simplest operation of matrix multiplication, which is just taking two matrices and multiplying them, is the simplest thing that you sort of, learn in school and in college. And yet we don't know as a whole research community what is the fastest way of multiplying two matrices.

So if you think about that problem, you can, reason about it as a search problem. You can say there are there is a space of possible algorithms and now search over that space of, algorithms and try to find me the best algorithm. The issue is that the search space for that problem is even larger than the the search space for Co. So one of the first things that we need to do is, we came up with, this, agent called Alpha tensor, which, made matrix multiplication as a search problem as a, as a game. So instead of did you win or lose the game of go, you're saying, did you multiply these two matrices together quickly or not?

Yeah. Did you multiply these matrices completely accurately in the smallest number of moves. Right. And that was the game. And there was an algorithm that Strassen, in 1969 had had come up with.

And since then, for 50 years there was no progress. And then alpha tensor found a better way of multiplying these two matrices. And then and that was a key sort of proof point of what is possible with the same sort of techniques, in case of anyone watching who's who sort of, I don't know, maybe not that familiar with the, the things we're talking about matrix multiplication, for example. I mean, we need to take be really clear on the potential of this thing. I mean, every single large language model in the world is essentially, at its heart, just a massive matrix multiplication problem.

Right? Yes. All of the fuss about different chips that are being made is because some of them can multiply matrices faster than others. Yeah. What you're describing here is, is like turning that into a game.

And even small gains that you might make on how quickly you can do something once you scale it up to the size of how much everybody in the world is using AI, we're talking about gigantic differences. Yeah, absolutely. And since then, what we have done is we have said and let's not just, tackle matrix multiplication. Let's tackle all the possible algorithms that you can think of. So, new agents like Alpha evolve.

They search in the space of all possible programs, trying to find the best algorithm that can solve these, these important problems, whether it's how do you schedule jobs in a data center, which is an extremely important problem has and it has implications in terms of energy compute, utilization and so on. Or how do you, sort of, tackle these logistics problems where you are trying to move packets around in a network. So the same basic methodology of track tackling these search problems now has been expanded in terms of what you can do with it. Okay. But I'm thinking here about the policy network, the intuition as you described it, where you know, I Go player might look at the board and say, I think this is a fruitful direction in which to search.

If you instead of a board, instead of a game of go, you've got all possible algorithms of everything in the entire world and beyond, let's say, how on earth do you create intuition in that sort of a situation? How do you know how to narrow down the search space? Yeah. So I think this is this is a very interesting sort of, research topic that we are now starting to think of when we apply, agents like Alpha evolve, to discover these new algorithms. Sometimes those algorithms are not very, intuitive to us.

In fact, they could be counter-intuitive. So sometimes you can see the patterns, you can see that there are certain symmetries in the problem that we did not understand. Mathematicians did not understand, computer scientists did not understand. But somehow they were those symmetries. The agent somehow discovered those symmetries, and then they, it exploited and utilize those symmetries to make the, the solution much more efficient.

In some cases. We just don't understand how it made things faster, but they are faster. And and then our challenge is that when you think about collaboration where humans and these Ice agents are working, together, then how do we make sure that and the systems that are producing the algorithms that are produced interpretable by the human, computer scientists and engineers? It reminds me a little bit of this, situation in AlphaGo, where people in the end game, we're observing AlphaGo and found that it didn't quite play optimally. And they were really surprised as, hey, look, this is the better move than what AlphaGo played, you know, is it not playing well?

Is it making mistakes? And the solution was that AlphaGo was optimizing the objective we had given it, which is to maximize the probability of winning the game. Humans tend to use a heuristic, which is they want to have more territory than the opponent by some margin, and they think the larger the margin is, the better it is for them, which is often true. But AlphaGo doesn't care about the margin. For AlphaGo, it was enough to win by half a point, and so often in the end game it was almost toying, seemed to be toying with the opponent and giving up points just up until the point where it was sure it could win by half a point.

And you sometimes you get these counterintuitive behaviors, but if you then drill deeper, you can see why they come about, because the algorithm and humans are ultimately optimizing for slightly different things. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But then that does make me wonder.

So move 37 as an example of where, you know, it went beyond what human humans are able to do. At the same time, when move 37 first came through, people thought it was a mistake, right? So how can you tell the difference? I mean, if the algorithm comes up with something that is original, can you be sure it's not a hallucination? Yeah.

And I think this is a very important point, right. Like with, large language models, especially when they were being developed initially in the first versions of them, they would hallucinate, they would come up with, solutions which were not correct or come up with responses which were completely invalid. And this is where the importance of the agent harness comes into play, where you couple the large language model with a verifier, which is able to sort of prune out when what is being hallucinated and what is actually something that might be remarkable that we need to, investigate further. But then if there is large language models that are based on human data, are you is there a danger of you limiting yourselves to what humans have already discovered? I'm thinking of the you know, what's already in the textbook as it were, when we built these agents.

We, deliberately increase the amount of, things that they have to explore. So we tell the models that you have to Go beyond the distribution that you were trained on, and you should feel free to explore more. And in fact, you might sort of, produce, new things which might not be, appropriate or not be correct, but we have that verified and evaluation function to prune out those, those insights. I think this is really how Karl Popper would also characterize the whole scientific process. Conjecture and refutation is the famous essay, and, you know, conjecture is maybe hallucination.

It's this production capability of producing plausible hypotheses. And then refutation is the step by which you filter out the things that that are wrong, that don't work. And I think it also, makes clear why the current AI capability landscape looks, like it does, namely, it is very good in verifiable domains. Code is a verifiable domain. You define the objective, you can write down tests for the code.

The first test is that it compiles, you know, it's already does it. And then you test it on those tests. But you have hard criteria to reject failure, which is super important for these, kinds of tasks. If you don't have it, things become much trickier. For example, if you work on open scientific problems, you may not have a verifier who can tell you that this is right or this is wrong.

Ultimately. Awesome experiment. Physical experiment will be the verification that you need, right? But that's quite a long, long way down the road, isn't it? I guess the experimental part of it, because I'm just wondering here about interpretability coming back to the point that you made earlier, does it matter that you might end up with results that are not easily interpretable here, given that the stakes are so much higher than they are on a board of a Go game?

Yeah, I think it does matter. And science is also about communication, right? If you can come up with this new insight, but if you are not able to communicate it and people are not able to build on top of it, then there are limits to what, the impact that will be achieved. Right. So, so interpretability plays a very important role.

But it's not, the only thing take the example of AlphaFold. AlphaFold is able to, solve, this amazing problem of protein structure prediction. Do we understand completely, the conceptual, sort of, operations that it does, like at the mechanistic level, yes. But, we don't know completely what the underlying theory that can be used to recreate, a human level reasoning process to make the same predictions. And we will somehow need to convert them to, human digestible form, that, the, the bounded rational human mind will be able to comprehend.

I think that's a really interesting point. There it is that an explanation not only needs to account for the phenomenon that you're explaining, it also needs to account for the intellectual level of the recipient of the, explanations. So sometimes on YouTube you can see these things life explained at the level of a six year old, an eight year old, a ten year old, a 12 year old. I quite like the explanations for 12. You have to say.

And, and that reflects this fact, right? You know, some an explanation really is a bridge between the phenomenon and our capacity to understand it. So it may very well be the case that future AI systems come up with explanations that might seem simplistic to them, but that that are just about right for us to keep up with the AI system. Right, exactly. I mean, if you look at, our agents like alpha proof, what they are able to do is, you give them open maths problems and they will give you a proof and that that proof is verifiable.

You tell whether it's correct or not. Exactly. Even if you don't understand. Yeah, you might not understand it, but you know it's correct, right? The uncertainty about whether the original theorem was correct or not, is now resolved.

But do we completely understand it? Like, in fact, till now, the results that we have had, we have spent the effort and, and then converted those results into a form that mathematicians, have been able to to see and say. Yes, it makes sense. I can actually translate it in English and it all works. But there are two key, phenomena that come out of it.

One is that the importance of framing the problem, now raises because if you don't, if one of the challenges when we are trying to solve these very hard maths problems and yet giving the agent these hard problems is to specify the problem accurately so that the agent can now understand what is the reward function that it needs to optimize for. And then once it finds the solution, then there is the challenge of actually, converting the solution back to a human readable form. If we do get to a point there where an algorithm could just come up with its own proof, where's the role for mathematicians and all of this speaking selfishly, no, I think mathematicians are even more important today because what these, agents are able to do is they are able to solve these incredible problems. But what are the problems that need solving? How do you specify that problem?

That's where mathematicians and scientists come in. I do like the idea, though, that one day there might be, I don't know, Riemann hypothesis, and it comes back and says, yes, there's a proof. Unfortunately, it's it's beyond any human's ability to understand it. So yeah, no, sorry about that. But I mean, I'm joking slightly, but if we are talking here about, advancing scientific knowledge and understanding beyond what humans have done, do you think you've seen examples of move 37 in science already?

Yeah, I think absolutely. I think, it's just the example of the matrix multiplication algorithm. It is something that people had studied for many, many years. And yet we are we have been able to come up with a new algorithm. So that is genuinely a move.

37 moment in, algorithmic discovery. And I think we are now seeing the same thing in many other areas, of, of science, in mathematics and in material science, coming up with new, structures, that we think now are stable. So there are a number of these, things, but the original, move 37 moment is still very relevant because it was in some sense the first. And it brought about that, that concept of going beyond human understanding and thinking here about AlphaZero again, and how that really moved away from human data and, and showed these profound results. Large language models, on the other hand, ended up being almost, a shortcut to intelligence.

I guess that was based very much on, on human data. Was that a sort of surprising turn of events for you? Yes. I think that is an interesting, thing that we observe. DeepMind was based on this idea that we use games as a microcosm of, of the real world.

And the philosophy of DeepMind had been to place agents within these environments and let them learn how to master them and thereby grow their intelligence. And then what happened with large language models was really this discovery that there's a shortcut, that somehow there's this huge amount of crystallized intelligence, if you like, stored in the form of data on the internet for a text data, maybe images, maybe videos and so on, and that the shortcut is really to first mine all of that data and train systems, based on that. And that's basically the first and second generation of large language models that are based on that. But then, of course, you come to the point where, first of all, that doesn't lead you to novelty. You're now within this corpus of existing human knowledge, and we know how competent these models are within that.

But but it's very difficult to to get out of that. Now, how do we Go beyond what we already know? And that's, I think, where now the community or for the past few years is exploring, the methods again, that DeepMind pioneered early on. Others, of course, reinforcement learning in environments, part of the post training now is routinely forms of reinforcement learning and either on human generated data or also on problems, on the environments like coding environments and so on. And so so now we're in a period where we're going again, beyond human knowledge.

Pushmeet, Do you think that we would be here at this moment in the AI revolution if it hadn't been for AlphaGo? I think AlphaGo, was that, transition point where it became very, very clear that the moment of transition where we Go beyond human level intelligence in particular areas is not, science fiction or many decades later, it is happening now. And if it could happen in a game of go, there was no reason why it couldn't happen in protein structure prediction, in fusion, in material science and the legacy of that match and move 37 and, and that experience is what we are all living in now. I think that's a great point to end. The episode actually, and to be honest with you, fish, mate, thank you so much for joining me.

Amazing. Yeah. Pleasure. Thanks, guys. That's very good. these big paradigm

shifting moments in the story of humans and machines have happened before. But the thing about chess is that it was always just a question of calculation. Can a machine brute force its way to a victory? AlphaGo was different. It was the first time that machine had demonstrated something deeper, a genuine intelligence that combined intuition with calculation and took us beyond human capability.

Now, ten years on from the AlphaGo match, the field has moved at an incredible pace. But many of the questions that preoccupied researchers, then are more relevant now than ever. How do you create AI systems that Go beyond human knowledge and are capable of new insights, and how do you separate the genuinely new insights from hallucinations? You have been listening to Google DeepMind, the podcast with me, Hannah Fry. We have got plenty more episodes to come out this year, so please make sure you subscribe to our YouTube channel.

We'll see you soon.