---
video_title: "Build your next story with Gemini Omni."
video_id: u3T_0HmNbHM
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u3T_0HmNbHM
video_date: 2026-05-20T00:21:16+00:00
video_description: |

---
I'm excited to announce Gemini Omni. Our new model that can create anything from any input. It combines Gemini's intelligence with the best of our generative media models for a new level of world understanding, multimodality, and editing. Models like Veo, Nano Banana, and Genie are able to create extremely realistic videos, images, and interactive simulations. Although not perfect, they already demonstrate some impressive notions of intuitive physics.

And with Omni, we've now made even more progress. It's a step change in simulating things like kinetic energy and gravity. Previous systems would have found these concepts difficult. Gemini's world knowledge and reasoning really shine in Omni. It can translate complex ideas into highly accurate videos.

So for example, you can give it a simple prompt like "make a claymation explainer of protein folding," and get this. [Narrator]: Proteins start as chains of amino acids. They fold into patterns like the alpha helix, and flat sections called beta sheets, forming a perfect three-dimensional shape. But the initial generation is just the start. The creative process is rarely a single step, it's usually iterative.

Just like Nano Banana redefined image editing, Omni gives you a more natural way to edit video with conversational language. What's really cool is you can give it your own videos, for example, this selfie, and change reality in a really fun way. You can easily adjust the details and style, or even add elements, and the whole scene morphs to reflect your new idea. Today we're launching the first model in the Omni family: Gemini Omni Flash. It's now available across our products, and you'll hear more about this later.

We're excited with the progress we're making, and we'll be able to share more about Omni Pro soon. We can't wait to see what you create.