---
video_title: "NIALL FERGUSON: O BRASIL ESTÁ A CAMINHO DE UMA CRISE DA DÍVIDA"
video_id: Rg3mld8VB0c
channel_name: "Market Makers"
channel_id: UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rg3mld8VB0c
video_date: 2026-08-05T00:30:12+00:00
video_description: |
  O Brasil está caminhando para uma crise da dívida — e somente uma reforma radical pode evitar esse cenário?
  
  Em conversa com Thiago Salomão, o historiador Niall Ferguson analisa o avanço da dívida pública brasileira e explica por que o maior risco não está apenas no tamanho da dívida em relação ao PIB.
  
  Segundo Ferguson, a combinação de juros reais elevados, baixo crescimento econômico e deterioração fiscal pode colocar o Brasil no caminho de uma crise clássica da dívida latino-americana.
  
  O historiador também explica o que o Brasil poderia aprender com as reformas de Javier Milei na Argentina, os obstáculos políticos para uma mudança semelhante e como a divisão da direita pode influenciar a eleição presidencial de 2026.
  
  O Brasil precisa enfrentar uma crise ainda mais grave antes de aprovar reformas profundas? Deixe sua opinião nos comentários.
  
  📽 VEJA O EPISÓDIO 394 COMPLETO NO YOUTUBE:
  https://youtu.be/jQZEg6CG2J0
  
  📌 Inscreva-se no canal e ative as notificações para acompanhar as principais conversas sobre economia, investimentos, política e negócios.
  
  📢Apoie o Market Makers e ajude a fortalecer o mercado de capitais no Brasil! Clique no link e torne-se membro do nosso canal por apenas R$7,99 por mês: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ/join
  
  📩Entre para nossa newsletter gratuita: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/newsletter_gratuita?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  📢 Anuncie sua marca no Market Makers: comercial@mmakers.com.br
  
  📚Biblioteca Market Makers: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/biblioteca/?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  - - - - - - - - -
  
  O GRAVE ALERTA DE NIALL FERGUSSON PARA O MUNDO | Market Makers #394
  Apresentadores: Thiago Salomão (Apresentador do Market Makers)
  Convidado: Niall Ferguson (historiador escocês. Leciona história na Universidade de Harvard, é um pesquisador em Oxford, associado sénior no Instituto Hoover e na Universidade de Stanford e professor emérito da New College of the Humanities)
  Edição: Pedro Pereira
  Captação: Renan Moncoski, Diego Danta e Rafael Torres
  
  #NIALFERGUSON #GEOPOLÍTICA #AI #MERCADOFINANCEIRO #MARKETMAKERS #THIAGOSALOMÃO
---
I would like to start talking about Brazil because I I listened that yesterday was in a dinner and you have a a long conversation about Brazil, especially about the fiscal problem about Brazil. I don't know if you it's right, but you told that we are looking to the the the wrong side of our problem. The problem of fiscal in Brazil is not what we are focused. What's the fiscal problem of in Brazil? >> Well, I'm not an expert on Brazil and almost all of your listeners know more about Brazil than I do. So, that's the

the caveat. Uh and it's a very dangerous thing to fly into a country and then start opining about it. However, since you asked, if one looks at Brazil's situation, it is striking how rapidly the public debt has risen, uh particularly since uh President Lula came back into power. And if you compare it with other Latin American countries, the trend is is bad, but the really important thing about the debt is not the level relative to gross domestic product, it's the interest rate on the debt and that is very high nominally and in real terms, in other words, adjusting for inflation. Now, if the real interest rate is higher than the growth rate, then a debt crisis can very rapidly arrive. So, I think when

one looks at Brazil's situation, it's really quite bad and it's not on a good path. There needs to be fiscal reform urgently, otherwise I think the country's going to find itself in a good old-fashioned Latin American debt crisis. So, that's my view. >> Okay, no, makes sense and talking about then uh this urgency, uh we could look to the election in Brazil, right and we have to choose a new leader for us. Uh, well, we we know your um uh, admiration for Javier Milei, and as a well leadership, and can you see some possibility to have a Javier Milei in Brazil, or what Brazil has to do to have a Javier Milei?

>> Right. >> Well, it's always a mistake to say that Argentina should be Brazil's example, particularly after the World Cup. So, I'm going to be very careful about what I say here, but it's true that Mr. Milei has had a transformative impact on Argentina's public finances. He eliminated the deficit. Uh, they run

a surplus. And he's done this in a free market way by reducing spending, and as well as liberalizing the economy. So, it's a very good example for other Latin American countries. Actually, it's a good example for all countries. The United States needs Javier Milei. The

United Kingdom needs Milei, and so does Brazil. Brazil needs to do something like this. In the kind of general trend, Latin America is moving to the right overall, but Brazil is the exception here, and the it's odd because if one looks at the legislature, that is actually quite conservative. I think public opinion is shifting that way, but there's a barrier to this political shift. It's partly the Lula is a serial election winner. He's just one

of the most accomplished politicians in modern Latin American history. But then the other problem, and the bigger problem, is the division of the right. And because Flavio Bolsonaro is not a particularly popular figure, it is possible, not certain, but it's possible that Lula's going to win again, despite his age and despite the fact that his ideas are completely out of date. So, this is Brazil's problem. It's it's a political problem, and that political problem is going to make the fiscal problem worse. At least, that seems

likely. >> Well, but in your time in Brazil and your conversations, do you perceive someone who looks like Milei or do you have any possibility to have this in Brazil or we have to to to get even worse in our crisis to to show some kind of solution? >> I think one of the lessons of Argentina is that it takes the brink of hyperinflation, it it takes a crisis of very severe proportions to bring a radical reforming figure like Milei to power. And just like England, uh Brazil isn't bad enough for that kind of political change. So, one can see something very similar going on in England right now, where the Labour Party is in power, despite the the unpopularity of the Prime Minister, Sir Keir Starmer. We

just had to change Prime Minister, but we aren't really changing the policies, and Britain continues to spend too much, uh to run a deficit, not to do welfare reform. It's quite like the Brazilian situation, where you still pursue these left-of-center policies, social democracy, socialism. It doesn't work. The economy doesn't grow sufficiently. The debt keeps growing.

But, you need things to get really bad for people to take the kind of risk that Javier Milei was at first. And I remember being in Buenos Aires, seeing inflation rising higher and higher and higher, getting towards hyperinflation, and thinking, "The Argentine people are done with populism of the old time. They're They're done with the old politics. They're ready to gamble on a libertarian radical solution. I don't think Brazil is there. I don't think

England is there. And in that sense, you probably have some more pain before you get the political gain. >> Wow. Wow. Um well, let's talk about um uh you you wrote recently uh an article that I uh I I like.

It's the death of history. It's a long article, but you you compared the effect of AI in our history. And And you all you said that uh the we are losing the battle against the the the lies because the AI is transforming the way that we're looking for the past. So, everybody said that how AI could change our future, but how AI can change our past and the comprehension of what happened in the world and the consequence in the future. >> Well, this article was one I co-wrote uh with John Clark Levin, whom I knew when he was an undergraduate in Harvard 15 years ago. He is now a renowned

researcher in artificial intelligence. I'm an old historian. Uh and so we teamed up because what I observe is that the things that I've spent my life doing, writing books and articles and newspaper columns and presenting TV shows, all trying to explain modern history to a wide public, I think these things have failed. A large part of my life's work was concerned with the history of uh the Jewish people and with German history. In particular, in a book called War of the World, I tried to address the question, why did World War II happen, the most destructive event in human history, and why did the Holocaust happen? So, I've spent a lot of my time

trying to explain why does Hitler come to power, why do such terrible consequences follow from that, why do 6 million Jews die, why does this catastrophe happen? And it feels as if all my efforts have been in vain because a new generation of podcasters and broadcasters and people on social media simply trivialize the Holocaust.