---
video_title: "NIALL FERGUSON: IA, GUERRA FRIA 2.0 E O FUTURO DA HUMANIDADE"
video_id: tT38zwgznyc
channel_name: "Market Makers"
channel_id: UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tT38zwgznyc
video_date: 2026-08-04T23:30:39+00:00
video_description: |
  A inteligência artificial está deixando uma geração mais burra — e transformando o extremismo em conteúdo premiado pelos algoritmos?
  
  Neste corte do Market Makers, o historiador Niall Ferguson explica por que a disputa nas redes sociais deixou de ser uma batalha de ideias e se tornou uma batalha por atenção. Segundo ele, conteúdos moderados, históricos e bem fundamentados perdem espaço para indignação, teorias extremas, bots e publicações produzidas para provocar reações.
  
  Ferguson também analisa como os algoritmos podem trivializar o Holocausto, distorcer a percepção sobre Hitler e Churchill e oferecer a cada usuário uma versão cada vez mais personalizada da realidade.
  
  A conversa avança para a corrida da inteligência artificial entre Estados Unidos e China, os novos riscos de guerra cibernética e o impacto do ChatGPT nas universidades. Quando estudantes delegam leitura, pesquisa, planejamento e escrita para uma IA, eles ainda estão aprendendo — ou apenas terceirizando o próprio pensamento?
  
  Para você, a inteligência artificial está aumentando nossa capacidade intelectual ou nos tornando mais dependentes?
  
  📽 VEJA O EPISÓDIO 394 COMPLETO NO YOUTUBE:
  https://youtu.be/jQZEg6CG2J0
  
  📌 Inscreva-se no canal e ative as notificações para acompanhar as principais conversas sobre economia, investimentos, política e negócios.
  
  📢Apoie o Market Makers e ajude a fortalecer o mercado de capitais no Brasil! Clique no link e torne-se membro do nosso canal por apenas R$7,99 por mês: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ/join
  
  📩Entre para nossa newsletter gratuita: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/newsletter_gratuita?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  📢 Anuncie sua marca no Market Makers: comercial@mmakers.com.br
  
  📚Biblioteca Market Makers: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/biblioteca/?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  - - - - - - - - -
  
  O GRAVE ALERTA DE NIALL FERGUSSON PARA O MUNDO | Market Makers #394
  Apresentadores: Thiago Salomão (Apresentador do Market Makers)
  Convidado: Niall Ferguson (historiador escocês. Leciona história na Universidade de Harvard, é um pesquisador em Oxford, associado sénior no Instituto Hoover e na Universidade de Stanford e professor emérito da New College of the Humanities)
  Edição: Pedro Pereira
  Captação: Renan Moncoski, Diego Danta e Rafael Torres
  
  #NIALFERGUSON #GEOPOLÍTICA #AI #MERCADOFINANCEIRO #MARKETMAKERS #THIAGOSALOMÃO
---
happened the most destructive event in human history and why did the Holocaust happen? So, I've spent a lot of my time trying to explain why does Hitler come to power? Why does such terrible consequences follow from that? Why do six million Jews die? Why does this catastrophe happen? And it feels as if

all my efforts have been in vain because a new generation of podcasters and broadcasters and people on social media simply trivialize the Holocaust or say that Hitler is cool. Nick Fuentes uh said this. So all the efforts I've made to try and get young people, people in university that I've taught to understand the 20th century, it just seems to have failed. Why? Well, I think we already had a problem with social media. It's not really social anymore.

It's really algorithmic media where people are fed content on YouTube or on Tik Tok or X by algorithms. These platforms were already a problem because of their business model. And the business model, you know this, but maybe not everybody does, is essentially to get your attention to sell ads. Uh, and that's the business model of the network platforms. This was already leading to polarization to uh extreme views uh predominating because extreme views are more engaging. If I say something very

moderate and sensible like well Adolf Hitler was a bad man and it's good that Winston Churchill was prime minister of Britain, that's not particularly exciting. But if I say the real villain of World War II was Churchill and Adolf Hitler was cool, that's more engaging. more people pay attention and so the algorithm promotes that and it demotes what I say. This was already bad even 10 years ago. But artificial intelligence is so much more powerful than it than it was 10 years ago that the algorithm is much more effective at targeting you and targeting individuals and feeding individuals more of what they like, more of what they react to. So in this sense,

the old way of writing books and articles or doing TV doesn't work. Unless you are able to compete with the influencers on these platforms, you will lose the argument because it's not really argument at all. It's just a battle for attention. And I think in that battle for attention, the trolls and the bots are beating the historians. So I'm a failure. I failed. My life's

work was futile. but still have time to to win this battle or you [snorts] you believe you're a failure. >> I I think it would be very hard and probably futile to go on TikTok and try to out outrage to compete with the people who are peddling Holocaust denial or Holocaust trivialization. I think it it would be kind of pointless if I did short videos on Tik Tok say actually the archives show us that Hitler was very evil and the Holocaust really happened. I mean how many people are really going to be moved by that? So I think the

problem is not something I can address as we argue in the piece. Ultimately we all have to ask ourselves is it a good use of our time to consume rage bait? Is that really what we should be doing with our time? And we also need to say to the platforms, hey, you need to distinguish between human content and AI content, which currently they don't. You can't tell a bot from a person on these platforms. So these are the things that

we suggest. >> Neil, talking about the maybe the two biggest problem right now, the is the influence of AI and the cold war too. Um, which of which of those two factors worry you more today? The consequence of AI or the consequence of code war that you already reading that we we are the Soviets right now. So well you can't separate these two things because artificial intelligence is one of the areas in which the two superpowers >> are competing. There is an AI arms race

between the United States and China. Nobody else is really in this race. It's essentially a two-horse race. And because the models are becoming more and more powerful, the United States models are somewhat in the lead. Uh these closed models made by Anthropic and Open AI and the Chinese open-source models are a little bit behind. Moonshots K3 is

pretty close. Uh it's quite a dangerous race. In particular, we now see the capabilities of the models for cyber warfare are extremely advanced. This was the revelation of anthropics mythos. And so there's a real potential for conflict in cyerspace between the superpowers. This is a new

kind of cold war and I think it's a very dangerous one. So these are two related issues. Now there's also a race going on within the United States as well as within China between the different companies and that race in the United States is producing I think already unintended consequences. Uh we've talked a bit about the effect on historical understanding but there are many other things that I think one could be worried about. One of the obvious dangers of delegating our research to artificial intelligence is that we stop thinking for ourselves and this is something one sees very clearly in universities. Uh

students increasingly use chat GPT or other models to summarize the readings, work out the essay plan and write the essay. Now, if you delegate all those things to a large language model, you're not learning anything. In fact, you're getting dumber.

Fore this episode.