---
video_title: "O GRAVE ALERTA DE NIALL FERGUSON PARA O MUNDO | Market Makers #394"
video_id: jQZEg6CG2J0
channel_name: "Market Makers"
channel_id: UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jQZEg6CG2J0
video_date: 2026-08-02T21:00:06+00:00
video_description: |
  O Brasil está caminhando para uma crise da dívida? A inteligência artificial está destruindo nossa capacidade de distinguir verdade e mentira? E uma guerra envolvendo Estados Unidos, China e Taiwan poderia ameaçar o domínio global do dólar?
  
  Neste episódio do Market Makers, Thiago Salomão recebe Niall Ferguson, um dos historiadores mais influentes do mundo, para uma conversa sobre o futuro do Brasil e as grandes transformações econômicas, políticas e tecnológicas do nosso tempo.
  
  Ferguson analisa o crescimento da dívida pública brasileira, o peso dos juros reais, a possibilidade de reformas semelhantes às realizadas por Javier Milei na Argentina e os obstáculos políticos que o Brasil enfrenta.
  
  A conversa também aborda a corrida de inteligência artificial entre Estados Unidos e China, os riscos da desinformação algorítmica, o uso de IA nas universidades, o futuro da educação e a dificuldade de preservar a verdade histórica em um ambiente dominado por plataformas e algoritmos.
  
  No cenário internacional, Niall Ferguson explica por que guerras modernas podem durar mais do que o esperado, como drones mudaram o equilíbrio entre adversários e quais acontecimentos poderiam transformar as guerras regionais atuais em um conflito global.
  
  Neste episódio:
  -O verdadeiro risco fiscal do Brasil.
  -Por que juros reais elevados tornam a dívida mais perigosa.
  -O que o Brasil poderia aprender com Javier Milei.
  -Como a IA pode modificar nossa compreensão do passado.
  -A corrida tecnológica entre Estados Unidos e China.
  -O futuro do dólar como moeda de reserva.
  -O risco de uma guerra por Taiwan.
  -Por que guerras são mais fáceis de começar do que de terminar.
  -A crise das universidades tradicionais.
  -Os sinais de uma possível Terceira Guerra Mundial.
  
  📌 Inscreva-se no canal e ative as notificações para acompanhar as principais conversas sobre economia, investimentos, política e negócios.
  
  📢Apoie o Market Makers e ajude a fortalecer o mercado de capitais no Brasil! Clique no link e torne-se membro do nosso canal por apenas R$7,99 por mês: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCwZwvDC6f0WhcVTG-3aBUTQ/join
  
  📩Entre para nossa newsletter gratuita: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/newsletter_gratuita?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  📢 Anuncie sua marca no Market Makers: comercial@mmakers.com.br
  
  📚Biblioteca Market Makers: https://lp.mmakers.com.br/biblioteca/?xpromo=MI-COMP-YT-DESCRICAO-MM-X
  
  - - - - - - - - -
  
  O GRAVE ALERTA DE NIALL FERGUSSON PARA O MUNDO | Market Makers #394
  Apresentadores: Thiago Salomão (Apresentador do Market Makers)
  Convidado: Niall Ferguson (historiador escocês. Leciona história na Universidade de Harvard, é um pesquisador em Oxford, associado sénior no Instituto Hoover e na Universidade de Stanford e professor emérito da New College of the Humanities)
  Edição: Pedro Pereira
  Captação: Renan Moncoski, Diego Danta e Rafael Torres
  
  #NIALFERGUSON #GEOPOLÍTICA #AI #MERCADOFINANCEIRO #MARKETMAKERS #THIAGOSALOMÃO
---
the trolls and the bots are beating the historians. So, I'm a failure. I failed. My life's work was futile. >> [music]

>> A new generation of podcasters and broadcasters and people on social media simply trivialize the Holocaust. Will say that Hitler is cool. >> Influence of AI and the Cold War II. Which of Which of those two factors worry you more today? [music] >> Students increasingly use ChatGPT or other models to summarize the readings, [music] work out the essay plan, and write the essay. Now, if you delegate

all those things, [music] you're not learning anything. In fact, you're getting dumber. >> How How can you see the the future of the dollar in the situation that we are talking about? >> You know, what are you going to replace the dollar with when Europe's a museum, Japan is an elderly care home, and Bitcoin's an experiment? So, there isn't an obvious successor to the dollar.

>> Yesterday was in a dinner and you have a a long conversation about Brazil, especially about the fiscal problem about Brazil. >> Now, if the real interest rate is higher than the growth rate, then a debt crisis can very rapidly arrive. There needs to be fiscal reform urgently. Otherwise, I think the country's going to find itself in a good old-fashioned Latin American debt crisis. >> In your time in Brazil and your conversations, [music] do you perceive someone who looks like Milei or >> It takes a crisis of [music] very severe proportions to bring a radical reforming figure like Milei to power. Uh Brazil

isn't bad enough for that kind of political change. >> Are you ready for a World War III or >> George Orwell said a cold war is a peace that is no peace." [music] That is our situation today.

Welcome to Market Makers. Are you ready for our conversation? >> As ready as I'll ever be. >> Okay, so I would like to start talking about Brazil because I I listened that yesterday was in a dinner and you have a a long conversation about Brazil, especially about the fiscal problem about Brazil. I don't know if you it's right, but you told that we are looking to the the the wrong side of our problem. The

problem of fiscal in Brazil is not what we are focused. What's the fiscal problem in Brazil? >> Well, I'm not an expert on Brazil and almost all of your listeners know more about Brazil than I do. So, that's the the caveat. And it's a very dangerous thing to fly into a country and then start opining about it. However, since you ask if one

looks at Brazil's situation, it is striking how rapidly the public debt has risen uh particularly since President Lula came back into power. And if you compare it with other Latin American countries, the trend is is bad, but the really important thing about the debt is not the level relative to gross domestic product, it's the interest rate on the debt. And that is very high nominally and in real terms, in other words, adjusting for inflation. Now, if the real interest rate is higher than the growth rate, then a debt crisis can very rapidly arrive. So, I think when one looks at Brazil's situation, it's really quite bad and it's not on a good path. There needs to be fiscal

reform urgently, otherwise I think the country is going to find itself in a good old-fashioned Latin American debt crisis. So, that's my view. >> Okay, no, makes sense. And talking about then this urgency, we could look to the election in Brazil. And we have to choose a new leader for us. And well,

we we know your admiration for Javier Milei and as a well leadership and can you see some possibility to have a Javier Milei in Brazil or what Brazil has to do to have Javier Milei >> Right. >> Well, it's always a mistake to say that Argentina should be Brazil's example, particularly after the World Cup. So, I'm going to be very careful about what I say here, but it's true that Mr. Milei has had a transformative impact on Argentina's public finances. He eliminated the deficit. Uh they run a

surplus. And he's done this in a free market way by reducing spending and as well as liberalizing the economy. So, it's a very good example for other Latin American countries. Actually, it's a good example for all countries. The United States needs Javier Milei. The

United Kingdom needs Milei and so does Brazil. Brazil needs to do something like this. In the kind of general trend, Latin America is moving to the right overall. >> Mhm. >> But Brazil is the exception here and the it's odd because if one looks at the legislature, that is actually quite conservative. I think public opinion is

shifting that way, but there's a barrier to this political shift. It's partly that Lula is a serial election winner. He's just one of the most accomplished politicians in modern Latin American history. But then the other problem and the bigger problem is the division of the right. And because Flavio Bolsonaro is not a particularly popular figure, it is possible, not certain, but it's possible that Lula's going to win again despite his age and despite the fact that his ideas are completely out of date. So, this is Brazil's problem. It's

It's a political problem, and that political problem is going to make the fiscal problem worse. At least, that seems likely. >> Well, but in your time in Brazil and your conversations, do you perceive someone who looks like Milei, or do you have any possibility to have this in Brazil, or we have to to to get even worse in our crisis to to show some kind of solution? >> I think one of the lessons of Argentina is that it takes the brink of hyperinflation. It It takes a crisis of very severe proportions to bring a radical reforming figure like Milei to power. And just like England, uh Brazil

isn't bad enough for that kind of political change. So, one can see something very similar going on in England right now, where the Labour Party is in power, despite the the unpopularity of the Prime Minister, Sir Keir Starmer. We just had to change Prime Minister, but we aren't really changing the policies, and Britain continues to spend too much, uh to run a deficit, not to do welfare reform. It's quite like the Brazilian situation, where you still pursue these left-of-center policies, social democracy, socialism. It doesn't work.

The economy doesn't grow sufficiently. The debt keeps growing. But, you need things to get really bad for people to take the kind of risk that Javier Milei was at first. And I remember being in Buenos Aires, seeing inflation rising higher and higher and higher, getting towards hyperinflation, and thinking, "The Argentine people are done with populism of the old kind. That they're They're done with the old politics. They're ready to gamble on a

libertarian radical solution. I don't think Brazil is there. I don't think England is there. And in that sense, you probably have some more pain before you get the political gain. >> Wow. Well,

uh well, let's talk about um uh you you wrote recently uh an article that I uh I I like. It's the death of history. It's a long article, but you you compare the effect of AI in our history. And and you all you say that uh the we are losing the battle against the the the lies because the AI is transforming the way that we're looking for the past. So, everybody say is that how AI could change our future, but how AI can change our past and the comprehension of what happened in the world and the consequence in the future.

>> Well, this article was one I co-wrote uh with John Clark Levin, whom I knew when he was an undergraduate in Harvard 15 years ago. He is now a renowned researcher in artificial intelligence. I'm an old historian. Uh and so we teamed up because what I observe is that the things that I've spent my life doing, writing books and articles and newspaper columns and presenting TV shows, all trying to explain modern history to a wide public, I think these things have failed. A large part of my life's work was concerned with the history of uh the Jewish people and with German history.

In particular, in a book called War of the World, I tried to address the question, why did World War II happen, the most destructive event in human history, and why did the Holocaust happen? So, I've spent a lot of my time trying to explain why does Hitler come to power, why does such terrible consequences follow from that, why do 6 million Jews die, why does this catastrophe happen? And it feels as if all my efforts have been in vain because a new generation of podcasters and broadcasters and people on social media simply trivialize the Holocaust or say that Hitler is cool. Nick Fuentes said this. So, all the efforts I've made to try and get young people, people in university that I've taught, to understand the 20th century, it just seems to have failed.

Why? Well, I think we already had a problem with social media. It's not really social anymore. It's really algorithmic media where people are fed content on YouTube or on TikTok or on X by algorithms. These platforms were already a problem because of their business model. And the

business model, you know this, but maybe not everybody does, is essentially to get your attention to sell ads. And that's the business model of the network platforms. This was already leading to polarization, to uh extreme views uh predominating because extreme views are more engaging. If I say something very moderate and sensible like, "Well, Adolf Hitler was a bad man and it's good that Winston Churchill was Prime Minister of Britain." That's not particularly exciting. But, if I say,

"The real villain of World War II was Churchill and Adolf Hitler was cool." That's more engaging, more people pay attention, and so the algorithm promotes that and it demotes what I say. This was already bad even 10 years ago. But, artificial intelligence is so much more powerful than it than it was 10 years ago that the algorithm is much more effective at targeting you and targeting individuals and feeding individuals more of what they like, more of what they react to. So, in this sense, the old way of writing books and articles or doing TV doesn't work. Unless you are able to

compete with the influencers on these platforms, you will lose the argument because it's not really an argument at all. It's just a battle for attention. And I think in that battle for attention, the trolls and the bots are beating the historians. So, I'm a failure. I failed. My life's work was

futile. >> But, you still have time to to win this battle or you you believe you're a failure? >> [sighs and gasps] >> I I think it would be very hard and probably futile to go on TikTok and try to out outrage, to compete with the people who are peddling Holocaust denial or Holocaust trivialization. I think it it would be kind of pointless. If I did short videos on TikTok say, "Actually, the archives show us that Hitler was very evil and the Holocaust really happened." I mean, how many people are

really going to be moved by that? So, I think the problem is not something I can address. As we argue in the piece, ultimately we all have to ask ourselves, is it a good use of our time to consume rage bait? Is that really what we should be doing with our time? And we also need to say to the platforms, "Hey, you need to distinguish between human content and AI content." Which currently they

don't. You can't tell a bot from a person on these platforms. So, these are the things that we suggest. >> You're talking about the maybe the two biggest problem right now. The is the influence of AI and the Cold War II.

Um Which of Which of those two factors worry you more today? Is the consequence of AI or the consequence of Cold War II that you you already reading that we we are the Soviets right now. So, >> Well, uh you can't separate these two things because artificial intelligence is one of the areas in which the two superpowers >> Mhm. >> are competing. There's an AI arms race between the United States and China.

Nobody else is really in this race. It's essentially a two-horse race. And because the models are becoming more and more powerful, the United States models are somewhat in the lead. Uh these closed models made by Anthropic and OpenAI and the Chinese open-source models are a little bit behind. Uh Moonshots' Kimi 3 is pretty close. Uh

it's quite a dangerous race. In particular, we now see the capabilities of the models for cyber warfare are extremely advanced. This was the revelation of Anthropic's Mythos. And so, there's a real potential for conflict in cyberspace between the superpowers. This is a new kind of Cold War, and I think it's a very dangerous one.

So, these are two related issues. Now, there's also a race going on within the United States as well as within China between the different companies. And that race in the United States is producing, I think, already unintended consequences. Uh we've talked a bit about the effects on historical understanding, but there are many other things that I think one could be worried about. One of the obvious dangers of delegating our research to artificial intelligence is that we stop thinking for ourselves. and

this is something one sees very clearly in the universities. Uh students increasingly use ChatGPT or other models to summarize the readings, work out the essay plan, and write the essay. Now, if you delegate all those things to a large language model, you're not learning anything. In fact, you're getting dumber. And I think that's a a real concern in my world of education. Until

we stop the students cheating, large language models are going to undermine traditional education. So, there are a bunch of things we can worry about. I could go on and on. There are lots of downside risks. Clearly, there are good things about AI, which we keep being promised. It's going to bring about a

revolution in medical science. Great. Hard to be against that. But, I think the lesson of the last 20 years is that if you look at new technologies and think only about the upside and don't think about the downside, you're going to repeat the mistakes we made with with social media, which I I think it's it's clear we're already doing. The The techno-optimist view that everything is awesome about this new technology, I think is dangerous because the risks are obvious.

If you create models so powerful as as Mythos or Fable, uh and they're simply generally available, it is obvious that criminals will use them. Uh and psychopaths will be tempted to use them to design, for example, lethal viruses. That That's the kind of thing that seems quite likely to happen unless we are more careful than we're currently being. Now, of course, Cold War II between the US and China would be dangerous without AI. It could be dangerous just in terms of nuclear weapons. Uh but, I think AI

makes this new Cold War more dangerous than the first Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union. >> How do you use in AI in your life? >> Well, it [snorts] would be very foolish to ignore it, and so I've been testing it to see what it's capable of. In particular, I want to see if I am obsolete. You know, could a large language model write my next book better than me? I need to see that. I need to

try that out and find out what it's capable of. As a research tool, it's powerful but unreliable. So, my advice to anybody using a large language model for research is don't trust and verify. You know, don't trust it. It will make stuff up. It will take shortcuts. It's

not a reliable researcher, even though it can seem very powerful. Because remember, the models are trained to be plausible. They're trained to sound like human discourse and to read as if they really know what they're talking about. But actually, that's not always the case. So, you have to be very careful.

And I've run enough tests, run enough experiments to see how risky it is to use large language models uncritically. So, it's not trust but verify. It's don't trust and verify. >> Trust and verify. Well, let's talk about dollar and especially let's start with Federal Reserve. Because right now we have a new

boss in Federal Reserve. And I would like to know your opinion about the this new leadership as Kevin Warsh. Can you expect some kind of extructural change in the way to to the way of Federal Reserve could act or do you have a unsurprising continuation? And the future of dollar because we are seeing uh even more uh acting the the president of US in the the path of Federal Reserve if you are concerned about it. >> Well, I should issue a disclaimer. Kevin Warsh is a

friend of mine. We've known one another many years and uh therefore what I'm going to say is is is skewed by my friendship with him. >> Okay. >> I think [snorts] he will be uh a terrific Fed chair. I think he will be a better Fed chair uh than uh I won't say how many of his predecessors, but he will be a better Fed chair than Jay Powell has been because Jay Powell has not been a successful Fed chair. You can't be

deemed a success if you allow inflation to go so far above a 2% target that it hits 9% which it did uh as you'll remember in 2022. So, I think Kevin Warsh will be a better Fed chair than Jay Powell uh partly I think because he's uh a a more sophisticated thinker about financial markets. Uh remember Kevin has experience. He was at the uh Fed uh during the financial crisis. So, he has experience, but he's also worked for many years with one of the great investors of all time, Stan Druckenmiller.

And so, I'm I'm basically quite optimistic. I also like what Kevin has begun by doing. Uh he said uh we're not going to communicate the way the Fed has been communicating since the financial crisis. Enough with forward guidance. Enough with thinking you can talk the markets into a certain expectation of inflation. So, that's the first change

that he's signaled. And he's also uh initiated a review of many aspects of what the Fed does and he's brought brought in some tremendous experts like Mervyn King, the former governor of the Bank of England, Raghuram Rajan who used to run the Reserve Bank of India. These are brilliant people. What they have in common, if you look at the list of people he's brought in for this outside assessment, is they share his criticism, at least part of his criticism, of the way the Fed has been run since 2008, really since the financial crisis. Skepticism about the use of the balance sheet is one feature of this shift. I think a

broad skepticism about the way the Fed has communicated. So, there is a shift happening here that I think is quite profound and good. Of course, markets will take time to adjust to a Fed that doesn't constantly talk to them and try to guide their expectations of inflation. But, I think it's a healthy shift, and I think Kevin's sufficiently sophisticated to manage the shift without causing the kind of alarm that might upset markets. So, I'm pretty optimistic about the new look Fed. I think it's going to turn out

better, certainly than the Powell Fed. >> Okay, but you are optimistic about the Fed, but the market has to adjust of this new Fed. What What it means this adjust? Do we have to to consider that we live with higher rates than the the last years? Is that what you're saying?

>> Well, I think the problem probably will have to be a rate hike this year, sooner or later, given the inflationary pressures that have been generated by the closure of the Strait of Hormuz. And remember, we're back to the situation in which there is a real closure of the strait, and the oil market is being impacted, and we see the price of oil back up in the '80s to '90s range. So, it would be odd if the Fed just ignored that. That was one of the mistakes that the Fed made back in 2021 was to kind of say, "Oh, don't worry. Inflation's transitory. We don't need to do

anything." I mean, that was the mistake of the Powell Fed. So, I I'm pretty clear that that Kevin Warsh is going to send a signal that this is a hawkish Fed on inflation, and it does not tolerate inflation as far above target as it currently is. One of the things that people worried about when Kevin Warsh was being confirmed was, "Oh, is President Trump going to have this uh this soft touch, this uh weak chair that he's just going to be able to call up and tell to cut rates?" That's not Kevin Warsh. Kevin

Warsh is going to show, I think, early on that he's quite independent of presidential pressure. And no doubt President Trump at some point will complain that he has raised rates instead of cut rates. I think Kevin will be quite happy to have a little bit of condemnation on Truth Social. It will establish his independence. >> Wow.

Um And and talk about the future of the dollar. Uh you you wrote the the the ascent of money. You argue that financial story is inseparable from from political story. And uh how how can you see the the future of dollar in the situation that we are talking about Cold War II, AI, and all of these that happened in the world? >> Well, I I wish I had a a Bitcoin for every op-ed that I've read in the last 40 years predicting the decline of the dollar. I mean, they they come out at at

pretty high frequency. I've even written some of those pieces myself. But the dollar hasn't really greatly shifted its role as a reserve currency or transactions currency since the 1990s. There hasn't really been a big change. The Europeans created a new currency, the euro. It did not displace the dollar

even although clearly the European monetary union is a big advanced economy. So the dollar is dominant and Larry Summers' old joke still holds. I remember him saying this in 2019, you know, what are you going to replace the dollar with when Europe's a museum, Japan's an elderly care home, China's a jail, and Bitcoin's an experiment. So there isn't an obvious successor to the dollar and I think much of what has happened in the last 20 years in terms of the outperformance of the US economy compared with say Europe, that means that the dollar continues to be an attractive currency. What could change that? Well, the US is pursuing a

pretty reckless fiscal policy. It's not just Brazil. Look at the way that the US debt [clears throat] has grown particularly since the financial crisis. If the US continues to pursue a reckless policy with deficits of 6% of GDP year after year after year, at some point it's going to enter a zone of fiscal discomfort and potentially fiscal dominance, but I think the real challenge would come if the United States was no longer clearly the number one superpower. So if the United States lost a war, for example, a war with China over Taiwan, then I think investors would have to think again about just how much dollar exposure they wanted to have.

And that's the lesson of British history. The pound was the dominant currency 100 years ago. It lost that dominance ultimately because of the fiscal cost of World War II and then the subsequent costs of imperial overstretch. And I draw parallels between 1956 and 2026, the Suez crisis when Britain tried to overthrow the government of Egypt and ended up closing the Suez Canal, was a huge shock to Britain's dominance of currency markets. It really was a turning point for sterling.

If the United States is not careful, it can have its own version of the Suez crisis with Iran and the closure of the Strait of Hormuz. So, ultimately, no currency is forever. No empire is forever. And so, American power and the power of the dollar, those things are closely linked. If American power really declines, which has not yet happened, but if it really does decline, then at some point people will begin to use alternatives to the dollar, but we're not there yet.

>> And and we're talking about war. A lot of people underestimated how long the war in Ukraine last, and then on the iron, too. Why do wars always last longer than analysts predict? >> That's a great question. They don't always last longer. It's worth noticing

that some wars are very short. If you look at all the wars that have happened since around 1800, a really substantial number are very short, less than a year. Sometimes measured just in days. Think of, for example, the war of 1973 between Israel and the Arab states. That was very brief in its duration. So,

there are plenty of short wars in history, and that may explain the short war illusion. Now, the classic case of a war that lasted much longer than anyone expected was World War I. Most people in Britain thought the war would be short because it would be unsustainable for the combatant powers. It lasted 4 and 1/4 years. The same is true of the war between Russia and Ukraine. The beginning, most people

thought it would be very short. They either thought that President Zelenskyy would be overthrown, and Russia would take over in a matter of days. Or they thought after Russia failed to take control of Kyiv, that Putin would settle. And it's now lasted longer than World War I. We're now in the fifth year of that war and there isn't an obvious end in sight. The war in Iran is

worryingly going on much longer than President Trump intended. And the reason I think for this uh, phenomenon of wars lasting longer than we expect now is partly technological. It is possible for a weak adversary to sustain conflict longer than expected because of drones. Uh, drones are a very cheap, very effective form of warfare and the Ukrainians have used drones to frustrate the much superior armed forces of Russia. And the same way Iran is using drones as well as missiles to frustrate the superior power of the United States. I

think this is one of the new features of the 21st century. Asymmetrical warfare has got much, much more asymmetrical as a result of developments in technology. >> Neil, there's a iconic photo from Trump's, you know, inauguration after the election with Zuckerberg, Bezos, Musk and all uh, exec- executive C-levels from technology companies and I would like to hear your opinion about uh, how worried do you have to say about it, the the closeness between tech billionaires and the government? Is there some kind of uh, point to worry or is that a normal situation in this new world as we live in? >> Well, it's a very different situation from the situation back in 2016 because 10 years ago when President Trump uh, was running uh, for election, there was a kind of distance between the Trump campaign and the technology companies.

Silicon Valley 10 years ago was overwhelmingly democratic. Uh very very few people except Peter Thiel. He was the one exception were supportive of Trump. Uh and I think think that's that's actually not a good situation to have the most sophisticated companies in America all on one side politically. So, it's actually good that in Trump 2, there has been at least a partial alignment. It's not complete, but a

partial alignment of uh Silicon Valley and the US government. Uh so, the relationship should be close. After all, these companies are at the frontier of technological innovation. You want them to be in communication with uh the federal government. What's bad is if the government uh and uh key elements, key figures in the government profit personally from their relationships with any part of the economy. And I think a

big question has to be how corrupt is this administration. Because at least uh on the face of it, this is the most corrupt uh administration we've seen in the United States in 100 years. And that's going to lead to adverse consequences. If the Democrats win uh the House of Representatives, there will be investigations and they're going to find, I suspect, some very embarrassing things. But, generally speaking, it's good for there to be communications between the government and business.

After all, artificial intelligence, as we've already discussed, has dangers as well as potentials. And it's important that the federal government understands what Anthropic is doing. I think the interactions between the government and Anthropic in the last 2 months have on the whole been positive. I'm I'm far happier that they're talking, Dario Amodei, Scott Bessent, Holden than not talking. I mean, if they were not talking, that would be much worse.

>> Um You're using the University of Austin t-shirt and I would like to know more about you co-founding the University of Austin as a response to the collapse of academic freedom in US. What was exactly the moment you decided was no longer possible to fix traditional universities from within? >> Well, it was 5 years ago that Joe Lonsdale and I, Barry Weissman, a small group of others decided it was time to start a new university. And I think it came out of seeing that what was going on at Harvard, where I taught for 12 years, at Stanford, where I've been based for the last 10 years, was just not going to lead to real reform. I think the obstacles to reforming the established institutions are overwhelming. You've got poor

governance. You've got tenured professors that you can't get rid of who are overwhelmingly on the left. You've got huge bloated bureaucracies who are even further to the left than the professors. How are you going to fix these institutions? It's just not possible. Uh and so we have to start

over. The universities are broken. It can't be healthy that overwhelmingly the faculty of American universities are not just slightly to the left, they're far to the left of the general public. That's just a deeply unhealthy state of affairs and the evidence is overwhelmingly that they used their positions as professors to indoctrinate students, which is completely wrong in my view. So, something needed to be done to create a university that was number one free, that was not politically loaded, but was a space in which people's ideological opinions could range widely. All we should care about

in a university is the pursuit of truth. That should be the goal. Not the pursuit of a socialist agenda or a conservative agenda, but the pursuit of truth. And secondly, what we saw in the universities in the last 20 years is a shift away from meritocracy. Decisions stopped being based on academic excellence, from admissions right the way through to tenuring professors. And

they started to be based on diversity, equity, and inclusion, which is a fancy way of saying there was going to be discrimination. Discrimination on racial basis, discrimination on gender basis. All of that is, I think, completely unacceptable. You can't run a university on the basis of anything other than academic excellence, scholarship. So, that's what makes the University of Austin different. We have a constitution

that commits us to academic freedom, and it also commits us to meritocracy. We're the only university in America of which that can be said.

>> To finish our conversation, are we ready for a World War III or are we living this right now? What's your opinion when people ask about uh World War III? >> Well, look, we can't assume uh that in the great sweep of history there'll only be two World Wars and we're done. There there are all kinds of reasons to worry about a third World War. Uh World War II began as a series of regional wars that coalesced into a single world war. It wasn't really truly

global until 1941-42. In the same way we can see the beginnings of a world war in Ukraine, in the Middle East. I think if there were to be a war over Taiwan, we'd be getting very close to World War III. Nuclear weapons make it riskier to have a large-scale conflict between superpowers. And that I think is the thing to hold on to. It's much much more

dangerous for Donald Trump and Xi Jinping to go to war than it was for their predecessors in 1914 or in 1941. So I think we need to to remember there are real barriers to global conflict, but they're not insuperable. Wars can sometimes happen because of miscalculation or because of deliberate intent. And as we've already established, it's easier to start a war than to stop one. So I think without wanting to alarm your your viewers, there is always a danger of a world war latent in a cold war.

George Orwell said, "A cold war is a peace that is no peace." That is our situation today. That was our situation after 1945. >> You know, before we finish our conversation, we have some quick quick questions that we do to all the interviewers. Um, more personal questions. So

I would like to recommend to our listeners a book and a song. And why this book and why this song? >> Well, everybody is talking about Christopher Nolan's movie, The Odyssey. I I'm not going to go and see it until I have read the original again. So read the original. Read Homer's Odyssey

before you go to the movie. That would be my reading recommendation. And for song, >> A song. >> You know, I >> A song and why the song? >> Well, I I have in my head and it just keeps going round and round in my head God bless America. I was uh in the

United States uh just after 4th uh celebrating the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. I went to this amazing thing called the Bohemian Grove, which is like a camp uh for uh elderly guys, not all elderly. Camp for guys in the uh Redwood Forest in Northern California. And as we sang God bless America amongst the redwoods I thought to myself, this really is the blessed country. That's the song everybody should hear.

>> I suppose you are saying some music about Joey Ramone because we are talking about >> I'm glad to see he's here because I was a Ramones fan from very early on. I I'm a notorious old punk rocker. Was in a punk band in the 1970s in Glasgow. And I saw the Ramones live. >> Oh, really?

>> once, I think maybe even twice. They were great live. Um I've always uh loved uh Rockaway Beach as >> Rockaway Beach >> you know, it's >> Rock rock >> Every time I watch Rockaway Beach it reminds you. >> Or Sheena is a punk rocker. I mean, since all Ramones songs are basically the same, they all begin 1 2 3 4 and they all last 2 minutes and they all basically use the same chords. You could

pick any Ramone song and have the same fantastic feeling listening to it. But uh any of your viewers who don't know the Ramones, you need to listen to the Ramones. The the only really good punk band that came out of the United States because punk was basically British. >> Well, listen to Ramones. That's the the most important thing about this interview.

>> Except Beat on the Brat. I think Beat on the Brat with a [laughter] baseball bat is probably the worst song about child care. >> so uh Joey Ramone's mother uh explaining about this song is is very good. >> I did I don't know the back story but I always felt that you know I have five kids I have five five kids and I've never used a baseball bat. >> Very good information but and to finish what's the the greatest kindness someone gave to you?

In your life. >> That's a great question. I think my father uh showed me the most kindness. I should probably say my my mother and father but but my father's kindness to me was that he always made it clear what would make him proud. But not openly, not explicitly.

It was very subtle. And I got my payoff. Uh when I came back from Oxford I'd achieved the best possible results in my final examinations. And for one of the only times in our life that I remember he hugged me on the station the railway station platform. The kindness he showed me was the kindness to motivate me.

But not not painfully. Just to give me the motivation of love. That's the greatest kindness you can show your children. >> Well I I have to thank you for this interview. Um I hope you enjoy Brazil in your stay here and >> Always love being here. Always love it.

>> And the next time Market Makers you always waiting for you. >> Thank you so much. It's been a pleasure. Thiago.

>> every month with me

Charlie Munger doesn't seem to be used to by expectativa and so no dis my interview is that no travel and as the sports are very good and he understood and so better impossible

Oh good and feliz Hey good and feliz

Hey English courageous It is long and fluent but I mean no intermediate

I follow this fluent but no way So if [music] you want to see a video complete of the backstage of this mega interview that I did with Neil Ferguson go to my channel and we are putting a special video there in the channel of Tiago Salomao