---
video_title: "Testing your intuition for quantum computing"
video_id: XX8mjBXBqz8
channel_name: "3Blue1Brown"
channel_id: UCYO_jab_esuFRV4b17AJtAw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XX8mjBXBqz8
video_date: 2025-04-30
video_description: |
  Full video: https://youtu.be/RQWpF2Gb-gU
---
[Translated by Grant Sanderson. Submit corrections at criblate.com] Let me show you a quiz that most people get wrong. Imagine I have a function and there's going to be one special number where if you input it to the function it returns true, but on all other inputs it returns false. And let's say you know that special input is somewhere among the first n numbers.

If you want to find that special value and the only thing you're allowed to do with this function is to simply try it out on inputs, then there's really no better method than guessing and checking. On average, this would take N halvesteps and following the CS convention of disregarding constants like that 1/2 people would call this a runtime of big O of n. Now here's your for the equivalent version of this question. But in a quantum computer where you're given a function that is in a certain sense triggered by one unique value out of the first n numbers, how many times would you have to use this mystery function to be able to find that mystery value? I threw this quiz up as a YouTube post giving the options of O of square root of N, O of log of N, O of log of log of N and O of one.

To be fair, without defining quantum computing or defining what this function would look like in that context, the question is not really coherent. But it's meant as a gut check. In the responses on YouTube and also many other times that I've presented this as a live talk, the two most common answers are not correct. I just put up a full video describing how quantum computers would actually approach this problem. If you just want the answer to this quiz, you can jump to the timestamp 3:50.

Now, I realize you're probably in a little bit more of a scroll through short content on your phone mood right now, but if at some point you want a half-hour explainer for the fundamentals of quantum computing walking you through a specific algorithm, well, that full video will be there waiting for you.