---
video_title: "Measuring the entropy of English"
video_id: -7etvZSBxlk
channel_name: "3Blue1Brown"
channel_id: UCYO_jab_esuFRV4b17AJtAw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7etvZSBxlk
video_date: 2026-06-12T13:22:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Full video: https://youtu.be/l6DKRf-fAAM
---
Claude Shannon figured out how the compressibility of English text depends on how predictable it is, so he made multiple attempts at understanding the probability of each new character in English. His earliest experiments involved looking at specific short sequences of characters and tracking the statistics of what tended to follow. For example, you could scan through a couple books, look at every instance where you see the letters TH and build up a table of what tends to follow and how often. The problem here is that this completely breaks down for longer sequences of characters, most notably those that never show up in the text you're looking at. But longer sequences give more context to guide a prediction, which means that's when text is at its most predictable and hence most compressible.

So to really understand the compressibility of language, he needed some other way to ask about these probabilities. So he turned to one of the most readily available models of language available to him in the 1940s: His wife, Betty. As the story goes, he pulled out a book and asked her to predict each new letter from a given passage. Every time she guessed incorrectly, he wrote down the correct letter, and every time she guessed correctly, he would replace the letter with a dash. His idea was that this new string of text had fewer actual letters, but it carried the same information, in the sense that it should give just the right prompting for a duplicate of his wife to fill in the entire text.

This was a start, but his formal definition of information requires knowing the actual probabilities assigned to new letters, so he needed something better. In his 1950 paper, Prediction and Entropy of Printed English, Shannon outlined an experiment interviewing more people where instead of just logging whether their guess was correct or wrong, he would record how many guesses were necessary for his human guessers to come up with the correct next letter. Separately, he combined the idea of statistics with short sequences with number of guesses to make an estimate at the implicit probabilities that people were assigning to the true next letter, based on their number of guesses. His final estimate was that given at least 100 characters of context, English should, at least in principle, be compressible down to around 1 bit per character. And I want you to notice, in order to make this estimate, he was forced to go beyond pure data analysis and probe at something intelligent.

Today, more than 75 years later, the way we actually achieve compression close to this limit is not through merely probing at intelligence, but by making our best attempts to engineer it. This all comes from the first video in a short series I'm making about the idea that compression is intelligence. If you want more, take a look at the channel.