---
video_title: "Kill Privacy Forever! They Will Mandate an App to Watch You! Client Side Scanning"
video_id: KoqiNoHrvj0
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KoqiNoHrvj0
video_date: 2025-08-27T16:00:39+00:00
video_description: |
  The EU is currently pushing the EU Chat Control legislation which has majority support. And the UK already passed the UK Online Safety Act last year. Though you think these are European initiatives, you will be surprised to know that all these actually impact us all, and they will impact us permanently. It will mean the absolute elimination of privacy and State control of all communications, if we do not speak out. Once again they invoke the "CSAM" banner to justify what is in fact the biggest overreach in the history of digital communications.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
There's a huge crisis looming and this is brinksmanship here. We're about to tip over into the whole new world of surveillance that will change our digital lives forever. This video is a warning to all. We need to react now or it will be too late. I hate to be too accurate in my videos that normies have labeled as FUD, but notice that I've never retracted anything I've said in a video I've ever done. Never. Often I'm

trying to pass a message to you ahead of the curve so you can react. To some of you, I'm too early so you perceive it as fear-mongering because you're not understanding. Eventually, everything that I've said has come to pass. And here we are in a crossroads again. Certain things are about to happen if the political will isn't there to stop it. First, it will

truly be the end of end to end encryption, which I already predicted. Second, it will ensure the tightest censorship of content subject to political whim. And third, it will enable and normalize a surveillance technology that's been creeping up so reliably closer and closer, and it is device content scanning. I've warned you about your iPhone and specifically the iPhone 16. I've warned you about Windows recall. I've warned you about Google's

safety core. I've warned you about what embedded AI can do. All these warnings relate to one thing really and you need to really understand the terminology. It is called clientside scanning. This is something that all of you need to know intimately because clientside scanning means the absolute end of privacy forever. Well, the sudden crisis is that

the EU is currently considering passing a law which can theoretically be put in motion as early as midepptember 2025 which will mandate this client side scanning technology. I thought this proposal was dead and now it has been revived and is gaining majority support. Currently, it is called EU chat control. Forget the fancy words. you will find out what this is all about and how this affects you. The precursors to this

technology are already in place as I've warned you before. Now, this will be combined with other features like EU age verification which is also in the works. You might think this is an EU only thing and you have nothing to worry about elsewhere. Sorry folks, but the technology is the technology. Once you build it in this infrastructure and it is already partially built, then it is a simple matter of turning on a switch country by country. Let's dive into this

immediate crisis. Stay right there.

What's the crisis? As always, politicians are good at buzzwords. So the buzzword justification for moves like EU chat control and EU age verification is that it's for the children. You never hear the word parents in the buzzwords. Apparently everyone wants the government to take care of business and parents will just take a back seat. But the use of the hot

button word child is that it can be an excuse for doing absolutely anything. And unfortunately the governments know this. First let me summarize what's going on. The first law in the works is EU chat control. And by the way, this is a parallel legislation to the UK online safety act, which is already being enforced as of July 2025. That one

passed last year. The main supposed threat covered by this legislation is the famous buzzword cessam, which I can't even define because YouTube will demonetize me. So basically, it means child related porn. The UK version is much more general by the way with a general ban on harmful content. Both these pieces of legislation effectively puts the burden of implementation of stopping this kind of content on every single platform. For example, the

liability to each company allowing this kind of content is 10% of global revenue in the UK and 6% of global revenue in the EU version. basically saying that if you don't abide by their rules to implement this, you are essentially out of business in the EU and UK. I can't imagine any big tech firm willing to pay 10% of their global revenue and still stay in that country. So, the stick is extreme. Follow the rules or you're out of here.

What is the rule? Here's the rule. Each platform is responsible for scanning the content of all traffic pre- encryption, meaning there will no longer be any private traffic whatsoever. And then when there is content that is deemed to be illegal under this law, then the platform needs to identify the content and then forward it to law enforcement. Since there's no way to know in advance if content is illegal, then it becomes vital for every platform to scan everything.

Now, these laws are supposedly limited to photos and videos. But, as I will explain later, forget that. That means nothing. It just means a bunch of stupid politicians who don't understand the technology claim there's a limit. But it doesn't mean the platforms are obligated to do that. Wait, this is the EU and the

UK. How does it affect someone in the US? It's coming. Just stay put. I need to get the foundations in place first.

Clientside scanning technology. I made so many videos on client side scanning already, but I want you all to know this by heart. Clientside scanning means some app will be required to scan your device content. This will be an active enforcer at the device level. If you do something against the rules of the enforcer, you are reported to authorities.

The term client is a technology term that is contrasted against server. Client means your device, your phone, your computer, your tablet, your car. Basically, it translate to devices you think you own because you paid for them. The euphemism server points to the HQ of the platform, which translates to something in the cloud. Meaning, this relates to data storage of the platform somewhere on the internet. There's no

doubt that server surveillance has been happening the whole time and Apple, Google, and Microsoft actively scan your cloud content for something illegal. The change here is that the scan is to happen at the device level on your phone on your computer. And the reason for this is to beat encryption because certain platforms like Signal, WhatsApp, Telegram, etc. do what is called end toend encryption. No one can see what content is being transmitted. So the

solution of the governments is to scan the content pre- encryption. This is not a secret. Past CIA director Brennan, you know, that guy who's in the news a lot lately, stated when he was in charge that the solution to overriding encryption is to scan content before encryption. So this has been the end goal of three-letter agencies for a long time now. Thus obviously any attempt to promote a solution to enable client side scanning is a boon to the Brennons of the world. Understand the true motives.

The CSAM argument is just a zucking cover. They've wanted this capability all along. Understand the history. I've been following the words from the players in the last decade. They reveal what they truly want. And while you

think this scanning capability is supposed to be built into each online platform and messaging app, the reality is that this is already being integrated into every OS except for Linux. I will tell you the details in a moment. Again, let me repeat the infrastructure is already there. This is just the legal framework they're mulling over now. They want you, the population, to accept this as normal, just like you accept that phone surveillance is normal. And you really

shouldn't complain because you ought to have nothing to hide. The client side scanning infrastructure. The first salvo in the client side scanning tech was fired by Apple when it announced the neural hash solution to CSAM in August 2021. If you all recall, Apple received a lot of backlash on this. So they publicly suspended the project. But privately the important

component that actually analyzes your content and creates a textbased description is still there and running today. It is called media analysisd. So this is an early AI tool that can analyze images and the general term is called computer vision. While public statements about neural hash imply a halt, the reality is that the infrastructure remains and actually it was discovered that media analysisd was already in place way before the announcement of neural hash and cam. The next salvo in client side scanning came from Microsoft. As you all have heard

from me, early last year, Microsoft revealed the technology called Windows recall. And what is Windows recall? It is actually more sophisticated than media analysisd. This is when Windows takes a screenshot of what you're doing on your computer every few seconds. Then the computer vision AI analyzes what is on screen and then creates a text description of what it saw. Again,

here's a case of a solution supposedly looking for a problem. The whole point to window recall is actually to support the see what you see technology of AI where AI can watch you and then act upon things that you saw. What makes this a big step up from the original Apple computer vision is that this is advanced enough to actually read the actual text from the screenshot. It is not limited to analyzing photos. Then Google just recently followed in 2025 with the release of Google system safety core.

This technology again is computer vision and another implementation of see what you see technology. Not explained of course is that all this can be used by the AI companions. At the moment, none of the AI companions are working yet. And it is a certainty that when Apple intelligence is turned on, then we'll have something more advanced than media analysisd. And this is because both Apple AI and Microsoft AI work from the same AI provider, and that is open AI. What I'm telling you here is

that the client side scanning is now being built into the operating system infrastructure itself. This means it will not be necessary for Signal or WhatsApp to change code since all that is needed is for the OS to do the proper detection of what's on screen and all the messaging apps are off the hook. The surveillance machine will have been permanently embedded. Wait, they say I'm lying. Of course, we have the people who will say I'm lying because media analysisd, Windows recall, Google system safety core don't currently talk to HQ.

Currently, there is no detected messaging between these particular client side scanning modules and HQ. Yes, I know that. But the infrastructure is in place. The next piece in the infrastructure is the AI companion. The AI companion will be able to judge if communication should take place and get instructions from HQ. If someone wants

to challenge me on this, I will ask if this is such a big technological step. Well, of course not. If you have a running AI with the tools for scanning content and text and the AI is already moving content back and forth from the AI servers to the devices, are you saying it is a big deal to turn on the switch? This is the stupidity of people who are so gullible. I have an interesting philosophy in technology. If

the potential is there to use the technology for evil, it will be used for evil. So if there's no technological limitation, what's the limitation? The will of the companies do no evil. Yeah, they took that out. This is not just an EU problem. And this

is where the scope of the client side scanning problem needs to be understood. The technology itself is not limited to the EU. As I already stated to you, the pieces to the see what you see technology are all in place now. Google was the last one I was waiting for. So all the major oss, meaning Windows, iOS, Mac OS, Android, all now support the modules for client side scanning. All

these OSS have an impending release of an AI companion and all state that the AI will be able to understand your desires by looking at your content. meaning it is clear the AI will do client side scanning. So the only missing piece is for a reporting element and this is when the AI squeals on you but I don't do seam. Who cares? This again is a sign of shallow thinking. I'm

trying to raise your intellectual awareness folks. Focus on the technology not on seam. Seam is the ducking cover. I'm repeating myself right? What is the technological difference between spotting CSAM and doing censorship? What

is the difference between child harmful content versus screening opposing viewpoints? There is zero difference. This is the stupidity of politicians. As I said, they're basically digging their own graves if they're not in political power. The technology can be used for any purpose. Once you put in spy modules

that can see everything, then you might as well do the Orwell version of life where the TV screen is a two-way camera and you report to the TV every day for your daily work assignment. My gosh, this isn't that far away. And the problem here is that the technology allows a different implementation by country. So, China would love this. Any country with a dictator would love this.

Turn on the switch and the technology is there to have eyes on every citizen. There is no possibility of encryption and someone is always watching is the fear only of AI watching. And here's the current state of the technology. To implement CSAM means that the AI computer vision needs to understand the context of content it sees to distinguish between harmless photos and videos like a parent dressing a child versus some more deranged activity. To date, the accuracy of the AI in understanding CSAM is pretty poor.

According to Grock, at least 80% of reported CSAM are false positives. This means it is false to assume that only AI would be watching content. Based on the way this is structured, CSAM would have to be reviewed by human reviewers. And there goes a total elimination of privacy because if you ever take a nude photo or partially nude photo, then there's always a possibility that some human will see it and evaluate it. And again, this assumes that the actual real goal is CESAM. Obviously in the workflow

to identify flag content it can be forwarded to some authority regardless of the reason for flagging so it can always be examined by a human and now we are in the realm of using this tool for intelligence and surveillance. EU says photos and videos only. Here are more dumb politician statements based on the legislation as it is being drafted. They apparently want to state that the limit is for photos and videos only. So whoever is fashioning these rules haven't heard of Windows recall. Windows

recall is already proving that every screenshot is a photo. So everything is everything. Windows can read the text on the photo. Whatever is on screen becomes part of the analyzed content by AI computer vision and is not limited to whatever the governments want to limit it to. This is an example of the technology already surpassing the understanding of the people making laws.

Age verification in both the UK and EU cases. This is also tied to age verification, meaning there has to be an internet ID. You can no longer have anonymity on the internet. Everything you do must be known to the government. Age verification is an interesting concept in theory. I say in theory because I

don't know how you can actually tell if a person online is of a certain age. But trust me on the reality of implementation because parents don't want to control their children and withhold electronics that are not age appropriate. The effective response is that every person in the world needs to be spied on. There's so many experts like legislators in Texas banning certain porn sites for example because of supposed age limitations but really all that happened is that people used more VPNs in Texas. So I doubt if this accomplished anything. The only way to

verify a person is to have an internet ID crossverified with full IDs and photos. Thus, because of parents who don't care, we all now have to be watched on the internet where every post and every website can be attributed to us. Can you imagine a more chilling effect on free speech? Depending on who's in power, those in opposition will cower in fear. The police can knock on your door. Aren't they doing this in the

UK already? The plan implementation in the EU is to have the age verification performed by a central government approved entity. This entity will be responsible for taking your ID and verifying your age. And in exchange, you get to have an ID number issued, which supposedly you can use over the internet. And so I figure you'll have to provide that ID number to get access to certain sites or all sites. The dumb

politicians say the sites do not have to collect personal identification since the ID number is already verified. Uh okay, dumbass. And then the government can directly find out the exact name and address of the person and the username on every particular platform. This includes sites like Signal. By the way, privacy will be dead forever.

Unfortunately, all the elements in the infrastructure are already geared to allow this kind of surveillance. The platforms are expecting it and is already built into AI companions. The problem is that with this talk of CSAM, the attempt is to normalize this behavior. You would be labeled as weird if you don't believe in protecting against CSAM. Anyone against this technology must be evil. Well, this is

what Google and Apple convinced you today. That surveillance on your phone is normal. 247 location tracking is normal. You better not have anything to hide because they will get you. So, you better behave. You better not oppose

anything or we'll cut you off. We'll cut off your social media. Hey, with this digital ID, we could cut you off from the internet if we don't like you. In China, they can already cut off your money. Let me repeat this folks. Please

step up to the plate and speak out. CSAM is a scam. Look at the letters. They're so close. Forget CSAM. Understand the

technology you're enabling. If you accept this, don't accept this. Speak out. Support the privacy cause. Folks, this channel relies on your support for us to provide this content.

Thank you to those who have chosen to donate to us via Patreon, YouTube memberships, and locals. Unlike other channels, I have not relied on sponsorships or donations. Instead, we have just created products that we hope can compete in the open market and hopefully give you direct value in your privacy quest. You will find links in the description for the various tools we offer like the BRA 3 privacy phone which is sold on bratech.net.

We offer other products on our store on Brax. We have the Bra virtual phone, Brax mail, BitesVPN and other phones. Thank you for watching and see you next time.