---
video_title: "Find a COMPATIBLE Linux Computer for $200+: Roadmap to Linux. Part 1"
video_id: Zt9gH34Zw2Q
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zt9gH34Zw2Q
video_date: 2025-10-01T16:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  00:00 Intro
  02:40 What Devices Will Work
  05:43 Intel Chips
  08:17 AI Use 
  10:02 Recommended Computers
  14:56 Linux Only Models
  18:14 Other Models (Honorable Mentions)
  23:39 Performance Comparisons
  24:56 Let's Look at Ebay
  27:06 Summary
  
  Just recently, Windows Copilot got activated on Windows 11 in its full form where the AI companion is now watching everything you do on screen and doing screen shots every few seconds. Then it stores your every action historically. Truly the biggest invasion of privacy ever and they will duplicate your brain on the computer.
  
  The only OS that's free from this AI Companion BS is Linux. So it's time to move since the spyware is here now on Windows and coming shortly to MacOS and iOS. And it is also now on Google Android.
  
  This is a series and in this first segment, I will focus on teaching you what kind of computer to buy and this is a modern computer, with modern features for a price between $200-2000. Stay away from cheap new computers. Those are crap and they won't run Linux.
  
  There is no more time and I warned you about this over a year ago and very few of you made the move. Well, there's no choice now.
  
  DUAL BOOT VIDEO
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4VKoG0dKCOk
  
  BOOTING LINUX FROM A USB STICK
  https://brax.me/f/linux-boot.pdf/T4AZ68dd6b72d55db2.94667652
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  Watch for Brax Tablet Crowdfunding on https://indiegogo.com
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
You've heard me state it already over and over, so I won't spend a lot of time rehashing it. I've given you warnings over a year ago. I said to you that the time is coming when the only chance for privacy is if you move over to Linux. Well, that time is here now. Just recently, Windows got updated and finally the full effect of Windows Copilot is here. From now on, your AI

companion is always watching your device. It's Microsoft's touted see what you see and hear what you hear technology screenshots every few seconds and AI interpreting what you do on screen and storing all this historically. If you think you're safe because you're on Mac OS, think again. Apple has been doing clientside scanning for many years now and very soon Apple Intelligence will have the same features as Windows Copilot. Google introduced the Google system safety core early this year. So

that is also the basis of see what you see technology. So now it is built into all operating systems with the exception of Linux. So Linux is the only choice where we don't participate in this AI companion experiment. In this video I will start the series which will guide you to moving to the Linux environment. What I will introduce to you here is how you can get started on Linux starting from a low budget and it isn't as daunting as you think. First of all, we

will focus on which devices can run Linux and run with the least amount of complications and I will introduce you the computers from a cost of $200 to $2,000. These will be modern devices that will give you a modern experience. Next, these devices I will recommend will all support Linux with no complications out of the box or the acronym I will use is OB out of the box. So, you install it and it should run without any complex driver installations. In upcoming videos, I will then discuss some of the common fears and pitfalls people think they will encounter when using Linux. Then I

will also get into how to properly set up a Linux computer for easiest daily use. Believe it or not, it is no more difficult than using Windows. It's just a little different, but not that different. So, let's start learning the pieces to this. First, let's choose the device. Stay right there.

What devices will work? What's different from my advice versus others on this is that I have owned the majority of devices I'm discussing here and many of them are still used in my office. So, I've had personal experience installing Linux on these. As I stated, my goal here is to avoid complications where your Linux install doesn't work straight from the beginning or OB. remember that acronym. To avoid having a

negative experience, I will recommend only units that are already proven to be completely compatible with Linux. And this is the first reason I'm not suggesting you try Linux on some very old computer you have, unless it's one of the models stated here. Next, all the recommendations I'm making and sticking to a price range of 200 to 2,000 will give you a modern computing experience. Anyway, remember the goal, the more compatible a device is, the less headaches we will have. Most of the top recommendations are premium thin and light laptops, which were very expensive when new, but still perform well even after being purchased used. and they are

built sturdier than cheap computers. In general, older computers typically have Linux compatibility, but we want devices with a premium feel, too, so you enjoy the experience. The typical computers compatible with Linux are those running Intel and AMD CPUs. While old Intel MacBooks from 2012 fit into this category, those devices are too old to recommend. So don't buy those unless you already have one. In general,

don't look for any Apple devices like M1 to M4 to run Linux. While those models support one DRO, Asahi Linux, it is not 100% compatible, so best to avoid that. Another area to avoid are the new Qualcomm Snapdragon X Elite Copilot PCs. This was heavily promoted last year, but Qualcomm dropped the ball on Linux development. So to this day, these devices are not compatible. Move on.

Intel and AMD computers from 10 years ago and newer 2015 and up are good choices, but generally speaking, AMD is not highly visible in the laptop market. They're more common on desktops. So, we will focus on setting a standard of a desired device using Intel measures, and you can search for AMD equivalents if they exist. One other thing to consider is that when running Windows, if your newish device seems slow, you might discover that a 5-year-old model will be snappy as a new one if you change it to Linux. Linux is faster and has a lot less overhead than Windows. So there's

no need to think of five years as the end of life of a computer. Intel chips. The Intel naming convention changed in the last two years. Prior to 2024, the Intel family of CPUs for laptops had the moniker Intel Core i7 or i5 and then a series number. The last of this batch was in 2023 with the chip Intel Core i7 14,000X series. So, it started out from i71000

to 14,000, the first digits indicating the generation. So the last was generation 14 of Intel Core. In my experience, Intel Core i76000 series is still quite functional and that is the oldest I would recommend. That's the reference we will use for the older models. Just to give you a rough timeline, Intel Core 6th generation was 10 years ago. The newer chips have the

new naming convention. Last year it was Intel Core ultra 7 or 5 1 XXH series or series 1. This was also known as Meteor Lake chips. Then the current model is the Intel Core Ultra 7 or 5 2 XXH series 2 or known as the Lunar Lake chips. The biggest difference between the Intel Core Ultra chips of the last two years versus prior models is not the CPU speed. Instead, the issue is having

the ability to do AI locally. So, these newer models have an NPU or neural processing unit and can run Windows C-pilot. Then the latest Lunar Lake chips have the added benefit of having low power draws while improving the AI and the internal GPU performance. I just purchased a brand new laptop with Lunar Lake and for the first time I'm able to do video editing on a thin and light laptop using battery power. It is not necessarily more powerful than before.

In fact, I have a computer from last year which has an Intel Core 14th gen i7 with an Nvidia 4060 and it is more powerful than the newest Intel chip. But the difference of course is that I can do most of what the old computer can do on a thin and light laptop. AI use. As I said, the main benefit of the last two years of Intel chips is the support of AI. While many of you who follow this channel are likely anti- AI, I'm a big user of AI, but the issue is that I need to run AI locally and have control over it. This is in contrast to the AI

companion where someone else is running it and forcing you to use it in their way as well as being spyware. So what I teach you is that you should use AI locally and I encourage you to use it as long as it is under your control like using Olama to run some local LLM. Also, many apps now have AI functionality like Zoom using background blur, video editing apps that do noise reduction on audio, photo editing apps that can manipulate the objects in the photo, and so on. A computer with AI capability futureproofs you so your device can run for many years to come. On the other hand, if you're just starting on Linux and don't want to invest the money yet, then the AI capability will not exist on prior Intel chip models or they will not perform well with AI. But then again, the price

will be good. Remember, our starting price point is 200, which after accounting for the cost of a new SSD drive is like saying the computer is practically free. and you will be able to do what you normally do on the computer that doesn't require intensive CPU GPU power like video editing, gaming, or AI. Recommended computers. I will focus my recommendations on just three specific models of computers.

These particular models have proven Linux compatibility and part of the reason for this is that the companies that made them made a choice to support Linux. So they're troublef free because of it. Number one, Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. The first recommendation, and this is an order of preference for me, is the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon. In case you didn't know, the X1 Carbon is the most expensive business focused laptop, and big corporations buy this in volume. They're usually offered in

2-year leases, so after 2 years, a big dump of this occurs in the marketplace, so they become readily available. This is premium. In fact, the most premium laptop made for business. I just bought one and if I bought it when it first came out, it would have cost close to $3,000. Now that new models are about to come out, I was able to get one cheaper. But the point is that this is

top of the line. If you buy one that's 5 years old today, you will just match its performance with one of those cheap laptops for 500 bucks. Given the choice, you're better off buying a better built used Lenovo ThinkPad than some cheap low CPU new computer. Consider a model from the Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Carbon Gen 5, which uses an Intel i7 6th gen chip. That's a 200 price range, and you can shoot for a better unit based on your budget. It stops being a bargain under 2

years old. At that point, might as well buy the best new and then on sale. This computer is thin and light. These are typically around 2 lbs in weight and made of carbon fiber and magnesium, so it's super lightweight and very wellmade. Very easy to upgrade, too. By

the way, I own a fifth gen X1 Carbon and a brand new 13 gen, so I can assure you that the old one is still quite useful. I'll give performance comparisons later. Number two, Dell XPS 13. The Dell XPS 13 is one of the standard bearers of the thin and light category. This type of laptop is typically high-end when new, and the XPS 13 is very wellmade. I also

currently still have an XPS 13 with an Intel 10th generation CPU on it. So, it's around 6 years old. It still runs fine and regular computing tasks will still run well on it. Although it is highly rated, it is still not as good as the Lenovo. But if you like the styling, this is a good choice. The only problem

with the XPS 13 is that the newer models deviated and for this reason I would not recommend this new. For one, the newest models are not 100% Linux compatible anymore. So that loosened up on that. Next, the way the keyboard is designed is more along the failed Apple approaches like no function keys and a strange keyboard layout. And again, a reminder not to buy the Snapdragon X Elite models of this from last year and this year. So, highly recommended for

use, especially three years old or older, and the prices of these are good in this age. Number three, Asus Zenbook 14. Asus is another maker of premium thin and light laptops, and this is the last recommended brand. One of the standout features of ASUS is that they even have a dedicated place for Linux support issues. So, they take Linux support seriously. The ASUS ZenBook 14

was highly promoted this past year because it was the first to support the Snapdragon XLE chip, but that design of the unit was very high-end. CNCed aluminum, stiff, nice design and high performance, but at a more reasonable price than Lenovo. While Lenovo X1 Carbon hovers near 3,000 new, the Asus ZenBook 14 can be found new near $1,200. And used, of course, they would be much cheaper. However, the Zenbook model was only a premium model in recent years, so I don't know if 5-year-old models would be good. This is a model that's best as a

target for a new computer or if you find a use from a year ago, uh, but unlikely. So, this is the better bang for the buck than Lenovo and it is only slightly less premium in quality than Lenovo, but I was actively looking at this. I could have purchased one Linux only models. There are manufacturers computers that sell only Linux computers. While these are mostly the same as a production Intel or AMD, these are usually using older chips, maybe a generation or two older, and are typically more expensive due to their low volume. The advantage

of a Linux computer is that you don't have to learn to install Linux. It already has Linux out of the box, OB. So, that's a timesaver if you don't know how to install things. But generally speaking, they're not the best as a high-end selection. Here are the choices, and I have personal experience with one of these. Number one, System

76. System 76 is one of the most popular models in the Linux world, and they have some reasonably priced models. Again, maybe a year or so behind in the CPU generation. System 76 also has a privacy and security focus. So, they're also focused on the BIOS and using open- source elements whenever possible.

System 76 is also the creator of the Pop OS Linux DRO, which I use myself, so I appreciate that. Pop OS runs very well, and I use it on my Dell XPS13. Number two, Starlabs. Starlabs is a UK company, and I owned a Starlabs unit some years back. This company is known for making less expensive Linux models cheaper than System 76. My unit broke

once and Starlabs replaced the broken part for me, which is nice considering they're in the UK and it was done quickly in spite of the distance. Later on, the hinges completely broke on the screen and I didn't bother getting it fixed. Again, not the source for high-end performance models and so no AI capable versions. Number three, Tuxedo. I've known of Tuxedo for a few years and it is a German company. However, because

it is in Germany, it is not the best option for my followers who are mostly in North America. But if you're in the EU, this is definitely something to consider. Same as Starlapse, they will tend to focus on CPU chips that are a couple of years old, so not a high performance source. Number four, Brax tablet. Very soon, we'll be starting a crowdfunding project for a Brack Linux tablet on indiegogo.com.

This is intended to be a high-powered ARM tablet running Linux natively and with a keyboard can run as a laptop. Watch out for this in October 2025. Not recommended in the Linux group. The one that I don't recommend is Purism. Their models are very old, which is probably due to lackluster sales and lack of funds, or both. I still have a

Librim 5 phone here from them, gathering dust and unusable even after its high price. The company has a bit of a sketchy reputation over the years, so we'll leave it at that. Other models, Lenovo. Though I introduced you to the Lenovo Think 1X1 Carbon, there are actually several models that are very Linux compatible. My other computer from last year is a Lenovo Legion 5 with Intel 14th gen and Nvidia 4060. This

computer is faster than the new X1 Carbon. However, it is very heavy and hot and it's also expensive. So, if you're not averse to wait and are okay with a desktop replacement, then consider the entire Lenovo Legion line. With the Nvidia card, they are good for AI. Other excellent Lenovo models to search for in the used market are the Lenovo P1, Lenovo T14, Lenovo X9. Just

don't go too far back to the trusty old Lenovo T430s and T460s. Tanks, but too old now. Set a limit of Intel Core Gen 6. Lenovo in general will be Linux compatible throughout its business line. Not true of all other manufacturers.

Dell. in the Dell line. The other models to consider are the entire XPS series, including the XPS15, but again, avoid the very new ones as their design is not good. And I have an XPS15. The XPS15s came with Nvidia, so these are still powerful. The Dell

Latitude line is also made for business, though heavier and not as sturdy, but these are Linux compatible. The consumer Dell models, which is everything else, is not recommended. These tend to be in plasticky cases that will tend to break and will have lower CPU performance. These would typically be sold cheap to begin with. Don't go for this. Buy a

high-end used unit instead. Framework. Framework is made popular by YouTuber Linus Tech Tips. The framework line allows you to build a custom unit yourself to whatever specs you want using a modular design. It is not cheap, but in theory, you don't have to upgrade the unit and are futureproofing yourself since next time you just buy the component and you reassemble it yourself. So, this is an assemble your

own computer format. I see that mostly these use AMD chips and there's a choice for Nvidia cards. Performance will not be an issue, but it is not thin and light. It will be heavy and you will have to install Linux, but AMD is Linux compatible. I have never tried one, so no personal experience unless Framework wants to send me one.

MSI MSI makes high-owered gaming computers and typically they are big and heavy but the units are typically metal so they make good desktop replacements. They are not very portable. They are Linux compatible though and I know this because I have two MSI computers myself and both of the units we have Nvidia cards so they're still going to perform even after many years. In general, gaming computers have the power. Knuck.

The Intel Knuck format of a mini PC has now grown into lots of Chinese manufacturers and Intel itself has left this segment. But the main simplicity of a mini PC for desktop is still active. Because these have no user interfaces, no keyboards, displays, touch devices, hard drives and so on. They are very Linux compatible. I use Nooks for Brack routers and I have several of these myself. Brack routers

run Ubuntu so clearly that's very compatible. You can buy Nooks with close to the latest CPU so they can be an option instead of a used computer if you're okay with a desktop unit. not recommended. Here are the manufacturers I do not recommend for Linux. First is HP. While

HP makes very nice computers and I have used many HPs in the past, they are not Linux compatible. So, they are gathering dust over here. HP doesn't put a priority to supporting Linux. So, I have no priority to supporting an HP product. Don't buy. Microsoft Surface is one of

the worst choices. Obviously, Microsoft has no interest in giving help to Linux. So, the Surface device, even old ones are full of Linux incompatibilities with proprietary devices and drivers that are not sent to the Linux ecosystem. So, don't think of buying any of these. Some other manufacturers like Acer, Samsung, LG cater to the consumer market and are not known for Linux support. So, I would

stay away from these and other brands I didn't mention that don't have a stated Linux support policy. Performance comparisons. The question many of you will ask is how these recommendations will show themselves in real life. And to highlight this, I will perform a benchmark test using Speedometer 3.1 from BrowserBench.

This compares browser performance for each computer. Some browsers do better than others, but I'll try to be consistent and just use Chrome for all. I will show you the results on a Lenovo X1 Carbon fifth generation i7 6000 series CPU which is 10 years old. Then a Dell XPS13 i5 10th generation series CPU which is 6 years old. and a Lenovo Legion 5 with Intel Core 14,000 CPU and Nvidia 4060 which is one year old. A Lenovo X1

Carbon Gen 13 Intel Core Ultra Series Lunar Lake brand new. What do you think? I know seeing raw numbers may not mean much to you, but in reality you will see that even the oldest computer is no more than onethird as fast as a brand new one. So it just tripled in speed in 10 years. That is not a big deal.

Year-over-year improvements have been minuscule in spite of what these companies tell us. Let's look at eBay. Finally, now that I've given you an idea of what kinds of computers to look at, let's look at what we find on eBay. If you search for Lenovo X1 Carbon, you will see that what I said is correct. You will find units as low as 200, which means if they upgraded the hard drive, some of these are actually free, but the quality is still there because the choices I'm giving you are based on the better machines.

Now, let's look at the Dell XPS13 and you will see a lot of choices. But what's interesting is the number of units that are in the newer CPU category like Intel 10th gen and higher, but are still cheap. These are definitely very modern processors still. If you can afford it though, the Lenovas are a bit more sturdy in my opinion.

The next one I want to show you are the ASUS ZenBook 14s. These are not as widely available in the older models because there's no corporate lease source to flood the market.

Frankly, I wouldn't classify Asus in the premium laptop category until recently. So, this would be a choice if you want a fairly new model and really the best bang for the buck if you're looking for a brand new one.

So, there, figure out how much you want to spend, and even $200 can still give you a nice unit. You can even splurge to the 350 level and get an amazing number of choices. Unless you're buying new with AI capabilities, you don't want to spend more than that. Summary. In summary, if you're not interested in AI or apps needing AI for standard computer activity like watch movies, videos, word processing, web browsing, and so on, you can have a nicely functioning machine for $200 to $300.

And you can probably even upgrade the SSD very easily. If you're interested in fancier features like AI or video editing or gaming, then obviously you need one of the newest machines like the ones using Intel Lunar Lake. Either that or you find some slightly older gaming machines that are still going to be very powerful though very heavy. In the next videos, we'll delve into installing Linux itself and showing you the common pitfalls so you don't have any fear of Linux. Linux isn't any more difficult than Windows. It is just slightly

different. It's not that much different. But it is private and that's a very important requirement. Folks, thank you for watching my videos. As many of you know, this channel does not have sponsors and we primarily sustain ourselves by just creating products and services that we use to defend our privacy posture. I'd like to

invite you to visit our community site brackme which has a growing community of privacy enthusiasts. There are people from various walks of life and beliefs and they converge together in the mutual support of privacy issues. We have a store there with products ranging from the Bra virtual phone service, Braxmail, BitesVPN, and other services like flashing an OS. All these are tools used by the privacy aware, and you can even talk to the actual users of the products directly. Join us. We'd love to have you there,

and you don't even have to identify yourself to be part of the community. The very successful Bra 3 phone is also available for pre-order on its second batch. The first batch has been sold out. Information about that is on bratech.net.

Thanks also to those who donate to us on Patreon, locals, and YouTube memberships. You are all appreciated. See you next time.