---
video_title: "BraX3 Setup Guide"
video_id: CCwSz3dsipY
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CCwSz3dsipY
video_date: 2025-08-10
video_description: |
  This video will guide you through setting up your BraX3 phone for the first time.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
So now you've received your Bra 3 phone and some of you don't know what to do and are afraid to start. Today I will tell you some specific instructions that will help those who don't know the first step or have more advanced questions. First of all, what did you buy? Well, this is what I would refer to as a no identity phone or a privacy phone. It's a phone that is invisible to big tech and there's no identifier that can be used to track you and your locations.

Now, bad user actions can affect some of this. So, this guide will at least ensure that you don't make major mistakes. Don't worry, mistakes are very hard to make here. The safety is already built into the design. To start, the assumption here is that you're using a Bra 3 pre-delivered with EOD OS, which is the default currently, but this may change later as Ubuntu Touch is coming soon. This is a Bra 3 phone right here

and I'm going to start from scratch. Let's assume you just open the box. The first thing I would suggest you do is to plug it into some USB charger. Just make sure there's sufficient battery before you proceed. Otherwise, let it charge for a bit. You were given a cable and

I'm sure in today's world you have tons of USB chargers. Otherwise, you can buy one anywhere for five bucks. SIM card install. It is best to install the SIM card immediately if you already have one from another phone. Again, you can even use it temporarily, so you can always bring it back to the carrier to change later.

And you can move SIM cards around back and forth all day. No issues. Sometimes I forget that some people really know nothing about mobile phones. So, if you're in this category, the phone needs a SIM card to get sell service. Otherwise, temporarily, you will need some internet through Wi-Fi. To install

a SIM card, use the SIM pin provided. Pay attention to the orientation of the phone, which faces away from you. Then, the SIM tray is on the right side. Push the pin to the hole, and the SIM tray will come out. Now, lay the SIM card on top. There's a notch on it, so it can

only go in one way. Do not force the SIM tray in. It should be completely flat if you put it in correctly. Then push the tray in gently again without forcing. And now you can turn on the phone. If

you want to install an eSIM, you can do that later. For now, you'll need some Wi-Fi instead of a SIM card. As we've announced, the only carrier that does not support Brax 3 is Verizon USA and their MVNOs's. This is in the world. We are otherwise not aware of any carrier in the world where it will not work. And

the phone is a registered phone model with GSMA setup. First turn on your phone. It is the lower button on the right side. Just depress that until the power comes on and it should show the options I will show here. Now for simplicity sake I will just select all the defaults. it

presents. There's no need to worry about customization at this moment since you can do it later. First, click on start, then language. If you did not insert a SIM card, you will get a SIM card missing message. You can hit next if this is intentional. Next, it gives you

the option to pick from your local Wi-Fi. Hit next to proceed or skip if you don't want to choose a Wi-Fi. Then you get the option for notifications. Just hit next. Then you will set the date and time.

Mostly you just choose a time zone. Then you have the option to restore apps and data which may be possible only if your current phone is using seed vault. Otherwise hit skip. Then leave the locations to defaults. Then set a pin.

After that you have to re-enter the pin. This is important. The PIN code initializes the encryption of the phone. So, don't skip this. But do not forget it either. You may lock yourself out of

the phone if you forget this code. Next, it asks for fingerprint setup. You can do this later. So, scroll down and select not now. Select dark or light theme. Up to you. Select the app

navigation method. I'll often choose gesture because this is the mode most similar to an iPhone. Then hit start and you're done. Now, I didn't tell you to modify some options, so I can discuss those later. And you can choose to turn them on and off at a later time.

Something you will learn now. The first gesture to dismiss an app is to swipe from the bottom where that bar appears. The first screen you see is the home screen where you would put your most common apps. I'll show you that in a moment. But first, to see all the apps, just swipe from the middle of the screen, not from the bottom. Swipe up is

always the complete list of installed apps. If you swipe right or left, you will see your additional app pages where you can organize your apps the way you want. the first page being the home screen. Alternatively, you can just always pull from the list of installed apps which is alphabetical. To move an app icon to a particular page, just drag the icon and then you will be able to drag the icon to any page you want. If

you want to delete an icon, drag the icon to the top of the screen and there will be a remove area to drag the icon into. This will not delete the app, just the icon. To delete apps, you will see app info when you click on the icon. If you tap app info, you will see options to uninstall, disable, or stop the app. Not all apps can be deleted. The

protected ones are system apps. EOD will update these apps directly during regular updates. Although you cannot delete system apps, you can disable them if you wish. Installing apps. The first thing you'd want to do is to install apps. On a standard production

phone, you go to the Google Play App Store or the iOS App Store on iPhones. No such thing here. This phone does not connect to Google by default. The base store for apps found on Google Play Store is the Aurora Store. This is a spoofer app that pulls the app from Google Play Store for you indirectly.

And when you use it, you only choose the anonymous login always. Aurora store is a spoofer store, so Google always tries to shut it down. Thus, it doesn't always work. So, the option is to go to your EOD browser at the bottom. This is actually Firefox, so just go through the initial setup questions once.

After Firefox is running, go to the URL apkpure.com. From here you can install the apkpure.com as an app. There's an option to download the app. Download it and it

will give you the option to open the file. Open it and then it will ask you permission to install the app and allow from this source. Go ahead and grant that permission. If you lose your place, the APK Pure app is in files download. You can just install it from there by clicking on it. Then you should see the

apkpure.com app. Now while the apps are the same from apkpure.com and Aurora store, apkpure.com is very spammy. So you may

accidentally install apps from all that spam. Just delete what you install accidentally. There's no problem with that. Next, optionally, you can do more private apps. And these are apps on the Foid Store. These are typically apps not

as common as the ones used by most people. So you may not be familiar with them. However, I will assure you that Foid apps are by default much safer. Installing Brame. Since many of you already use the Brame app, then you should learn how to install it. Brax does not use any store.

You can install directly from our website. First, go to the browser and navigate to the URL brack. Then, click on the three dot menu on the right and click on add to home screen. That's it. Now, you will find it on your home screen and you can drag it around to other pages. When you log in, it

should then remember your login. So, you just start the app automatically when you click on it. By the way, Braxme is an open- source site, so it is obviously very safe and lots of encryption provided for private conversation and file storage. Settings. Settings is a very important part of controlling what's on your phone. And

so, let me tell you the important things to know. First, you need to be familiar with the network and internet section of settings. That's where you go to see if your SIM card is enabled, and you can set up additional Wi-Fi there as needed. It is also where you would disable the SIM card or go into airplane mode. I'll go into more advanced settings in another video, but the important thing is just learning to enable or disable your SIM card or your data. The second

most important thing you need to know is how to control the settings for your apps and the permissions you've granted. Earlier during setup, I ignored the prompts for location, for example, and that's because you can set location permission by app. So, this is the place to do that. By default, you should limit location permissions to only when you're using the app and if the app deserves that information. I grant location permissions to very few apps and often just temporarily. Normally, I would

leave it off. Depends on the app. If it's a known app that sells locations, then I would be very wary. Next, you need to know about the system menu. This is where you would see the reset options if you want to start fresh. About phone

is where you can find your phone identifiers. If the carrier asks for the IMEI, you go here and then tap on the IMEI button to view the actual number. Some carriers use this to block certain phone models, but BRA 3 IMEI is fully registered with GSMA, so they see it as BRA 3. Next, you should finalize your security settings. So far, I've only asked you to put in the PIN code, which initializes the encryption of the system. But now, you have a choice of

security methods to unlock the screen. If you tap on the device unlock and enter your current PIN, you will have the option to use pattern, fingerprint, swipe or pin code and password. My suggestion for a light user with a trustworthy household is to use pattern. It is much easier. If the household has non-rustworthy members or just for speed of entry, then fingerprint is best.

Fingerprint is based on capacitance of your fingers. By the way, it is not able to record actual fingerprints and you cannot duplicate fingerprints from this data. So, don't be afraid of it. This is likely the most secure and the fastest way to start the phone. The actual encryption is based on the pin code.

This generates a very large random key for use in fileby file encryption, but the fingerprint or pattern is tied to the pin code. Managing active apps. To see what apps are running, just do a slow swipe from that bottom bar and you will see all the running apps. You can stop an app by dragging it upwards. By the way, this page also has the screenshot button.

This is where you take a screenshot. Pick the app you want to screenshot and tap on the screenshot button. Screenshots will then show up in your files app. Files app. It is important to understand the files app on a phone. This is where you

interact with the files you create. There is a folder structure in your font storage and is organized into sections. The most important ones are going to be downloads and images and videos. These will be used by the most common apps. Images and videos is where the camera app will put your photos and videos. And

this is also where you would copy existing media from another device. I'll tell you how to transfer your data a little later. Most camera apps create a folder called DCIM. So just be aware of that name. That's just where your photos are. You can make any folders on your

own here using the file app options to create folders. Then you can move the files around as you need. If you go to the internet and download files or apps, it will typically be placed in the downloads folder. So this is the first place to look when you download something. Often you just click on a file to install an app, for example.

Just be careful here. Do not install apps you do not know. Moving your data from another phone. This is often the most complicated part of having a new phone. So, I will try to give you a basic instruction for this.

First of all, typically you can only move contacts and photos from one phone to another. The rest is usually handled within the app. For example, if you're running Signal, you need to follow Signal's instructions for moving from one phone to another. This will not give you instructions on a per app basis other than contacts and photos. What do you need? First, you need some sort of

intermediate device to transfer contacts and photos. This can be a USB storage device or it can be a computer. Let's use a USB storage since this is the simplest. All phones can interact with a USB storage device, but be forewarned that the Bra 3 and most modern phones use a USBC connector. So, you will need one that has a USBC connection. A very

common device is an SSD drive like this one, a Samsung T7 one TBTE, which is $89 from Amazon. We'll put a link in the description. Plug it into your old phone. Then, using the files app on that phone, copy your files from the device to the storage SSD. Typically, you just copy the entire DCIM folder or camera folder or however that phone stores it or names it. Next, you need your

contacts. So, run the contacts app on that phone. I can't give you the specific instructions for your phone. It is different per app, but you can search the internet for exporting your contacts to a file for your particular phone model or OS. Typically, you can figure it out. Go to the settings of your

contact app and you should find some export option. Then perform the export and you should see some file like contacts.vcf on your downloads folder. If you did it multiple times in the past, you may see several. So, pick the newest ones. Then, copy it to your SSD

drive. When you're done, plug the SSD drive into the Bra 3. And from there, you will see the drive. Like in my case, I just see the option T3, which is my old Samsung T3. Then, from here, just manually copy your photos to your images folder on Brax 3. You should copy the

contacts.vcf file to your download folder. Next, go to the contacts app on the Bra 3 and in settings, select import and import from file. Then pick the contacts VCF you transferred over and it should import the contacts. I would not do the option ever of exporting contacts to SIM card or importing contacts from SIM card. There is limited space in a SIM

card, so this may not allow a large contacts list to transfer. Now, the computer option is pretty much the same, except here's the rule. You can only see the BRA 3 or your original phone on the computer if the phone is logged in. So, you must manually log into the mobile device first and then it should be visible to Finder in Mac OS, file manager in Windows, and files in Linux. The rest is the same. Copy the files

over directly from phone to phone using the computer as your intermediate storage device and again using a USBC cable. What apps can you install? As a general rule, you are using this phone as a privacy tool, meaning a no identity phone. So, it doesn't make sense to break that capability by willy-nilly installing every app. The apps you should not install are meta apps. All of them. Facebook, Instagram,

WhatsApp. I cannot offer a way to protect against meta. They are the ultimate in spyware. You can install Google apps as long as you never never log into Google on those apps. So, it is safe to install YouTube, Google search, Google maps, Google translate.

Google cannot identify a Bra 3 phone specifically. There's no unique identifier. So, while it may know your IP address and the phone model, they do not know whose phone it is among many thousands. Google's primary way of tracking is the Google ID and that doesn't exist on this phone. Some apps that require location like Yelp, Craigslist, Ways, Weather Channel app, are very dangerous in my mind while location is active. So, I would turn off

location for these apps other than the moments you have to use them. Other than these really few limitations, you can really install anything. But for your safety, never never allow any app to read your contact lists. Never. For example, Tik Tok will do this. So, never

give it that permission. There's a reason I do not worry about other big tech apps like Amazon, Amazon Kindle, eBay, PayPal, and so on. just in general be aware that I've studied this and these apps do not capture data outside of their own platform unlike Google and Meta. As a general rule, do not install apps you don't know. You can always uninstall apps that you no longer use, but the fear is that you install so many apps and you don't remember them and then you don't realize you installed a dangerous rogue app. Fortunately, apps can be

controlled and deleted. System apps or hidden apps cannot be installed secretly on a Bra 3. What apps will not run? Some apps will not run. There aren't many, but in almost all of these cases, you can use the browser. For example,

right sharing apps tied to Google Pay will not run or apps that require you to pay for the app. The solution is just to use the browser. It will work fine with the browser except for the paid apps. In fact, just about every site works with a browser, including all banks. In the US, I've tested a dozen bank apps, and the major banks all work. But if

some banks uses Google safety net, then they are forcing you to tie yourself to Google. Mostly this is an issue I found in the Scandinavian countries and other parts of Europe. So it's not a dead end. Just use the browser. If you need to log into Google, for example, to use Gmail, I recommend using the browser and use a specific browser only, meaning install several browsers on the phone and reserve one for Google. I would use

Chrome for Google so you don't forget it's a Google only browser. ESIM. The Bra 3 comes with eSIM capability, but unlike most production phones, the ESIM software here is open source, so we can be certain there's no secret storage of ESIM identifiers. Each carrier that uses ESIM will likely give you an app to run to install the ESIM credentials, but you should be able to manage it using the app open EUIC, which is the app I'm talking about. This is where you can enable or disable a stored ESIM.

Updates. The EOD OS comes with its own updater app which will allow overtheair OTAA updates. If you have stable connections, you can always get updates. So just click on the updater app and you see if there's a version you can download. Downloads are huge, typically 1.4 GB, so

it takes a long time. Then when it downloads, it gives you the option to install it and then reboot. Micro G, the Google Play spoofer. You will get notifications from the Aurora Store that you need to update the Google Play Store and that is enough to cause panic from multiple people. Don't panic. There is no Google Play Store and

there's no way to install that on a Bra 3. It's not possible. The reason the store thinks there's Google Play is because Micro G is a spoofer and it sends a signature that is sensed as the Google Play Store. Actually, it's just the existence of the Google Play file which is the same name as Micro G. So, just ignore such messages as it means nothing. Don't worry.

Weird options on startup. If you see something weird on the screen, like something like this, don't panic. You weren't hacked. It's just because you started pressing buttons like crazy. This is the bootloadader or fast boot mode. It is activated when you

press the volume up and power simultaneously. Just hold down the power until it turns off and then turn it on properly using just the power button. Summary, we have a great community talking about various topics and helping each other on the Bra 3 phone. So, just come visit us on Braxme and interact on the community chats. There's a lot of people there and there are things that I don't know about the phone that some of these other power users have figured out. I taught you how

to install the Brax app. So, make sure it's on your phone. Then you can also think about other things you can add to your phone like the Bra virtual phone, VPN, Brax mail, lots of stuff to add to the privacy agenda. Thanks a lot for watching and enjoy your phone.