---
video_title: "Mass Surveillance from a Corporate Source: ‘Fog Data Science’"
video_id: c683PEmIG1M
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c683PEmIG1M
video_date: 2025-04-30
video_description: |
  Here's an example of a mass surveillance tool that is used by many police and sheriff departments. It uses your phone location history to figure out your location patterns. So if you're found in a particular area, law enforcement (or private companies) can trace your patterns that show your residence, work and activities over a period of time.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on Indiegogo and is going on normal public sale in May. Currently pre-orders are being fulfilled.
  https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/brax3-the-most-privacy-friendly-smartphone#/
  https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me. 
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
I've talked about phone surveillance quite frequently, but seldom do we get direct evidence of how these surveillance tools are used. But today, that's going to change. I'm going to show you a particular surveillance software called Fog Reveal, which is used by law enforcement and is based on location data captured from your phones. The particular technique used for surveillance is called geo fencing and you will actually see what that means in reality and it is really like drawing a fence. Now what's different about this video is that I actually have the user manual. I've tried to access their web

portal called fogreveal.com but obviously they have security tools that prevent access. However, we can at least surmise what they're able to do. Next, we will discuss how they actually get this data. Who are the potential sources and how do those sources obtain your phone locations? The location data is pretty

extensive for certain people. According to Fog Data Science, the owner of this software, they have billions of data points for 250 million devices. And this is just one surveillance tool. And you should think carefully here. Although I'm revealing a tool used by law enforcement, you will find that these same data sets have been used by private companies and individuals. Are you

interested in fog and how this is used? Do you want to also learn how not to be in this location database? Stay right there.

What is geo fencing? What's different about the surveillance method is that it does not use Google's sensor vault. All the data captured come from location data brokers that are outside of Apple, Google or Facebook sources. Google of course has its own geoencing tool and it is frequently used by law enforcement and was key to the trial evidence for the J6 riers in the capital in 2021. But this tool doesn't need a request to Google. It is freely available by

subscription and they can use it an unlimited number of times. Geofencing is the process of marking out a particular location with boundaries like a fence and then quering the database of phone location entries to see who was there at some specific time range. So basically is a where and a when query. The basic problem with geoencing is that it is based on a dragnet approach. If you have no suspects, you just basically query anyone in an area at a given time and then that gives you your potential suspects. This way of generating a list

of suspects potentially runs a file of the Fourth Amendment because people's private data are acquired without a warrant. So there is no presumption of innocence with this technique. For example, in one particular publicized case of a burglary, the police simply searched four people in the area and found a bicyclist at the location in question. That person was then arrested and charged based on just being at the location as reported by his phone. Though apparently the bicyclist lived in the neighborhood and bikes through there all the time. He had to fight this false

arrest in court. He was eventually released, but this traumatic event cost him a lot of money to defend himself. There are a lot of non-p police related uses of geofencing that demonstrates the evil of location tracking. In one case, someone made a killing in the stock market from being the first to use this data for financial intelligence. An investor spied on Tesla facilities using data similar to that used by Fog Data Science. They basically surveiled the

number of employees working in the Tesla factory to see if Tesla was expanding its production. And using the geoence data from the factory historically, it showed a dramatic increase in people as a percentage. Using this data, this person justified buying call options right before the quarterly earnings report. And of course Tesla announced the increase in production and the price of the stock jumped up. The investor obviously made a lot of money from basically inside information but revealed by spying. Another nefarious

use was the use of this type of database to find people who went into abortion clinics. This was potentially to find people who would violate new anti-abortion laws in some states. Fog Data Science. The company we will discuss today is Fog Data Science. According to their marketing materials, they are tracking more than 250 million devices with billions of location data points.

This was based on information from 3 years ago, so it is likely more now. And this gives a subscriber the ability to get detailed access to the histories of the average person's lives. Some people have a few data points a day, while others have hundreds of location data points each day. This data can be used to follow you around all day, so it should be evident where you live, where you work, and where you socialize. Plus, it should also be able to identify if you took unusual trips or went to specific places that might profile you like specific kinds of healthc care facilities or churches or political gatherings. Because it is based on

historical data, it is very good at establishing patterns, which is how it is used to identify people rather than by direct ID. The company sells subscriptions to this service using a web portal called fogreveal.com which I couldn't access with a VPN. And apparently this is being used by many law enforcement teams such as local police, state police, and county sheriffs at a cost of around 10,000 a year or so. And there's heavy use in California from what I can see. How fog reveal works. Bog data

science starts off by aggregating location data from various sources. Clues gathered by the EFF, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, suggests that their data may come from Ventel. Ventel is a big supplier of location data to government agencies. There are many location data sources and brokers. Brokers will aggregate data from multiple sources. The way this

particular data location database is organized is by Latin long meaning GPS coordinates and then this is further organized by timestamps and then a device ID. The specific device ID use in this case is the advertising ID. Advertising IDs are found in all norm phones like iPhones and Google Androids. An advertising ID is a unique identifier and I'll explain later how this is collected by the location data brokers. Now advertising IDs are not permanent identifiers per se, but the normal person will not mess with this. So in

effect, it's permanent for the average person that is not privacy aware and uses standard devices. Fog data science claims that their database does not contain personally identifiable information or PII. But as you will see, it should be a piece of cake identifying anyone even if you changed your advertising ID. As I mentioned, this location database is historical and long-term. The FOG data science databases apparently go back to 2017. So

it is based on historical data and this is something that the average person is totally not versed in. If I knew someone's location history in the kind of detail available in this kind of database, I would know so much about a person, particularly if I overlaid the locations over a Google Earth map. And that will be obvious when you actually use fog reveal. Fog user manual. Now fortunately for this video I have the actual user manual and although it's low resolution it gives us an idea of the capabilities. The fog reveal web

portal intended for law enforcement use. So the format is made to be filed by case at the law enforcement department system.

The basic interface starts with Google Earth. So you pick out a location that you want to research and then you find it on the map. Then you draw a boundary on the map and it appears from the examples that you can draw a rectangular boundary or a circle. After that you specify a time range and perform the query. Then after a few seconds the app will display red dots showing phones found at that location. There's a list

of data points showing the actual latl long and device ID plus the time stamp and that's shown in another window. This can then be exported to a CSV file so you can work it in an Excel spreadsheet for example.

The area covered by the boundary of the query can apparently be very large. I've read that it can cover up to 20 km, which is a little over 12 miles. That creates a lot of data points obviously and can include millions of people.

deeper analysis. Now, here's where some deep analysis can be performed. You're allowed to search for multiple geoences simultaneously. For example, you can search for people that have appeared in multiple geoence locations over a period of time. This can then lead to analysis of associations and basically habits of the individuals and those they associate with. Again know that this is a dragnet

approach. There is no identified criminals in this search. This is a search of the general population. The other way it can be used is if some particular device IDs are identified then you can search for known locations frequented by such device IDs. And this of course leads to the full identification of the individuals since you can cross-check their home addresses. There are plenty of other

databases that show verified addresses. So with or without more advanced permanent identifiers like Google ID, Apple ID, MAC address, MZ or IMEI. It is a piece of cake to find anyone and then turn them into a specific suspect. It should be a small matter, for example, to identify all the people participating in the George Floyd BLM looting or burned buildings here in Santa Monica, California, for example. Find their device identifiers and then see where they went home that day and voila, you could have arrested the looters and arsonists. But of course, you will find

this technology used selectively with a political focus. It was used extensively for J6 writers because that particular government wanted to make a point. While fog data science may not directly give access to fog reveal to private parties, they will do analysis for private parties. And here's a list of what they claim they can do. Number one, verifiable presence at a location on a specific date and time. Number two,

likely locations for residences, places of business, and frequent activities. Number three, links to other individuals, places, and devices. Number four, patterns of activity correlating to certain events, times, or alibis. If this isn't private mass surveillance, I don't know what is. Again, realize that this is just one particular tool. and one data

source. How this location data is captured? There are several ways location data are captured. Google and Apple have a precise momentby-moment history of locations which are collected 24/7 and this is permissionless. You cannot stop this if you have an iPhone or a Google Android. But the lower tech

capability of Ventel, the probable supplier of location data here, is still powerful enough. Some parties have used this kind of data to prove political theories, for example, like tracking those people who repeatedly dropped off ballots at ballot boxes. There are plenty of uses of this, but not everyone is vulnerable to this, and I will explain that in a moment. In the meantime, this particular fog data science data is captured from mobile apps. How mobile apps sell your location. There are several apps

implicated in the location selling infrastructure. Specifically mentioned as sources to fog data science are Starbucks and Waves. In the past, another app publicized as profiting from location sales was the Weather Channel app, which is owned by IBM. But if you think these are the only sources, the estimate of apps providing data are around 700 apps. So, if you're fond of installing tons of apps, then the chances of you contributing to the location database is pretty high.

Because the sources of locations are apps, the apps need to have location permissions. Unlike Google and Apple, these permission restrictions cannot be overridden. So, some of you will allow locations while using the app, which is more restrictive. Some of you don't care and the apps are constantly pinging location. This is why some will report hundreds of location pings a day while some show only a few instances a day.

The actual mechanism of collecting location data is through ads. Free apps that require you to provide location are often suspect as the requirement to give location is often a clue that they are making money on the side. On my suspect list would be apps like Yelp, Craigslist, and potentially apps that already require location normally like Uber, Lyft, GrubHub, and so on. The ad spaces on the apps are put in an online auction with your advertising ID and your location and then advertisers who win a bid will be able to pop an ad on a targeted audience. Advertising IDs are attached to a profile and combined with location shows preferences. But the

people collecting the data from the ad spaces are the ones that are selling the location. They are just capturing the auction data and storing it in their database. Depending on the data broker, other pieces of data can be associated with the location including email, phone number, login ID, and so on. What I'm demonstrating here is that even with very few pieces of information, the location data itself is already very revealing. the specific location technology. The main location sensor on

the phone is the GPS when you are outdoors and when indoors it switches to something called a nearlo provider or NLP and this gives them a location based on Wi-Fi triangulation. This ensures that the location is within 6 ft or even better for Apple devices. Those can give locations in inches as proven by Apple Air Tags. Since the location used is app permissionbased, then it is possible to disable this by making sure you limit location permissions on most apps that don't need permissions. And then limit the use of locations to apps that you feel are safe for this. Generally, apps

from banks, financial firms, and government are unlikely to be selling location data. And generally also apps that are not specifically in the location business like Uber and Lyft and so on and do not pop ads typically will not be subject to location harvesting, but you can still always turn location off just in case. Who is vulnerable? Fortunately, many of my followers who already follow my advice and use the devices I recommend may be immune from location tracking via fog data science. For example, the Google phones like the ones we sell do not have advertising IDs. So, the primary device identifier

used for collecting the location data does not exist. Second, those using a safety Google OS also have a disabled nearlo provider. For example, Brax OS did not have Wi-Fi triangulation enabled indoors. When indoors, it can use a rough cell tower triangulation, which can be a large location target like 1/2 mile square that is not accurate enough to reveal a home address. GPS, of course, can still be used to track you if you're using one of the dangerous apps outdoors, but at the maximum, set the app permissions to be while using the app. otherwise turn location

permissions off. Fortunately, the Google phones have superior advantages to even the more advanced tracking performed by Google and collected in the Google sensor vault. Since the D Google phones do not connect to Google, there's no direct pathway for such location data to be collected and there is no Google ID to identify the phone. So in general, it is my belief that anyone currently using a D Google phone should not exist in the Google sensor vault nor the fog data science tool. This is why a deleg phone is one of the key ingredients to personal privacy. There really is no

choice if you care about privacy. Those who are vulnerable are the normies, the users that buy the newest iPhone and Samsung without care. All they want is to have fun with their phones and it is their life. In another video, I will actually go into depth of what is collected by these data brokers based on data of your internet activity and mobile phone news. And these are again outside of the massive data already owned by Google, Apple, and Facebook. Folks, as many of you know,

this channel does not have sponsors. Instead, we rely completely on community support to keep us going. Hopefully, we give you enough information that you find value. Some of you support us on Patreon, locals, and YouTube memberships. And though I don't publicly acknowledge you for privacy reasons, you are very appreciated. Thank you. For

most of our support, we instead strive to provide products and services that help you in your privacy journey. Our newest product is the Brax 3 privacy phone. This is a community project involving several companies and is currently sold on Indiegogo.com. This is about to be released and we are just awaiting a final version from our OS partner EOD OS. We have other products and services

that can be found on our privacy social media site Bra. We have Brax virtual phone that gives you inexpensive no KYC phone numbers. We have Braxmail which offers unlimited aliases and many domains to create different identifiers. We have BiceVPN which protects your IP addresses from being harvested by data brokers. Join us here on Braxme and meet the way over 100,000 users who discuss privacy issues daily. Thank you for

watching and see you next time. [Music]