---
video_title: "The Convoluted Story of  Phone Manufacturing and the Effects of Tariffs"
video_id: j_emw70snxk
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j_emw70snxk
video_date: 2025-04-16
video_description: |
  As an insider in Phone  Manufacturing, let me tell you the complexity of the phone industry and how it really isn't as simplistic as saying that China has a stranglehold on phone manufacturing. We'll discuss the current environment of where phone parts come from and who the players are, and see if phone production can be moved to the USA.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on pre-order on Indiegogo
  https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/brax3-the-most-privacy-friendly-smartphone#/
  https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me. 
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
This last week has been a roller coaster of events with the trade war affecting our own product and we're still coasting up and down daily while our eyes are glued to CNBC. As some of you know, we are manufacturing our own phone model called Brax 3. But this video is not about our product. However, this gives us direct visibility into the issues of the phone market and from this you may get insight on the deep impact of the US tariffs and how it will affect the price of phones. And I will also explain a little bit of the phone manufacturing process and answer the question if phone manufacturing can ever move to the US. Just to give you the staggering

numbers, 1.24 24 billion smartphones were shipped in 2024. Of this, the largest player was Apple with 232 million phones, followed by 223 million shipping from Samsung. Apple itself ships around 100 million of these phones to the US. I want you to understand that 99% of these phones were made in China in the past. I acknowledge that this seems

obviously to be an unsustainable environment where one country appears to control all phone technology, although you will learn that it isn't as simple as it looks. This video will stay away from the politics, but we'll discuss the workings of this industry in detail so you understand the implications of all these tariff moves. If you're interested in seeing how the phone industry works and how it will affect you, stay right [Music] there. As of the time of this video, it was announced that smartphone, semiconductors, and computers would be exempt from the brunt of the China tariffs, which was at 125% while leaving around 20% in place. Apple was so concerned about the previous 145% total China tariff that it shipped 300 tons of iPhones quickly produced in India and flew them to the US in advance of the tariffs. That accounted for

approximately $1.5 million phones. Just to give you a sense of the economic impact, if Apple charges $800 per phone, then 100 million phones sold in the USA alone is worth $80 billion of revenue. So, if tariffs got fully implemented, then your $800 iPhone would have cost $1,200 or so. I'll explain the rough math of this later. And Apple is just half of the USA

market. Others including Samsung, Google, Pixels and smaller brands like Motorola, OnePlus and so on would have a similar combined effect on the US economy and subject to a similar price increase. China strangle hold on phones today. It appears on the surface that China has a strangle hold on phone manufacturing and frankly this has been due to decisions made by companies like Apple and Samsung who have created the monster so to speak. Basically from a zerophone industry back in 2007 when phones like Nokia were built in Finland and Blackberries were built in Canada.

The iPhone changed the landscape from here. iPhones were built in China by Foxcon. Foxcon is actually a Taiwanese company, but they set up their factories in Shenzhen, China. So, this grew the Chinese industry related to smartphones. And now today, there are hundreds or even thousands of suppliers of parts used in every smartphone. And these suppliers

all grew around Shenen. I used to watch this channel where this American lived in Shenen before co and then he made some viral videos of himself building an iPhone or modifying an iPhone based on parts he can buy from Shenen. So I went up to this cell phone repair school up in Guangjo called Gilon and I met with a headteer named Wyman. Uh as as I told you earlier um my project is to try and build my own iPhone from parts that I am buying in the market. Do you think that is possible? This Yeah. Yeah. Huh. I have I

have a a board like this. The same. Yeah. Okay.

Uh this board you maybe buy four say maybe just two is is good. And if you take your time to put other IC on the this board, you may be on one, but the rate is very low. It's not impossible, you know. It's it's possible, but it's very difficult. So today, the economy of Shenzen is focused on smartphone electronics. And if you understand the

volume of business, and that's 1.2 billion phones a year, you can understand the effect on the economy here. That's over 100 to 200 billion on the local economy based on smartphones alone. And because of the economies of scale and lower labor costs compared to Europe and North America, no one else could compete in making phones. Plus, you had a labor pool that became very skilled at assembling smartphones, which had become specialized over the years. You can see

what Tim Cook thinks about this pool of labor in this video. There's a confusion about China and let me at least give you my opinion. The popular conception is that companies come to China because of low labor cost. I'm not sure what part of China they go to, but the truth is China stopped being the low labor cost country many years ago. The reason is because of the skill, the quantity of skill in one location and the type of skill it is. Like the

products we do require really advanced tooling and the the precision that you have to have in tooling and working with the materials that we do are state-of-the-art and the tooling skill is very deep here. You know, in in the US, you could have a meeting of tooling engineers and I'm not sure we could fill the room. In China, you could fill multiple football fields. It's that vocational vocational expertise is very deep, very very deep here. Technologies of a phone. Now, here's the interesting fact

about the smartphone. The intellectual property involved with making a smartphone is actually mostly embedded in the US, Taiwan, and South Korea with the innovations mostly emanating from the US. The phone calling module or the bassband modem is driven primarily by patents controlled by Qualcomm, a US company, and MediaTek, a Taiwan company. Then you have the smart part of the phone which runs iOS or Android and that is driven by technologies of Apple and Google which of course are US companies. All phones use ARM processors which is the technology of ARM holdings which is based in the UK. There are the companies

that make the supporting technologies like Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS for example, which for example is the intellectual property of Broadcom, another US company. So if all the technologies were actually invented and owned by mostly US companies and Taiwan, what happened here? How is it that we perceive that China is the center of the universe when it comes to phones? Fabulous chipmakers. Now I will introduce you to a definition of technology companies called fabulous chip makers and this includes many companies you know well Apple, Qualcomm, Broadcom, MediaTek, Nvidia. Now, Nvidia does not

make parts for smartphones, but their inclusion here is significant as Apple and Nvidia alone make up the top two biggest corporations in the world based on market cap. And they are both fabulous chip makers, meaning they design the chips, but they do not fabricate them. Broadcom SOC's or system on a chip is a universal feature of every phone providing Wi-Fi, GPS, and Bluetooth. Yet Broadcom is also fabulous. The very secretive technologies of the bassband modems from MediaTek and Qualcomm, which are in every single phone, are surprisingly fabulous. All they do is design the

chips. All they deal with is intellectual property and they get paid a license. ARM is in itself a fabulous chipmaker since use of their processor technology requires a royalty payment to ARM which by the way is owned by the Japanese company SoftBank chip fabrication. When it comes to the really high-end chip fabrication like the current upper end of chipm that is called 4 nanometer technologies, these are really limited to only a few players and phones which are heavily miniaturized need the smallest parts possible and the lowest power draws. In the US, the main manufacturer of these high-end semiconductors would be Intel, which focuses on computers and not phones. and

they do not deal with the ARM architecture in the phones. But even Intel has outsourced its latest chips to TSMC or Taiwan Semiconductor Corporation. TMC is the major player that builds most of the world's smartphone chips and most of the computer CPUs as well. Another huge player is Samsung. Samsung for example is known for being the fabricator of the Qualcomm Snapdragon motherboards used in Samsung phones and many other models. So

if you hear the reference to Snapdragon, you know it is Qualcomm intellectual property but manufactured in chip factories in South Korea. Samsung is of course also known as a big player in memory chips and NVME storage. So they're one of the biggest sources of that as well as Taiwan. Thus, in the smartphone world, the phone motherboards, which contain the CPUs of Apple, Qualcomm, and MediaTek, memory modules, and NVMe storage are mostly manufactured in Taiwan and South Korea, not China. Recently, TSMC opened a factory in Arizona, I'm sure, in response to the tariffs. So, now some

iPhone motherboards can be made in the USA. I don't know how quickly they can ramp up to produce the 100 million needed for the US market annually. Samsung of course makes its own custom Android phones and it is capable of producing much of the high-end chips in house. However, the actual assembly was in the past in China. This has changed this year 2025. From what I hear,

Samsung phones are now assembled in Vietnam, India, and Brazil. other phone technologies. The complications do not end here. Nowadays, phones are being sold as super portable cameras and that means you need CMOS technologies to enable the camera capabilities. So just focusing on this as an example, phone cameras are supplied by several companies like Sony, Toshiba and Sharp and by US-owned Owen Semiconductor and the Chineseowned Omni Vision. I would

venture a guess here that Sony would be the premium phone camera choice as they are the current leaders in digital cameras. Batteries are likely sourced from China. This has been a China specialty for a while now. non-intellectual property parts. The vast majority of other parts in a phone are not tied to intellectual property secrets and are likely sourced locally in China from the thousands of suppliers who make the other parts. For example,

think of the 100 billion screws needed for new phones or the billion touchcreens or the multi-million custom cases or the USBC ports or the antennas. Again, all in billions. Think of the touchscreen, SIM card slots, SD card slots, circuit boards, buttons, Gorilla Glass backs, waterproof glue, and so on. There are a lot of tiny parts and they have to be made in billions a year. And these parts are very specialized and often customized to particular phone models. So, Chinese companies have

become specialists in custom manufacturing of the form factor of a phone. So while the motherboards, cameras, and screen size may be predetermined, the rest of the design of the form factor is something often done by local artisans in Shenzhen global product. In as much as we assume that China is the center of the universe when it comes to phones, the reality of it is much more complex and thus this impacts the chances of moving production elsewhere. The reality is that a phone is currently a global product and it impacts all the countries I mentioned. For example, I heard that Qualcomm makes $20 in royalty for every phone sold with their technology. So while companies

like Qualcomm and Broadcom do not actually build anything being fabulous, their intellectual property costs are baked into the input pricing and maybe part of the wholesale price of phones as as they are subjected to tariffs. And I already mentioned ARM, which I presume makes $2 from every phone motherboard ever built. And that is likely baked into the price of the motherboard. Who pays the tariff? Now, tariffs are definitely misunderstood as you may assume that if an iPhone cost you $800, then your final price post tariff becomes $1,960 based on the 145% added. But

that's not the case. And lots of things actually happen in international trade. First, the tariff is based on the wholesale price. So let's say Apple actually pays $200 per phone wholesale. Then the tariff at 145% would be $290 or 145% of the wholesale price.

So the final cost would theoretically be $490. To maintain the same margins, the $800 phone would have to be priced at around 190, meaning the 290 is added back in at retail. As we know now, the actual tariffs on phones will likely be 20% with the current exemption on smartphones and computers. So that would theoretically result in $40 tariff on a cost of 200, which would raise the cost of an $800 iPhone to $840. This is not good, but it is not a deal killer. Understand that the tariff

is paid by the importer. If, for example, you purchase something direct from AliExpress, then I presume you would have to pay that 145% directly since you would be the importer. But since you're buying phones from Apple or Google or Samsung USA, who operates as the importer or maybe even resellers like Best Buy or Target, they will in fact be the ones to pay the tariff, which is based on their wholesale price. Next, depending on how the deal is negotiated, prices could be based on the current exchange rate between two currencies. In this case, the Chinese yuan and the US dollar. Since the Trump

election, the yuan has gone down relative to the dollar. This then reduces the effects of tariffs even more. In the case of China, lowering value of their currency means their exports are cheaper and their imports become more expensive. The effect of this is to reduce the effect of the tariff. Historically, economists see that a 20% tariff results in only a 10% rise in wholesale costs, assuming currencies are free to adjust. And this

may just have a 5% effect in retail prices. Now, I will tell you that as a manufacturer and importer, we negotiated prices in US dollars before all this happened. So in this case, the factory making our phones makes more of a profit shortterm with the currency price change. But next time they will not be so lucky. 145% is unsustainable. While 20% tariffs can be

handled and with currency adjustments will end up to be less than that at wholesale, this is not the same as talking about draconian 145% tariffs. That pretty much equates to a 45 increase in prices at retail. And even if currencies adjust to compensate, a 35% increase in price will cause consumers to rethink their choices. So the end result of the current 145% tariff in China, which of course could be more or less at the time this video comes out, is that the instability in pricing will make companies move products out. In the short term, the quick solution is called a re-export.

And I hear that Chinese shipping companies are quickly dropping products in Vietnam where they then take on a made in Vietnam label and move to the USA with a 10% tariff expectation. We ourselves plan on shifting the final assembly of our phones to the EU to avail ourselves of the 10% EU tariff, but we will likely skip that now with the 20% expected China tariff on smartphones. At the tariff of 145% for other goods, I would expect this to translate to a total end to US China trade for the short run. This will be a giant blow to China for sure. Can production move to the USA? Can phone production move to the

US? Let's talk about the pieces here. The biggest kick here are the very specific technologies and equipment to do advanced chips like 4 nanometer chips which are primarily only done in Taiwan and South Korea by TSMC and Samsung respectively. So these have to be imported. Currently they are subject to tariffs. So input costs will increase

which is interesting since I already mentioned that part of these input costs are royalties to US companies. Next we have the other technologies like phone cameras which largely come from Japan. So even if moved to the US many of these inputs have to be imported just like China imports them. So now there will be tariffs on them based on tariffs to South Korea, Taiwan and Japan. Then all the specialty parts like phone batteries, phone screens, phone cases, specialty screws, glue, circuit board, etc. that are now supplied by thousands

of Chinese companies will now be subject to a 145% tariff. I'm sure a reexport game will begin for a lot of that and you will have to buy from elsewhere instead of AliExpress. maybe some future Brazilian version of Tamo because these are specialized parts and are built with so much volume, remember billions, so much capital investment is required and these are currently provided by independent small companies in China. When a phone factory negotiates to manufacture a phone with someone like our company, they then have to cost in their parts from suppliers that are available to them. Some they have to import like the more high technology parts. It would take years

for US companies to take the load of manufacturing all these and it is expected that these would cost more than if assembled in China. My guess is for the short term that companies like Apple will just play games to import the same small parts from China that skirt some of the tariffs. But I don't know how this will be done without increasing costs. There will be some discounts too since some of the input costs are driven by imports based on royalties to the likes of Broadcom, Qualcomm and ARM. They could probably negotiate those to be a US-to- US transaction to skip the effects of tariff. The end goal. I realized that

having one country handle all of a particular product, particularly one that every adult uses, is not a sustainable strategy. So I don't necessarily fight the need to end the globalist strategy in manufacturing. We already experienced the effect of supply chain issues when your supply chain is limited to a single country. An increase input costs that minimize the disruption of the supply chain is likely a fair trade in the long run. And as I said earlier, the parties that caused this are these big giant corporations themselves like Apple and Samsung that created China's tech industry.

they cause this. But in the short term, these are very disruptive changes. Politics aside, they have real impact in business decisions. And unfortunately, there's no choice but for you, the consumer, to see some of this in your product prices. Some of you will accuse a small company like ours of being untrustworthy because we had our phones built in China. You will say this even when you

already know that 99% of all phones like the ones you are using now were built in China. But we don't control what technologies exist. We can only piggyback on the big players. For example, our phones are being built in the same factory that builds Amazon Kindles. We can move parts of manufacturing elsewhere. Being a smaller

company, we can likely move Assembly to Europe where we have resources. So, in the long run, we can likely overcome this given some stability and time. Will you continue to buy iPhones, Samsung's, and Pixels in the future? Aside from increased privacy invasions, they will be more expensive. Maybe that's good. So, you

will use them less. I mentioned earlier that we ourselves are building our own phone, the Bra 3, which is ready to ship. Assuming no short-term surprises on the terront, we should begin shipping in May. If you want to take advantage of the current early bird pricing of $299 per phone, please visit the crowdfunding site indiegogo.com. This price will likely go

up in the future because of the tariffs. The link will be in the description. The Bra 3 phone is a community project involving other companies. The OS is being made by EOD OS currently and Ubuntu touch later on. These are deooled OSS so they are free from the privacy invading features of standard big tech phones. We have other products you can

check out on Brax like our Bra virtual phone, Brack Mail and ByteVPN. Thank you for watching and see you next time.