---
video_title: "Incredibly Important Apps You Discover from the FDroid store"
video_id: 1XsS-dv4b1s
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1XsS-dv4b1s
video_date: 2025-09-03T16:00:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Here are some great apps I discovered that can really be a boon for privacy seeking folks, particularly those on de-Googled phones. These include apps for Finding the Phone, Bluetooth Low Energy device searching, and Wifi searching. Have fun with these apps, all from F-Droid Store.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://brax.me/home/rob Store for BytzVPN, BraxRouter, De-googled Privacy AOSP Phones, Linux phones, and merchandise
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
I'm going to tell you about four apps you should know about. These are super cool and maybe specialized, but it solves some problems we face with modern tech. Specifically, two of these apps deal with detecting BLE or Bluetooth low energy. This is the stuff used for trackers like Air Tags and can also be used to track you. These apps can tell if someone is stalking you or spying on you and you can even do some reverse stalking. Some time ago, I wanted to

make an app that did exactly this. And amazingly, someone made this app. And you can use this for so many purposes that I'll tell you about more than you realize. Another app solves a problem with the Google phones since the Google phones have no connection to Google or Apple. We couldn't do things like find my phone. Well, you couldn't, but we can

now. These apps aren't perfect, by the way. I can't necessarily get them all to work consistently, but as a beginning, they are really cool. And if a lot of people use them, it may encourage the developers to do more. Also, these are all open- source projects, so you can participate and report bugs, and maybe they'll get better. So, are you

interested? If so, then stay right there.

First, the four apps I will talk about are all from the Foid Store. So these are not available through your standard Google Play Store and these are all Android apps. So I'm targeting this to a community using a Google phone like the new Bra 3. It should work though on any Android even if it is a production Google phone. But if you don't have the Froid store, you can download Froid from foid.org.

Foid is standard on deled operating systems like Klex OS, EOD, Braxos. It is not standard on Lineage OS, so you'll have to download it for that as well. By the way, if you're not aware of Foid Store, this project actually actively screens any app it puts in the store. For an app to be on Foid, one would need to share the complete source code and have Foid compile the code. This means that there can never be anything hidden in the source code since it is all exposed. Because of this, one can assume

that Foid apps are always safe. So, start from that assumption and nothing strange or evil will come from installing these apps that I will talk about. Also, all Foid apps are always free. So, no risk at all for all of you. When using the Foid Store, you need to drag it down to update repositories.

This is kind of key to using it. Otherwise, you may not see the latest apps. Okay, now that I've set the stage, let me get to the first app. Find My Device. Find My Device was made by a developer who apparently lost his phone. He didn't

have a Find My Phone feature, so either he had a Google phone or some older Android. Newer Google Android should have this. But of course, no D Google app will have the capability to have find my phone since it is managed by Google and Google will track your location, so you don't want that. Anyway, what is cool about this app is that it found several ways around that. I will tell you though that for most of you, you will only use one way. The

other methods are more complicated and require a more advanced setup, and it really isn't necessary. So, the standard way you'll use this feature is through SMS. The way it works, you send a command to the app via an SMS that starts with FMD. For example, after you install the app and configure it, you just send it an SMS message that says FMD locate. Then it will text you back with a location and then the location will link to the Open Street Map website so you can actually see where the GPS position points to. When it works, it's

really cool. I've tried it on two Bracks 3 phones and on one it seems to work consistently and on the other it sometimes works and sometimes it does not. So, I'm not sure what the reason is. I'll give you some setup tips in a moment to make it work most of the time. What is really great about this method is that you limit the texting response to an approved number. So, a random

person can't text you FMDlocate. And by the way, the fact that it is performing this locate via SMS is not a secret. The phone itself will show the conversation with find my device. So it is not something you can hide. However, if you legitimately lost your phone, this will solve the problem. But the neat thing

here is that no third party is tracking your device. You're not relying on a Google or Apple, which may give you your phone location, but they also store your locations. and there's no subscription service. Find My Device is much more powerful with advanced features like being able to remotely erase your phone or having it take a photo of its surroundings so you know where it is exactly. However, I'll be honest with you, these features require that you run an FMD server on your own or trust their public server, which is not a good idea, especially since we're talking about a photo storage here. Thus, to be honest

with you, if you ask me how I will use this, I would stick to finding the phone only. And if you do it for a family, then of course they won't be surprised if they're looking for you by SMS. Setup tips for you. You have to, of course, go to settings and enable the location feature. And also, you have to fill in the contacts and provide access to whoever can send a locate command to the phone. By default, the app uses the GPS

position and the cell tower triangulation. This is a self cell triangulation, by the way, and not tied to a carrier. But to do the cell triangulation requires you to get an API access key from open cell ID.org, meaning you set up an account with them and they give you an access key. It's not necessary. GPS alone is fine. The

other thing that you will discover as you use it is that you need to give it permissions. I would grant it all the permissions otherwise it has some buggy behavior since it is for you to use. I would not limit it at all. There are some features that require rooting the phone like to do the remote erase, but I don't necessarily recommend doing that unless you're an advanced user. I'm also not going to recommend using notifications as a way to communicate with find my device as notifications can be tricky to use. Again, for regular

use, just the location alone is good enough and just memorize the single command FMD locate. I had fun with this, by the way, because I use Bra virtual phone on my computer and I'm able to send it the command through SMS without even having a phone. BLE Radar. BLE Radar is actually an incredibly powerful app that can be used for more things than you think. It's simple enough. Install it and then do a scan.

Then it will begin reporting the devices around you. But I need to explain precisely what it is reporting. BLE or Bluetooth low energy is the new tech that that allows products like Air Tags, Tile, and Ring cameras to work. These devices do not use regular Bluetooth but use a more powerful signal that reaches a longer distance like even up to 800 feet. Though the indoor distance is more like 50 to 100 ft. The requirement is

that the device should transmit a BLE signal. iPhone should all be transmitting a BLE signal for the Apple Mesh network. Newer Androids would also be transmitting a BLE signal for the Google mesh network. Ring cameras and Amazon Echo will transmit using the Amazon mesh network or they call it sidewalk. So this is a mesh network feature specifically and the phones and devices provide the infrastructure for communications because each device transmits to other devices peer-to-peer and that's what the Air Tags and Tile trackers piggyback on.

To make it clear, this is not a Wi-Fi transmission. So those devices like the Google phones that do not use BLE will not emit a signal. They will not show up on this app. That in itself is a learning experience. But when you turn on this app, it's actually incredible how many normie devices are transmitting via BLE. Yet your own Google phone is

surprisingly quiet. Just to prove the point, I walked around a neighborhood with this app on. And when I finished, I looked at the discovered devices, and it was incredible what I was seeing. You could basically track people based on their iPhones and Google Androids just by walking around outside their homes. I'm not suggesting this be used for some nefarious purpose, but let me just give you use cases.

If you run this every so often, you actually begin to recognize devices because of the MAC address. This is the identifier used on radio signals. If you've seen the MAC address before, you will then start to recognize particular devices around you. And you can put a label on it. This can be used to see if someone is stalking you. For example,

you can actually check to see how far the device is from you. That's the thing about BLE. It can actually be used to triangulate. So again, you see the device and you will see their location. As a security measure, think of a building. You can actually see if anyone

is in a building just by checking for phones in the area or even know how many people there are in a building. This is a great surveillance device honestly but a surveillance device used for our protection. Now there are limitations and I will explain it to you. If you use the app, it will actually tell you if the MAC address is reliable or not. And the reason for this is that MAC addresses can be randomized by the OS.

So often it will say that the MAC address of an iPhone is randomized and cannot be a permanent identifier. Be aware of this. In the iOS implementation of BLE, the MAC address may only last for 15 minutes. But it will say an Apple TV can be reliably detected since it doesn't randomize. You should notice a pattern though, like a specific BLE transmission will emanate from a particular location. The location

is given in the app and so you can use the location as an identifier. You can even use the description of the device like what version of iOS it uses or if it's an iPad versus an iPhone to give you an idea. Basically, it's like being able to see what's been invisible to us over the years. I actually started writing a Wi-Fi scanner version of this some time ago, though I never did finish it. But BLE is actually pretty practical as a scanner nowadays since it is now on the devices we need to track. Now the other

application of this is to see if someone stuck an air tag on you or a tile tracker. All those trackers use BLE so they would be spotted in an instant. If your particular threat is from someone hiding some tracker on your person or your car then the next app may be simpler. Air Guard. This app is similar to BLE Radar, though it is much simpler and it has less features. But for specifically seeing if

there's an Air Tag or Tile Tracker, this will do the job. And it's simple. Just do a scan with the app and it finds all Apple devices and all Tile devices around you. The nice thing about tile devices is that they don't change their MAC address. So it'll be very clear if there's one nearby. So you can use it

for yourself to find your stuff. Like if you have a tile on your keys, then you can find your keys easily using this app. And you will recognize that the tile is yours primarily through location, but secondarily from the consistency of the MAC address. Air tags have changing MAC addresses, so they don't necessarily give out a specific fixed identifier just like iPhones. But again, the location should be enough to tell you what's going on.

Wi-Fi Analyzer. Wi-Fi Analyzer is not a new kind of app. It's been around a long time, but it's good to see a version of it on. This app shows you all the Wi-Fi signals in your area and the signal strength. So, this gives you the tools to see if your Wi-Fi is getting throttled because of other Wi-Fi near you. Unfortunately,

the airwaves are clogged by so much Wi-Fi nowadays that you might be shocked at the number of Wi-Fi routers near you. And this app only reports Wi-Fi routers. Every phone and computer emits Wi-Fi, too, just as a client and not a server. Where this is good is to set up your Wi-Fi router to use certain frequencies. If your neighbor is hogging channel one on 2.4 GHz, then you can choose a

different channel. Although usually channel 6 is the best one as it allows overlaps. The neat thing too is it shows you Wi-Fi, including hidden Wi-Fi. This shows you why it's kind of useless to do hidden Wi-Fi as it is not hidden. You can see it all from this app. And just

as education for all of you, your locations are actually provided to Google and Apple based on the locations of these Wi-Fi routers which have already been pre-mapped and stored on Google and Apple location databases. So your precise location is determined based on the signal strength of the Wi-Fi around you. Thus, this app can also be an educational track into understanding how we are all spied on. summary. There we go. Some cool apps that will

raise your techiness level up a notch. Now, find some people in the community who can really play with these apps more seriously and give you more information on more advanced tricks. I just gave you the basics here. One of these communities is our platform Brame. There are many people there, over 120,000, and they talk about privacy and security issues. So, it's great for

learning. On our site, we also have other products that you can consider for your privacy journey, and they're going to be found in the store there. If you find a product of interest, I thank you for your support as it enables us to make content for this channel. We have things like BRA 3, BA virtual phone, BRA mail and byesVPN. Really important tools for privacy. Thank you for watching and

see you next time.