---
video_title: "Agentic AI is the Next Phase Where AI Affects Our Lives - Live Stream"
video_id: AyF0Vs8z3Dc
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AyF0Vs8z3Dc
video_date: 2025-12-22T17:05:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Agentic AI is the new buzzword. What it really means though is that AI has moved from the Chatbot era to a task oriented autonomous AI that can now do things. This means that we are entering the stage where AI can now replace people. While many of you are anti-AI, you will be
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
I'm going to be talking in general about agentic AI [clears throat] and what this is all about because uh this is actually a very very big topic and and it's uh it's timely and it's also for some of you it can be kind of scary because this is actually where AI starts affecting jobs. So that phase is coming now and it's uh we're we're entering that phase. I mean some of some of that's already here but the active phase of AI taking jobs is actually now. Now this in itself is not a privacy issue. I'm I'm giving you kind of a general thing and then uh we'll we'll delve into some issues that deal with privacy uh a little bit after. But I'm trying to

alert you to to AI and what AI uh is going to do now. And if you're not up to date on this or if you're still saying AI is not real and you still have that kind of philosophy that uh this is something you got to avoid at all costs and all that uh yeah uh it's probably not a good idea to to think that that way because you know forewarned is forearmmed and uh in this world you you better be the one controlling the AI rather than to be the victim of AI where you end up with no job. So fortunately, I don't have to worry about jobs. So I'm be way beyond that stage. I've I I don't think I've ever uh when was the last time I worked for somebody.

Um I think the last time I worked for some somebody else was when I was 25. That was it. From then on, I I was always the uh the CEO or the owner of the companies that I was always in. So, so I never had to worry about jobs. [clears throat] So, because some of you are like uh posting on uh on YouTube, oh, he used to work for Microsoft. Oh, he used to work

for Google. No, suck that. Never worked for any of those companies. Never worked uh for any big tech company. Now I myself owned a company that was a uh Microsoft solution provider and uh meaning we made software that you know was built uh on uh Microsoft architecture and because of that you know Microsoft uh gave us uh perks and I got invited to uh to uh uh see to the Microsoft office uh many times and um and uh so you know I have a lot of connections uh during the time uh with Microsoft but obviously I have nothing to do with Microsoft uh since I've been doing this live streaming I zero zero in fact I don't use any Microsoft products I don't use Microsoft Office uh I barely use Windows and uh yeah it's just uh I don't have any more solutions or anything that uh rely on Microsoft at all. But in any case, the

the question right now is the definition and discussion of Microsoft I mean sorry agentic AI. Now just to give you a little bit of background about three years ago it's funny it's only been three years. Can you believe that? three years and in three years the world is like uh changed so much three years ago and I I believe I when did I make my first uh AI videos just just shortly after that and even I had to learn because I didn't know what a transformer was and and I had to go learn that and and then come up with many videos to learn it even more and uh I'm I'm a pretty heavy AI user. I use it extensively. I know its

faults probably to a tea and I know when to rely on it and when not to rely on it. It's it has currently has a lot of flaws. Um I myself um was uh promoting the use of Olama which is offline offline u AI and I was teaching you all that and I was showing you videos on how to use Olama and uh running it on your own computers or your own servers and then after you know using it for a while I realized that that really doesn't do the trick. So, I've been using mostly Grock lately. Uh, I guess uh but just by default it came with X and I have an X account. So, it

came free with X and I have a paid Grock now. So, I have a paid Grock account with with uh with X and um and I've tested things also, you know, using Grock and seeing, you know, can I teach Grock? So, I actually uh was testing that and I actually have two two uh Grock UIs, separate ones, one on X and one outside of X. And um I was testing if you know conversations that we had that I have with with Grock end up on on Grock and and uh and it doesn't. Uh, in fact, I wish it did because I want to teach Grock and Grock doesn't want to be taught. So, the only way to

teach Grock is to influence the actual social media and then the social media teaches Grock. So, anyway, the the uh the original thing that you you heard, you know, with uh Chat GPT coming out three years ago, uh November 2022. So, my goodness. uh almost exactly three years ago and where we are now is is night and day. So what happened is the 2022 to recently was the era of the chatbot.

So our understanding of AI is that AI is a chatbot. And then of course as you know last year Microsoft announced the Windows recall which you know raised the hackles of everyone uh using Windows and you know the whole story about that and [cough] the introduction of the the see what you see technology so that the uh chatbot now sees everything and it supplements its knowledge with what it sees. And so you give it more information and the uh the term for it in AI speak is called context. Meaning you make a query and it's basing the uh the query is called a prompt. You're prompting the AI and the AI normally will just respond based on its learned knowledge during the learning process when it was built. usually

one or two years before uh which is the entire knowledge of the internet and then after that you you um um you ask it anything that is outside of what it learned and it doesn't know it. So, you know, many were faulting AI for uh asking AI like Chat GPT about the Trump uh assassination attempt right after the Trump assassination attempt and then of course Gro or I mean the uh Chat GPT will say uh Trump wasn't uh uh there was no attempted assassination on Trump and then they come back and say that's politically motivated and they go go uh you know state on the press that AI is really bad because uh it lies to you. It, you know, all the politics, you know, it can't even be honest about the Trump assassination attempt and u cuz it's lying. Well, that's because the people who were uh making those statements don't know how how AI actually works. So, yes, AI can be completely biased, but that's has nothing to do with current events. The fact of the matter

is AI doesn't know current events because that's not part of its its abilities. An LLM or large language model doesn't doesn't actually uh know anything beyond uh what it learned on the internet from a year or two before. Okay. So, it's always late. So I I remember a couple years ago I would ask uh the um um AI like uh you know chat GPT or something you know what it knows about Rob Braxman and I'll get a lot of nonsense because you know it doesn't really know and then uh nowadays if you ask AI about Rob Braxman it pulls a lot of garbage from Reddit. I mean truly

garbage like you know you know my enemies. So which kind of goes to show you that uh uh there's now integration between the learned AI and um current content. So the idea of mixing uh historical data I mean sorry learned data from machine learning with more recent data meaning search uh is adding context to the AI and the AI is then able to merge the two not always precisely not always accurately but that's uh that's the new uh story of chat bots. So for example nowadays if you ask AI about a current event and it doesn't know it from past history and it's something completely new it will just find it in search. So in a lot of ways uh it's a merging of search and an AI but it's still a chatbot so that hasn't changed. So even Windows

recall is just an enhancement on the chatbot. So window recall itself doesn't add any anything other than give the AI additional information about you personally. So it it basically adds context. The the term for adding background to the uh AI is called context. So uh so in in uh in uh the Windows world the context comes from Windows recall. So it captures

everything you do and then that gets sent to the AI. Um in Gemini the context comes from Google safety core which captures your so your media and then summarizes the media and then that's known as the current context for the AI but it doesn't really know you personally other than what it knows from your Google interactions which it does know. In [clears throat] contrast, Apple uh also knows the uh uh interactions uh I mean sorry knows something about you through the media analysis D uh module which is analyzing your media and then it's able to categorize your media and then knows that about you but it doesn't really um know much about you yet in terms of other stuff. Now, the the way that Apple Intelligence is being made is that it's it's going to scour through your text content, meaning your text messages, your iMessage, your emails, uh current data, summarize that, keep that in the context, and um and then be able to reference that as the personal context, but not in the same way that Microsoft is capturing every screenshot. Apparently, Apple's not going to be doing that. And Apple is really way

behind and is having really great difficulty implementing AI. So, so maybe I shouldn't be so scared about Apple right now because they're failing. So, Apple is intending because they they can't even come up with AI for Siri. Uh Apple is intending to use Gemini. It it used to be that they plan on using Open AI for their Apple Intelligence and now I hear that uh they're going to go with uh Google Gemini and they're going to pay Google a billion dollars a year to use Google Gemini for the iPhone. So,

um, so that kind of tells you that, uh, in a sense the the Apple threat kind of diminished because, you know, my expectation of, uh, of what they're going to be able to do is a lot less than than it's going to be in reality. So, but all of this stuff that I'm talking about so far is still about the chatbot. So, we haven't progressed. is it's just you know your your your u you know a Siri version or a Google Gemini version of it is just a talking version of the same thing. So it's still a chatbot that just talks to you. Grock now has a

talking one and if you have a Tesla, you know, you can talk to your uh you can talk to Grock on the Tesla. So um and it it's pretty good actually. You can use it to uh practice uh practice languages. So I I can use it to uh to to talk to Tesla in French and then it will actually it actually picks up any language. It's pretty pretty incredible. So you can talk to it in any

language you want and u it's doing that and again even that technology is still a chatbot. Now what's not a chatbot? Well a Tesla is not a chatbot. So that's the first concept of of a AI that's not a chatbot and that is Tesla. So Tesla is obviously you know like Whimo uh self-driving um intelligence.

So you're not talking to the car. It's just, you know, you give it a destination and it it it goes there and deals with the intelligence of driving around in traffic. And I'll be honest with you, uh, a big chunk of my driving is now self-driving. It's I'm I'm going to guess, you know, if if I have to to make a guess, 80% of the time I'm just doing self-driving. And I just override in certain spots because I know that uh, you know, the AI will have some weaknesses in finding a specific pothole that I know is going to be there. And so I'll take over before

the pothole and then I keep going with Tesla after that. So um still we are still in baby stages here with even including the Tesla uh technology. The the the change actually is in this new thing called agentic AI which you haven't seen yet. There demos of it. OpenAI has demos of that and uh there's limited versions of it on Windows and uh pretty much fluff on Google Gemini and nothing on on Apple. So Apple Intelligence is

basically a bomb. There is no Apple Intelligence. So that's you know I was like I had made a video though like went viral talking about you know the ghost in machine you know with uh I presume the Apple intelligence will be utilizing see what you see technology on an iPhone 16 and above which is featuring Apple intelligence and then we have no Apple intelligence and here we are entering 2026 and there's still no Apple intelligence. So, so that's not even the the uh true uh true uh threat now. So, what exactly is this new thing now called agentic AI?

So, the difference between u the AI that you know from chat GPT and all the talking versions of it after that and all the enhanced context with uh Windows recall knowing things about you. uh you're still talking to the bot. So, it's still that uh kind of response where you you ask uh the AI something and the AI gives you an answer and that's really where it ends. It gives you an answer. Okay? And so that's not uh that's not

the stage where it can take over the world because you know [clears throat] somebody has has to ask it a question a very specific question. It has to give you a very specific answer. Well, those days are just about gone now. And this is going to go very very fast in in the next year or so. So, u and the effect of this will will uh probably be realized that I'm going to guess by around next year it it's going to really uh maybe by the end of next year it will really have a significant impact and I and I mean on on jobs. So what happened with a gentic

AI is that it is no longer about the AI just talking in the chatbot. The new AI is a task oriented uh AI where you tell it to do something and it independently does it. And this has nothing to do with privacy yet. This I'm just talking about the technology in general here. the AI will work on the task independently and then at the uh um at the in the middle of the process the AI will seek uh information by itself and then at the end of that it will execute some sort of action and the action can be uh typically you know initiating some some transaction.

So I I like to use an example that I'm very very familiar with u because I was a management consultant for for uh for this field when I was young uh and that's uh insurance claims. So um so I'm you know I I was a uh management consultant and I I uh studied uh insurance claims processing uh to to the point that I actually sat there and documented and watched people do it and even timed them and and timed how long it takes to do the job of a claims processor. Um basically I was an efficiency expert and uh did that for uh for many years. That was uh one of my early jobs and um and so I you know I understand claims processing very well and claims processing is an example of where a aentic AI would really function because the agent would examine. So just think about this. Uh

I presume a claim will come in into some sort of form and u back in the old days the forms were paperbased. So they would come into a claim form and then a person has to read that claim form and then uh direct it to the proper proper uh claims adjuster uh who will then negotiate uh the various aspects of the claim. And um uh nowadays we don't do that anymore. You know, normally you go to the internet and you you put in a description and some website and you type in the incident and you upload pictures if there's any and that's normally how you do it. So the data is already in a way [snorts] that computers can recognize. You don't have to do you

know image recognition or anything like that. So, it's already in that form. And so, the AI can then read the claim, see if you uh you you're a policy holder, if your policy is valid, look for fraudulent flags to see if there's any anything fraudulent in in your request. uh looks for evidence of of you know the accident. Looks at the description to see who's at fault and then um uh makes recommendations for repair uh based on you know what what's uh available in the local area. Uh prices uh

you know what what that repair is going to be and then um and then negotiates with uh whoever parties for liability and all of that. And then at the end then uh uh the claim is settled and if there are checks to be written the checks are written and approved by by somebody. So that's the manual process today. And I'm going to tell you that that entire process nothing there uh exists that that that could not be done by an AI. All of that that the entirety of that process could be done by uh some AI. And I don't mean one AI, but a bunch

of different AIs doing different tasks. And that's uh going to happen because instead of just a bot just talking, the bot actually extracts data from the claim, analyzes it, and then puts data back in to a database, triggering some action that says, "Okay, uh initiating uh claim and authorizing a repair on on such and such a facility." And then a message is sent to the facility repair facility say you're authorized to do the repair. Uh we've examined the quote code quote is fine and all of that. Uh u and then it goes through the entire process and then um um uh completes the the the claim process and gets signatures automatically maybe by docuign or some some method like that and you basically don't need staff.

Okay. So, uh that's an example of where um you know a job can be completely eliminated. Now, what what will happen here is that AI agents like this where [clears throat] it actually does something uh needs to be tested. So, you don't just uh create some some way of doing this and and then you uh you leave it you leave it alone. No, it's got to be monitored. There's always a human check.

U and there's always, you know, checks along the way to make sure that the AI is not not making bad decisions. And this is going to go through a lot of testing and all that. So, so the job [snorts] that uh used to be done by uh entrylevel claims processors uh and entry and even on the other side of an insurance company which is called insurance underwriting. Those usually are done by entrylevel people that come in straight from college. uh those jobs will disappear which is exactly uh what's happening now which is why new graduates are finding that they're finding it difficult to get entry-level jobs because the only jobs that will be needed are the management jobs that actually know the task so they can examine the AI and say okay the AI is not doing the right thing here the AI is making the wrong decisions and they know that because they did the job before so That's that's the u consequence of of uh [snorts] agentic AI and how it relates to the world. Now I'm

going to be very specific here so you understand the technology and what it's called and how they're actually going to do this because this is not theory. there there's actually pieces to this that uh that are are in place and and can be programmed to be in place and and and um it's not actually as simple as as I described because you make it I made it sound like oh you just turn on the AI and the AI will do the insurance claims processing. No, it doesn't work like that. Um, right now all the programming pieces still have to be built and but they came up with a way of standardizing this and the company that made the standardized protocol is called Anthropic. [snorts] So Anthropic makes Claude Claude AI. So if you're familiar

with Claude AI, you would have heard of Anthropic and Anthropic made the claw desktop and claude desktop was the first to implement this. And what they implemented was a way for the claw desktop to communicate with uh with other software using a common interface so that messages can be passed between the uh chatbot claw desktop and some programs that actually interact. And the uh terminology for this interface is called [clears throat] model context protocol. So you'll see this a lot. Model context protocol or MCP. You'll see it

everywhere. I I every day I see ton of vid maybe because I searched for it once and now you know I'm I never ending uh videos explaining MCP to me like I didn't already know it. So anyway, MCP u model context protocol is uh uh comes in various flavors and the uh the programmer creates a uh uh entity that manages services called an MCP server. So [clears throat] um some of you may have heard of terms like uh I always get uh told that I need to define things in advance. So I'm going to define it for you. But I told you about the fact that

um AI needs context. If you don't give it any information, it's going to base its response on the learned data it learned during machine learning, which is two years ago or something, right? So, you can't ask it a recent event like, you know, who who was the killer in the Brown University killing? Uh who was the uh killer in the MIT professor case in in uh at MIT? So if you ask an AI that the AI will say I don't know that didn't happen. Okay.

So you give it context. The old way of giving it context uh which is to pass a search link typically or your own database like if you're doing tech support you can give it a tech support database. Let's say you're Samsung. You make uh washing machines uh Samsung washing machines and you want to have an AI answer questions about the washing machines. You link the manual, the entire manual and every document you know to the AI using something called um retrieval augmented generation or rag.

So that was how context was provided in the past. It was rag and and the problem is that you know how a something like that is some link to that meaning putting some resource as as something that the AI can be used was not standardized so everyone had a different way and uh so rag was implemented differently by every company and some will do this method and that method and so it required a lot of programming to go figure out how you're going to link AI to some of this which slowed the process of actually implementing anything in AI. So, so Enthropic solved that by saying we're just going to standardize and we're going to have one way and the [clears throat] way is u simplified and it uses common um techniques um uh basically HTTPS HTTP [cough] similar to anything you do on the web and uh and call it model context protocol or MCP. So, rag now can be implemented via MCP. So, somebody can make uh any utility like a resource like a search engine and uh create an MCP server and attach it uh to a um LLM and the LLM can then use that MCP resource. Okay. So, now we're

standardized now. So if you go to U OpenAI, if you go to Grock, if you go to uh Anthropic, uh all you have to do is link up the MCP servers and they can, you know, they they all have standardized way of communicating and and they actually have a nice hookup into into the LLM so that the text results from those pieces from the MCP server actually go to the LLM. So basically, it's just text. It's it's it's no more complicated than that. It really isn't. So the AI needs text, but

it needs to be supplied the text so in a meaningful way because u uh AI has limited uh current memory. It's called context. It has a limited space to evaluate the problem. And that space that allows it to evaluate a problem is called context. And in most cases back in the day, the context limit was uh 4096 characters or 4096 tokens. And now, you know, like a

gro will have 128 128k. So you can give it, you know, a goodiz document and it should be able to process that. But you can't give it an entire, you know, epic novel. You you can't give it like 700 pages to something. it doesn't know how to do that. So you got to like piece the data

in in chunks so that the AI can use it. So the way that's done now is standardized in something called MCP servers. So the um claw desktop all of these tools Grock even has an interface to it as well, OpenAI and Microsoft. And the uh the link is that the AI in the case of Microsoft is Copilot. Copilot has MCP clients that can uh talk to MCP server. So, so the way it's done now

[clears throat] is you present the problem to the AI and the AI will say, okay, given the problem at hand here, whatever you're asking for. Let's say the problem is process this claim. Well, the AI doesn't know how to process the claim. So, the AI is going to say, okay, I can process the claim, but give me the claim data. What am I supposed to do?

and give me the resources to decide how I'm going to evaluate that claim data. So what it's going to do now is say okay um uh give me a list of MCP servers. So now if you are a maker of agents, AI agents, you just publish your capability as an MCP server and you uh you publish it in a way that the AI can query it and um and the AI could say, "Oh, claims reviewer, oh, claims reader, oh uh you know, negotiator, uh you know, all these different modules that they can that somebody can create u uh photo analysis to analyze accidents fault fault uh fault AI you know something that decides who's at fault based on you know legal rules and so on so those could be individual MCP server so the the the point is that the AI is presented with uh the usual LLM it doesn't matter which get they can all work can be in the cloud. It doesn't matter. It doesn't have to be on your computer because even uh Grock can deal with an MCP server. They just have to

get access to it. So now a lot of these MCP servers are actually even online. You you can uh uh some of these services if you look uh there's uh actually MCP server list and then some third party already made their own MCP servers and then make it available uh you know for for some subscription fee. then you can insert the MCP server to uh to your u solution. So u a big corporation is going to make their own MCP servers to to do some specific task that they need to do themselves, but they're likely if they need to look at the internet, they're going to look for some MCP server that does search. So you can have an MCP

server that does internet search. So um so that's the the the thing. So now MCP servers are going to be grouped into two groups. So the two kinds of MCP servers uh will be one will be resources and one will be tools. So resource MCP servers are ones that give information.

So in the case case of claims processors uh you know some something may say okay um who's at fault and that could be a resource thing where you give the AI agent data and it you know it uh pulls current legal you know data relating to you know who's at fault if if the car got hit from behind and the car hitting from behind is at fault. You know that kind of thing. Left turn hood right away. And know those rules are already formulated and written down somewhere and then the AI then provides that data as context and the I mean sorry the agent provides that as context and that's a resource based MCP server. So that expands the capability of a chat GPT where uh it can actually have information related to the task which can be very specialized.

So MCP server as a tool but now the next step is is MCP server as I'm sorry as resource. Now MCP server as a tool is now when it takes action and takes action by saying okay I'm now going to file the claim. So that's a database entry saying the claim is now official uh and we accept the claim and now we're going to go process the claim. So and we begin things like uh getting quotes and those are actions. They require communicating with a third party, communicating with the uh um uh repair shop, communicating with the client, issuing checks, making payments to the uh claim shop, and those are uh so maybe there's a check writer MCP server. And

so it says, "Okay, we approved it. So, we're going to send the uh uh check approval to the uh checkwriting MCP server." the check writing MCP server takes over and writes the check. So basically these are all programs that would have been written anyway because they're you know some some person used to go type the check into the check register for accounting for the insurance company and you know that used to be automated and you know every night the uh computer uh I used to work in uh um you know in programming in in uh insurance companies and Uh and so the night run this the the servers would run and you know calculate and then create the checks and it'll be tons of checks printed out the next day and then the machine will put in envelopes and all that. So that is now where the AI takes that role and it does it through a link through using the same programs that that doesn't really change. So the claims processing

programs that exist or still exist but instead of a human typing it the data entry will be done by by AI uh driven by an LLM. So as I'm saying here because of this uh protocol that simplifies the communication so you don't have to guess. So somebody coming from a third party can create a MCP server that can be used by all insurance companies in theory because there wouldn't be any difference to claims processing from company to company. So a a a company specializing in making MCP servers for claims processing could make one uh and then connect to the uh connect the back end to the to the corporate systems and then there you are. And then now you can get rid of claims processors and now you uh you basically can eliminate those jobs. Okay. So that's uh that's the

reality of uh of what's going to be happening now. So this just started this just started. So so Microsoft is creating this thing called an agentic OS. And what it did was built in the agents to uh Microsoft itself. So Microsoft the OS and Microsoft is the only OS that can do this. So in a way you might think

that Microsoft is worried because you you're going to go to Linux and you don't want to use Microsoft Windows anymore. In the corporate world they are so powerful that they can actually control these environments like I told you and they can run the computers in the cloud without a human being. So a Microsoft machine can run and replace these various people that I'm talking about. They can just be uh machines running C-pilot running in the cloud doing claims processing and Microsoft will just treat them as employees and you just fire up a a uh claims agent uh desktop and it will run on the cloud and then when you don't need them anymore, you fire them. Okay, so that's the environment [clears throat] that we're talking about here and that's what's being built into Microsoft OS. So the uh registration of

MCP servers and MCP clients is now part of the MCP registry. So uh Microsoft itself made made those connections so that any app maker can make an app run it on Windows running over Copilot. C-pilot then manages the uh the u uh agents and agents can initiate other agents. So the claims processing agents for example can decide if the claim is is uh is approved and then the uh it can trigger the agent that actually writes a check. Okay. So that's agentto agent kind of

talking. So that is the uh that is the uh reality of what's happening today. And I I I don't mean to scare you, but that's uh uh it's going to change the world so fast. And you know, some of you are like uh saying, "Oh, we we don't want to understand AI. We don't want to understand the effects of this." Um

it's already being felt by many many young graduates who cannot find the job. Because a lot of the entry-level jobs are gone. Everyone is expected to already be an expert. So if you are entry level, you don't know what you're doing in an insurance company. Then they're no longer going to have beginners at an insurance company.

This is a terrible thing. And I I don't know the social implications of and even managerial implications of not having resources to grow into managerial positions when you do not have entry level positions. I I don't know um how that's going to work out. So uh so there will be quite a bit of disruption here and this doesn't even get into the privacy and and the Microsoft moves into your personal um relationship with an agentic OS. this I haven't said anything about a personal relationship with an agentic OS which is the subject of the uh the upcoming video but I want you to understand that this something to think about um in in a big way and when you you see this and you start to understand that maybe Microsoft isn't so stupid after all they just don't care something you got to think about does Microsoft really care if you do not like AI Hi.

So, some of you, and you know, I'm I'm going to tell you right now, the the bulk of my followers hate AI and u are looking for ways to make sure that they don't have any connection with AI because they look at as a privacy and vision. But, uh um you really can't look at it like that. you you have to understand the pieces so that you know what part of AI you're going to have to deal with because regardless you know in mo most jobs there will be some effect of AI on your job if you're still working if you're not working then uh that's a whole different issue and you if you're retired uh you know and you don't have a YouTube channel to run maybe you don't need to to uh worry about AI so much and you can just say okay I'll just avoid that and in which case then you need to know how how to step around that. But the point is that for the uh average person uh AI is going to result in huge changes and one of the changes by the way is not necessarily negative. It means that those who are working will have a lot more free time.

uh jobs will be easier because it'll be more thinking rather than actually paper pushing or anything like that. So it'll be more like uh management. So um so those with management skills can manage an AI and I I think that uh that that uh you know is is expected to continue to be a skill that will be needed. But the uh the uh the doers, the ones that do the work, some of those people will be needed but in a lot lesser quantity. So mostly they'll be needed to train the AI on what to do.

So in the case [clears throat] of you know claims processing, insurance underwriting, I I hate to use that as an example because some of you may be in that field. It's just a field I know well. Um and um and I know it from multiple fronts. I I know um health insurance claims. I I you know I'm I'm uh I created health insurance systems. That

was my company that created uh uh billing systems for for health for health insurance initially and then I I got into uh uh I'm one of the inventors of electronic health records. [clears throat] So I developed u um electronic health record systems. So uh so so I know this very well and uh and in fact I can see even in the healthc care field how some of this is going to affect them as well. But you know the claim side the claim side is definitely definitely u um one of the uh things that is very wrote and you you you can actually uh you know they operate off very fixed rules and it would it it would be easy for that to be uh implemented by AI. Do you use macro hard? Macro hard. What is

that? No, I don't know what that is. Um, will this agentic solution be integrated into robots for more in invasive job replacement? Oh, so I [clears throat] was actually going to discuss in the video, but maybe uh uh I don't have enough knowledge to uh about robots to uh to uh create a full script on this, but obviously a Tesla is a robot. So I have, you know, I have daily experience with a robot since that's basically what a Tesla is. It's a robot

and that robot has Grock. So, the robot has LLMs now, an LLM. So, my robot car has an LLM. And this is one of the reasons I I use uh uh I use a Tesla is because I got to keep up with the technology and I got to understand what it's doing. And um and I can't I can't do that by saying I'm afraid of it. I I

got to like uh understand it to see what the risks are. And it it's fine. There's no I don't see any current problem with with having a Tesla. So uh so [clears throat] so anyway the uh the the um Tesla is a robot and you give it instructions and you override it and you do all that and u and some of the topics that you hear a lot about is what happens when AI becomes ultra intelligent with getting u AGI or or um artificial general intelligence. So meaning it's just just going to be smart on its own where it doesn't need to to uh be taught anything. It just learns

on its own and decides things and creates its own solutions to things. and uh that scary world that uh people are defining with AGI. I I don't know if actually uh if we're going to get to AGI anytime soon. Um you know, Elon Musk is saying that you can just need more compute and I'm actually uh um of the opinion that LLMs can probably not be AGI ready. LLMs the way I mean I made a video about how LLMs actually work with transformer architecture and how they pull words in sequence one by one and you know they don't even know what they're going to say until they say it. So that's why

they can come up with nonsense. So now they've solved that by going through a a thinking phase run one and then after they do run one they do run two so they can analyze what they just said and then run it again. And that's uh how they solve that. But that's not real real intelligence in my mind. That's not that's not my idea of uh true intelligence. It's uh it's uh it's

almost like trial and error. Let's see if I can come up with a better answer if I do it twice. So, so uh it's the limitation of the technology of of the LLM, how LLM works. So, somebody has to come up with a new way of understanding intelligence that goes beyond just the LLM way. And when that happens, then we're going to be really afraid of these robots because can you imagine a robot with AGI?

So, robots are going to be a big thing. As you know, Optimus is uh being slated for release. What? Some people will have some version of a robot uh in 2026. I never thought I'd be uh alive for that, but 2026 and you could have some robots and five years from now there be could be many robots and you know how does that interlate with your life? You

know what what does that do? Is somebody doing your laundry now and uh clean washing your dishes and do all that? And is that all you want the the robot to do? So, so anyway, there are many implications of this that can, you know, be subject to multiple videos and I don't really know yet. It's it's something there. Let me tell you, I just

gave you a backgrounder to tonight. I gave you a background to to what's happening. the idea of how they've already finally made a common interface so that the communications between different kind of LLMs and the physical world uh or the uh task world using computer task and programs is now possible because you don't have to create it from scratch. Uh there's a standard interface of passing messages between an LLM and and any kind of program. So, um so yeah, so that's that's here. That's now here. And so

you're going to see in the ne next year a whole ton of products called MCP servers. So you're going to be seeing MCP servers left and right. And they're going to have different functions and some will do very specific things and some will do more complicated thing. But let me just tell you this even this MCP server concept is actually uh [snorts] at such a beginner stage because they're not really indexed yet. For example, what if you have two MCP servers with the same name?

How do you know which task to do? Let's say the the let's say the the task is process claim or let let's simplify it. Let's say the task is search the internet and you got two MCP servers and both of them search the internet. Um, right now that's going to crash the LLM because the LLM is not going to know. Uh, I don't know which one to use.

Crash. So, it it's not intelligent enough to pick because it's really a programming interface. It's not uh it's not an intelligent interface where they randomly decide what to connect to. What happens actually is this. The LLM says, "I got a problem to solve. Uh uh all of

the MCP servers, please announce yourselves to tell me what you all do." So, every MCP server registered to the LLM will say, "I can search the internet. Oh, I can process claims. Oh, I can uh I can uh make reservations for you. Oh, I can uh you know, uh buy groceries. I can uh buy groceries at

Whole Foods." you know something specific like I can buy grocery I can buy uh products from Amazon I mean could be that kind of specificity so those MCP servers announce themselves so when the client says I want to buy something and it's just general I want to buy toilet paper and then you tell the LM that and the LLM says okay MCP servers who who are able to buy uh toilet paper or buy you know household items and and they raise their hand said I'm I'm the MCP server that can do that. Uh but if the user says I want to buy toilet paper from Amazon and then the the uh LLM can say okay who are the MCP servers that can buy from Amazon. So anyway, that's the that's the world and you you will you know you will see this in the coming year uh really just coming year you'll see a lot of these and MCP servers just needs to be connected to the LLM. They don't need to be part of any operating system. They can be in the

internet. They can be local. Microsoft makes a way to you know program your own MCP servers locally using using VS Code. If you're a programmer, you can just make an MCP server and it will you can test it locally uh against your MCP your own MCP server locally [snorts] and then when you want to put in production you can put it somewhere else you can put on the internet you can do whatever you want and then [snorts] you just provide the uh the location and say oh such and such MTP server is at this URL and this port and then you're an MCP server. So basically uh MCP servers can be anywhere where there's internet access can be local and all you need to do is register yourself with the LLM of the user to say I'm here to do the work. So we're not at the stage yet

where uh MCP servers are just randomly installed on your computer. However, Microsoft is installing pre-installing MCP servers for Copilot. Like you already know, Windows recall, file explorer, search, reading documents, you know, there's there have a they have a long list of things that are already included in Windows. So, there are pre-installed MCP server. So, that's just so you understand the terminology. If you are

on Windows 11, there are pre-installed MCP servers. Some of those are going to be dangerous like Windows recall. Okay. And then you have the option of registering more MCP servers. Install them just like any other kind of server.

You have a uh MCP server installation. You're going to see this this kind of stuff. Okay. So, uh, that just gives you a little bit of background and then I'll tell you in the video that's going to come out on on, uh, January one, I'm going to give you a break on on negativity for for, uh, uh, the Christmas season here. So, uh, you can just think about happy things in the next two weeks. But then uh after that

then we go back into Microsoft and I'll tell you specifically about the agentic OS agentic OS implementation that Microsoft is doing and how that's impacted by uh uh personal use and how uh the the personal use part is very badly Eight.