---
video_title: "Windows 11 Bitlocker isnt there to Protect YOU"
video_id: iX3a-goiE2c
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iX3a-goiE2c
video_date: 2025-11-19T17:01:14+00:00
video_description: |
  The average home user does not care that bitlocker is now automatically enabled on a new Windows 11 computer.  Even if you’re tech savvy, you will accept this as normal because Microsoft turned it on by default.
  
  Let me warn you now. This feature is not for you. Leave this running and you’re on your way to digital disaster. 
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
The average person does not care that Bit Locker is now automatically enabled on a new Windows 11 computer. Even if you're techsavvy, you will accept this as normal because Microsoft turned it on by default. Let me warn you now, this feature is not for you. Leave this running and you're on your way to digital disaster. One day, something is going to break on your computer and your data may be lost. All because of Bit

Locker and because you didn't listen to this warning. Computers breaking is not something unusual. Laptops can be dropped, you spill coffee in the keyboard, you overbend the screen, or you do simple things like add memory, add a hard drive. While this was a minor thing in the past, now with Bit Locker, this spells disaster. If some cyber security expert claims that this is for you and that it is secure, I will call them out as they are doing you a great disservice. I know

exactly who Bit Locker is for and why it is here and you need to have that same understanding. If you're one of the few that demand encryption of your hard drive, I'm going to give you an alternative that is much more reliable and more private than this fake feature from Microsoft. This is one of these really invasive features built into Windows 11. But the effect of Bit Locker is also to control your other operating systems like Linux. This forces you to rely on the Microsoft ecosystem and its watchful eyes by the Microsoft ID and the TPM chip. This

information is extremely important and if you have a new computer or are planning to get one, you better be armed with this knowledge before you put your new device to heavy use. Stay right there.

Who is it for? Bit Locker is for the enterprise and it would have had no bearing on the average everyday home user under normal circumstances. But I'll get back to that. First, let me tell you why Bit Locker is something that enterprise IT will want. First, there's the legal compliance side. Having company data

encrypted at rest is often an important security requirement and it makes sense. For example, in the health care field, you want to protect against potential HIPPO violations. Second, computers are lost or stolen. This is a common enough event and corporate users who travel put company data at risk if there's no encryption. Third, this is not a problem in an enterprise because the computers are under centralized control by the IT department and encryption keys are stored in the Azure cloud. It can

remotely unlock a computer or wipe it. In an enterprise IT case, they don't care if your SSD fails or your computer fails since they can just restore your data to a new computer. In their case, a backup is required and monitored, so there really is no issue with enterprise use. Bit Locker is trouble for personal use. Bit Locker, of course, is not new. It

has been around since 2006. But what's different is that if you're on a new computer with Windows 11, this is now turned on by default. Bit Locker doesn't operate by itself. It is tied heavily to the TPM or trusted platform module security chip. This chip stores the bit locker keys but it does more than that.

It records the computer configuration. It records the computer identity. If some variance is found in the configuration in some way like a BIOS change or adding or removing hardware, the TPM sends a message to Bit Locker to lock up. So, normal users who do common tasks like install Linux and dual boot, add hard drives, create new hard drive partitions are now faced with restrictions that lock up the drive and make even simple repairs or upgrades super complex. In case you think there is no risk for you, statistics show that 3% of computers break every year. And

you would think that Microsoft believes that these are really important for your security. So you follow along and are aware that at some point when it breaks, not if it breaks, you will be faced with a big build from some computer tech guy. Bit Locker is bad for Linux. If you're using Windows 11 in conjunction with Linux in a dual boot setup, then Bit Locker will be a complete fail for you. Linux has no control over Bit Locker, and if everything ever happens to Windows disabling Linux in some way, you're screwed. So this is a nogo for

anyone using Linux as it is a Microsoftonly solution. Why is it automatically enabled for personal use? The real reason Bit Locker has been turned on for personal use is because of AI. It's always back to AI. You see the spy genie that is Windows recall takes a screenshot every 3 seconds and records everything you do. Then the AI analyzes

these screenshots and then stores the observations in a database on your computer. Because of this splike mind mail between you and your computer, the computer will now know everything you know. Listen again to this video. Well, I mean, I guess the first thing to say is that we are on a mission to create a true AI companion. And to me, an AI companion is one that can hear what you hear. um and see what you see and live

life essentially alongside you. Um you know your AI companion will be able to remember uh everything that you've talked about session to session understand the content of the web pages that you browse um and be able to talk to you just like I'm talking to you now. So it's going to have this seamless fluid very very smooth conversational interaction. Bit Locker is heavily tied to this AI scheme. You see, Microsoft now realizes that your computer will operate differently than before.

Instead of just being a standard tool, the computer will be a clone of your brain, including your preferences, your activities, your opinions, your beliefs, and your memories. Microsoft then makes your computers a dangerous repository of data. But now it must protect it. enter Bit Locker and together with the TPM, their trick is to detect if someone is trying to extract that data physically from your computer. And of course, since Microsoft promises to keep it safe, now with these new security features, you think you have nothing to worry about.

Wrong. Microsoft has keys to the kingdom. How is this completely wrong? Well, first of all, Bit Locker with TPM doesn't operate by itself locally on the device. Unlike other implementations of security chips from other devices like phones, the TPM is heavily tied to Microsoft. For one, Microsoft keeps

track of the identity of the computer together with your Microsoft ID. So, this can't be manipulated. The TPM reveals a permanent identity called an endorsement key. So, it will know if the device changes. Then Microsoft doesn't just keep the Bit Locker keys inside the TPM chip. It has a recovery key that

allows you to recover a drive and it is stored with your Microsoft ID in Microsoft cloud servers. If you think your computer is completely private to you, you are completely mistaken. Someone, a government for example, can get the recovery keys from Microsoft and completely unlock your device. And of course, that alone will give access to your thoughts in your Windows recall data. So now everything that you've ever done on your computer can be revealed to someone else.

A complete loss of privacy, no AI, then no issue. Here's the real issue that is the biggest solution to the privacy threat. That is Bit Locker, TPM, and the Microsoft ID. If you don't use Windows C-Pilot, if you turn off Window Recall, if you don't believe in using the AI companion, then the threat level to a computer is the same as it ever was. A normal person's threat will be discreetly tied to the type of documents you put on the device.

This is in contrast to threats related to something you're not aware of that is being tracked. For example, you know what documents are on your computer. If there are sensitive documents that you don't want there when you travel, for example, then you back it up and move it elsewhere. This is not the same kind of case when Microsoft is tracking everything you're doing and you're not even sure what it is recording. But here's the simple solution to all this. When you turn Bit Locker off,

Windows recall has to stop. Microsoft doesn't want responsibility for the leak of your data without Bit Locker, but it's very nice that simply turning off Bit Locker will disable Windows recall. Unfortunately, it doesn't turn off Windows Copilot, but at least the most invasive part of the AI is disabled. Turning Bit Locker off. I would actually attack this as a three-prongong issue and not just focus on Bit Locker. But let's start with Bit

Locker. To turn off Bit Locker, just go to settings, system security, and turn off Bit Locker there. If you have a lot of data already, the existing files have to be decrypted. And this could be a very long process from hours to days, but you need to start there. When Bit Lock is finally off, I would then figure out how to log into Windows using a local account and not use the Microsoft ID.

Microsoft ID. This can be actually quite hard with those on Windows 11 home. And there are other YouTubers who have come up with techy solutions for overcoming the Microsoft ID problem. However, the simplest solution is actually to upgrade to Windows 11 Pro on an existing Windows 11 home computer. This is a $99 upgrade or just $60 more if you are buying retail. Why is this easier? Because on

Windows 11 Pro, logging in offline using school organization is built right into it when installing. So, there's no need for special Rufus hacks or other complex instructions. and it is natively supported by Microsoft. I have a Windows 11 Pro computer that is completely a local account setup. I installed it from scratch and never used a Microsoft ID since the reinstall. There are ways to

get rid of the Microsoft ID on Windows Home and some other YouTubers like Cyber CPU have made videos about it. For example, there is a trick to doing this using Rufus and using an OBE hack. The problem with these approaches is that they could break with a Microsoft update, but at least there's a way for now. TPM off. This is another important step. Your

computer is tied to the Microsoft ID via the identifier in the TPM, which I stated before is called the TPM endorsement key. But what you didn't know is that you can turn off the TPM in BIOS and as long as you've already disabled Boot Locker and already removed the Microsoft ID requirement, then nothing else will happen. Again, it is important to finish the two prior steps I just mentioned before touching the TPM or it will lock up the drive. So, disabling the TPM is the final step. Now, don't get scared of this. If you

followed my sequence here, I assure you I tested this. My own computer is running fine with TPM off. There will be some future effect to this primarily with anti-che on games and maybe banks requiring this in the future, but I say screw them. You don't want to give up your privacy for them. The traveler case. Disabling this

encryption may sound like the correct procedure for the home user, but of course, life isn't simple. A person that travels regularly on business but does not have an IT staff of course also has the same risks as any enterprise and would do well to have disk encryption. So this is an instance where a simple solution of turning off Bit Locker isn't the best option. This person needs a way to have secured storage in case the computer is lost and stolen or is left unattended at some hotel for example. There are many potential solutions. For

example, you can choose to encrypt one particular portable drive and put your important files there. Or maybe your computer has multiple drives and you can choose to encrypt one. Or you can choose to encrypt all. In my case, you can encrypt what you want, but don't use Microsoft's encryption. There is an alternative.

Alternate encryption, Veraracrypt. The alternate encryption software is called Veraricrypt and this works well with Windows or Linux and is really independent of either. It is open source and does not force you to work with any particular OS or ecosystem. And so far, Microsoft has chosen to work nicely with it and not subjected to being overwritten when there is a Windows update. I won't go into an explanation of how to install Veraracrypt, but I will just explain the mechanics of how it works and why it works with both Windows and Linux.

First, Veraracrypt requires that you resize your partitions as it needs a small amount of space for preboot. This is where it manages the booting process. What Veraricip does is insert a bootloader code in the system partition. This is the same partition that houses the Windows bootloader as well as grub which is the Linux bootloadader. It overrides the boot sequence so that the user is prompted for the password to the veraricrypt mounted drive before any operating system starts up and it leaves the decryption keys in memory so that the operating system Windows or Linux does not need to worry about the drive and its encryption.

Even on Linux, if you manually mount a new drive like on USB and it is veraricrypt encrypted, it will automatically trigger the prompt from Veraricrypt to enter the drive password. And this is done before every use on the first mount. Instead of relying on Microsoft on the cloud for any recovery, you are made to create your own recovery USB with their crypt. So you're not dependent on any third party nor do you expose your keys to any third party or allow any method from a third party to extract it. So definitely this is more privacy safe backup.

If you're going to do any kind of dis encryption it is important to understand that a backup of your data becomes essential as recovery is harder when there is encryption. Some people will say you can do the same with Bit Locker and you can back up your data with Bit Locker running as usual. But understand the difference here with Bit Locker, the TPM and the Microsoft ID. You have outsourced your privacy and security to Microsoft. So this is not my idea of privacy and security for an individual.

Sure, this works as privacy and security for an enterprise, but they have different priorities. and Bit Locker allows Windows recall to persist. So using Veraracrypt if needed is the better option. However, I caution you all to have this mix sense. If you're going to encrypt your main drive on your PCs for some reason, have you considered encryption on your backups? It would be foolish to

encrypt one while leaving the backup unencrypted, for example. Summary: Bit Locker is an enterprise tool. It has no place in a home user setting. If your hardware changes, you will lose your data. If your computer breaks, you will not be able to repair. You will lose

your data. Microsoft holds the Bit Locker keys in the cloud tied to your identity. If you want an alternative, the privacy alternative to encryption is Veraricrypt and it will work with both Windows and Linux. And whether you encrypt or not, back up your data. Do this before you fill the drive. One

coffee spill, one RAM upgrade, one forgotten key, and you're locked out forever. Folks, thank you for watching my videos. As many of you know, this channel does not have sponsors, and we primarily sustain ourselves by just creating products and services that we use to defend our privacy posture. I'd like to invite you to visit our community site, Braxme, which has a growing community of privacy enthusiasts. [music] There, people from theirs walks of life and beliefs converge together in the mutual support of privacy issues. We created

products in our store for the purpose of defending our privacy. Do you want a pseudo anonymous phone number that can be used instead of your very public phone number? That's Brack virtual phone. Do you want an email address that removes IP addresses and allows you to create unlimited email identities with aliases? That's Braxmail. Do you want a

VPN you can trust instead of the big Eastern European conglomerates that dominate the VPN business? That's byesVPN. We have other products and services like various the Google phones and OS flashing services. All these are tools used by the privacy aware and you can even talk to the actual users of the products directly. Join us. We'd love to

have you there and you don't even have to identify yourself to be part of the community. The very successful Brack 3 phone is also available for pre-order on its second batch. The first batch has been sold out. Information about that is on bratech.net.

Thanks also to those who donate to us on Patreon, locals, and YouTube memberships. You are all appreciated. See you next time.