---
video_title: "\"Our AI Doesn't Learn from You and Your Data is Local\" - Blatant Lies from Big Tech"
video_id: 0dYs73NFA6M
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0dYs73NFA6M
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  When you use Windows and you enable features you will see privacy statements like "Our AI doesn't learn from you". Or another one referring to Windows Recall capturing periodic screenshots is "Your data is local". These are FALSE. These are lies. While in legalese, they may actually be correct, the reality hasn't changed. Using embedded AI will destroy your privacy. I will dissect the small print and you will see why.
  
  My new Tech Deep Dive Channel - Please Subscribe!
  https://www.youtube.com/@RobBraxmanDeepTechDive
  
  "Your Mind Is the Product" Kindle Store
  https://amzn.to/4gBCsyR
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone and Brax Open_Slate Android/Linux Tablet is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://store.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  BraxSIM Unlisted (No KYC e-SIM) is on https://braxsim.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
You often see statements like this. Our AI doesn't learn from your content or our AI keeps your data local only. You will hear this statement or something similar to it from Microsoft, Apple, and Google. The second statement is frequently heard in reference to Windows Recall taking screenshots periodically. And this is important for them to tell you that because they want you to trust their AI agents.

I got triggered because I saw these statements in Microsoft Windows and various privacy statements. When these types of statements are pushed to you in privacy policies, you automatically assume, "Okay, there's nothing to worry about then. I can use these AI tools safely. It won't learn about me and my personal actions. It won't spy on me."

Well, today I'm going to tell you that these professions of safety claiming that AI is riskless for your privacy is blatantly false. For you to understand this, I have to explain how AI works a little bit more and you will hear some new terms which are perhaps unfamiliar to the average person. So, this video is about exposing the word game tricks. Safety and privacy policy statements starts with the word learn. This is the first feel-good word. We

don't learn from your data. And this has implications you don't even realize because learning isn't necessary. And the other word is local, which is the best an incomplete story. So, folks, if you understand the AI mechanics, you will not be tricked by the wording. You will learn that certain types of AI will always be dangerous for your privacy regardless of what they claim.

Let's discuss the details so you learn. Stay right there.

Data is data. Friends, when you put your information out on the internet, then someone is collecting that data. There's no mystery about this, and if the data happens to have an identity attached like your phone number or a Google ID, then it is a permanent part of your personal record, available forever. But there are other sources of data that don't originate from your actions. For example, there are thousands upon thousands of flock cameras out there watching cars on the road. These cameras

record your license plates. So, in essence, data is being captured about your daily locations, and this is also recorded for posterity in some database. Yes, you didn't have a role in pushing this data out there. It is just part of the surveillance environment we are in. Then there are the data points that you don't purposely export, but are captured anyway. Examples of these are the

massive amounts of location data captured by companies like Fog Data Science from apps you use. And this can be used again to track the movements of individuals anywhere. So, some of the data is under your control, and you can limit its propagation. Some of it you cannot control. But this is not the worst source of leaks of your private data. The worst

comes from new AI tools being integrated into your devices. These are built-in. And the most common example of this is Microsoft Copilot with Windows Recall. Here, the concept is the same. If you opt in, Copilot takes screenshots of your screen periodically, and this then is used by the Copilot AI to get a picture of your preferences and your past actions.

That is your data. It is private, but now some other smart entity can see it. But the claim is that you shouldn't worry about that because the smart entity, the AI, can't learn that data. But as I started off in this section, data is data. Your personal AI assistant.

For an AI to function as a personal assistant, it has to get knowledge of your preferences so it can act according to your wishes. But Microsoft said it doesn't learn from this. Yet AI is obviously intended to function with knowledge of your personal data or this AI personal assistant concept will fail. Yeah, right. You're now realizing you're not getting a full story. There's some

inconsistency here, isn't there? So let's repeat this video clip that I've inserted a gazillion times in my videos. It really tells you the reality. >> Well, I mean I guess the first thing to say is that we are on a mission to create a true AI companion. And to me, an AI companion is one that can hear what you hear and see what you see and live life essentially alongside you.

>> I want to make clear what Microsoft's intent is. It is to be completely aware of your personal data. It has to. You heard what the Microsoft AI CEO said. See what you see, hear what you hear, live life alongside you.

You can see from this that the AI privacy policies are some sort of legalese wordplay. AI learning. Let's get this straight. When you use some AI model like ChatGPT, you are dealing with a model that was trained on old data. The data could be 2 years old.

The basis of machine learning is to compile all known knowledge collected digitally, mostly from the internet, and then from that it creates the weights that make up the model. From the moment the model is published, those weights are fixed. You cannot add information, at least to the model. Now, there's still some minor modification that can be done to a model after it is released. It is called fine-tuning, but that's not something the average person has access to. I'm just stating this for

accuracy, but for most of us the model is fixed. But the goal of learning isn't to compile every piece of knowledge in the world. Like, for example, do we need to know the second-per-second change in a particular stock price in the stock exchange? The point of the model is to learn so it has intelligence. Intelligence in humans isn't measured by our ability to memorize facts. It is about making

judgments based on what we have learned. Well, that is no different with AI. Factual information is not the basis for intelligence. Now, this lack of up-to-date data is obvious when some current event is asked of an AI model, and I mean the raw LLM or large language model. It will not know it, and then the user will often label the model as stupid as a result.

Just ask some basic sports questions like, "Who won the FIFA World Cup in 2026?" There's almost no chance that any model would know the answer to that. Now, you will say I'm wrong because you go to Grok or ChatGPT and you do in fact ask the question of who won the World Cup, and you may actually get an answer, a correct one. So, today many AI chatbots made available to you are typically not just the model only or not just the plain LLM model. Typically, it is model plus plus. Something else is

added to it. And that, my friends, is the biggest reality of AI. It is not always used with just a straight connection to the LLM. That was true 3 years ago, but people discovered that this ruined the effect of a smart AI, so they offer more. But, you can still test this out if you install an LLM using Ollama. This will

give you a model only. And here I happen to have a locally installed model, and we can ask the question, "Who won the latest FIFA World Cup?" Let's see what it says. AI responds that Argentina won the World Cup, stating it as having occurred in 2022. And you can see here that the answer, based on its own knowledge, is wrong.

But, if it recognizes the need to do a web search and add that to its knowledge before it responds, it is able to give a correct response. Prompted to do a web search, it correctly now responds that the World Cup was won by Spain in 2026. RAG, retrieval augmented generation. Now, I will get a little bit technical with some wording. Don't worry, the wording is the only technical detail.

The rest is common sense. The idea of supplementing the model with additional information is known as retrieval augmented generation, or RAG. Yes, a geeky term, but it is important that you don't get surprised when you hear this. A model by itself will not give you accurate answers if information can be dated. Think of it like Rip Van Winkle coming down from the mountain and being asked to function as an LLM. Rip Van Winkle

will be out of date. But if Rip were supplied a search engine to get current information before it answers, it will have a better idea. Now, Rip can still render judgment on the new information it finds on web search. It is not just a regurgitation of facts, but it becomes part of the prompt you give to the AI. So, augmenting the model's knowledge beyond its learned weights is again called retrieval augmented generation.

RAG. I wonder who came up with such a complex-sounding word. There are generally two popular kinds of retrieval augmented generation methods. One is web search, and the other is called vector embeddings, which is another complicated-sounding term, but think of it as a supplemental private search engine. So, they're really both some type of search engine, a public one and a private one.

There are other kinds of ways to supplement model information. In AI agents, we typically add information by a text files called markdown files, for example, which are typically just short supplementary instructions. But the biggies are the first two, web search and vector embeddings, or public and private search. For example, a company wanting to use AI for tech support will provide a knowledge base to the AI so it can give accurate answers. The knowledge base will not have been available during the AI machine learning, but suddenly it will become an expert, and it can then supply air conditioning tech support just from being given an air conditioning knowledge base or vector embeddings.

And really, this is the purpose of vector embeddings. It is made so that private information can supplement the AI, make it more useful. Again, vector embeddings is just a technical term for a private search engine. When I make an AI agent like Openclaw, to make it useful, I give it web search and the capability to build a vector embeddings database and thus this gives it long-term memory. Now, why can't just all the material be given as a book or a giant PDF file or 5,000 pages of text? Why is there a need

for a specific format of the information into the popular format called vector embeddings? Well, vector embeddings is specifically formatted for search, as I said. So, you don't have to give the AI the entire air conditioning manual for every single model, you just allow it to search and it will find content related to the keyword, let's say air conditioner icing. Now, all of this is relevant to the story of your privacy. So, hold on and this will make sense. Both the web

search and the vector embeddings search give targeted search results and that in turn assures small results, nothing big that would slow down a model. Private data. As I said earlier, a company who wants to implement AI, for example, to do tech support, cannot expect the AI to know private product information. If the product information was not public on the internet, then it is impossible for the AI to know about it in advance. And this is true of all enterprises where the internals of our product is actually the secret sauce that allows them to make money. So, they

will not release that to the public. So, there's always a need to supply supplementary information via RAG. Well, what other secret stuff do you know about? I know your private data, what you do on your computer, what you do on your phone. And this is the concept that Microsoft Copilot and the other AI agents are keen on. They're basically building a history

of your actions on the device, and the purpose is to create vector embeddings for rag, but for your personal data. This is the point of Copilot taking screenshots and reading your history and capturing the content that you type and reading what you see. It is building an internal search database. Hopefully, you now begin to understand. I hope from this information, you're beginning to understand it is not necessary for Microsoft, Apple, or Google to actually learn from your content. It just has to be available as

a vector embedding, so there is searchable content. For example, if the subject matter is food choice, then Microsoft can scan all your prior online orders on Postmates based on screenshots and check all your restaurant reservations in its internal database of embeddings. So, here we can fine-tune the claim. Yes, the actual AI models like Microsoft Copilot did not learn from your data. In legalese, that is actually true.

However, it is clearly disingenuous as the data collected about you is available to the AI at all times. It does not need to learn, it just needs to search. So, the trick here is understanding that if AI is allowed to search through your data, then you can presume it will be used to know you. Thus, every claim that AI is not learning your data is absolute nonsense since learning is not part of the use cycle. Let's expand this now to a bigger national scale and think of Palantir. In

a prior video, I explained that Palantir is now powered by AI and it is one of the biggest tools used by the US government in all aspects, including military surveillance, even finding people for ICE. Palantir's access to tons of databases based on federal records, state records, and every locality that spies on its people like those municipalities installing flood cameras all over the place. The danger exists to our privacy because the data exists. AI is an even more efficient search engine than a Google search because it can make sense of data that is not necessarily obvious. It can make connections that a human may not spot in data it finds. It makes it a

huge surveillance threat. The key here is that Palantir uses a model, likely Anthropic or ChatGPT, and then it supplements that AI with vector embeddings of the various databases it has so that the AI has pinpoint information when needed about any topic or about any individual or group of individuals. So, Palantir is a two-pronged system. It has a model and it has a search engine. Same concept as what you see with Windows Co-pilot.

Architectural flaw, local storage is not isolation. Let's be precise about how these AI systems actually work. When Microsoft or any other company says your data stays on the device or it's processed locally, that statement can be true and still leave you exposed. Here's why. Modern AI agents on your computer have two critical capabilities at the same time.

They can read private local data, screenshots, files, activity history, embeddings, whatever has been collected or indexed on the machine. They maintain communication channels back to the company. They receive instructions, model updates, policy changes, and tool access from headquarters. They can also send information outward, summaries, flags, results of a search, or whatever the current instruction tells them to report. Local storage only protects the raw material. It does not protect you if

an AI process that the vendor controls is allowed to examine that material and then communicate the results. This is not theoretical. It is the same architectural pattern that appeared in earlier on-device scanning proposals from other companies and governments. The scan or the search can run entirely on your hardware. The danger is what happens after the AI finds something. If

it can squeal, if it can send a match, a summary, or an alert upstream, then the local copy never saved you. So, when you hear Recall stores everything locally, understand what is actually being promised and what is not. The raw screenshots may stay on the drive. The AI that can search those screenshots does not have to stay silent, and that AI takes its marching orders from the company that built it. The privacy boundary is only as strong as the rules governing what the local AI is allowed to transmit. Those rules are

written by the same company that wants the feature to be useful, popular, and expandable. It is also the same company that wants to be compliant. And recently, there's been this constant push to implement client-side scanning. That is the architecture. That is the risk, and that is why it stays on your device. It's not a full answer. Remember

this client-side scanning pushed by various governments last year as necessary for the children? The scanning was intended to be done by embedded AI. While these bots reside on our phone and are controlled by someone else, we always remain at risk for our information to be shared with others. So, while there's a smart entity active on your device, an entity you didn't put there yourself, and an entity that reports to someone else, you put yourself at risk. Why I detest embedded AI.

Friends, this is why I detest embedded AI. AI forced on you by Microsoft, Apple, and Google. This means that AI can scan your content and report you to someone else. If you're not in lockstep with the government or whoever is in power, then you're a target, and this targeting has been popular in the last 10 years. The problem with embedded AI is that they don't have to learn from you. You

already gave your keys to the kingdom by having the AI watch from your shoulder. This is why I refuse to use these types of devices. I rely on Linux on desktop and the Google phones for mobile. No embedded AI, and the only AI these devices will see are AI that I install myself. So, be distrustful.

When you see claims of how angelic Microsoft, Apple, and Google are with their benign uses of AI, just understand that there is no need to change the AI to spy on you. All they have to do is have a bit of bidirectional messaging with the AI, and they already have this. As I said, Windows Recall and all of that is now opt-in, so the masses have been angered, but it comes only from education. I want to make sure I arm you with knowledge of their word tricks, so you don't fall for their trap. The only eye that is safe is AI you control.

Folks, just a few plugs. I recently announced a new channel, and this is Rob Braxman Tech Deep Dive. Check it out and subscribe so you don't miss the content that I sliced from this channel. The link is in the description. Also, we have privacy products, and these are found now in a separate site called store.brax.me.

You'll find all sorts of goodies there like Braxmail, Braxsim, Brax virtual phone, Bytes VPN, and more. On the hardware front, the Brax 3 phone is still the hot item. You can find it in stock now at braxtech.net, [music] and you can get it in a few days. There are lots of upcoming projects on braxtech.net. The recent project Brax

Open Slate is scheduled to be released this fall. Thank you for your support on Patreon, YouTube memberships, and Locals. Your generosity is appreciated. See you next time.