---
video_title: "Most People Are Telling Themselves the Wrong Hacking Story"
video_id: 60XErzzo26w
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=60XErzzo26w
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  You ever get that feeling of anxiety about a potential hack? Login alert from a city you’ve never been to. Phone battery draining weird. Some random post or a friend saying their phone is full of Trojans and someone’s watching everything.
  Suddenly your brain goes: “I’m being targeted. Someone’s specifically after me.”
  
  This story is common but usually on the wrong scale.
  Let's present the hacking story in its complete form by making you aware of the 3 Hacking Layers.
  
  My new Tech Deep Dive Channel - Please Subscribe!
  https://www.youtube.com/@RobBraxmanDeepTechDive
  
  "Your Mind Is the Product" Kindle Store
  https://amzn.to/3U1pgdX
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone and Brax Open_Slate Android/Linux Tablet is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://store.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  BraxSIM Unlisted (No KYC e-SIM) is on https://braxsim.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
You ever get that feeling of anxiety about a potential hack? Login alert from a city you've never been to. Phone battery draining weird. Some random post or friend saying their phone is full of Trojans and someone's watching everything. Suddenly your brain goes, "I'm being targeted. Someone's specifically after

me." This story is common, but usually on the wrong scale. The point of this video is two things. First, we'll lower the temperature on that anxiety. Second, we need to arm you against the real threats instead of the ones that get repeated in certain circles.

A lot of what gets said out there assumes you're facing some high-end government or sophisticated targeted attack. For most people, that's not the correct threat model. Claims like your device has a backdoor and you need a hardened phone usually imply a threat that doesn't match everyday reality. Backdoor from what? A nation-state running a custom implant against you specifically?

That's not how this works for regular people. Yes, there are real threats, but often you're not defending yourself against the more obvious ones and likely the more serious ones. Let's map it for you so you have the tools to protect yourself properly. Stay right there.

Layers of data threats. There are basically three layers of hacking or personal data threats. >> [snorts] >> Layer one is the high effort targeted stuff, custom or commercial advanced malware, hacks with prolonged access to your device. This is when someone actually chose you. Layer two is the low effort volume stuff, phishing, hacking credentials on your online platforms, commodity malware, plus things like doxing that start with data that's already floating around.

Layer three is the continuous mass data collection by Big Tech platforms and data brokers. That data doesn't just sit there. It gets used to shape what information you see and can be used to influence and even manipulate you. These three run on completely different costs and incentives. Mixing them up is where most of the unnecessary fear comes from and can result in incorrect defensive measures.

Layer one, advanced hacks. Let's start with layer one, the one people overestimate. Serious targeted hacking work costs real money. High-end commercial spyware in the class of Pegasus has been sold to governments for millions of dollars. Older pricing doc showed half a million just to install plus hundreds of thousands for a small set of targets.

More recent numbers put full packages in the multi-million range, sometimes even 7 million and up for a set of concurrent targets. Bigger multi-year contracts go way higher. These tools are built for states and high-value intelligence work, not for some regular person with a normal bank account and Instagram. Even mid-tier hackers for hire or lower-level commercial surveillance still cost real money when the work is actually real, thousands to tens of thousands. Don't overestimate this though. A lot of

the cheap dark web offers are just scams. Without access to real zero-days, these attacks are not necessarily effective. Now, compare that to the cheap end. Fishing kits can cost almost nothing or 20, 50, a couple hundred bucks. Once the system is running with thousands of names and emails to fish, the cost of running it on one more ordinary person is basically zero.

Attackers are rational. They look at expected return versus cost. Burning a multi-million dollar capability or even a few thousand dollars of a real targeted effort using an expensive zero-day on someone with ordinary accounts almost never makes sense. The math only changes if there's significant money that's easy to drain, access to something bigger, you're connected to a real high-value target, or there's a highly motivated personal enemy willing to spend real cash. And you have to ask yourself if you're worth it.

Think of it like this. Hiring a private investigator to follow one specific person for months versus spraying cheap mass phishing. One is expensive and selective, the other is cheap and widespread. Some people respond to the fear by locking everything down extremely and treating every phone like it has a sophisticated backdoor waiting for a government attack. That only makes sense if your actual threat model is a high-end persistent targeting. For most people,

those attacks are rare and expensive for the attacker. So, that level of hardening is often solving the wrong problem. So, to gauge if you're at risk for a layer one hack, evaluate how much money a hacker can make off you. That's the realistic expectation. Layer two, the common hacks.

Now, layer two, the stuff that actually hits most people. Credential stuffing from password reuse, phishing, commodity malware, account takeovers. These scale. The marginal cost of going after one more person is low. Most everyday I got hacked stories live here. All you have to do is check the

site have I been pawned.com and you will likely find that one or more of your emails are on the list. Thus, you are automatically a target. You feel it's personal because it happened to your account. Your brain jumps to someone targeted me.

They just had a big list and you were on it and those lists were hacked from some big corporation like LinkedIn or Equifax. Doxing sits in this same area. It's the exposure of private identifying information, home address, phone number, family details, workspace. But, doxing is the fuel that feeds spear fishing. It's not about a sophisticated device compromise. Often, it's about

carelessness. The number one cause of being hacked are things like password reuse, having an overly public and exposed presence on social media, or not caring about simple physical security where other people may know your password. The end result is that your data is already sitting in breach dumps, data broker databases, public records, location databases, or social media. And once it's out, it can become a precursor for other attacks, better fishing, social engineering, harassment, physical theft, or just making your life harder. Basic digital hygiene still wins here.

Unique passwords that are not reused. Watch my video on passwords where I recommend four to five random words. These are long passwords. Nothing complicated. Remember not to click on obvious junk and check the source of the emails to see if they are real. Also, limit how

much permanent personal information is easy to find and link together on the internet. And control what you say on social media using your real identity. Publicizing your upcoming trip to Spain is inviting trouble. The other common attack here is fishing or spear fishing, which is fishing with doxing included. This makes the email fishing attack more clickable because someone knows you.

This is the most common attack. Reminds me of the old fishing call you receive from Microsoft technical support, which is actually an Indian company that hacks your computer if you fall for it. Once they gain access to your computer, they could drain your bank account. I can spend a lot of time talking about fishing attacks and how to spot it. Let me know in the comments if this is of interest for a future video.

The other risk here is from someone you know with physical access to your device and knows your password, like an ex-boyfriend. Well, when you have a breakup, change passwords everywhere. Change emails. Common sense stuff instead of panic. Layer three, big tech.

Now, layer three, the continuous threat. This is the biggest and most constant layer for almost everyone. Major platforms and the wider data ecosystem, including data brokers, don't need to hack you. You agreed to them storing your personal data forever. They collect location patterns, usage, identifiers, contacts, behavioral signals under the product design and the business model. It's systematic and it

happens at population scale. And it's not just collected, it's used. The data helps shape information you see, recommendations, ranking, targeted content, political messaging, the overall information environment. That's a quieter form of influence. It doesn't require anyone to break into your phone, but it has a significant effect on society. It's just how the system works.

Think of it like living in the old Soviet Union where everyone's job is given by the state, everyone's moves is known by the state, and everyone's progress in life is controlled by the state. If you overstep, then the state hunts you down. So, everyone watches what they say or stays quiet. That's why a lot of people feel like they're being watched even when there's no personal adversary. Something is watching.

Just not in the way the I'm being targeted with advanced malware story claims. On a side note, there's value to hardening a phone against this kind of threat. Not because you want to stop a sophisticated remote exploit or assuming every device has a backdoor, it's about reducing permanent identifiers that feed mass collection, correlation, doxing, and that information influence. For example, traditional phone numbers are a big source of these permanent identifiers. This is why Big Tech forces you to give a phone number for 2FA.

They're your ID card. They sit on permanent lists, get sold by data brokers, enable tracking, and become long-lived identity anchors to your internet activity. Phone designs that deliberately stay outside the conventional phone network are aimed at this exact problem, reducing exposure to the systems that make mass surveillance and mass targeting cheap. That's a different, often more proportional goal than defending against rare, high-end attacks. The problem with the Big Tech threat is the same with any mass surveillance threat. Because no one is visibly

attacking your device, you presume you are safe. But those in places like [clears throat] the UK are beginning to see that they can go to jail for what they post on social media, things that would just be normal free speech in the US. But the big tech databases are massive and pervasive with 24/7 location tracking via the Google sensor vault, a record of every click on the internet, and identity to guarantee attribution is a good way to lose freedom. Suddenly, you can no longer speak out openly without consequence. That to me is a very serious threat.

Let's put it all together. Ambient anxiety about hacks common to many plus a real account takeover, an ex-boyfriend that knows your password and locks you out, a doxing incident, or even just a weird glitch like a bug in the OS gets misread as layer one advanced hacks. Meanwhile, layer three, Big Tech is running the whole time and supplying the data that makes the cheaper harms possible. A lot of advice that assumes every device has a sophisticated backdoor or that ordinary people face constant high-end targeting comes from people solving for a different threat model or sometimes just pushing some self-serving agenda. That advice can pull you away from the risks that actually show up.

Extreme hardening against rare targeted attacks is often mismatched. The better focus is on layer two hygiene, reducing the attack surface by protecting your online identity and reducing your presence in the mass data systems. Stop asking, is someone specifically after me with advanced tools or does my phone have a backdoor? Ask the default questions. Ask which layer the problem actually belongs to.

Did you reuse your passwords? Did you use two-factor authentication? Did you reveal a phone number? Did you use your real name? Did you expose your IP address? Do you enable location

tracking? Did you reveal to your password to someone you know? Yes, high-end capabilities exist. Motivated personal adversaries exist, but the attack methods on ordinary people will be the cheap methods. So, what do you actually do? For the opportunistic

attacks and doxing, don't passwords and use long ones like the 45 random words I recommend. Have a basic skepticism towards unexpected messages and links and limiting how much permanent personal information you provide to sites is easy to stitch together. Having private phone numbers and multiple partitioned email accounts help by hiding your identity. Turn off location tracking at all times. Be careful of posting openly in apps that know your real identity.

For the big tech layer, this is mostly what I teach about because this is actually the biggest threat. This is also a side source of mass surveillance from the government by things like the Google sensor vault or Fog Data Science. The answer here is to use the Google phones, VPNs, and use the browser isolation technique I've been teaching over and over. The reason I recommend this is because this strategy disconnects your identity from the data and that disables the big tech tracking systems. Think about how your many permanent identifiers, especially traditional phone numbers and IP addresses, that you spread around the internet. Most of you don't care someone

will match your internet activities to your real identity and that will be a permanent mass surveillance source. For those that think they're in the high-end targeted layer, again, this is more rare than you think. Living like you're under constant advanced surveillance is usually disproportionate. The point isn't only to feel less anxious, it's to stop spending energy on perceived threats that don't match your reality. Instead, arm yourself against the ones that actually show up. Opportunistic account

takeovers, doxing that starts with already available data, continuous mass data collection, and the quiet influence that data enables. The personal targeting story is usually the wrong scale. Volume attacks and doxing that leverage available data are the everyday risks. Continuous platform and data broker collection is the background nonstop threat, and that data can be used to shape what you see. Extreme hardening against rare targeted attacks or the assumption of having sophisticated backdoors is often mismatched. Reducing the identifiers

that feed mass systems and doxing is more relevant for most people. Now, there are people with jobs that demand some hardening. Politicians, journalists, sysadmins of large systems, they can be potential targets. Again, if hacking you involves a huge payback, then assume you can be targeted, and you need to protect yourself more heavily against all three layers. But for the normal person, next time the anxiety spikes or someone tells you your device must have a backdoor, that's the useful takeaway.

Folks, just a few plugs. I recently announced a new channel, and this is Rob Braxman Tech Deep Dive. Check it out and subscribe so you don't miss >> [music] >> the content that I sliced from this channel. I also just published a new book, Your Mind [music] is the Product, and you can find this on Amazon Kindle. The link will be in the description.

To support this channel, we have privacy products, and these are found now in a separate site called store.brax.me. You'll find all sorts of goodies there, like Brax Mail, Brax Sim, Brax Virtual Phone, Bytes VPN, and more. On the hardware front, the Brax 3 phone is still the hot item. You can find it

in stock now at braxtech.net, and you can get it in a few days. There are lots of upcoming projects on braxtech.net. The recent project, Brax Opux Slate, is scheduled to be released later this year. [music]

Watch out for a new product called Wink, which is the most hardened phone solution. Thank you for your support on Patreon, [music] YouTube memberships, and Locals. Your generosity is appreciated. See you next time.