---
video_title: "Microsoft's Agentic AI Push: Genius for Business or Disaster for Your Personal Computing?"
video_id: Rpm_IoTDBmo
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rpm_IoTDBmo
video_date: 2026-01-01T17:00:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Microsoft is aggressively pushing Windows 11 into the Agentic-OS world where the AI doesn't just behave like a chatbot but does tasks for you. While this has explosive implications in the enterprise world, there is doubt that this has actually been figured out for personal use. In the enterprise world, the environment requires iterative testing, monitoring and human checks to verify the performance of an AI. But in the personal world, no such control exists. And yet, Microsoft is the sole company (not Apple, or Google) that is invoking AI with this kind of autonomy. Is Microsoft misfocused?
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
Microsoft is charging full speed ahead with Agentic AI, turning Windows into what they proudly call an Agentic OS, where AI agents don't just answer questions, they proactively dig through your files, automate your tasks, and basically take control of your PC. They announced this vision at Ignite 2025 like it's the future we've all been dreaming of. But the reality, everyday Windows users are absolutely furious. Thousands of backlash comments, locked posts, Reddit threads on fire, people screaming, "We never asked for this." And you know what? They're 100% right.

Today, I'm going full rant mode to break it all down. Why? This might actually be somewhat genius for big enterprises chasing productivity gains, but for you and me, the personal computer users, it's an absolute privacy, security, and autonomy disaster. We'll cover exactly what agentic AI in Windows looks like, the enterprise side where it actually makes sense, the massive consumer backlash, and then buckle up, a deep dive into every terrifying risk that should make you think twice before letting these agents anywhere near your personal machine. If you're already sick of big tech forcing unwanted AI blow down your throat, let's expose this mess together. Stay right there.

What exactly is this agentic AI push in Windows? Let's start with the basics so we're all on the same page. Agentic AI isn't your old school chatbot that just spits out answers. These are proactive agents that plan and execute multi-step tasks autonomously with deep access to your apps, files, browsing history, and ondevice context. Microsoft's current and upcoming features include at tagging agents right from the taskbar for instant help. Hovering over files in

Explorer to get AI summaries or actions, background agents that run long tasks and show progress and notifications, offline email summarization, and smart agenda previews on Copilot Plus PCs. Deeper integrations into Outlook Teams and eventually third-party apps. On Copilot devices with powerful NPUs, it gets even more invasive. agents pulling from recall screenshot history and ondevice models to anticipate what you need next. Microsoft demos it like sci-fi magic. Hey co-pilot, plan my

entire vacation. It searches flights, books hotels, adds calendar events, sends confirmations. impressive on stage, but when that same agent is rifling through your personal documents, banking tabs, private photos, and chat history, that's where the nightmare begins. And there are demos on Open AI of deeper involvement of agents like completely responding to your emails and making purchases autonomously. It's potentially genius for enterprise with serious guard rails. Okay, I'll

give Microsoft this. In the enterprise world, Agentic AI could legitimately transform productivity if it's locked down properly. They're building enterprisegrade infrastructure like agent 365. This is basically a central command center where IT teams can treat AI agents like they're just another employee on the payroll. registering them, setting what they can and can't do, keeping an eye on their activities, auditing their work, and even firing them if things go wrong. Securely runs

on Windows 365 cloud PCs. Agents can operate in safe virtual cloud-based computers, keeping everything isolated and protected from messing with the main systems. Deep ties into Microsoft 365 apps. Seamless connections for automating stuff like sales pipelines, financial reports, customer support workflows, and IT management, making teams more efficient. Oversight through purview labels, intra ID rules, and human checks. There are data sensitivity

tags to protect info, identity policies to control access, and always looping in real people for approvals to avoid AI going rogue. But here's the thing. All those fancy safeguards like the circle command center for managing agents, running them in isolated cloud environments, tight integrations with business app, and strict rules for protecting data and requiring human approval. Those are built for big companies with dedicated IT teams. For regular home users, we got none of that. No way to

properly register, monitor, audit, or shut down these agents if something goes wrong. No automatic data protection tags or access controls that actually mean anything in a personal setup. And definitely no IT department to step in and stop an agent from doing something stupid or dangerous. In other words, enterprises have real guard rails. You and I, we're completely on our own with powerful autonomous AI digging through our personal files and no meaningful way to control or even understand what it's doing. So yeah, control enterprise use

case potentially revolutionary, but that's a tiny fraction of the billion plus Windows devices out there. The rest of us, we don't have corporate IT departments babysitting our agents. Personal Windows users are getting screwed. Massive backlash proves it. Now, let's talk about the personal side and why users are losing their minds.

Ignite 2025 drops the agentic OS bombshell. Windows chief Pavan Deavaluri posts excitedly about the future and gets absolutely buried. Nobody wants this creepy surveillance AI. More force bloat. Prioritize stability over experiment. He lacks replies. Classic

Microsoft move. Reddit forms, text sites all exploding. Users comparing it to past disasters like Windows 8 or force telemetry. In the poster child of unwanted features, Windows recall announced in 2024 as a photographic memory that screenshots your screen every few seconds. It caused immediate outrage. Security researchers exposed

plain tech storage risks, domestic abuse vectors, malware exploitation potential. This caused it to be delayed over and over. It finally rolled out generally in April 2025 for copilot plus bases, but still labeled preview optin with encryption and content filters. But those filters are far from perfect. Partial sensitive info still leaks through. Apps like Signal and Brave

block it by default, and users are still furious. Why are you forcing a permanent diary on people who just want to browse game or work without their PC watching every single move? Microsoft Execs seem genuinely baffled, calling their resistance mind-blowing while ignoring low Copilot usage stats and painfully slow Windows 11 adoption. Consumer revenue is basically flat compared to the enterprise cloud boom. Yet they keep bundling these experimental intrusive features into the same OS we all use daily. It's tonedeaf, arrogant, and

risking real user alienation. A terrifying risk deep dive. Why this is a disaster for personal use. Now we get to the core of why this isn't just annoying, it's legitimately dangerous for personal users. Microsoft buries vague warnings about novel security risk in their docs, but let's go deep on every single one. Number one, AI

companion is your permanent diary. Copilot plus recall plus agent context equals an intimate searchable record of everything you do. Every website, message, document, photo, search term. It's not just history. It's your unfiltered digital diary of habits, secrets, opinions, beliefs, relationships, and health concerns. The

point is that the technology forces you to maintain a personal diary. I get it when you're a teenager and want to find yourself and read back your thoughts, but do I want someone else to eventually read it? It bothers me that the AI reads it. And the bigger point is that why am I forced to keep a diary of my life to begin with? The selling point of this originally is that it can help you recall something as if you don't have your own memory. But

the real reason for this technology is so that the AI has data on you. Intimate knowledge of you and your diary so the AI can in theory respond to the world just like you. >> We are on a mission to create a true AI companion. And to me, an AI companion is one that can hear what you hear um and see what you see and live life essentially alongside you. Number two, that diary can be exposed.

The problem is that once you move private information from your brain to your computer, it can be exposed. It doesn't have to be some major hacking breach. It could just be someone else in your household borrowing your computer. Now, it seems that the personal computer has become very personal. With this kind of AI in place, I would be reluctant to have someone else even touch my computer. And as far as a real hacking

threat goes, encryption, and ondevice promises sound nice, but breaches, ransomware, insider leaks, or forced biometric access happen. The early recall builds stored data in plain text. proof they can screw this up. One compromise and your entire personal history is out there forever. Three, AI agents do your bidding with dangerous autonomy. Agents plan and execute chains

of actions without asking permission at every step. This is the secret sauce of AI agents, autonomous actions. In fact, they can initiate other AI agents that are also autonomous. So you can have a problem of actually understanding which branch of your orders are getting screwed up when they get screwed up. Autonom is risky because Microsoft I'm sure is fearful of any major AI errors.

The current beta versions do not enable any external interfaces with AI agents. All the actions are localbased for now. But remember that this is not the end goal. Open AI has already been making models that book reservations and make purchases through external websites. I wonder who will first litigate the liability of the AI agent when it makes a purchase that the user cannot afford to pay. Autonomy equals massively

increased risk. The fact that one AI agent can trigger another AI agent can lead to error cascades and make things exponentially more complex. Number four, AI agent blackbox opacity. LLMs are opaque. You see inputs and outputs, but the internal reasoning completely hidden. Biases, flaws,

unexpected behaviors, no transparency, no real trust. When an incorrect decision is made by the AI agent, how do you figure it out? We're not there yet in Microsoft, but the open AI beta models already do this. You can have the AI agent autorespond to your emails. Sure, the AI may be able to emulate your style of conversation, but what is it promising in the email? What if it's

saying something wrong? We'll talk about hallucinations later. Multi- aent systems where agents delegate, collaborate, and spawn sub agents. You lose all visibility in the hidden AI to AI ecosystem driving outcomes. In a non-enterprise environment, is it really necessary to stress a personal computer user with procedures on guard rails for the AI? Number five, AI agents can be

manipulated. They're not freethinkers. They're biased by design. These agents don't start from neutral ground. The underlying LLMs are trained on internet scale data that overwhelmingly reflects the dominant viewpoints, the loudest voices, mainstream institutions, big platforms, and culture priorities of those who control the most content.

Whatever perspective was most prevalent or rewarded becomes the model's bakedin consensus reality. Then alignment layers add developer defined values about what's helpful or safe. The result, your agent isn't executing pure objective ideas. It's operating within inherited biases that subtly favor the world view of the powerful. In enterprises, companies can fine-tune an override. At

home, you're stuck with Microsoft prepackaged consensus, nudging every recommendation, analysis, or automated decision. Let's apply this to basic purchase decisions. AI agents can be made to bias choices, for example, in the selection of phones best for privacy. Here, the recommendation is likely going to be for some big tech production phone because certain types of privacy phone models will be suppressed. I'm afraid too that the AI can be paid to influence you on purchase choices or opinions manipulated by bots on Instagram or X. But when this can be

dangerously manipulated is when there are censored topics where only one point of view is allowed or with political controls which depend on who's in power. Number six, AI agents can be inserted and because they're black boxes, you'd never know. The opacity of these models creates the perfect vector for hidden surveillance agents inserted by updates, supply chain attacks, or regulatory mandates that activate silently. Think Apple's abandoned 2021 CSAM ondevice scanning plan which was scrapped after a privacy backlash or the EU chat control proposals that even after 2025 compromises still leave vague doors open for future monitoring. Imagine a quiet Windows update slipping in a shadow agent that only triggers on specific patterns. Monitoring files, chats, or

browsing, building profiles, and then reporting to HQ. Because it's buried in the black box, you wouldn't see it in task manager. You wouldn't get a notification, wouldn't notice any performance hit. Independent audits can't reliably prove or disprove its existence. Enterprises can isolate an audit. Personal users are completely

blind and vulnerable. Number seven, AI agent hallucinations. Plausible but catastrophically wrong. Microsoft openly warns agents can confidently produce incorrect actions. Deleting wrong files, sending fabricated emails, booking non-existent reservations.

Unfortunately, this is so easy to document and duplicate. ask it some really recent information like who will be in the college football playoffs or which team is doing well. I found that even Grock, which is heavily reliant on current event search data, cannot accurately understand dated events. Every week there's a new ranking and new published game results and it will speak with confidence about who the possible playoff champion will be without actual facts and unable to sequence content by date. When it comes to technical details, it can become confused by the waiting of its machine learned data versus current search data. But the

problem is that in a hallucination, the AI is adamantly confident of its choice. This can be controlled in an enterprise environment where each agent is assigned particular task with limited outcomes. For example, like insurance claims processing. But this can be disastrous with things like personal relationships where everything is nuanced and it performs some automated email response where the AI misses the nuance thus causing immense problems. AI trace logs testing and monitoring are nightmares. Convoluted logs, infinite

edge cases, personal users have no realistic way to audit what the agent actually did. Again, this is an environment better suited to the enterprise. If the agent is intended to replace employees, then you can test the outcomes and audit processes because that's what an enterprise would do. How does personal use of AI allow for this kind of auditing and control? Can we even classify emotions and preferences this way? Number nine, AI agents can be

fished or tricked. This is one of the scariest aspects of AI in my mind because it's actually easy to do. Given the fact that a co-pilot knows everything about you from window recall, then a malicious email could fish you and make a seemingly innocent request, for example, which might make the AI reveal personal information in a response. For example, a fisher can solicit feedback via email to profile people by profession and income using simple emails talking about potential employment. This is a very common fishing approach. But people who are

experts know that you can force the AI to change directions by having it do unexpected things via trick prompts. It's even given a name, prompt engineering. 10. the slippery slope in a full AI agent to AI agent world. Here's the world we don't understand. Let's say a

large portion of the population uses AI agents to respond to messages. Then it becomes possible that even external communications become just AI to AI nonsense. Well, this garbage can be tolerated in an enterprise environment where only business is discussed. What are the implications of a bot taking in the personality of its master sounding authentic? Then full conversations and commitments are made all by agents without the actual real users being aware of what they're committing to and without the AI sensing that they're not talking to real people and the possibility that the whole conversation is made up from one agent to another agent. This is already happening in

social media, but it can get more personal. Microsoft's fundamental misfocus. The fact is an agentic OS as envisioned by Microsoft is truly ills suited for personal use. The privacy and security risk and lack of a methodology for a regular user to perform audits and establish guardrails make it unsuitable without the knowledge that would be required from AI experts. Microsoft is wrong to focus on agentic AI for the personal market. Microsoft real money is

in enterprise and cloud. Consumer Windows is basically an afterthought. Yet they keep forcing experimental high-risisk features on the masses for the sake of vision and hype. The backlash is clear. Windows 11 adoption is sluggish. Linux and Mac OS mentions

are spiking. Microsoft wake up. separate the enterprise power tools from the consumer OS or risk losing personal users for good. Final verdict. This is potentially transformative genius for controlled enterprise environments. Absolute privacy,

security, and autonomy disaster for personal Windows users. I would personally disable all embedded AI related features of a PC for personal use, meaning anything that can run AI agents you do not control. In a recent video, I found that reinstalling Windows and using a local account disables much of the AI agent nonsense. But since this is impossible to verify completely in Windows, I would truly recommend that for personal use and if you are interested in privacy that end users should switch their computer use to Linux. Otherwise, you're going to have to make frequent changes to Windows 11 to disable agentic features that are independently discovered. It will be

like constantly screening for spyware. I want to also bring to your attention that the Apple Intelligence and Google Gemini are not currently pushing for autonomous agentic AI in their operating systems. So this aggressive push is solely Microsofts. The other oss are more focused on realtime AI automation and local use. After hearing what I said, which risk hit you hardest? The

baked and manipulation through bias, the undetectable surveillance insertion, or something else? Drop it in the comments below. Like if Microsoft needs to pump the brakes on consumer agentic features, folks, if you're serious about privacy, come join us at Braxme. It's the growing community where real privacy people hang out. No censorship, no nonsense. While

you're there, check out the tools we actually built and use ourselves. Braxmail, unlimited aliases, no IP leaks. Bra virtual phone, real anonymous numbers. ByesVPN, no logs, no big corp BS. The Google phones and more in the store.

The Bra 3 second batch is open for pre-order right now at bratech.net. The first batch sold shortly after release. Big thanks to everyone supporting us on Patreon, locals, and YouTube memberships. You keep this channel alive. See you next time.