---
video_title: "The Privacy Mistake That Makes Aliases Useless"
video_id: gYpTULZaAwk
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYpTULZaAwk
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  If you are tech-savvy with privacy tools, you might think you will automatically be safe. But there are a few "gotchas" that people don't know about because no one is there to tell them. Today, I will be the one to teach you the holes in the average person's privacy plan and it's due to not understanding the secret data exchange propagated by the data brokers. Execute your privacy plan with confidence if you understand to not step on the holes in the landscape.
  
  My new Tech Deep Dive Channel - Please Subscribe!
  https://www.youtube.com/@RobBraxmanDeepTechDive
  
  New Book "Your Mind Is the Product" on Amazon
  https://amzn.to/3U1pgdX
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone and Brax Open_Slate Android/Linux Tablet is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://store.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  BraxSIM Unlisted (No KYC e-SIM) is on https://braxsim.brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
If you're a privacy conscious individual, you are careful with what information you provide to various internet platforms, whether it's that data is an email address, a phone number, or a real name. But, we're going to upgrade your knowledge a little bit here because a lack of understanding of the threat landscape when it comes to data brokers will destroy your privacy and waste your time. Some platform will still be able to identify who you are precisely because of mistakes. These mistakes come from not understanding who the data brokers are and how they work. You are careful and you don't use your real name on some platform. You just

want some anonymity. You may have even taken some of the advanced extra steps I've been teaching here like having additional phone numbers or email aliases. But, if you don't understand what I'm going to talk about, privacy is no better than before. Hear me out. If you go to a social media site and not use your real name, you may think you're somewhat anonymous until you discover that someone can associate a social media post you made to your real identity. And then what?

Today, I'm going to make you all privacy experts. None of what I talk about here is ever really discussed by other privacy and security channels. So, you'll learn something new and protect your identity in a better way. Stay right there.

Who are the data brokers? Data brokers are companies that make money selling your data. There's a bunch of them, and some are completely legitimized by the financial services community, while some are not. The most obvious data brokers are the credit bureaus. In the US, these are Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.

They're likely the leakiest source of your private data. They know everything about you and everything that has to do with credit. The other big data source is the government. For example, there are voter registration records, property tax records, court records, business and corporate registrations, professional licensing boards, and so on. While these government sources may not have complete information about you, they have the indexing keys like name and address.

>> [snorts] >> Then there are the other identity data aggregators like LiveRamp, Acxiom, Epsilon, LexisNexis, and surprisingly the credit bureaus are here, too. Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion. Basically, all these entities sell your data. And if the data comes from the government, they harvest that government data from any public record and put it in their database. Over this, these companies also search the internet for your activities to see what you are doing online, and that's collected and aggregated and sold as well. Then this

data is offered to potential employers who can then search what you've been doing on the internet. Companies offering this service include Fama Technologies, Fairly, HireRight, Sterling, and First Advantage. The sad part is that many of these entities have been hacked, like all three US credit bureaus. So actually, your data doesn't even have to be purchased. Now, there are public lookup databases of your name, address, phone numbers, emails, and more.

Your identity. In order for someone to pull data from these sources, someone needs to know your identity. So, some method must exist to find some index key that can be used to search for you in these external databases. The obvious keys are name, address, date of birth, but you can also be found via email address and phone number. Governments, of course, can find you with additional identifiers like license plates and driver's license numbers. And

financial firms can get positive ID from social security numbers. Social media platforms. Social media platforms present a specific identity threat. Though they don't necessarily sell their data directly. I'm talking here about Google, Meta, TikTok, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Yahoo, and so on. What happens with

these sites is they make their own identity databases. They basically collect contact lists. Facebook was the first to do this 20-plus years ago, and LinkedIn was very aggressive with it since the beginning. So, these sites pull your contact list from your phone if you have their apps, and these are pulled daily. Thus, people's names as stored in your contact list and their corresponding phone numbers are now part of the data of these internet platforms.

Then sites like Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft go further. They run email systems. These email providers are able to correlate people based on emails received and sent. Thus, these platforms can create contact lists based on email addresses. Now, to tie this all together, all these platforms also require two-factor authentication via phone number.

Which in plain English means they ask for your phone number to use their platforms. Google can actually query the carrier directly to find out your real name based on the phone number. I discovered that on a brand new Pixel. In the case of Facebook, they can just look at their contact list databases and find out who you are connected to and verify your identity that way. These platforms will also track you by IP address. So, if you're trying to

enter them surreptitiously via another identity, not caring about your IP address, will cause you to be identified anyway. The IP address will be matched to an address and that will point to your name. All these mistakes result in a verified name and the verified name can then be used to do a lookup in the data broker databases to find your entire life record. And if they don't know everything but have an email address, then the email address can be connected to the phone number and then the phone number matched to a name and then you are once again found in the big data broker databases. This reverse lookup can occur with all your unique identifiers including your home address.

Seems like a dead end. If you understand this whole web of data exchange, it does seem impossible to escape. And the whole point of internet privacy is just to be able to do what you want on the internet without someone finding out exactly where you live and how much money you make on top of knowing your beliefs and behaviors. There are techniques that I teach to overcome this scary landscape that I just described. Just to give you a bit of hope here, the way to preserve your privacy is by creating alternative identities over the internet anchored by unique email addresses, unique phone numbers, and a unique name. It also means being aware

of alternate ways of payment including money orders, crypto, prepaid credit cards, and so on. So, that is doable but you have to be organized. While having unique email addresses, phone numbers, and a pseudo anonymous name seems pretty obvious, the problem that I will explore today is that if you make a mistake, your identities will leak and cross over. And that, folks, is what we aim to fix today. Partitioning your life.

The reality is that it is too late to change what is known about you in the public databases. The best hygiene for protecting your privacy is knowing how to partition your life. This is actually quite a skill and is not obvious, and people make mistakes with this every day. The main partitions are people who know you versus people you don't know. And there's actually a third partition, and this is people you pay.

So, let's look at examples. As we already discussed, governments, financial institutions know who you are. You showed your ID. But there are more. Often you showed your ID to the cell carrier, your doctor's office, your cable company, your car dealer. Think of

this clearly, if you showed your ID to any organization, then you are in the database. Your every action's collected and tracked, and often you want to be in your best behavior. I don't mean behavior here as in criminal type of activity. Depending on where you are, behavior is conformity, so you are expected to conform. No deviations.

If you don't conform, you stand out. You stand out, you can get targeted. Partitioning is particularly important for people who belong to professional licensing organizations, like doctors, lawyers, real estate, financial consultants, and accountants, and so on. Your activities in the professional realm are all public and can easily be matched. This requires some special thought. If you join some social media

site expecting some anonymity, it's your choice what you do, but if you decide to join sites that are populated with people who know you, then you better use the same identifiers for these as you do with banks. And in these platforms, you better watch yourself like a case of a doctor openly participating in a political protest, for example. It might impact your career. People you pay is broken out separately here. When you financially transact with a bank, a credit card company, a doctor, or an accountant, these groups were already covered under people who know you.

But there's a group of parties mostly related to online purchases like Amazon, eBay, Gap, Walmart, and so on, where at least some data might leak and some indirectly even when you didn't provide identity information. You have to at least be aware of this as this is not an open-and-shut case. To handle this group, you could think about alternate payment methods that could lessen the identity exposure. But just realize that people you pay will know you and depending on what other information you're sharing with these parties, that may be used to classify you in some way.

People you don't know. Let's specifically focus on the side of your life related to people you don't know, but are not people you pay. I assume here that you already watched my videos on phone numbers and emails, and you know that you should have a reserved set of emails and phone numbers not tied to Big Tech where they can find out who you are. If you have several private emails you can use, for example, you can have Brack's Mail with unlimited aliases or Brack's Virtual Phone for extra phone numbers. You have a set of tools, but you must use them properly.

You must never use your tools for people you don't know if it can be discovered by people who know you. So, who are the biggest leakers of your data that you didn't think about? I didn't mention it before, but the biggest source are your friends and family. These friends and family will not protect your data. You will be in their contact list, so your name and extra phone number and possibly special email will already be uploaded to big tech databases and end up with data brokers.

This is the exposed category, the non-private category. So, don't mix up your identities. The most important thing is to make sure the people you don't know can't leak real identifiers that will end up in data broker sites. These are the entities where you use your pseudo-anonymous ID toolkit. That's the takeaway. So, let's talk

about specific techniques. Stopping the leak. If the site knows who you are, use your real ID set of identifiers, real name, real phone number, real email, real address. Don't ever give them your pseudo-anonymous ID set. The pseudo-anonymous ID set is a special name, extra phone number, extra email, and some other address. Here are

examples you need to be aware of. Bank needs 2FA phone number. You give your extra phone number. Wrong. It's wrong because your extra phone number will get reported to the credit bureaus and it will now be attached to your real name. It becomes a primary

number. So, don't hide your real number from your bank. Use your standard phone and email. Your relative needs a phone number. You give them your extra phone number and special email.

Wrong. This relative, brother, sister, niece, cousin, whatever, will add you to their contact list and you will be uploaded to social media where this number is now known and then your relationship will be verified by this relative on Facebook. You sign up to a social media site. You need a pseudo-anonymous identity. You give an extra phone number and special email.

Correct. This social media site is not able to then sell your data to data brokers because the index key doesn't match any existing name on their database. You sign up to PayPal and they ask for a phone number for 2FA. You give them your extra phone number and special email. Wrong.

Here's what's not obvious. While PayPal and Venmo tend to be treated as social media because they are used in social sites and Venmo specifically is made for social connections, the problem is that these are financial sites. So, you risk having your identifiers sent to the credit bureau. So, I treat PayPal as a bank. No hiding.

Here, unique emails per site like Burn Mail with aliases give you identity separation. So, this doesn't interfere with users in social media. Online restaurant reservations, you give an extra phone number, unique email, and some name. Correct. Mostly, the fear with restaurants is spam. Your contact information can be

sold and be used to spam you. So, this is low risk for using pseudo-anonymous tools. You buy from Amazon. You give them a pseudo-anonymous identity and real address. Correct.

I find that I don't need to give Amazon any full identity. It's not necessary. All they care about is that you pay for it. The problem is that Amazon has a huge database and can potentially sell that data. So, I have a virtual phone number, special email, and I don't use a real name with Amazon. The less

information I provide, the better. The problem here is that shipping addresses are in separate databases and can lead to an identity. The risk case here is if a social media site like TikTok can access your address on Amazon and know that's not going to happen since there is no matching identifier between the two platforms and TikTok doesn't use a shipping address. Buying from eBay, I use pseudo-anonymous IDs and I pay by PayPal. I use a public-facing email on PayPal that is not associated with any other email use.

I use a corporate or business identity. Correct. This is a variation on Amazon. Here, eBay accepts PayPal and this is true of many sites. The good news about PayPal is that it can insulate some of your private information because PayPal itself is the one that keeps your identity. While you might have qualms

about PayPal, the issue is that only one party retains your information. And this withholds some information from eBay, particularly if you don't use your real name. I happen to use a corporate name on PayPal and even on Amazon with a credit card, so I have this extra layer of separation all the time. The same risk here applies to shipping addresses as with Amazon. No issue with that with other social media sites if other identifiers are protected since shipping addresses are only used by sellers. Buying from a grocery store,

use a pseudo-anonymous ID and a normal debit card, special email for the loyalty card, and extra phone number for 2FA. Wrong. The problem with chain grocery store use is that they use loyalty programs to track you, and those phones and emails actually do end up in data broker sites, and the main source is actually those loyalty programs. And you will notice that the grocery store platforms will actually verify your address. So, here I would treat the grocery store as a site belonging to the people who know you group. Otherwise, your special

emails and phone numbers will leak. So, use normal phone numbers and email. They will actively identify you by your address, which is actually their primary identifier. Pulling it all together. In general, once a financial transaction is involved, it is often very difficult to separate out privacy versus full-on KYC or identity presentation. It is

still possible to do some separation. Paying with PayPal and Zelle are good methods to at least separate the data seen by the seller. I didn't cover Zelle, but it is actually the least amount of information visible to the seller if set up right. Value those sites that take alternative payment methods like cash, crypto, money orders, gift cards, Zelle, and so on. Even if they take your credit card info, it shows that they value your privacy.

In general, since most of the data you want to protect is related to free speech, then clearly where the free speech is something you want, then use your pseudo-anonymous tools including special email, special phone, VPN, and non-real name. The dangerous crossovers are when some financial transaction occurs. Many times you're not certain if a particular seller knows you more than you think, like your grocer. Whenever there's a financial transaction linked to a platform and there's no alternative payment method, it breaks anonymity. So, learn to switch to a real identity.

Every day we get more privacy-invading features in some platforms that make it harder and harder to escape from. The main sites where you cannot hide your identity are all the meta properties, Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp. They're a dead end to privacy. Since these are so invasive, I actually would not use them at all or would use them only in isolated devices. It's that dangerous. Meta specifically

buys data from data broker sites, so they know your purchase habits. Very privacy-invading. Hopefully, this discussion has improved your knowledge of the privacy traps in everyday life. Be aware of and provide partitioning among people who know you, people you don't know, and people you pay, and don't mix them up.

Folks, just a few plugs. I recently announced a new channel and this is Rob Braxman Tech Deep Dive. Check it out and subscribe so you don't miss the content that I sliced from this channel. I also just published a new book, Your Mind Is the Product, and you can find this on Amazon Kindle in paperback and ebook. The link will be in the description.

To support this channel, we have privacy products and these are found now in a separate site called store.brax.me. You'll find all sorts of goodies there, like Brax Mail, [music] Brax Sim, Brax Virtual Phone, Bytes VPN, and more. On the hardware front, the Brax 3 phone is still the hot item. You can find it

in stock now at brax.tech.net, and you can get it in a few days. There are lots of upcoming projects on brax.tech.net. The recent project, Brax

Open Slate, is scheduled to be released later this year. Watch out for our new product called Wink, which is the most hardened phone solution. Thank you for your support on Patreon, YouTube memberships, and locals. Your generosity is appreciated. See you next time.

>> [music]