---
video_title: "How Your Phone is Tracked in 2026 – And How to Stop It"
video_id: amenY5QoWjM
channel_name: "Rob Braxman Tech"
channel_id: UCYVU6rModlGxvJbszCclGGw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=amenY5QoWjM
video_date: 2026-05-06T07:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  The mobile phone is the most surveilled device in the history of the world. But the current generation of users have learned to set this aside as unimportant. This now results in the phone generating an extraordinary amount of data that can find your every location, police your thoughts on the Internet, practically extract every action you've taken on the internet, and keeps a nice little record of every call made and received, and of course the contents of every text.
  
  Is this surveillance a given? No. There are answers that privacy focused individuals have learned to implement and you can learn it too.
  
  ----------------------------------
  BraX3 Privacy Phone and Brax Open_Slate Android/Linux Tablet is on https://braxtech.net
  -----------------------------------
  Brax Virtual Phone, De-Googled Phones, BytzVPN, BraxMail, BraxRouters are available on https://brax.me
  -----------------------------------
  Merch Store 
  https://my-store-c37a50.creator-spring.com/
  -----------------------------------
  
  
  I'm the Internet Privacy Guy. I'm a public interest technologist. I'm here to educate. You are losing your Internet privacy and Internet security every day if you don't fight for it. Your data is collected with endless permanent data mining. Learn about a TOR router, a VPN , antivirus, spyware, firewalls, IP address, wifi triangulation, data privacy regulation, backups and tech tools, and evading mass surveillance from NSA, CIA, FBI. Learn how to be anonymous on the Internet so you are not profiled. Learn to speak freely with pseudo anonymity. Learn more about the dangers of the inernet and the dangers of social media, dangers of email.
  
  
  I like alternative communication technology like Amateur Radio and data communications using Analog. I'm a licensed HAM operator.
  
  
  Support this channel on Patreon! https://www.patreon.com/user?u=17858353
  
  Contact Rob on the Brax.Me App (@robbraxman) for encrypted conversations (open source platform)
  
  https://bytzvpn.com Premium VPN with Pi-Hole, Cloud-Based TOR Routing
  
  https://whatthezuck.net Cybersecurity Reference
  
  https://brax.me Privacy Focused Social Media - Open Source 
  
  
  Please follow me on 
  Odysee
  https://odysee.com/$/invite/@RobBraxmanTech:6
  Rumble
  https://rumble.com/c/robbraxman
---
Your mobile phone is the most heavily surveilled device in the world. It is subjected to constant monitoring both by big tech via the internet connection and by the government through the sales service. In general, if you're under active surveillance by your government and particularly governments in the five by countries, then you must assume that you cannot possibly use a phone. Even a secret agent will have very limited uses for a phone and mostly it may be to appear like a normal person. John McAfee did not use a phone. Edward Snowden does not use a phone. While you might think that a phone is a risk only for the targeted person, for the average law-biting citizen, the master-valence conducted on our phone traffic is out of control and should make you feel uncomfortable. Because if you do not do anything, everything you do on a distract. The absolute absence of privacy. Today, most of the locations for surveillance used in police dragnets on ordinary people is done via the phone and a lot of this information is even sold publicly. And the phone number is the primary identification now used to profile us on the internet. Big tech can observe all of our actions through the phone. Google can track every click you do on the internet, again, through the phone. Every single action on the phone network, whether it be a call or text, is filed away in multiple databases quickly retrieved and completely non-private. Any privacy conscious individual needs to be aware of what you can do to minimize this surveillance footprint. Can it be done? Yes. Fortunately, there are things you can do to minimize this tracking. If you want to discover what you should do, stay right there. The moment you put an Asim card on your phone or activate an Asim, then instantly your device becomes part of the surveillance infrastructure tied to the cell phone network. This is the price you pay for having a reachable phone number. If for example you never put a sim or Asim on your phone, then it is disconnected from the public switch telephone network, PSDN. It's really a simple rule. So at any moment, if you understand this, you can just disconnect your presence on the PSDN by disabling the SIM service. And fortunately, that is possible on most phones. Obviously, this also disconnects you from the data side of the phone network and you have no internet. But if you choose to connect the simless phone to a Wi-Fi network, then it is still not connected to the PSDN. And that part of the surveillance cannot occur. Fones do have a built-in way to connect to the PSDN in an emergency. In the US, you dial 911 and the device will connect to the nearest tower even if there's no SIM card. But absent that, the phone will be quiet and will not emit cell signals until you put in a SIM card. The ID of the phone. Your SIM card has an identifier called the IMZ or International Mobile Subscriber Identity. And to connect to any cell phone network, this IMZ has to be announced by the phone. Once the phone connects to a carrier, the carrier specified by the SIM card, your phone identity is tied to the cell tower you connect to. This also identifies your general location. In the majority of cases, your SIM card is offered to you by your carrier only with KYC or know your customer documents. In other words, you often tie your SIM card to your ID. This is then tied to your real name, address, and so on. If some entity like a carrier or a government needs to check out your actions on the phone network, it should be a simple matter to match IMZ's to your identity and then track your traffic on the PSDN databases. By law, the PSDN data is shared to government by Kaliya or the Communications Assistant for Law Enforcement Act. This means you are no more than a point and click away from someone being able to track every incoming and outgoing phone call in the contents of every single text message. All normies have an IMZ. The reality is that surveillance can be done both ways. Not only can you be tracked from your IMZ, but it should also be possible to identify people with no IMZ. Either you have a landline or voice over IP line or apps and that, you can easily be marked as a person of interest just because you have no IMZ and that can be classified as suspicious. I want you to understand this. Your cell phone is constantly emitting an IMZ and some other network identifier like a MAC address. If you walk through a security and you emit no signal, then it means you have no phone. And that would make me ask, why don't you have a phone? Maybe you're 90. But if you're 30, it would look weird, right? I just want you to be aware of this and be thinking about it. This is why if I were a spy, I would carry a normal production phone with obvious expected apps on it so I don't stand out. IMZ and Identity. While it is expected that you would be emitting an IMZ at all times, what is not obvious is what identity that IMZ is associated to. And secondarily, just because you have a phone doesn't mean you are forced to use the phone network or PSDN. Perhaps you're only using data and this is one way to limit the surveillance. The data side is actually encrypted, typically. This is standard now with most internet access. Maybe in 2007, this was not as guaranteed, but today browsers will pop a message if you're not using encryption. So let's say your IMZ was acquired through a way that did not require KYC ID, then your identity may not be immediately apparent. The more important tidbit I will share is that the PSDN can only record any activities if you use calling and texting. At that point, they can see who you're talking to and who's calling you. But if you use only data, the only information that can be derived is that you're going to a particular website and if you're on a VPN, even that is unknown. The only thing that will be known is that you're using a VPN and what websites you're visiting will be invisible. Limiting the PSDN. Today is easy to minimize your calling traffic. Those people hardly call, calls are often two and from family members and intended for immediate action. The larger amount of traffic to the average person is actually from texting or SMS. Texting is a pretty standard requirement for two-factor authentication with many platforms. Because of this, it is pretty impossible to avoid getting text completely. However, this is still doable using some hybrid techniques using voiceover IP, which I will discuss later. But what is important to note is that you control who calls you and who you call. How? Simple. You don't give out the phone number. So on a line-by-line basis, you can designate a line to be known to the public, in which case you get calls and text there. And there could be another line on your phone that no one else knows about and that gets no normal traffic. When there is no traffic, there is obviously nothing to surveil. I will explore multi-line strategies to you later, but just keep this in the back of your head. If you stick to mostly using messaging apps like Signal on a phone, then that will use data and will not enter the PSDN. Thus, there would be no traffic to track. It should be a simple matter to move family to these alternate apps, right? So I encourage you to use apps to communicate instead of using calling and texting. But just understand this big picture statement. While normies are expected to have a phone, what anyone can see you doing on it is completely under your control. While the carrier is in full control of cell traffic tracking, the data side is just an internet gateway. Mostly the carrier is limited to knowing the websites you visit in the amount of data you use at any given moment. Beyond that, it is really just a black box to them because of encryption, adding a VPN as a complete layer of obscurity because even the websites you visit will not be visible, though they will know you're using VPN. The phone OS, meaning Google Android or iOS, deals with the data or internet side of things, and this is the other side of the major danger. The big tech side. This folks is where the bulk of the surveillance data is generated from, and it is from the tracking built into the mobile operating systems. Both Apple and Google undisputably do a tremendous amount of tracking. For example, the most intensive action is location tracking. While some people in the past would argue this point because they believe the disinformation from the likes of Apple, it is now well known that there is 24-7 tracking of all locations on these devices. On an iPhone, the tracking is accurate up to inches, especially when there are airtags nearby. Outside of that, the normal tracking uses a technique called Wi-Fi triangulation indoors and GPS outdoors, which provides a location accurate to 6 feet. Publicly, the location database of Google is called the Google sensor vault, and it has been used in many court cases, so the cat is out of the bag. They can do geofencing and continuous location tracking. In addition to location tracking, both Google and Apple have app telemetry systems to track when you're using an app, and of course lock you down to using their app stores. The worst part of the big tech infrastructure is the identity side, because the phones require the use of an identity, the Apple ID and the Google ID, and both in the case of iOS, then this is linked to a specific Google infrastructure. Using their wide reach of every single website by Google Analytics and Google Ads, they're able to track your every click and match it to your Google ID. Meaning when it comes to big tech and what you do on the internet, they have extremely specific knowledge. And to ensure that you do not use multiple accounts and do not obscure your identity, the next approach is to require you to give a mobile phone number for two factor authentication. The contact list thread. The big tech surveillance infrastructure continues with the contact list thread. How this works is that many of the more dangerous apps like Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, TikTok and so on, capture the contact list of their users daily. This is so insidious because you can't control it. While those of you understand this will block access to your contact list, unfortunately it is the normies who know you that expose your information to big tech. So naturally your name, phone number, and even some more private information like alternate phone numbers, addresses, and birthdays are sucked into the databases of the likes of Facebook. In this creates a map of connections that I referred to as a relationship map. This is then tied to phone number identities. In addition to just the contact list data, the big tech companies like Facebook, Google, match these phone numbers to the data in the credit reporting databases like Equifax. They then have a clear indication of who you are, the moment you sign up and who you're connected to. This puts all your actions into a profile that can keep track of your activities even if you use some alternate name. The Dig Google Phone Fortunately, there are solutions to some of this and it depends on your willingness to put value on your privacy. As a first step, you must abandon the use of Google Android or iOS on a phone you don't want to be tracked. The typical solution that is well known is to switch to a Dig Google OS or otherwise known as an open source OS based on Android open source project. There are several commercial solutions available like using Google Pixels and manually flashing a Dig Google OS on it, such as EODOS, Graphene OS, or Lineage OS, or you can get phones that specifically are Dig Google like the Brax 3 phone which you can find on indiegogo.com. And let me tell you why this works flawlessly. First of all, the Google phones have no connection to Google. All the code related to Google are not there. Secondly, these phones do not use a Google ID so they are not able to supply any kind of identification that can be used by Google for tracking. This means this disables very clearly all the connections to a location tracking, app telemetry, and mapping your actions all over the internet. This is simple and direct. At the moment there is no other alternative. There is no way to modify an existing iPhone or production Google Android to disable the tracking. That is impossible. The only option is to change the OS. Having said this, it is not necessarily a bad idea to have two phones. Production phone you can use rarely, but proves your an army and your more private phone that you use more intensely. This solution of changing OS is 100% effective and is likely the most important solution to privacy against big tech. Public Location Tracking When you are using a production iOS or Android phone, you unwittingly expose yourself to another threat which is the public dissemination of your location information. This is done by a large number of free apps that record your location and sell it to location aggregators. This ends up in the hands of companies like Fog Data Science who will get them marked your location data or make it available to law enforcement. This location data is completely warrantless as it is acquired publicly. In theory, the location data has no identity attached to it outside of your phone's advertising ID. But it is trivial to use this to identify people because you can simply track the advertising ID until it goes home at night and then you have the address. And from that you can match that data to credit reports to find the identity. You can solve this even on a production phone if you never enable location for any app. But this is not possible for some of you, especially an app like Waze which you use for driving. But again here the solution is a Google phone and the Google phones blocked this because they have no advertising ID. The big tech to F.A. problem. To me one of the biggest threats with phones is the two factor authentication problem. You go to a big tech website like Google's YouTuber Facebook and immediately they ask you for an SMS phone number for to F.A. Then once you give them that number it is matched to their contact list databases and they immediately know who you are and your identity is locked in. The solution is to give them a phone number for to F.A. That is not known to your friends and family. The special number would be used only for to F.A. The effect of this is that the phone number cannot be matched to your actual identity since it will not appear in someone's actual contact list. Or alternatively it is a number used before and it appears to be someone else which is actually a good thing. As long as it doesn't point to your current identity. Thus this finally gives you pseudo anonymity. Solutions for phone number anonymity. Beyond keeping information away from the phone network or PSDN the phone number is now the new internet ID and aside from having a Google phone this has become a top priority to protect. There are many solutions and alternatives I will discuss in detail but this video will become too long so I will just summarize the approaches and then I will delve into more detail in another video. The general principle is that you need to partition your life into multiple phone numbers. It is no longer possible to maintain a single number if you want any privacy. The way I would think of it is that one number is a public number that is attached to your real identity and this could be the same number you've always used. This number will be in contact list at Big Tech and will match the number at your bank credit card reporting, bureaus and government records. This is a number though you would never use for to factor authentication. For that you need a second number. There are a few choices here. Now some of my detractors will use this opportunity to tell you that I'm just trying to sell you something. In fact until I came up with these solutions there were no alternatives so interpret as you wish. The safest and least expensive option is to use a voice over IP service like Brax Virtual Phone. The service has no KYC and since it is not a mobile number there is no MZ to track you on the PSDN. This could be used just for 2FA and you would never reveal this to anyone else. This number can receive text and you can see the text using any browser by going to the Brax Me site. It requires no phone. This is a popular service that I've offered now for a couple of years and is definitely cheaper than any alternative. The disadvantage of this solution is that some sites notably metal platforms Google and Discord will not accept a voice over IP number because they want a real identity but it works for most other sites requiring 2FA. The more sophisticated option is to actually get another SIM card with a new line. The problem with this approach is that most carriers require KYC and so that this will likely leak to the credit card bureaus. The advantage of this line though is that it is completely a legit mobile line and it will not be refused by any platform. It will be more expensive than a Brax Virtual Phone solution though and it will have an MZ so it is not as private. I'm going to be introducing an alternative solution here shortly which is the Brax SIM Unlisted. What makes this solution stand out is that it is a SIM solution with no KYC. This gives you a real mobile phone number and is less expensive than your typical mobile line. There will be solutions for the US and many countries in Europe. The Brax Virtual Phone solution is only for US and Canada so this new Brax SIM Unlisted will finally provide a safe solution for countries like the UK and the EU. I have vetted this mobile provider and now have a partnership with my company. I'm happy to be continually looking for solutions for my followers and hopefully always looking for viable alternatives that are competitive and price. I'm going to discuss this in more detail when the infrastructure is finalized which is shortly. In the meantime the takeaway is still the same. You need more than one phone number and the best number is the one with no KYC whether it is voice over IP or a SIM solution. Folks, I'm continuously searching for products and companies that I can either offer myself or partner with someone else because it is difficult to find good privacy solutions. First of all to provide a platform for discussion where you can debate or discuss privacy issues, please join us on Brax Me and share your knowledge about privacy or learn from others at the more advanced stage than you are. On the store on Brax Me we have products that are available that we've created to provide privacy solutions. We have Brax Mail for Identity Protected Email. We have Brax Virtual Phone for Anonymous Voice Over IP Phone Numbers. We have Bicep VPN to protect your IP address and DNS data. I'm also introducing you to Brax MUnlisted a Privacy Focused SIM solution. Watch out for this on the Brax Me site. I will provide a link to the sign-up page for this service when it is ready. On the hardware side we have been creating many solutions. These are being crowdfunded on NDGogo.com and managed by a sister company BraxTech.net. The Brax 3 phone is now on the second batch and should be shipping by the time this video is released. And the new Brax Open Slate is the new Android and Linux tablet which is expected to ship in the fall. If you want to learn more about these products, please go to BraxTech.net and they are sold on NDGogo.com. Thank you again to those who support us on Patreon, Locals and YouTube Memberships. Your kindness is appreciated and encourages me to carry on. See you next time.