---
video_title: "Moraes pede que Mendonça seja investigado no Inquérito das Fake News"
video_id: U-3bQK3Qfso
channel_name: "AuriVerde Brasil"
channel_id: UCLHIUIBIid6qpljFBWEOHSw
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U-3bQK3Qfso
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  https://tenhoareceber.com/avb/
  ☝️ Clique para ter acesso ao passo a passo simples para você mesmo consultar e recuperar seu dinheiro que pode estar em 7 brechas escondidas do sistema.
  
  O ministro Alexandre de Moraes, do Supremo Tribunal Federal (STF), pediu nesta quinta-feira (3) que o ministro André Mendonça seja investigado, no âmbito do Inquérito das Fake News, por suposto abuso de autoridade. Segundo Moraes, Mendonça teria direcionado investigações contra ministros da Corte, incluindo o próprio Alexandre de Moraes, Gilmar Mendes, Dias Toffoli, Luiz Fux e Nunes Marques.
  
  ✅ Assine a Comunidade Auriverde Brasil: 
  https://yt.auriverdebrasil.com.br
  
  LOJA AURIVERDE BRASIL👇
  https://loja.auriverdebrasil.com.br/
  
  ✅ Compartilhe esta Live:
  https://youtube.com/live/m3U4YE2aTiw?...
  
  ✅ Torne-se membro do nosso canal, aqui no Youtube: 
     / @auriverdebrasil  
  
  ✅ Siga o nosso perfil no Instagram:
    / auriverdebrasil  
  
  ✅ Siga o nosso perfil no X:
  https://x.com/auriverdebrasil
  
  ✅ Acesse o nosso site:
  https://auriverdebrasil.com.br/
---
Indeed, Pitoli. Justice Alexandre de Moraes requested yesterday that Justice André Mendonça be investigated in the fake news inquiry for abuse of authority. According to Moraes, Mendonça directed the investigation against court justices, such as himself , Gilmar Mendes, Dias Toffoli, Luiz Fux , and Nunes Marques. The decision asks the Court President, Luiz Edson Fachin, to take action regarding evidence that Mendonça committed administrative misconduct, crimes of responsibility, and abuse of authority. In response, Fachin ordered Moraes, Mendonça, Prosecutor General Paulo Gonet, and Federal Police Chief Andrei Rodrigues to respond within 5 days. According to

Moraes, Mendonça usurped the direction of the initiation of inquiries related to social security and Banco Master fraud. For him, his colleague has been avoiding conducting the inquiries with a biased direction of prejudicial intentionality against court colleagues . Moraes cites the decision from last Tuesday in which Mendonça lifted the seal on investigations pointing to the relationship between the founder of Banco Master, Daniel Vorcaro, and Alexandre de Moraes himself. For him, Mendonça wanted to divert the progress of the investigations against himself and the Senate President, Davi Alcolumbre, for personal and political reasons with prior indication of precautionary measures. Justice Moraes states that the Federal Police produced an intelligence report to report irregularities identified by investigators in André Mendonça's conduct in Operation Sem Desconto and also Compliance Zero. The rapporteur of

the fake news inquiry says he received news that the report pointed to Mendonça's bias in the investigations. For this reason, Moraes ordered that the document be sent to his office. According to him, the Federal Police point out that at least five justices, or rather, that at least five justices were cited in the inquiry under Mendonça's rapporteurship, in addition to the Senate President, the Prosecutor General, and the Federal Police Director. The Federal Police say that Mendonça ordered an investigation into Justice Moraes ex officio without having signed the judicial decision and without having made the communication through legal channels. According to the Federal Police, in a meeting between the rapporteur and investigators on August 28, Mendonça requested a separate investigation into Antônio Rueda of the União Brasil party, with the aim of targeting Davi Alcolumbre. There is information today,

Pitoli, that Justice Edson Fachin, who is the President of the Supreme Federal Court, removed Alexandre de Moraes ' request to investigate André Mendonça from the scope of the fake news inquiry . He determined that the case be included in the same procedure opened regarding the evidence found by the Federal Police against Justice Moraes. Fachin is one of the critics of the fake news inquiry remaining at the Supreme Court, according to this report . And because the case was opened in 2019 ex officio by the president at the time, Toffoli, and continues to this day. To interlocutors, the president declares that he would like to see the inquiry closed still this year. Fachin

gave a deadline, I repeat, of 5 days, therefore, for the Prosecutor General and Mendonça to comment on Moraes' request. So that is the issue. The point was raised last night, catching many people by surprise because they didn't imagine Minister Alexandre de Moraes 'actions would reach this point. Barroso, it's easy to gauge the reaction. Look at what he has already done, right? Look, I understand that

what he can do, look at what he has already done. Where he can go, see where he has already arrived. The point is that we have, by habit, we who are correct, honest, people who deal with things calmly when the subject is rectitude, right? That's where I have to go, the law says this, and so on. This good man, the good citizen, ends up nurturing a hope when he realizes there is a possibility to put an end to these aberrations, to the abuses we are seeing and living with for so long. Now

, you want to know where Alexandre de Moraes can go? See where he has already arrived. You want to know what he can do? See what he has already done. The bar is set there. The guy imprisoned

President Bolsonaro, an innocent man. He ordered that his son Flávio, his father's lawyer, not visit Jair. Flávio cannot visit Jair because Moraes doesn't want him to. And screw it, screw it. So, look where Moraes can go. Look where he has already arrived.

Look at what he has done. Now it is important that we look at this information and decipher it, right? Because what Moraes is trying to say is : "Look, they came for me, they went after me." Look how things are, right? First, ah, Moraes, a question. Mauro

Cid's phone to identify an adulterated vaccination card, okay? It wasn't used for anything other than that. You knew there was information there about an adulterated vaccination card and decided to carry out the search and seizure simply to have information about the adulterated vaccination card. That's exactly it. We went no further than that. We had no fishing expedition

or evidentiary fishing to cast a net and let's go get it, right? Let's go look for evidence. No, none of that happened, Morais. Nothing was directed. So, it was only because of the vaccination card that you seized Mauro Cid’s cell phone. That’s it. So,

you didn't direct it, you didn't take it where you wanted. Actually, it shouldn't have even been you, right? Because we're talking about Mauro Cid, it should have been the lower court, the judge there, right? Anyway. Okay.

So, notice that when it's, you know, others' business, that's fine, but when it comes to mine, I don't want it. But what I see, and this has to be very clear to me right now, is that Alexandre de Moraes wasn't the target, but he was in the middle of it, in the mess. The target was Daniel Vorcaro, Banco Master, eight or nine cell phones seized, everyone says something different, right? Eight or nine cell phones seized. I repeat, who has eight or nine cell phones? There was even a

time when we had one or two, two SIM cards, right? Remember the dual SIM cell phone? How was it? Three SIM cards . Why? Because it was cheaper to call

via Vivo at a certain time. On the weekend it was cheaper to call via Claro, then it was cheaper to call via. Remember it was like that? Okay. So I had, for example, two cell phones at a certain point in my life, because I had one, I think a Claro and a Tim, I don't know what. One worked here, but didn't

work there. Wasn't it like that? All right. Now eight or nine cell phones, how does someone have that? How does someone manage eight or nine devices, numbers, WhatsApps, conversations? How

does anyone handle that? Of course there’s something shady there. Of course there’s trickery, criminal activity. Right? The cell phone, oh, it must be to talk to such and such line, such and such uh line, I mean line of, of people, right? So, look, here I only

talk to the guys who, uh, are from the Senate, here I only talk to the guys, I don't know how someone has nine numbers , man. For what purpose does someone have nine cell phone numbers? And in the middle of these nine, eight or nine , names appear that were related to Daniel Vorcaro, that were related to Banco Master. Among them, among them, Alexandre de Moraes, Paulo Gonet, Andrei Rodrigues, Davi Alcolumbre, they’re talking about Rui there now, anyway. But notice André Mendonça's intention, which I understand is absolutely correct; André Mendonça wanted to investigate what was on the cell phone. When they seized Daniel

Vcaro's equipment, imagine how this group felt, but at the same time, imagine how this group also tried to shield themselves using Andrei Rodrigues, Lula's Federal Police director general. Imagine it like this. They seized Vocarro's cell phones, and now he was talking to me, how can we handle this? No, I'll hold it here. I don't know. We are seeing the crime of

obstruction of justice at every moment. We are seeing people trying to hinder André Mendonça's investigations at every instant. Every instant. It's not simply like: "Look, uh, hey Andrei, hold on there. No, Andrei, Paulo Gonet, or whoever, hold on there, otherwise I'm screwed." I don't know, we're

seeing this at every instant. So, what Alexandre de Moraes is trying to do by disqualifying André Mendonça's action is because Alexandre de Moraes knows his position today is indefensible. In the same way, Paulo Gonet, and the same way, Andrei Rodrigues. And so these guys, like what they did with Eduardo Tagliaferro, like what they did with Eduardo Tagliaferro, what are these guys looking at? Look, the message isn't good, kill the messenger; the message isn't good. Now André

Mendonça has screwed us over, so what do we do now? No, now we're going after the messenger, we're going after André Mendonça. And that is why today I brought something that isn't information, it isn't news, but it is behind-the-scenes. Alexandre de Moraes is dying to arrest André Mendonça, do you think he isn't? For abuse of authority, for improbity, crimes that André Mendonça did not commit. In

fact, André Mendonça was very far from having committed any crime, unlike Alexandre de Moraes, who you can find at dossieremorais.com.br, who has already committed a slew of crimes throughout his journey, simply to manage to complete his objectives, to fulfill his mission. The truth is this: fulfilling his mission, regardless, you know, of the consequences of tearing up the Constitution, of not complying with due process of law. So, what we have today, and it worries me a lot, is the position of Justice Alexandre de Moraes doubling down, raising the stakes. Uh,

now he is going after André Mendonça. Did you ever imagine one day that we would have this happening today in Brazil? When the rapporteur for the Banco Master and INSS case was drawn, did you ever imagine you might one day hear that André Mendonça would be in Alexandre de Moraes's crosshairs simply for doing his job? Look at the magnitude of the absurdity we are living through in Brazil today. A true absurdity. And so I invited Dr. Eduardo

Sares—Eduardo Sares, uh, look, I admire Dr. Eduardo Sares's work; he is a commentator on "Primeira Página" and so many other high-quality programs on the internet, on YouTube. And this morning, as I was coming to the studio here with Luizão, I needed to hear from someone, you know, who could bring me some legal solace. And the first name that came to mind was Dr. Eduardo Sares, whom I trust, respect, and need to hear from. It can no longer be

hidden. There are many people who are already managing to recover funds that are hidden within various loopholes in the system. I discovered 4,330 reais. I recovered it in a few days via Pix. There is still a way to recover 5,000, 10,000, or even more that are just sitting there. But how can you achieve this? No

one explains it properly, and we don't know how long it will be available. So it is essential to click the link in the description now or point your phone at this QR code. Don't leave money that is yours behind. Edu. First, I want to express how much I miss you, because we are—I am away from "Primeira Página" due to work commitments. You know that.

I know you are being very well treated by Wellington Barros. I know that too, but I want to state here that I miss being there by your side on "Primeira Página," and I needed to hear from you , Edu, because this moment is perhaps the most tense in Brazil's history. Because we have—and this is my analysis, and I wanted to hear your take—an alignment of the three branches of government today, Edu. We have Lula today, who is in the hands of the Supreme Federal Court because of the PT, Cred, Banco Master, and Lulinha , and he only governs because the Supreme Court allows it. We have Alcolumbre, president of the Congress, clearly also aligned with Alexandre de Moraes, and Moraes is now going after André Mendonça. Did you imagine we

could reach this point, where Moraes, a Supreme Court justice, would go after another Supreme Court justice? And in that vein, Edu, good morning, welcome. Good morning, dear Pitoli. Good morning to the entire production team. And Luizão, too. I miss you all as well.

We know it's for work reasons, but being here briefly helps satisfy that longing, right? No, Pitoli, regarding your question, I didn’t, I didn’t imagine it, but you mainly start to see —we even stray a bit here from the technical and legal field—but dealing with human psychology, right, the human psyche, at that moment when he went after...Let’s, I’ll use a colloquial Portuguese, if you allow me, "went after," for the folks at home.

At that moment when he went after Elon Musk, that situation where he had the courage to, uh, suspend X for 30 days there, I, I saw that during the municipal elections, okay? Before that he had already done other absurd things , right, the legal community already found it absurd, but at that moment he didn’t care about the situation, who it was, whether the person had good standing with the American government, right? He didn’t care, he went after Elon Musk. Oh, and what about here in Brazil, is everything okay? We knew that, for example, the Montovani family is a family that is also well-connected , the one that had the altercation with him at the Rome airport. It was a

well-connected family. In that situation, he also didn’t hesitate and also acted the same way. So he is a person who ended up using this inquiry 4781 as a tool of oppression. That is the truth. It should have even been given that type of duration, not only because of how an inquiry is characterized by the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would be 90 days renewable for 90, and 30 renewable for 30 if the person is in custody. Ah, an

inquiry has to be delimited and it couldn't have been instituted ex officio, especially being in the Supreme Court. He violated not only Brazilian laws but also international treaties. But to conclude this introduction, I didn’t imagine it, Pitoli, but he has been, uh, doubling down, right? We saw how he handled things there on January 8th. It was already a complete absurdity. And then

I have to highlight here that the old press collaborated with this, the old media collaborated with this, right? It was a supporting arm. As every dictator needs a supporting arm, there was Pravda in the Soviet Union, Granma in Cuba, every dictator needs this communication arm. And the old press did that work during the period around January 8th that resulted in political prisoners and exiles in Brazil. You could already see there that he gained strength, and even Lula himself was very confident when he received Nicolás Maduro with full honors as a head of state. You could see it there,

you could see a partnership, a, let’s say, an iron fist, the grip, right? The iron hand, the Iron Fist, right? The iron hand, and then we had Lula playing that part as the face of the regime, right? The face of the regime. So, because of all this, Pitoli, and what happened in 2024, as I said, eh, we, how can I put it, we are surprised, but we never imagine he will go further, and he doubles down. He does this and

received the Magnitsky, moved forward, and even according to the revelation of the period in the Federal Police report on Tuesday, the true report from the real police, legitimized and backed by law on Tuesday, matches the timeline, it coincides with the period, right, that Moraes was sanctioned by Magnitsky . So, in October, a card was requested with 300,000 for each child, a 300,000 limit. He was sanctioned in July of '25 , the Magnitsky was removed in December of '25. So, we see this scenario. That's why we didn't expect it, because we, like we said on another occasion, right, Pitoli? We discussed this on the

front page: because we are civilized, it sometimes appears that we are naive. It's because we are civilized, we don't expect a human being to reach a level like this, to the point of throwing the whole country in the trash, messing up the entire legal system, and, worst of all, having support and backing for it.

Edu, now when we know Moraes 'objective , Moraes' objective now is to remove André Mendonça from the front line of any investigation that could reach him and achieve his goal, which is to remain in the position of Supreme Court justice until he assumes the presidency of the Court in September of next year, right? Because then imagine what will become of Brazil. When he sets deadlines for explanations, Federal Police, PGR, we are also talking about those involved, Edu. And and how will what will be the position of those who are also in the crosshairs of André Mendonça's investigations? It is obvious that it will be against Minister André Mendonça. In other

words, we are asking the thief, right, to evaluate the police's work. How is that, right, from a technical point of view, does it find any support? Now from the moral point of view, I can already imagine what you think, Edu? No, there is no support, Pitoli. That is what raised eyebrows. I have to

praise the mainstream press now for their editorials, from Estadão, Folha, and Globo, because they are also detecting this. Obviously, the press is volatile, we don't know how long they will maintain this position, but it is clearly strange, and it's very clear when a minister follows the law in a transparent and technical way. Minister André Mendonça followed the law so closely at every step that it's difficult to refute him, because it's based on objective concepts and principles, and on objective evidence obtained by the Federal Police. So, the stance of Minister Alexandre de Moraes has so contaminated public perception regarding how a process should be conducted that some people think Minister André Mendonça led the investigation. It wasn't Minister André Mendonça; he only ratifies it.

He is a rapporteur. Who requested the opening of an inquiry? The Federal Police, the police authority. It is not Minister André Mendonça who, *ex officio*, opened this procedure. This is even provided for in Article 21, item 15, if I'm not mistaken, of the Internal Rules of the Supreme Federal Court. When it comes to ordering the

opening of an inquiry requested by the police authority, the rapporteur can open this inquiry, because who requested it? The police authority. This is also backed by jurisprudence, by the very ADI, the Direct Action of Unconstitutionality number 5331, which was reinforced by ADI number 7496, even in the pages of this ADI I am mentioning. I can mention a passage here, Vitória, quickly. The internal rules.

Internal rules, ADI 5331. The internal rules of the Supreme Federal Court do not require the investigation's continuation to be authorized by a collegiate body; it suffices that the rapporteur decides on it. Notice, just from me citing this excerpt. This excerpt is expressly in the ADI, in the decision by the collegiate body there regarding the constitutionality or not of how this procedure would be. And then it is endorsed by the Supreme Federal Court's own internal rules, which have the force of ordinary law.

So then you begin to realize, and you at home too, how dishonest Minister Alexandre de Moraes's order yesterday was, the decision involving Minister André Mendonça. He cites Article 102, item 1, letter b, of the Federal Constitution. He cites Article 33, paragraph 1, of LOMAN, the Organic Law of the National Magistracy, and he cites Article 5, item 1, of the internal rules of the Supreme Federal Court. It turns out that these situations have already been settled by the very jurisprudence I just cited. So he makes a habit of using a narrative, a true narrative, he uses a political form of approach within what he deems legal, because there is no veneer of legality in inquiry 4781. It's been 7

years of inquiry; that is unheard of. It violates international treaties in this regard, including Article 8 of the American Convention on Human Rights and Article 13 as well; I won't even mention the principles here, or I'll go on too long. It's one abuse after another. So, notice that he explicitly points out that he is being a political persecuted. He does not have that capacity because he is not a political agent. Or we know he behaves like a

political agent because he was a host at the dinner that sealed the peace between Davi Alcolumbre and the current President of the Republic. So he takes this approach, trying to impute to Justice André Mendonça everything he does. He, Alexandre de Moraes, does. He , Justice Alexandre de Moraes, does. Yesterday, yesterday's document is practically a synthesis, the summary of everything Justice Alexandre de Moraes has done since 2019 until now, culminating in adding to the inquiry a peer of the court who is doing a proper job and did not investigate Justice Alexandre de Moraes. There is something

in law called the fortuitous discovery of evidence. Who was the person under investigation there and whose devices, the tools used for this investigation, and who is listed as investigated in this inquiry. Daniel Vorcaro, so there is no device belonging to Justice Alexandre de Moraes, there is nothing from Justice Alexandre de Moraes. The name for this in law is fortuitous discovery of evidence. A similar argument, the person who used this argument to relativize this evidence was exactly Dilma Rousseff in 2015, when she was caught in that audio, the "bye, dear" one. Oh Lula, Beias is

taking it there, the term, right, the document which was the term of office for him to become Chief of Staff and try to escape, right, have privileged forum, escape an arrest from the 13th Court of Curitiba, from the Federal Justice of Curitiba. Dilma used this same structure of reasoning to try to relativize the audio. Why? Because she said that the Presidency of the Republic had been wiretapped, when the person under investigation was Lula, who did not have any privileged forum. So it coincided that Dilma was caught in that audio with Lula. In the same

way, it coincided that evidence involving Justice Alexandre de Moraes in his relationship with Daniel Vorcaro was caught. This is the legal scenario. This is called the serendipity principle, which is exactly when you find by chance evidence involving characters beyond what you were already investigating. That is why he acted correctly, he sent the entire inquiry to Justice Fachin to proceed with the situation. And then yes, complying with article 102, item 1 B, which Justice Alexandre de Moraes cited yesterday.

Look at how it is so—allow me the adjective—ridiculous, so scoundrel and dishonest, because he used the same structure for the final part of the inquiry of all the work done by the honest Federal Police and by the honest work of Justice André Mendonça, to impute this to Justice André Mendonça and, at the same time, relativize the entire operation, both of Banco Master and the INSS robbery. So we see there, it is very clear, we are reaching the final stages, right? Because it united the entire link of that, let's put it this way, of the evil echelon of the Republic involving the PGR. Right? Gonet, the Prosecutor-General of the Republic, Gonet, Justice André Mendonça, Justice Alexandre de Moraes, Davi Alcolumbre, he cites there saying that there was a strategy of political persecution against Davi Alcolumbre.

There is nothing like that, the conduct was very clear and transparent in the Davi Alcolumbre government. And then, in turn, we see CNN reporting that if Lula—because there was also the interview with Gleisi Hoffmann, Gleisi Hoffmann stating, "if a crime is found, I see no problem with impeaching a Supreme Court Justice." Lula also gave an interview along these lines and then the Supreme Court took a stand and CNN published: "If you continue this way, we can implode the PT in Bahia." The PT in Bahia is in our hands. So, the Macala package is closed, let's call it that, the package, right? To the

characters, Macala, precisely, everyone is together and mixed up, if I may use this popular expression to define it. That yesterday was exactly, let's say, a point of action where these forces of the Macala group unite to try to bring down the investigations, both in the INSS case, which came close, orbiting the President of the Republic, due to the whole situation involving Lulinha, Roberta Luxinger, Marcola, right? The Office of the President of the Republic and, in turn, also involves the situation of Daniel Vorcaro. And then enters the minute and the whole story that we are aware of. It became very clear yesterday and I conclude here this first part of my commentary.

Ridiculous, forgive me for extending the involvement of the involving the fact that Justice Alexandre de Moraes refers to himself in the third person. Who signed the document? Justice Alexandre de Moraes. He is the victim again, and ends up pointing fingers, right? I won't go over it again, or detail all the abuses here, otherwise we'd spend the whole program demonstrating the abuses committed, since it's a sequence of abuses. Pitô,

that's why I wanted to hear from you, Edu. Uh, thank you. I also want to state a position, uh, even though you've already addressed it now, but to make it very clear what I've been defending since the beginning of this journey, which is the following: André Mendonça committed no illegality. André Mendonça didn't go fishing on Alexandre de Moraes 'cell phone, as you very well put it, uh, it was on Vorcaro's cell phone or Vorcaro's cell phones that the conversations with Alexandre de Moraes appeared. So, what Moraes is trying to say about impropriety, abuse of authority, trying to disqualify, right, André Mendonça's action, finds no support, because as you stated, and I'll just reinforce it, uh, if you want to complement it in this sense, uh, Alexandre de Moraes' attempt is to attack André Mendonça for something André Mendonça didn't do. Correct,

Edu? Correct, Edu? Perfect. Uh, what we on the internet, only the patriots understand well the strategy of the Marxist revolutionaries . Which is precisely to accuse. André,

Alexandre de Moraes, Justice Alexandre de Moraes, did exactly that, exactly that. And to add some spice to the action, he also attacks Operation Sem Desconto and Operation Compliance Zero. They tried to kill two ducks with one stone. Another popular saying from the countryside, they also tried to kill two ducks with one stone. That's what they did yesterday. So, since I am,

right, I was...Justice Alexandre de Moraes is in hot water, and everything he has conducted up to here is becoming very evident. At the same time, he could offer a favor, converge interests , let's put it that way, because otherwise it will look like, right, we know how these things are, converging interests with the Presidency of the Republic, converging interests with some people in the Legislature, especially the Senate. Given the

revelations of Operation Sem Desconto, which is about the INSS theft, in addition to Operation Compliance Zero, he went and put that in his order yesterday. So, he puts this whole set together to relativize Justice André Mendonça's action and try to annul such inquiries, claiming they are political inquiries. In other words, he imputes to Justice André Mendonça, the conduct of Justice André Mendonça , what he, Justice Alexandre de Moraes, does—for instance, there are several inquiries, an example being Inquiry 4781, which is the fake news inquiry. Another absurdity he attempts, but that is the strategy. This became very clear in the wording he used in the order he published yesterday.

Now Edu, it's naive to think that whoever is in power will want to change the power, right? Do you see any possibility of Paulo Gonet being removed from the PGR? Estadão published an editorial today along those lines, in that sense, right? Do you see any possibility of Andrei Rodrigues leaving the Federal Police? I cannot find any possibility or any chance of this happening, because this triangulation we’ve always talked about, which is very harmful to the Republic, is now proven to be used: this triangulation of the Federal Police, the PGR, and the Supreme Court justice, to achieve their goals, right?

And now this same triangulation will be used for their own protection. Do you see any possibility of any removal happening, either voluntarily or through some action, legally speaking, Edu? Vitóle, regarding Paulo Gonet, there is Complementary Law 74 or 75, if I'm not mistaken, which would be linked— I'm recalling this from memory—to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Council. He could do it based on paragraph 1 of article 18. And he has full support from both article 51 and article 57, item 10. So article 51 ends because—

I'll go from the beginning, let's start from the start. Article 18, sole paragraph, deals with criminal offenses committed by the Prosecutor General of the Republic. So, there is this possibility: any type of offense, whether it's a common crime or a crime of responsibility. It is worth remembering that the crime of responsibility, governed by Law 1079/50 —the law of crimes of responsibility —ends up imputing, for example, in article 40, item one, because of that opinion he gave in favor of archiving the inquiry. This is one example. Then

we have article 51 of Complementary Law 75, which is exactly the one that deals with the procedure for detecting a crime or signs of a common crime committed by the Prosecutor General of the Republic. So, the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic would then be designated by the Superior Council of the Federal Public Ministry. This is the basis of Article 51 of Complementary Law 75. Article 57, item 10, already assigns this purpose to the deputy prosecutor, considering that the Prosecutor General of the Republic is no longer capable, as revealed by the investigation; in other words, there is a legal framework, there is the law, which is Complementary Law 75, for the council, the Superior Council of the Federal Public Ministry, to fulfill this purpose of theirs. Now, we know how things work in terms of de facto power. Ironically, many people in law

school sometimes don't pay attention to this part. I say many people in a more, let's put it in everyday terms, because people are sometimes excited, meeting people at the start of college, so they go to the bar, they don't pay attention in this class, it's a boring class, a class that only wants to, that only wants to see laws. But it is at the beginning of the law course that you study general theory of the state, philosophy of law, introduction to the study of law, because this is the part that is important when you understand what de facto power is. A judge who is skinny or short, or a judge in the countryside, what is the power of that judge's pen? It is precisely the respect for hierarchy and all the rules created exactly by the legislative power. If one day, let's assume there

is a conspiracy between the town judge and the police leadership in a countryside city, there is no corregidor, no internal affairs office that has contact, if they don't know about the situation, or they start persecuting dissidents or those who disagree with this position. I am not even referring to a political scenario, I am referring only to divergence from the group. A judge arrives and starts getting involved with the police leadership of a countryside town. This is easily plausible, okay? We know that sometimes this even happens in Brazil, we know that. So, the judge has a good

relationship with the police leadership in a city, in a specific municipality. They make a deal. Any person, I am not referring to politics. Any person who disagrees with the group, with the stances, with the actions of this group , this person starts to be persecuted. The law exists in this sense, to curb both the action of the police and the judge. However, the group gathered with

the possibility of putting, of managing to impose their will, despite the law, independent of the law. And in this sense, they start to turn into de facto power, that is, they manage to make their will prevail even in the face of legal penalties. In other words, who is going to enforce the law in this scenario where de facto power is consolidated? This is the scenario we have in Brazil. Notice how important this is for the history of the Republic , let's say, and perhaps the most important, scandalous, and absurd fact since the '88 Constitution, I would even say since the proclamation of the Republic, Vitoria.

Eduardo Sales, every day on Primeira Página led by Wellington Barros, alongside Max Cardoso and also Zizi Martins. Edu, mission accomplished. I had this on my mind, bothering me. I said: "I needed to hear Eduardo Sales this morning and you answered me promptly." Thanks for the friendship, congratulations on your work, you know, Edu?

Think nothing of it, Pito. It's a huge pleasure, it's an honor to fulfill your request, even to catch up, right? To stop missing hearing your voice, our dialogue. Uh, and again, thank you for the trust, the attention, and the affection as always. A big hug, have an excellent day, Pito.

Thank you. Eduardo Sales, a giant with us. While you're watching this video, thousands of patriotic Brazilians are with us on our live broadcasts in the morning, from 8 am to 1 pm, with Jornal da Verde Brasil. To close the day, I have Primeira Página, from 5 pm to 7 pm. Real-time news with analysis specially made for you. Subscribe to

our channels @verdebrasil.