---
video_title: "Em 1966, Lodovico Scarfiotti venceu o GP da Itália, a última vitória de um piloto italiano na prova"
video_id: 5a3USUm0GG4
channel_name: "AuriVerde Brasil"
channel_id: UCLHIUIBIid6qpljFBWEOHSw
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5a3USUm0GG4
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Cesare Maria Mannucci, jornalista e escritor italiano, com mais de 40 anos cobrindo Fórmula 1. Atuou como editor de F1 da revista italiana Autosprint e foi correspondente do jornal L'Équipe nos EUA. Em sua carreira, cobriu mais de 350 GPs de F1, 25 edições das 24 Horas de Le Mans e 20 edições das 500 Milhas de Indianápolis. Escreveu um livro sobre Ayrton Senna. 
  Agora tendo o seu programa semanal, aqui na AuriVerde Brasil, onde abordará automobilismo atual e do passado, contando histórias e fatos, muitos deles inéditos e exclusivos, sobre o mundo das corridas.
  
  📷 Reprodução: Redes Sociais
  
  LOJA AURIVERDE BRASIL👇
  https://loja.auriverdebrasil.com.br/
  
  🔰 Assista ao programa na íntegra: 
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=suXoxEplypk
  
  ✅ Inscreva-se no nosso canal, aqui no Youtube:
  https://www.youtube.com/@auriverdebrasil
  
  ✅ Torne-se membro do nosso canal, aqui no Youtube: 
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLHIUIBIid6qpljFBWEOHSw/join
  
  ✅ Siga o nosso perfil no Instagram:
  https://www.instagram.com/@auriverdebrasil
  
  ✅ Siga o nosso perfil no TikTok:
  https://x.com/@auriverdebrasiloficial
  
  ✅ Siga o nosso perfil no X:
  https://x.com/@auriverdebrasiloficial
  
  ✅ Acesse o nosso site:
  https://auriverdebrasil.com.br/
  
  ✅ Anuncie na AuriVerde Brasil:
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gUf-D3LkLAB5Z2St9LJKuJDJ_JGoOTEC/view?usp=sharingIBIid6qpljFBWEOHSw/join
  
  A Rádio Auri Verde de Bauru reconhece que programas jornalísticos e de opinião podem conter manifestações pessoais de seus apresentadores, comentaristas, entrevistados ou participantes.
  As opiniões emitidas por comentaristas, convidados, entrevistados e participantes são de responsabilidade exclusiva de seus autores e não representam, necessariamente, o posicionamento institucional da Rádio Auri Verde de Bauru.
  O veículo não endossa automaticamente opiniões individuais expressas em sua programação.
---
Hello friends of Uriverte, we are on the eve of the Italian GP in Monza. Never like this year will the Italian GP be thrilling, full of significance, and also decisive in the World Championship fight. 60 years ago, an Italian driver won the GP at Monza for the first time. It happened in 1966 with Ludovico Scarfiotti driving a Ferrari. 60 years later, for the first time, an Italian driver, Kimi Antonelli , arrives in Monza leading the world championship. It had never happened

before. Of course, Antonelli's race this year will be quite uphill because he will change his engine and start at the back of the grid. Monza, however, is a circuit where it is quite easy to overtake. He will have an equal engine, he won't have an evolved engine like the two Ferraris, as the Ferrari engines will benefit from what is called the ADU, that is, technical development compensation established by the federation. It must also be said that Antonelli, however, at qualifying time, will probably skip that session as it is useless for him, so he will have more new tires for the day of the race. But today we are here to remember

what happened 60 years ago, the victory of Ludovico Scarfiotti. Scarfiotti was a driver, let's say a gentleman, he was from a very wealthy family. He was the nephew of Gianni Agnelli, the owner of Fiat, at the time the most powerful man in Italy. He was an excellent sports car driver. He had already won, always with Ferrari, the 24 Hours of Le Mans, the 12 Hours of Sebring, the 1000 km of Nürburgring, and raced a few times in Formula 1. In 1966 Ferrari developed a

very powerful engine for Monza. I should remind you that this was the first year of the 3-liter, 3000cc Formula 1 regulations. So many cars did not have engines that met this rule; they had old 2-liter or 2.4-liter engines. Ferrari arrived in Monza with the first engine made for the new Formula 1 regulations, so it had a huge power advantage. And on the eve of the

race, Ferrari had three cars: Bandini's car, Scarfiotti's car, and Mike Parkes 'car. Ferrari, let's say as a favor to Gianni Agnelli, decided that the driver who had to win was Ludovico Scarfiotti, and that's how it went. Scarfiotti drove an excellent race, but as I said, the Ferraris had a huge advantage. Mike Parkes stayed behind him to protect his back. There was some fighting with Jack Brabham, with Jim Clark, but the Ferrari's advantage was enormous, and in a scene of great emotion and joy, Ludovico Scarfiotti won. It’s strange

that it seemed racing indicated the path for his career and his life. Since Scarfiotti was an excellent sports car and Ferrari driver, Scarfiotti raced in prototypes. That success gave Scarfiotti a lot of confidence. He won against the best drivers at the time: Jim Clark, Graham Hill, Jack Brabham, Bruce McLaren. So let's say he convinced himself that he could also be a driver who won everything in Formula 1. In 1967, at the start of the season,

Ferrari lost their lead driver Lorenzo Bandini, who died in Monaco. So Scarfiotti was the one who was chosen to take over the championship duties and race from then on. At that moment, Gianni Agnelli sent a letter to Enzo Ferrari, explaining that Scarfiotti was his relative, his nephew, and that in his group's career plans, he had a position of great responsibility, and he asked Ferrari not to let Scarfiotti race in Formula 1 anymore, mistakenly thinking that at that time Formula 1 was more dangerous than prototypes. No, at that time it was all dangerous. Formula 1, Formula 2, Formula 3, anything. Every single weekend, a

driver would die. When the news was communicated to Scarfiotti, he was very angry and broke his contract with Ferrari to race in prototypes. He went to do some Formula 1 races with Gurney's Eagle, but mainly he went to sign with Porsche for the following year. Scarfiotti was considered the best hillclimb driver of the era at the time. Second championship race in Rossfeld in 1968. Scarfiotti drove an

extremely dangerous car that had suffered steering failures in the two previous races. At Rossfeld, during the first tests, he hit a mountain and died . It was an extremely tragic death. There was also a problem later, a lawsuit, because Scarfiotti had given an interview shortly before saying it was dangerous, that he and the other Porsche driver, Gerhard Mitter, were afraid to get in the car, that the car wouldn't brake, and the steering had broken. Porsche refused all those accusations and criticisms. An analysis

of the car was done, but very little was left of it because it had fallen into a ravine. Eh, it was said afterwards that Scarfiotti hit his head against a piece of rock or something. Back then, when a driver lost their life, they didn't spend much time trying to understand the reasons. And the thing that must be said is that after 1966 no Italian driver ever won the GP at Monza again. It happened at Imola when there was the San Marino GP, where Riccardo Patrese and Elio de Angelis won the race, but the Monza GP for Italian drivers has always been considered a cursed race, so to speak.

Will it be this year, after 60 years, a return with Kimi Antonelli. I don't know how I'll do it: Kimi Antonelli starts from the back. Starting from the back, it is quite hard to think of winning a GP. His car should work very well, but of course the big reason for this eve of the Italian GP is, on one side, the fight between Kimi Antonelli against the two Ferrari drivers; on the other, to see if an Italian driver can again win the Italian GP 60 years later . Well, that is all for today.