---
video_title: "Why Netflix doesn't crash at 8pm"
video_id: 9DCwwGBhiDQ
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DCwwGBhiDQ
video_date: 2025-12-12T15:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
A load balancer does exactly what it says on the tin. It balances load like web traffic across all the available resources. In web development, that usually looks like this. Say we have many clients all trying to connect to a web service, a bunch of users on their phones, tablets, and computers. They're all sending HTTP requests to our server.

But here's the thing. We run a popular service like YouTube. There's no single server, whether it's a physical machine, virtual machine, or Docker container, that can handle all of that traffic on its own. So instead the traffic goes to a load balancer first. Now the load balancer doesn't actually process any of the requests itself. Not completely.

That would likely overwhelm it and defeat the whole purpose. Its job is just to forward those requests to one of the backend application servers that can do the actual work. Let's say we have three backend servers. Let's call them A, B, and C. When the first request comes in, the load balancer sends it to server A. Then the next request goes to

server B. The next one after that goes to server C. Then the fourth request, well, it goes back to server A and the cycle continues. This is called a roundroin load balancing strategy. It's super simple. It just evenly distributes

the request across the backend servers one at a time. But there are more sophisticated strategies, too. For example, the load balancer might check the actual resource usage of each backing server, like the CPU or memory load, and then route each new request to the least busy server. And that really helps when some requests take much longer to process than others, which can trip up a basic roundroin approach. So, to sum up, a load balancer is just another server that sits in front of the real servers and makes sure they all get an even share of the work.