---
video_title: "Your average salary? Probably a lie"
video_id: B40CWB4ZCMc
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B40CWB4ZCMc
video_date: 2025-10-08T14:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
  
  Like & subscribe for the algo if you enjoyed the video!
---
People always talk about below average height or above average intelligence, but that's usually the wrong way to look at it. Now, before I explain that, let's talk about what average even means. It's also called the mean, and it's just the sum of a group of numbers divided by the count of those numbers, how many numbers there are. For example, say I have the numbers 0 5 3 and 2. To calculate the average, I add them up, which is 10, and the total count of numbers, how many I have, is 4. So, 10 / 4 is 2.5. And

here's the thing, averages have a problem. In most real-world scenarios, they get massively skewed by outliers. To show you what I mean, let's add a 75 to our example from before. Now, the sum is 85, the count is 5, and 85 / 5 is 17. So, the mean, or the average, shoots up from 2.5 to 17. But, the interesting

thing is, there are no numbers in our set that are really close to 17. Four of them are much lower, and one of them is much higher. So, if you're trying to find a number that represents the typical number in a group, medians tend to be better than means, or averages. A median is the middle value after you sort the group into an ordered list. It ignores how big the other numbers are and just picks the one in the center.

So, using our same example, first we sort the list, and then we just take the middle number. In this case, it's three. So, the median is three. And if you have an even count of numbers, you just average the two middle ones. For example, if the numbers are 0 2 3 and 5, we just take the mean of 2 and 3, which is 2 and 1/2, and that's the median.

Now, medians are a bit more annoying to calculate, because you have to actually sort the list instead of just doing some simple arithmetic, but it is usually what you want when you're looking for a representative number.