---
video_title: "Rebase is based"
video_id: xg1C7YxHMTk
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xg1C7YxHMTk
video_date: 2025-12-17T15:01:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
Rebase might just be one of the most misunderstood features of Git. Where the fear typically kind of comes from is that somebody changes the history of a public branch. And when I say public branch, I mean a lot of people rely on this branch for their repos as well. And of course, when they pull and the changes have been somehow altered in the past, all these conflicts and these weird git errors start happening and it just causes a disaster for everybody. And then everyone says, "Rebase is terrible. I will never use that. only

use merge. Well, skill issues. You used it wrong. To understand rebase, you simply need to understand its primary use case. Rebase helps you to take the diverging commits from one branch and move them to the tip of the base branch that the feature branch is based on.

Now, that sounds like a mouthful, but it's actually pretty simple. So, take this graph right here. We have two branches, main and feature. feature branches from main at commit A and main gets B and C added to it while the feature branch has D and E. Now we want to be able to take the feature branch and get those changes from main. Now

with your current knowledge you would probably merge main into feature creating a merge commit and that does have consequences but for now let's focus on rebase. Rebase is going to allow you to move forward feature branch from diverging at point A up to diverging off of point C allowing for a fast-forward merge if you wish to get it back into main. This also allows you to maintain a merge commit free history. And again, there are some consequences for that and they can be quite nice. And that is it. You'll notice this gives you

the opportunity to do a fast-forward merge and kind of have a free of merge commit history. This will allow for some advanced git features to be more easily usable if you maintain this type of workflow.