---
video_title: "Your resume sucks... but there's still hope"
video_id: aWYvRL6ioGI
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aWYvRL6ioGI
video_date: 2026-01-14T15:00:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
If you've heard that you need to optimize your resume for the ATS, let me stop you right there. I've got a few other resume tips that are going to help a whole lot more. My whole philosophy when it comes to all things job search is when in doubt, stand out. So, if to optimize for the ATS, you need to make your resume look like the other 98 resumes in the stack, you're worried about all the wrong things. Applicant tracking systems parse text. If you have the right text [music]

and you haven't gone completely insane on the design front, your application structure will be just fine in the ATS. So, don't go out and pay for a special ATS compliant resume template. That's mostly just snake oil. Here are a few of my favorite tips. First, work on your resume in a simple rich text editor like Google Docs or Microsoft Word, but always be sure to share it as a PDF so that the file type opens nicely in anyone's browser. Second, use some

color. Most resumes are just black and white. So, why not be the only greenish-blueish one in the pile? Now, I don't recommend embedding tons of images or using crazy column and grid layouts, but just adding a splash of color can make yours more memorable. And when people are looking for it, it's easier for them to go back through the stack and find yours. It's just an easy way to

stand out. Also, obviously, your contact info and skills should be right at the very top. These are the skimmable things that people need to be able to find easily. And the time you worked at the Wendy's drive-thru, you can leave that towards the bottom or frankly, leave it out completely. Now, somewhat controversially, I also recommend skipping the intro [music] or about me paragraph unless you have something really interesting to say. A

bland introduction here can actually do more harm than good. So, if you really feel the need to write up a little blurb, make sure that it's something actually unique to you and relevant to your future job. If you end up writing something that could go at the top of anyone's resume, it just makes you look like a bad communicator. You should delete it.