---
video_title: "stop sabotaging your interviews"
video_id: -EHvaojwhCQ
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-EHvaojwhCQ
video_date: 2026-01-15T15:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
I was interviewing a software engineer a couple of weeks ago and when I asked them how they would design a create user endpoint, they said I could start by creating a new HTTP handler. And the substance of that answer is just fine, but I recommend making one small change. They should have said we could start by creating a new HTTP handler. And this does something very subtle. By saying we, they're using collaborative, friendly language that makes everyone feel like we're already on the same team working together and it just makes the whole conversation feel lower stakes.

During that round of hiring, we actually did end [music] up hiring a new developer here at Bodev. But I did go through about 10 different interviews with different candidates and came up with a few little interviewing tips. Number one, if you don't know the answer to a question, it's okay to say you don't know, but it's not okay to end your sentence there. If the interviewer says, "Which standard library function would you use to split a string on whitespace?" Don't say, "Sorry, I don't know." That's really awkward. Creates an

awkward silence. It also communicates that you don't really know how to problem solve. When I give a task to an engineer, I don't want to just hear, "Sorry, I don't know." I want a plan for how they're going to figure it out. So, say something like, "Ah, I don't have the name of the function memorized, but I'm pretty sure there is one in the strings package, and I always have the documentation up on my second monitor, so I'd just do a quick search there when this comes up in a real project." That's

a much better followup after admitting that you don't know. Number two, relax. Now, I know just saying relax isn't very helpful. Most of us perform better or at least sweat less when we're not under pressure. So, the question is, how do you relax? And for me, coming to the

enlightened understanding that I'm probably not getting this job anyways, and I'll likely need to do another 10 interviews is actually a great way for me to lower the stakes mentally. Now, that doesn't mean that this interview is a waste of time. It's free practice, and that's how I like to think about it. Number three, be confident, not a pity party. Believe it or not, I've actually had applicants practically beg for jobs.

their goal being to drum up some sympathy about no one giving them the time a day or not being able to make their rent, stuff like that. But I'm a hiring manager at a company and it's my job to hire the best person for the role. And while I am an empathetic human, I don't have a way to verify these stories and claims anyways. So all this kind of heartstring tugging does is make it look like no one else wants to hire you either. So, it's much better strategically to present yourself as competent and confident and that you can actually deliver value in your role.