---
video_title: "'Easy Apply' is ruining your job search"
video_id: ed4Vqi7FMFU
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ed4Vqi7FMFU
video_date: 2026-01-22T15:01:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
1367 applications, 45 phone screens, 12 interviews, and one offer. Unfortunately, that's not an unreasonable job search funnel these days. With easy apply being as frictionless as it is, it's never been easier to apply to tons and tons and tons of jobs as an applicant. Unfortunately, that also means the number of applicants per job has skyrocketed. Instead of 20 applicants to a job where each applicant 20 other jobs, now there are a thousand applicants where each applicant applied to a thousand other jobs. So, there are

two ways to tackle this brave new job market. One, apply to a lot more jobs, or two, go around the standard application process to get noticed. So, what should you do? Both. You should do both. All it costs is a

bit of your time, and if you set a nice weekly application goal, you can stay consistent, which is important because unless you're super lucky, the process of getting some interviews is going to take at least a few weeks of consistent applying. Now, applying to a lot more jobs is straightforward, but let me explain what I mean about going around the standard application process. Because so many companies are getting flooded with applicants, many of them want any excuse they can to whittle down the numbers and reduce their hiring workload. So, sliding into DMs, making connections at local meetups, sending an email directly to someone on the team, or literally showing up at the office are real strategies that can get you noticed. And if you are actually a good hire, all it takes is getting noticed.

The world of job applications went online in the 2010s, but spam applications have gotten so out of control that doing some old-fashioned offline applying is actually a great way to stand out again.