---
video_title: "This is why you're not getting hired"
video_id: zmbwC3jvQ4E
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmbwC3jvQ4E
video_date: 2026-01-13T15:02:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
Cold applying to programming jobs is harder than it's ever been, mostly thanks to thousands of automated spam applications. And so, you need your portfolio projects to not only show off your skills, but to actually grab [music] attention. To-do apps, CRUD servers, Spotify clones, and Tic-Tac-Toe games just are not going to cut it anymore. Those might be fine projects for learning, but they're not remarkable enough to grab the attention of a recruiter or hiring manager. Unless you have an amazing network of industry professionals, your number one challenge when it comes to getting hired as a developer is just being noticed. It

doesn't matter how many binary trees you can invert if no one gives you a chance to show off your skills in the first place. So, what do you do? I have a few rules of thumb for portfolio projects. Number one, focus on a single project. It's way better to have one banger that makes people say, "Tell me more." than a

huge graveyard of barely updated GitHub repos. Two, don't be scared to build a command line tool, Discord bot, or to publish a simple library. Your project doesn't have to have its own graphical front end, especially if you're targeting back end roles. Three, solve a real problem that you have, even if it's really weird and niche. Actually, weird and niche is better than a super common problem here, again, because it makes people go, "Wait, what?" Okay, let me

give you a few great recent examples of projects that I've seen, but don't copy them. Just use them for inspiration. One, a real-time chat application like Discord or Slack, but that runs entirely in the terminal. Super cool, you don't need a designer to get it done, and it makes people want to actually install and try it out. Two, a custom scraper of your favorite video game website that sends instant notifications to your Discord server whenever a new patch is released. Or three, any kind of

spreadsheet automation. If you keep your budget in a Google Sheet or maybe a D&D character lists, write a program that downloads that data, calculate something interesting from it, and displays the results in a chart or even just in the terminal.