---
video_title: "The Most Dangerous Variable in Python"
video_id: _Nz5iDMdMso
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Nz5iDMdMso
video_date: 2026-01-10T15:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
The none type in Python is weird and discovering it in Python is probably really mind-bending in the same way that discovering the concept of zero would have been mind-bending to the ancient Sumerians. Let's start with an example. I'll create this variable age selection and set it equal to none. And that's none with a capital N. It's important to note this is not the same thing as the string none which would be surrounded in double quotes. None is its own special

keyword in Python. It's not just another string. For example, hello world is a string, one is an integer, false is a boolean, and none is actually of the type none type which is its own special categorization. Strings and integers both have infinite possibilities of what they could be. There's an infinite number of strings that you could store in a string type or integers that you could store in an integer type. A

boolean can only be true or false, but the none type can actually only contain the value none. So, why is this even useful? Well, the idea of none is to communicate that there's nothing here and not just the value zero because sometimes zero means something. Again, let's go back to our example of a variable called age selection. Let's say we have a form on our website where you can input an age. Well, inputting the

age zero would actually be a valid selection. So, we can't use zero to represent the state where the user has not yet selected an age. Again, because you could select zero. So, one common use case with the none type is to sort of use it as a as a default value for a variable and it indicates that, you know, nothing is stored here yet, but there likely will be or can be in the future. Now, one common mistake I see with new Python developers is when they print a value or I should say when they print a variable that stores the none value, it will actually print the string none and that's confusing because if you write a program that instead of printing a variable that stores the none type actually prints a string that just says none, the exact same thing is printed to the console, but they're not the same.

Now, the easiest way to test is to actually wrap the variable in a type function. So, you're actually printing the type of the thing. And in that case, you'd get a message saying, you know, this is a none type or this is a string type. So, if you ever get stuck or lost, you're not sure what you're looking at, be sure to use that in your print debugging. >> [music]