---
video_title: "perfect encryption is useless"
video_id: cWYV5733A2c
channel_name: "Boot dev"
channel_id: UC9HOZ53gnHP3f_b-wixS74g
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cWYV5733A2c
video_date: 2026-01-23T15:01:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn back-end development - https://www.boot.dev
---
Did you know that perfect cryptography actually exists? Like an encryption algorithm so secure that it's been mathematically proven to be unbreakable. It's true and it's called the one-time pad. The one-time pad is said to have perfect security because an attacker who has only access to the ciphertext can infer absolutely nothing of interest about the original message. Not the message length, not the most used character, nothing. And it's so simple I

can explain it in 2 minutes. First, you take your message and convert it to binary. Then you take your key and convert it to binary, assuming it wasn't already. Then you XOR or exclusive or the message and the key with each other one bit at a time. An exclusive or is just an operation where the output is one only if both input bits are different or zero if they're the same.

The output of that operation is the encrypted message. You can share it around and as long as nobody has access to the key, you're safe. To decrypt it, just XOR the ciphertext with the key again and you'll get back to the original. I know it sounds too simple to be true, but this simple algorithm really does have perfect security. But there's a catch. For it to work in

the real world, you need four things. The key must be at least as long as the plaintext that you want to encrypt. The key must be truly random. The key must never be reused on other messages and the key must be kept completely secret. And unfortunately, some of these rules just aren't practical in the real world.

First of all, if I wanted to encrypt my 128 GB hard drive, but I need a key that's also 128 GB in length, that's a problem. Even worse, I need to generate a new key every time I want to encrypt my hard drive? The fact that you can't reuse the same key over and over is a deal breaker in almost every scenario. So the one-time pad is really cool, but unfortunately not quite as useful in the real world as you might have hoped. >> [music]