---
video_title: "How To Become Dangerously Self-Educated With AI (for free)"
video_id: 3k6fR5EdLAo
channel_name: "Sandeep Swadia"
channel_id: UC4ZVkG3RQPzvZk7alIVjcCg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3k6fR5EdLAo
video_date: 2026-08-14T12:00:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Thanks to Zapier for sponsoring a segment of this video! Start building with Zapier MCP today: https://bit.ly/3Uesue6 
  
  
  Join my free newsletter: https://sandeepswadia.beehiiv.com/
  
  Take us on your morning run or commute, follow us on Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/show/033nSSACs3S4g5NUIrXnHx
  
  A few months ago I stood in front of 120 interns from the best universities in the world and asked how many of them used AI for 30 minutes a day. Barely a quarter of the room raised their hands. Then I asked about Instagram. Every single hand went up.
  
  That gap is the tragedy this episode is about, and the opportunity hidden inside it. I've been a monk in training, an MIT grad, and a tech CEO, and across all of it I've seen the same pattern: the people who unlock real intelligence are the ones who are relentlessly self-driven.
  
  So I built a system for exactly that. I call it the university in a box.
  
  
  You'll learn how to:
  
  - Make AI your academic advisor and build a curriculum designed entirely around you
  - Use an AI librarian to separate the handful of sources worth your time from the thousands that aren't
  - Turn AI into a midnight tutor that finds the exact gap in your understanding
  - Let an AI editor pressure-test your work instead of just praising it
  - Give AI the role of a roommate who drags you into worlds you'd never explore on your own
  
  Along the way, I share how three lost teenagers in Liverpool became The Beatles once they found the right advisor, why 88% of people never finish the free courses they start, a live NotebookLM podcast built from a book I love, and the MIT roommate who taught me as much about strategy as any professor.
  
  Because a map only shows you the world. Someone still has to help you draw the route, and then you have to start rowing.
---
You can now teach yourself anything completely for free. That's the power of AI. You can get dangerously self-educated and build your own personal university [music] right about now. I've been a monk in training, an MIT grad, a tech CEO, and I've seen this one pattern. The people who unlock real intelligence are almost always relentlessly curious and self-driven.

So, today I'm giving you that precise learning system that nobody has shared so [music] far. I call it the university in a box. Genius name, right? But, it's a way to use AI to become a self-taught expert at almost anything. You'll be able to learn how to build your own personal curriculum from A to Z. So, let's get

going. Uh few months ago, I was in Los Angeles and I had to give a keynote to a class of 120 incoming interns at one of the largest media companies. And they were all from top universities and schools, very sharp, very hungry, very young. And I opened my speech with a simple question. I said, "How many of you use [music] AI for at least 30 minutes a day?" And I was expecting

[music] each and every hand to go up, but I was thoroughly surprised. Less than maybe 30 hands went up. And then I asked, "How many use Instagram for more than 30 minutes a day?" Every single hand went up. Think about the tragedy hidden in this trend.

Here's another surprising finding. Many of the world-class universities, including Harvard and MIT, Stanford, IIT, Oxford, LSE, many others, [music] they have put many of their entire courses online. The entire semester worth of classes online for free. And 88% of all users who start those courses don't finish them. There's almost nine out of 10 of us. And it gets

even better now because with AI today, you're holding a multi-million dollar university in the same pocket with Instagram. The most powerful intelligence engine in human history is waiting for you. And you don't even have to pay >> [music] >> $250,000 for that education. And that's the system we want to build today. And I don't mean some new Notion template or anything. Instead, we'll go through five

radical roles that you can give AI. One easy way to remember these five rules is to arrange them by their first letters. It spells alter. Which kind of fits, right? Because these roles alter the way you think, the way you learn, the way you behave, and the way you graduate. So, let's

build them one at a time. First things cool, you need an advisor. That's where we begin. To understand that concept a little better, let's go to Liverpool. In the '60s, there was a city full of shipyards and docks. And there were

three teenagers who started a band called Johnny and the Moondogs. They didn't know then that they would change the world of music forever. John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison eventually went on to become the Beatles. But they were lost for a while. They got turned down by every label in London until they found their creative advisor, the fifth Beatle, George Martin. He

became the music producer for the band and he was able to hear what the four of them couldn't. And the band went on to create some of the most loved music ever made. And this story keeps repeating since the dawn of humanity. If you don't have Aristotle, you don't get Alexander the Great. Every great Michael Jordan needs a coach like Phil Jackson. Because good advisors

study you and they build a personalized path for you. If today all the universities started offering customized courseware for each and every student, they would all go bankrupt. If you go to a gym and every person walking in gets a personal trainer, they'll never make money. But here's why things are changing dramatically for all of us. Today's AI can become your perfect academic advisor when you're ready to learn anything. And how do you make AI a

great advisor? Ask it for five decisions. First, destination. What do you want to know or do at the end when you're done learning it? Second, baseline. Where are you on this topic

right now? Basic level, intermediate, nothing? Third, sequencing. What order do you learn this topic in? That's really important. [music] And fourth,

cut list. What should you ignore for now? And fifth and final, milestones. What output from you will show that you mastered the topic and you're ready to move on. Let's make this concrete. Let's say if

you wanted to learn business finance. Obviously, you're not going to give a prompt saying, "Teach me corporate finance." Instead, type, "Act as my elite academic advisor. We want to build a 6-week custom course. I want to learn about how finance works in business, so I can understand how to use those skills to build my own business.

First, interview me to find my weaknesses, my baseline. I want to define the destination, build the sequence, list what I should ignore for now, and also give me weekly milestones, so I can prove that I'm ready to move on. Ask me up to five questions for each of these five steps, one question at a time. Now, the exact prompt is not that important. In fact, you can ask AI to make you an even better prompt than the one I just gave you. The goal is to

leverage AI to create the right personal curriculum for you. This doesn't have to be just business or finance or anything. What if you wanted to master something grounded in human judgment, in art, in taste, in style? What if you wanted to master design theory? You can use the same structure. In fact, you can use

Gemini because it has the multimodal capabilities. So, it's almost like giving a pair of eyes to your advisor. In all such self-education adventures, AI no longer remains as your lazy text generator. It is an intelligence engine that becomes your path builder. So, let's say you build a 6-week plan with your AI advisor, but [music] how do you make it actionable? This is where an

automation tool like Zapier would come in. They're sponsoring this part of the video because I wanted to show how you can connect your plans to the apps [music] that you already use. And Zapier connects to over 9,000 of them. So, let's do it step by step. You need something called Zapier MCP. Now, think

of MCP as a gateway that gets your AI out of the prompt window and lets it actually use your apps like calendars and docs and your emails. You set it up once and it takes only a couple of minutes. So, let's do it. Let's go to Zapier and pick a template. This is the easiest way to do it. The

link is in the description. Now, you connect your AI. I'm using Claude for this one. And then choose which apps you want to give access to. >> [music] >> I'm turning on Google Calendar and Google Docs.

And then you set the permissions [music] and when you head back to Claude, make sure Zapier is toggled on in the connectors [music] list. And that's it. You're ready. The gateway is now open. Now, your AI has a pair of hands.

So, you go back to the plan that you just built and type a few lines. >> [music] >> Like take the 6-week curriculum that we just built and save it to a Google Doc. Do it in a week-by-week format with the topic, the sources, and the milestone for each week. Then put every study session on my Google Calendar and send me a reminder the day before. That's it and it does all of that. The

plan you made a few minutes ago is now sitting in the apps you use every day. That's what tools like Zapier can do for you. And that's the difference between AI that talks to you and AI that actually does the work for you. Now, you have an advisor and an assistant together. But, even the best paths will break if the sources you learn from are garbage. That's where we

go next. Once you build your curriculum, the next battle is sticking to it. Stanford researchers tested more than 7,800 students on how well they judged information online. The result was embarrassing. 82% of middle schoolers could not tell the difference between sponsored content and real news. Now,

these are not some ancient villagers discovering the internet for the first time, right? These were digital natives. They knew how to use the internet. They just didn't know how easily internet could abuse their trust. The algorithm and the feed is not interested in teaching you anything. It only cares about keeping

you there. >> [music] >> That's why the AI librarian matters. Their job is to defend the curriculum from distraction. It's a triaging function that tells you which 10 sources deserve your attention, your time, and which thousands you can ignore. It helps you figure out this belongs, this doesn't. [music] This is credible,

this is too advanced. This is signal, this is noise. So, let's see the librarian in action. [music] Let's use Notebook LM. First, build a shelf. Find the three or four sources

that actually matter. Uh textbook, uh YouTube course, or a bunch of videos, a podcast, um an academic paper, a bunch of newspaper articles, whatever it is that you can find. What if you don't know what sources to look for? Well, you can use deep research on Gemini or Claude or ChatGPT to find those sources. Then, load these documents to Google's [music] Notebook LM. And nowadays, you can

create a new notebook from Gemini itself. Now, your AI is not wandering homelessly across the open internet. >> [music] >> It is anchored to the ground truth you just gave it. But now, how do you make the most out of these documents? This is where notebook LM changes the game. You

can turn anything into a podcast or a video or a slideshow. Let's say you want to educate yourself on building great money habits. Okay, so let's do it live. I love this book called The Psychology of Money. It's by Morgan Housel. And

I've read this book. I grabbed a bunch of very good videos from YouTube and interviews that the author himself has done and I put them >> [music] >> into notebook LM. And now, I click on studio and then it's going to start a podcast. And you can listen to it during your walk, during your commute. And you can even call in.

>> Welcome to today's deep dive. We have a a really fascinating mission ahead of us today, entirely custom-tailored for you listening [music] right now. >> Yeah, it's a great one. We're looking at a huge stack of sources today. >> And they all point to one specific subject. So, we are going to be

summarizing the core lessons from Morgan Housel's incredibly popular book, The Psychology of Money. >> Now, you can even call in. >> Read honestly. >> Oh, it really is. And the mission of this deep dive is to prove a premise that kind of Oh, hey, I think our listeners got something to say.

>> Yes, I love your podcast. I just had a quick question. What's the one-line summary of the book? What's the key message? >> That is a brilliant question. We love it

when you jump in like that. >> Seriously, it is the perfect way to kick things off. >> If we had to boil it down to one key message, it's this. >> Doing well with money has little to do with how smart you are. >> Exactly. It has everything to do with

how you behave. >> Financial success is a soft skill, not a hard science. >> And the ultimate goal of that >> This is all AI. This is not some futuristic thing. It's all here, available right now. And by the way, if

you love such concepts and ideas, and if you want to go deeper, you can join my newsletter. It shows up in your inbox every Tuesday. It's one insight, one tool, one practice. I remember it. And I love writing it. It's completely

free. The link is down below. But a good source alone can't guarantee understanding. At some point, the material will stop making sense to you. And this is exactly when you need the [music] tutor.

A teacher and a tutor serve two different roles. The teacher explains it. [music] The tutor diagnoses your specific confusion one-on-one. A good tutor makes it harder for you to fake understanding. Tutoring has always been the luxury good of education. Um psychologist named

Benjamin Bloom wrote about this in the '80s, and it became known as the two-sigma problem. And he found that students with one-on-one tutoring >> [music] >> performed way better than the rest of the students who sat in conventional classrooms. The average student who got tutored performed above 98% of the students in the control class. That was one of the most important findings in education. And also one of the most frustrating, because everybody got to know that tutoring works, but not everyone can afford a private tutor until now, that is. AI completely breaks

the economics of human intelligence. A world-class tutor can now sit with you at midnight, ask you uncomfortable questions, refine your logic, and refuse to leave until the concept finally clicks. I use AI both as a teacher and a tutor. So, here's the tutor in action. I usually use either ChatGPT voice or Gemini voice because tutoring should feel like the office hour. So, how do

you actually do this? Just let's do it live. I have Gemini voice mode on my iPhone right now. I'm going to hit voice mode and say the following. Be my tutor on the idea of enough from the book The Psychology of Money.

Ask me one question at a time. Don't lecture me. Find the gap in my understanding. Be precise. Let's go.

>> How does constantly comparing yourself to others make it difficult to define your own personal version of enough? >> Okay, you get it. So, that was a complete improvisation because I didn't know what the AI tutor was going to ask, but that's what would happen in real life as well. Sometimes you'll get questions you don't know the answers to and you'll have to work with the tutor to learn about it. That's the whole point. The two best commands in AI are

teach me and test me. I love both of them, but there is still one problem. Learning all the skills is great, but when you have to deliver something, you need honest feedback. You need refinements. That's why the next rule is so important, the editor.

>> [music] >> That's where we go next. A tutor helps you understand. An editor helps you deliver. A typical Formula 1 race is about 90 minutes, but the difference between winning and losing can be just a few seconds. That's why a large team of engineers for every race car company monitor thousands of data points in real time, constantly feeding tiny corrections back to the driver. Because

if you can shave off just a fraction of a second at every turn, you can change the outcome. Real-time feedback is everything in that game because excellence lives in feedback. That's why authors have editors, filmmakers have editors, journalists have editors, too. Even CEOs have boards. They're editors. Your AI can be

a great editor. When I write anything nowadays that's important, I usually take time to review it with ChatGPT or Gemini or Claude. And I ask AI to challenge my thinking, my logic, find the weakness in my arguments, cut repetition, tighten the structure, make the language more precise or concrete. AI can be your powerful ally when it comes to editing your work. But you still have to fly the plane. And

that brings us to the fifth and final role, the roommate. Because in the future that we're heading into, >> [music] >> your depth and your expertise will constantly be challenged. You'll have to renew them all the time. You will need range, and that comes from your roommate. That's where we go next. When I was

living in a dorm, my roommate and I had absolutely nothing in common, but our late-night conversations were always wonderful. They were eye-opening for me because he would constantly talk about the economy of design, the aesthetic tradeoffs, the compromises, the craftsmanship. In fact, he taught me as much about entrepreneurship and taste [music] and strategy as a business professor would. This is exactly what Pixar did when they started building their own in-house training school. The company put all of its animators in sculpting class, and the accountants and security guards were put in drawing classes. Why? Because

when you get a perspective from a world that's different than yours, it helps you understand your own world a little better. So, the question is, how do you make AI that roommate that brings you that fresh perspective? Well, ask it to talk about things that are completely outside of your field. What's the connection between cooking >> [music] >> and finance? How does a jazz musician think about playing with others, and how does that relate to building teams? Roommates help

you ask questions you would never ask on your own. They hand you a stranger's lens, so you can see the world for the first time [music] again. So, that's your university in a box. The whole alter framework: advisor, librarian, tutor, editor, and your roommate. And it's all just one prompt away.

Something you can start using tonight. So, what comes next? Let me leave you with one last story. A young, eager student arrived [music] at the riverside, and she was in a real rush, a real hurry to go across the river. But, there was no bridge, just some boats lying around, all shapes and sizes. So, she asked the old boatman who

was just standing [music] there, "Sir, which boat would get me across the river fastest? And the boatman smiled and said, "The one you get into and start rowing." I'll see you next week. Thank you, and I love you.