---
video_title: "When Disrespectful Karens Get Destroyed by Matt Rife"
video_id: lTtyxWz421E
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTtyxWz421E
video_date: 2025-05-26
video_description: |
  When Disrespectful Karens Get Destroyed by Matt Rife
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From shutting down a lusty Karen, take my belt on. If I do, will you hang yourself with it? To humbling an egotistical one. What's that? You don't have a stage? I feel like you dance on

one. Here are 11 times disrespectful Karens got destroyed by Matt Refe. Starting with a Karen who thought taking shots at Matt was the way to go. Hey, what? Don't dye your hair blonde again.

Don't tell me what to do. You look What did you say to me? He said when I dyed my hair blonde, I look gay. All right. So, but when Matt responded, he did it with cannon fire. Oh, man. That looks like

funnel

cake. Cool. I like your tattoo. What's this one? I have roses on this side. You

have roses on that side. I've got different flowers on this side. And all these flowers. You still smell like the marble life. And just when she thought she was safe, Matt fired his final shot to bury her 6 ft deep. Are you a

florist? No. You work in a prison. You're solitary. Why? Because of

all of the amenities? No way. And they have snacks and no way you work there. Just like this one, this next Karen also thought being loud would win her the spotlight, only to be turned into the punch line instead. in the back. Shut up. That's exactly why

I'm not talking to nobody in the back. And thirsty. Helen was minding her own business being polite. What's your name? Yeah, I'm out. Everybody knows Rachel. Everybody.

And as if eviscerating her name wasn't enough, Matt used the Karen's educational background against her as well. Are you in school still? From where? Yeah, I'm out. that. Oh my god. It's easier to beat

cancer than what you got. Oh my god. ASU. Absolutely. Your tastes like jungle juice. No way. I would ever date

somebody from ASU. But while this Karen was just being loud, this next one tried to cancel Matt on Twitter, but got annihilated instead. He's body shaming me. Cancel Matt Refe. You can't cancel me. I'm not your gym membership. Get the

off my feet there. It all started when Matt got into a Twitter beef after he stated how absurd it was that he couldn't keep his cabin bag under his legs. Basically, all I tweeted was just stating that I thought this was a ridiculous rule for her to threaten to check my bag and add this very inconvenient process to my very quick In-N-Out trip when it wasn't affecting anybody or anything. Hundreds on hundreds on hundreds of strangers start filling my timeline with the angriest tweets furious at my stance on the situation. And Matt soon made the ground rules clear for the Twitter crowd. Say

whatever mean, hurtful things you want to say to try to hurt my feelings, but just know I'm going to you up verbally, too. So when I hit you harder than you hit me first, don't act like you're the victim. Okay. But while he handled most of them, there was one Karen who didn't know where to stop. Probably the best example of that was throughout this Twitter interaction when all this backpack was going on. I'm, you know, I'm arguing

with people. We're going roast for roast, just really having some fun. I was having fun with it. And then there was this one woman took it too far. She would not shut the up, dude. She by herself probably

tweeted me like 60 to 70 times. And the Karen only made things worse. And I didn't really care until her last tweet. The last tweet I just couldn't let slide, man. The last thing she said to me was, "I don't understand why you have to be such an insubordinate crybaby little." Should I just have blocked her?

My publicist says yes. But Matt wasn't one to let insult slide, and his response was brutal. All I said in defense of myself was Well, had you not been taking up two seats, there would have been room for me to safely secure my backpack in another chair. And it didn't take long for the woke Karen to cry wolf. But as we all know, everybody wants to be a victim now, right? So, how did she, the person

who started it, react? How could he say something like that? He's body shaming me. Cancel Matt Refe. But her threats were ineffective against what Matt was about to unleash. Can't

cancel me. I'm not your gym membership. Get the my feed day and all I wanted to do was complain about my backpack. And now I'm this 13th Reason. Okay. N that you can count reasons but

not calories. Get the out of my face, dude. out. Nope. Nope. And Matt

dismantled the rest of the woke crowd before they could even call him out. And before any of y'all sit there and even think about taking her side and go, "Oh, I don't know. Matt, what if word gets back to her that you're still making fun of her weight and it affects her so severely she does something drastic like like like like like hangs herself? How would that make you feel? How'd she get up there?"

Just like Matt was destructive from the get-go with the Rue Karen, this next one got the same treatment for being too leerous. Do the one-handed belt. Take my belt off. If I do, will you hang yourself with it? I've never been more sure somebody's from Miami in my life from Houston.

Worse. But when Matt moved on from her, she tried to hog the spotlight again. all over Tik Tok. It'll all come up up on your phone now that we've talked. That's scary.

Oh, way worse. Women's basketball. And Matt turned into the Michael Jordan of roasting to silence her once and for all. Your mom plays professional basketball in the WNBA. Yes. No way. So,

you definitely don't come from money. I just did something your mom could never do. I dumped on your dog. [Applause] That was a low blow. I'm sorry. But it

was also such a layup. You know, while this Karen got roasted for craving attention, this next one was humbled for trying to oneup match. This next one was triggered instantly when Matt roasted her for offering him some unique lessons. In what? I'm sinking. You're literally

scraping food onto a plate while you're talking to me about enjoying myself. You're enjoying yourself. Have you ever tried it quietly? Like meditation or what's that? Your inability to please others. Oh. Oh.

Oh. My inability to please others. And when Matt fished for more information, the Karen wrote her own insults by herself. Oh, no. I could definitely make you a for sure. Who you here with?

Myself. by yourself? No. Damn. You couldn't even get somebody to come with you. That's

right. Damn. But when the Karen still wanted to fight, Matt let her know that the battle was already over. I'm a nice person. Okay, you guys see I didn't start that.

It doesn't finish it. It does finish it. I comedically like gave you a facial, dog. Like I I don't know how much better it can be. While the Karen got roasted for being alone, this next one rolled in a wheelchair with her husband and still couldn't handle the heat. Have I ever

had a threesome? No, but I've had a two and a halfome. [Music] Before that happened, Matt was inquiring about another audience member's family. How old are the kids? 18. They're

transgender. They're trans. You have a trans child? Now a boy or girl? Girl. Now a girl.

Nice. Can I ask Can I ask her name? Amy. Amy. Can I ask the dead name? Dylan.

Dylan. Amy's better. But before he could ask anything else, he was heckled by someone unexpected. Ask what? I was excited. You were expl Oh, first

of all, am I getting heckled by a in a wheelchair right now? [Applause] All right. This ain't going to be no walk in the park. And when Matt found out the heckler's name, he dropped one of the wittiest bombs. What's your name? Amy.

Amy.

You didn't say she was a transformer. But whether the Karen had a disability or not, there was no stopping Matt from throwing jabs. Who you here with? Amy, husband. Your

swingers. Have I ever had a threesome? No, but I've had a two and a halfsome. [Music] [Laughter] I can't believe you like the swing. It's mostly in the legs. And as the heckler

provided more ammunition, Matt was able to take even better shots. Have you ever been to a club? No. Never been never been invited. You guys go to one? Really? They have

ramps and [ __ ] What's the uh initiation fee? Single guys are more, couples are less. Single guys are more, couples are less. I like that you guys get a discount. Did she get half off? And when it was time to

move on, Matt laid into the heckler like a Marvel villain. Do you guys have to wear like masks and stuff or like everyone just goes in as is? Oh, that's not as fun. Everybody should dress up sometimes. You do sometimes. What do you

go as? Professor Xavier. But in the end, people with disabilities love getting roasted by men, which is why he was heckled again by someone hard of hearing in another show. No, it is not you. You've been hearing the whole show for sure. You make us

wish we were all deaf to be honest. It all started when Matt had an interpreter at his show and used him as material. Here's my security in case any of y'all in your Will Smith right now. Like getting offended running up on stage. Keep my wife's name out youring hands. That's such a cool skill, man.

This is like you solving imaginary Rubik's cubes. Just kill him. But when his interpreter went away, Matt found another target instead. Oh, the sacrifice. Did my interpreter just get gentrified?

I don't understand. Who um who who are you signing for? I I don't I didn't even know. Um I'm not sure. She said that.

No, it is not you. You've been here the whole show for sure. And just like the previous one, Matt wasn't going to let the Karen's disability stop him from demolishing her. You make us wish we were all down to be honest. What was your name? Nicole. Nicole. Great to meet

you, Nicole. How did you um how did you hear about the show? Um everybody be nice. Especially you feisty. I like your energy a lot. I'll

come back there and take your batteries out. I swear to God. I swear to God. I'll turn I'll turn you off. And just like Matt doesn't hold back while roasting minorities, he doesn't back off from defending them from Karen's either. What What scares

you? Girls. Girls. Ew. Right. Some of them are annoying. It all

went sideways when a Karen tried to be funny while Matt was conversing with a gay guy. Gay. Like gay. Gay. Super gay.

Super. Yeah, I heard the S. You put four S's in front of Subra. What's your name, man? Andre. Andre. Yeah.

You're the first white Andre I've ever met in my entire life. It scares you. And Matt had no plans to let her go. He's not Freddy Mercury, dog. He's going to be all right.

Are you on prep, Andre? He is. He's doing just fine. Do you know somebody who has AIDS? A my roommate is scared. She's your

sounds like she can speak for herself. While Matt tried his best to move on with other material, he wasn't so successful. Forgive me if I seem a little shaky. I'm doing my best Michael J. Fox impression.

How do I follow AIDS? You guys, let me try to get out of it. Jesus Christ, man. And in the end, Matt came back to push the lid on the Karen's coffin one last time. Other than AIDS, what's what scares you? Girls.

Girls. Ew. Right. Some of them are annoying. While Matt went easy on the Karen, he didn't extend the same courtesy to this next one who got super personal out of

nowhere. Is my ex here? What the [ __ ] bro? Who said small? Okay. All

right. Well, first of all, what's small? But while Matt initially played along, seeing the woman's insane standards set him off. I need a measurement from the base. Tell me. You tell me when. Tell me

when to stop. Ready? Tell me when to

[Applause] stop. Just say you black guy. Just And there was no stopping the barrage that ensued after like this. How are you sitting down? Oh my god.

Ew. Oh my god. Lower your standards. Jesus. I don't know what's higher at this point, your standards or your service. Jesus Christ. But when Matt's

olive branch was crushed by the Karen, he slammed his foot on the roast pedal. What's What the What's the ethnicity of your husband? White. He's white. He's lucky. He's what? Lucky. Lucky. Is that

what you said? Thank you. All right. Dang me. Okay. If I do anything about hoes in

Nashville, I bet your [ __ ] smell like Copenhagen long. Okay. And before he moved on, Matt gave her a final reminder of who was the real boss. All the grizzlies don't mean I'm okay. Jesus Christ, you bought your mouth. I'm charming.

And just like Matt said, if disrespectful Karens ever take shots at him, they better be ready to get hit twice as