---
video_title: "When Disrespectful Celebrities Get Destroyed By Ricky Gervais"
video_id: eslCKjz2Y0E
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eslCKjz2Y0E
video_date: 2025-04-22
video_description: |
  From putting all of Hollywood back in line to correcting a foul-mouthed interviewer. Here are 9 times disrespectful celebrities got destroyed by Ricky Gervais 
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From putting all of Hollywood back in line, come up, accept your little award, thank your agent and your god, and off to correcting a foul-mouthed interviewer. Congratulations on already up. It's next week, you Here are nine times disrespectful celebrities got destroyed by Ricky Jerusaleas. Starting with Joy Behar, who groped Ricky Jerves as soon as he arrived on her show. Are you a germaphobe right now? You're

not a hugger. No, we'll get you touching your germaphobe. No, they said keep it quick. Just go and sit down. Okay. So,

we can touch it. Yeah, of course. I'm like, wow. Thought you were cuz you gave us the last time you were here. I feel like a stripper ground. On

top of that, Joy also tried to label Ricky, but he was quick to clap back. Um, referring referring to Sex in the City, too. You said, "I was sure the Golden Globe would go to the team that airbrushed that poster." Yeah. A little sexist. No, it's not. Why is it sexist?

Well, because the girl you're saying that the girls are older and they need to be airbrushed. No, I don't think I don't think that you lose your sensuality or your beauty because you hit 53. And Ricky's final roast silence Joyy's accusations for the rest of the interview. I'm defending my motives, not the joke. I stand by the joke. I I don't

think I have anything to apologize for, but that's not the joke. I think I think if you're going to criticize, you've got to know understand the joke. But that was not the only time Ricky had to swat down Joyy's opinions on his humor. Well, when you go on the Golden Globes, a lot of time you uh you are politically incorrect. That's the thing about offense, isn't it? When people say

they're offended, it's that just cuz you're offended, it doesn't mean you're right. You know, destroying Joyy's entire woke agenda in a single monologue. Offense is about feelings and feelings are personal. Some people are offended by equality. So what, you know, so you can't second guessess people. If

you try and please everyone, you'll please no one. With comedy as well, you've got to I think you've got to deal with taboos and contentious issues. And sometimes you deal in irony, and some people don't get that. But, you know, you can't legislate against stupidity, otherwise you'll be doing nothing. While Joy got off easily, the same can't be said for Hollywood's celebrities when Ricky called them all out on television's greatest beatd down ever.

First on the chopping block was Felicity Huffman, whose recent college admission scandal had landed her in jail. But you all look lovely, all doled up. You came here in your limos. I came here in a limo tonight and the license plate was made by Felicity Huffman. It's her daughter I feel sorry for. Okay, that

must be the most embarrassing thing that's ever happened to her. And her dad was in Wild Hogs. And then came Leonardo DiCaprio's turn. The Irishman was amazing. Long, but amazing. Um, it

wasn't the only epic movie. Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, nearly 3 hours long. Leonardo DiCaprio attended the premiere, and by the end, his date was too old for him. So, but Ricky didn't stop. Even if his jokes made everyone uncomfortable.

Tonight isn't just about the people in front of camera. In this room are some of the most important TV and film executives in the world. People from every background, but they all have one thing in common. They're all terrified of Ronan Pharaoh. He's coming for you. He's

coming for you. And Ricky had no plans to take his foot off the gas. Our next presenter starred in Netflix's Bird Box, a movie where people survive by acting like they don't see a thing. Sort of like working for Harvey Weinstein. You did it. You I didn't. You did it.

Shut the up. But after finishing with specific celebrities, Ricky put all of Hollywood in his scope. So if you do win an award tonight, don't use it as a a platform to make a political speech, right? You're in no position to lecture the public about anything. You know nothing about the real world. Most of

you spent less time in school than Greta Thunberg. So if you win, right, come up, accept your little award, thank your agent and your god, and off. Okay. As his monologue came to an end, Reky also gave the award show its due credit. This show should just be me coming out going, "Well done, Netflix. You win. Good

night." But no, we got to drag it out for 3 hours. You could binge watch the entire first season of Afterlife instead of watching this show. That That's a show about a man who wants to because his wife dies of cancer and it's still more fun than this. Okay. And in his

classic fashion, Ricky dropped one last bomb before he left. Spoiler alert. Um, season two is on the way. So, in the end, he obviously didn't himself. Just like Jeffrey Epstein.

Shut up. I know he's your friend, but I don't care. [Applause] Just like Ricky humiliated everyone on live TV. Pierce Morgan also got clowned on his own show for his nonsensical take on gun laws. Iowa has been giving out gun permits to blind people. Not just

partially blind, but completely blind people who aren't allowed legally to drive cars. Well, their constitutional right, yeah, would be damaged if, and they gave an example of, you know, if they were fully cighted and used a gun, just because they lost their sight, why should they lose the constitutional right to continue having a gun? And it was enough for Ricky to school peers on common sense. Yeah. Well, it's a difficult one, but the short answer is because they can't see what they're shooting. I can't buy a Kinder egg. You

know those little eggs with little toys in because it may choke me. So they're a health hazard. Dear America, please let Pierers buy a Kinder egg. But but don't let him buy a garden. Just like Ricky called out Piers's absurd take. Rebel Wilson and Ben Stiller were

also called out for their eccentric behavior on the Graham Norton show. It all started when Rebel was sharing a childhood story. We went in like um shopping center ting contests um to try to make money just and just just turn up. Yeah. Like in the middle of the shops and like there's a little stage and like little local kids get up and do an act. Um and like you might win like

10 bucks. And her awkward story only created an open invitation for Ricky to roast her. I never knew you were this weird. Really? No, cuz you kept it. We would work

together for a couple of days and do you're absolutely mental. In a in a nice way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

But so but fortunately for Rebel, Ricky shifted his crosshairs when Ben Stiller was discussing a gift he received. And is it true that those pros were sett? Yes. Yeah. And when we wrapped that movie, Tom sent me as a gift those arms.

What a beautiful case. Yeah. Um I love it. And it's like he's smashing a Diet Coke can in the arms. So I What do you use a Tom Cruz arm like that for, though? Tart, no. Is it What good What

good is that? And Ricky couldn't help sneaking in a few more jokes. I collect Yeah. Well, I I collect um stuff from movies uh that some of the stuff movies I've done, but really mainly Star Trek memorabilia cuz I love Star Trek. Oh, such a nerd. But when Ben continued

sharing his Star Trek obsession, Ricky pulled his leg one last time. I love the original series. So I have like I have the Gorn head from the original series from the episode Arena where they know. I know. I'm just I just love it. Oh, the

Gorn head. I have What the is a G head? While Ricky was just having friendly banter, he wouldn't hold back much for Jonathan Ross, who took shots at Ricky's show from the start. He has just finished a new series of extras. It's frankly, I've seen some It's a shoddy piece of work, but it's redeemed only by a cameo appearance in the final episode. That's

right. Finally landed the big one. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricky Jace. But Ricky was in no mood to let it slide. You've been on the show so many

times. It's like you're my sidekick or something here. Yeah. Now, a new show clips. A new series of extras starts this week. Uh,

congratulations on well on getting a second series essentially, but also congratulations on already up. It's next week, you And Ricky quickly exposed Jonathan's TV reality side. It's it's a more traditional sitcom. It looks a bit postmodern with a the sort of meta level of, you know, a play within a play, but it's um, yeah, we think it's funnier. You're a film reviewer. You should know

these words. That was like a proper answer to a proper question there. I know. So, you'll cut it But as if that wasn't enough, Ricky kept taking Jonathan to the cleaners. I do look a bit more like Parker these days. I don't

know. That's the problem. You're getting reduced. He's kept himself in trim. Look at you.

Undo the button. Go on. Let it hang out. Look at this. Look at this. There's

nothing there. Go. Look at that. And whenever John fumbled after that, Ricky took the chance to sneak a jab in. Will there be a third series? We did two

series and a special of um of The Office, of course. Do that again. You did. Yeah. You did two series in a special of The Office. All right. People

not smiling at your buffoonery. [Music] Take three. Why did you do this to me? Why did you come on and do this to me? Why you just make my life? Fortunately for Jonathan,

he only got humiliated once. Unlike Mel Gibson, who Ricky called out four times for allegedly calling Winona Ryder an oven dodger, a term for Jewish people who escaped Hitler's concentration camps. Mel Gibson. Come on. No. Come

on. I'm not going to have a go at him. He's been through a lot. Not as much as the Jews, to be fair. But as if calling him out during the Emmys wasn't enough, he did it again at the Golden Globe Awards. First

presenter is beautiful, talented, and Jewish. Apparently Mel Gibson told me that. He's obsessed. Um, please welcome Scarlett Johansson. Not stopping at Mel's anti-Semitic remarks, Ricky also put shade on the actor's drunk driving history. Honestly,

I like a drink as much as the next man, unless the next man is Mel Gibson. Unfortunately for Mel, Ricky Smackdown would continue even after 2 years. A few years ago on this show, I made a joke about Mal Gibson getting a bit drunk and saying a few unsavory things. We've all done it. I wasn't judging him, but now I find myself in the awkward position of having to introduce him again. And before he

finished the set, Ricky dropped two final bombs. Listen, I'm sure it's embarrassing for both of us, okay? And I blame NBC for this terrible situation. Mel blames. We know who Mal blames. Mel's forgotten all about it.

Apparently, that's what drinking does. While Ricky destroyed Mel harshly, Steven Colbear got his schooling politely when he debated Ricky on religion. I know that you're uh an atheist. Correct. Yeah. Okay. People

have been debating uh that's the de that's the devil waiting for you in hell by the way. Would you want to debate the existence of God? Okay. And while Ricky was proving his point, Steven told Ricky something completely out of line. I don't need faith in science. I don't

need faith to know that probably if I jump out of a window, every other time someone jump, they smash to the ground because of this thing called gravity. I don't Yeah. Satan would be raping you. But even though Steven continued his unnecessary aggression, Ricky calmly educated. Why is there something instead of nothing? I that's that's that makes

no sense at all. That's not the two choices. Two choices I'm giving you. I'm the host. Well, I don't you you want to concede the debate? Why is there

something instead of why is there nothing? Why? Why does the universe exist at all? Why is there something? But surely the bigger question is not why, but how. Why is it relevant? And

Ricky just didn't stop there. So, um, you believe in one god, I assume, uh, in three persons, but go ahead. So, basically, you believe in you you you deny one less god than I do. You don't believe in 2,999 gods, and I don't believe in just one more. Right.

Nevertheless, Steven desperately tried to one up Ricky. Everything in the universe was once crunched into something smaller than atom. But you don't know that. Well, you're just believing Stephen Hawking and that's a matter of faith in his abilities. You don't know it yourself. You're accepting

that cuz someone told you. But what Steven didn't expect was Ricky turning the tables on him. But science science is constantly proved all the time. You see, if we take something like any fiction and any holy book and any other fiction and destroyed it, okay, in a thousand years time, that wouldn't come back just as it was. Whereas, if we took every science book, right, and every fact and destroyed them all, in a thousand years, they'd all be back cuz all the same tests would be the same result. Steven wasn't the only late

night host to get schooled by. He also taught Jimmy Fallon how to do comedy after his surprise appearance on the accepted. Do it like it's your Do it like you were clever enough to come up with this joke yourself. Okay. Before that moment, Ricky gave Jimmy a thoughtful gift. This is the office

boxer. It's um 10th anniversary of The Office. Um I'll leave that with you. If you could hold that, that would be great. Only for Jimmy to do the unexpected. Appreciate it. Cheers. Thank

you so much. See you later. [Applause] All right, guys. Hey. Nevertheless, Ricky stayed on the set to listen to Jimmy's jokes. Hey, listen to

this, you guys. A uh the government is about to release a report on what went wrong during the BP oil spill. Or as Fish put it, hey, no rush. And after hearing that, Ricky couldn't help himself teach Jimmy about comedy. But I'm not doing that. It was sody. It

was um I mean you you know you did you didn't write it and that's but do it like but do it like it's your do it like you were clever enough to come up with this joke yourself. Okay. And also it looks dreadful. I mean you you can see you're reading it. Your little beady eyes. Well

they've done two cards. I have to memorize it. You look like a little starving rat. And when Jimmy applied Ricky's tips his delivery became an instant hit. Show them. Do it again. Just do it again. And

do it do it with a swagger. Do it with like Do it like you deserve this show. Let me try it. Let me try it. Hey, listen to this. Uh, the government

is about to release a report on what went wrong during the BP oil spill. Or as Fish put it, hey, no rush. Ricky left soon after, but not without dropping one final subtle jab. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much.

Listen, it's all part of my job. I'm a comedian. See you later. And just like Ricky educated Jimmy on his own show, he also roasted Hollywood and the Golden Globe Awards on its own stage. Tonight, you get Britain's biggest comedian hosting the world's second biggest award show on America's third biggest network. Sorry. Is it It's four. It's

fourth. And Ricky's next line humiliated two birds with one joke. The Golden Globes are to the Oscars. What Kim Kardashian is to Kate Middleton basically what bit louder bit trashier bit drunker press association and more easily bought comedian but when Tim was done getting blasted Justin Bieber's turn came next other celebrity scandal Justin Bieber nearly had to take a paternity test what a waste of a test that would have No, he's not the father. The only way that he could have impregnated a girl was if he borrowed one of Martha Stewart's old turkey basters.

Open wide. Um, bit loud. And even after taking shots at various top shot celebrities, Ricky proved that he wasn't even a little afraid. Now, the Hollywood Foreign Press have warned me that if I insult any of you or any of them or offend any cause any controversy whatsoever, they'll definitely invite me back next year as well. and his confidence just goes to show that Ricky isn't afraid of destroying celebrities on any stage.