---
video_title: "When Social Media Influencers Get Destroyed By Comedians"
video_id: -1odxbUC9Qs
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1odxbUC9Qs
video_date: 2025-05-11
video_description: |
  When Social Media Influencers Get Destroyed By Comedians
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From Bill Burr calling out Caitlyn Jenner's transition. This guy walked out a dude came back a woman. You're just supposed to be like, "Oh, yes. Anyways, Caitlin, that's all I was saying." To Tony Hinchcliffe humbling Kim Kardashian. Kim, word of advice. Close

your legs. You have more public beef than Kendrick and Drake. Here are 10 times social media influencers got destroyed by comedians. Starting with Bill Burr, who put Caitlyn on blast in an interview with Conan O'Brien. Bruce became Caitlyn. That was like a national

news story like at a ridiculous level. There's like baby seals washing up on the beach cuz there's no fish left. And they're talking to this this lady, you know, like, "So, Bruce, are you going to go can your Olympic back handle a Dup or you going to go with like something a little more?" And Bill even got a little nostalgic in his rant. I miss that guy.

I miss him already. He should have told us. He should have given us a chance to say goodbye. I love, you know, I watched him on the Olympics. I watched him on Chips.

I watched him on that horrible show my wife watched where he just walks around in the background. With his jokes, he called out the woke culture in the same breath. And then you couldn't react. You can't on any level be like, "Oh my god." Or you automatically homophobic.

It's like, "Dude, I didn't hear your inner thoughts. I didn't know what you were doing. All of a sudden, you're supposed to dude, you shave your beard off." People like, "Oh my god, that's your chin. Wow." And before the

interview was over, Bill dunked on both Caitlyn and the woke culture supporting her. This guy walked out a dude came back a woman you just supposed to be like, "Oh, yes." Anyways, Caitlin, that's all I was saying. This this housing crisis. I think the bubble's creating again. I was

just uh God bless him. God bless her. Sorry. They really freak out about the pronouns, too. Yeah. You say, "God bless

him and they're like her." Yeah. Sorry. But it wasn't only Bill that called out the absurdity that came with Caitlyn's transition because Dave Chappelle did the same on his Netflix special. Caitlyn Jenner, whom I've met, wonderful person.

Caitlyn Jenner was voted woman of the year. Her first year as a woman. Ain't that something? Beat every Detroit. She's better than all of you. Never even had a period. Ain't that

something? And Chappelle took Caitlyn to the cleaners one last time before moving on. I'd be mad if I was me if I was in a BET Awards sitting there and they're like, "And the winner for of the year, Eminem, my man." I asked you, why is it easier for Bruce Jenner to change his gender than it is for Cash's Clay to change his name? But as if roasting the stepmother wasn't enough, comedians like Tony Hinchcliffe put Caitlyn's stepdaughter in place, too. A whales

Which reminds me, Kim Kardashian's here. She's had a lot of black men celebrate in her end zone. Kim, word of advice. Close your legs. You have more public beef than Kendrick and Drake. Despite this brutal

roast, social media influencers Teddy and Doughboy still asked for a roast battle with Tony. Hey, my man. You ain't no wrestler. What the [ __ ] you got on wrestler shoes for? Whoa, you guys are mean. Absolutely. Jimmy Neutron

granddaddy right here. But when his turn came, the duo realized Tony is on a whole other level. You guys look like a before and after for a product that doesn't work. Oh, we just before for real. Is that funny in a break room?

What does ADD stand for? A dose of diabetes. Okay. I wasn't ready for any of this. Yeah. Do you have something?

And as Tony was finishing up his roasts, the duo sorely regretted battling him. Doughboy. Wait, what? His name? His name is Doughboy. Doughboy. Yeah, I spell it.

D O B O Y. He thinks he's D O B O Y. Yeah, I had a feeling you'd misspell it. You guys are two of my favorites. Two Chins and ASAP Rocky Road. Wow. Wow.

Wow. Just like Tony humiliated Kim Kardashian on live TV, Ricky Jervas did the same during his 2012 Golden Globe monologue. The Golden Globes are to the Oscars, what Kim Kardashian is to Kate Middleton. Basically, what bit louder, bit trashier, bit drunker, and more easily bought. Um, not stopping at destroying Kim, he also burned the whole beauty influencer industry casually from his bathtub. Hi

guys, Ricky G here, wellness and beauty influencer. As a celebrity, I know all about stuff like science and politics. So, trust me when I tell you who you should vote for. If you don't bow the right way, it's like a hate crime and it makes me sad and angry and I'll leave the country and you don't want that. And similar to how Ricky annihilated bogus influencers, Shane Gillis also went off on The Rock for his pretentious fitness content. Taking shots at The Rock, dude.

You think the Rock, Dude, I'm sick of him. Why you sick of him? Uh, well, it started a long time ago, but I was hung over one day waking up in a hotel and I just, you know, looked at Instagram. Yeah, it's just a rock. It's like disrupting in my iron paradise. I was

like, this guy just every I was just like, shut the up. Shut the up. But before he moved on, Shane exposed The Rock for what he actually is. And then he posts like cheat day videos. Yeah.

And it's like, I earned this. And he just eats cookies and it's like, dude, Fast and Furious movies in the WWF. Shut up. Relax on yourself, dude. You were the worst part of Moana. Shut up. Yeah.

While Shane just roasted The Rock in banter, Jimmy Fallon went all out when the Mike Tyson vers Jake Paul fight was announced. Everyone was talking about this tomorrow night on Netflix. 58-year-old boxing legend Mike Tyson is coming out of retirement to fight 27year-old YouTuber Jake Paul. [Applause] And to make sure people watch, one will be dressed as Glenda, the other will be dressed as Alphaba. And and Jimmy only got more brutal when he indirectly called out the fight's authenticity.

Yeah, the big fight is tomorrow and fans are already making signs to hold up at the arena. And we saw some earlier. We have some right here for Look at this sign. It says, "These punches are softer than the food Biden eats." Look at this other sign. This sign says, "My

girlfriend who lives in Canada is more real than this." And finally, look at this sign. Finally, it says, "Nobody's faked anything this much since Stormy Daddy." But before wrapping up, Jimmy dropped one last sarcastic bomb. But don't miss the undercard with more fights between boxing legends and YouTube stars like George Foreman versus the I like turtles kid. I like turtles.

Manny Pacquiao versus the chocolate rain guy. Chocolate rain. Sugar Ray Leonard versus the grape stop lady. While Jimmy humbled Jake Paul, Tim Dylan demolished his brother instead. And it all started when Tim was pulling Logan's leg while talking about KSI. I'm gonna

actually channel you, Theo, because I feel like I' I'd be able to hurl a lot of good insults. Just like, do you guys not like each other? Is it like one of those things? No, I hate the kid. Really? Yeah. Yeah. It's And he's he's a

black kid from England. That's not why I hate him. No, no, no. I know. I'm not saying I see No, I see what you're doing. Yeah. So, you're fighting for the

white race. As the conversation turned to his controversial past, Logan was surprised by Tim's support. Have you ever done one of those where you regretted it? Like a crazy prank? Well, obviously the one that we all know about. The one in the forest. Yeah.

Right. that one, which I didn't even think was offensive. I was like, whatever. I didn't either. You don't strike me as a person who found it offensive. But little did Logan know

that Tim was about to flip the script on it. No, I I mean, me and my friends played with dead people, alive people, people in the middle, but we just didn't we couldn't get, you know, why did we just couldn't get any we couldn't monetize it cuz we were we were from the generation that can't monetize the sociopathy. And that wasn't Logan's only time getting humbled on live TV because Andrew Schultz also shot him down in front of thousands during one of his WWE matches. But who did you come to see tonight, Logan? Nobody is here to see you. It all started when Logan

called for Andrew thinking he was there to see him. Yeah, Schultzy, I see you and I know you see me. Real recognized real talent. Recognized talent. In fact, check this out. Get this through the

mic. Get Shalty your mic. Come on. I've done this podcast. Come on. You always

got something to say. Don't be shy. But as usual, Logan's happiness was shortlived. Come on, tell the people why you came out to MSG tonight. I came out to MSG tonight for the reason we're all here to see the steel cage match. That's

why I came out to see CM Punk and Seth Rollins. That's who I came out to see. And Andrew completely eviscerated Logan in front of the crowd. Okay. Those are guys who are here. Yeah. But who did you

come to see tonight? Logan, nobody is here to see you. You are not in Cleveland, Ohio, buddy. This is New York City. This is a real city, a real arena, and we like real wrestlers. But while

Logan was only humiliated twice, Andrew Tate, on the other hand, was mocked by four separate comedians on their own podcasts, starting with Tim Dylan. He's just describing uh how he would attack a female partner if she ever uh accused him of cheating. And he goes, "It's bang out the machete. Boom." In her face, and grip her by the neck, like you you got to threaten her. She got her right up

next to her. Well, but if my whole thing is if he didn't cheat. Mhm. And she's accusing him of cheating, how's he supposed to respond? And then came Andrew Schultz's turn. A guy that lives

in Romania and does what he does there, which is own casinos. Apparently has slaves. That's a crazy slaves. That you can't escape. You love slaves. That's the allegation.

female slaves. That That makes it better. I don't know what it is. But when Andrew invited True Jordy on his podcast, he too buried Tate 6 feet deep. I couldn't give a [ __ ] about Andrew Tate. Really? Would you box him

or celebrity boxing? Well, he has a fighting background. If if Well, I mean, he comes to me in my face. Yeah, I would absolutely punch him in the face. But am I going to make effort to go running every morning? No, I don't care.

you know, he's not worth. And the best mockery happened when Tate was invited on Tom Sigiraa's podcast and began his usual misogynist commentary. If you want to keep your man happy, you need to think, how do I make my man look better to the world? How do I make him look better in front of other men? You know what? If I were to just make him two

coffees and shut the up, yeah, he's going to look like the big G and he's going to be in love with me. That's what you have to do as a woman. But instead of getting triggered, Tom perfectly played along with top-notch satire. Well, let me let me just stop you real quick and say something. You've got a lot of work to do.

Me? Yeah. I brought you two coffees this morning cuz cuz you were coming in and I said, "Tommy, here's your two coffees." I did. I'm just saying he made a lot of sense. And what are you doing? Just I'm

just saying keep taking notes. Don't even talk to me. Just like Tate was mocked for his comments. Mark Normand also took Greta Tunberg to task on Theo Vaughn's podcast. What happened to her, by the way? She jumped ship. Well, she

started she started saying stuff that liberals didn't agree. She started like, "Oh, she was speaking out for Palestine." And now they're like, "Ah, her." Oh, really? Well, what about the environment? I thought that was her. She

would take a steamboat from Sweden to to yell at somebody on a on a on a soap box. And Mark instantly locked in to roast Greta with witty jokes. Oh, damn. Wow. How old is she now? Has she got an

Only Fans? I don't Oh, 22. All right. She's of age. Oh, we're going to hell. But hey, we're

going together, dude. Oh, she got a solar powered vibrator. I remember. Check out my carbon foot fetish.