---
video_title: "When Bill Burr Make Hecklers CRY"
video_id: HpxY_XAQvTk
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HpxY_XAQvTk
video_date: 2025-04-06
video_description: |
  From putting a heckler in her place to giving an interviewer a harsh dose of reality. Here are 10 times Bill Burr made hecklers cry.
  
  Suscribe :)
---
From putting a heckler in her place, are you the idiot who got up halfway through the special? To giving an interviewer a harsh dose of reality. Everybody who fails as a father says that to me. Here are 10 times Bill Burr made hecklers cry. Starting with the time he made fun of a woman for an unclear heckle. Um,

it's unbelievable. Can't understand your female voice does not travel well. I don't know what it is. up close or in a whisper can make you hard, but beyond 10 feet, it just sounds like a couple of birds fly, you know, fighting over a French fry or something, you know. In the end, Bill handled her easily despite her coming in when he least expected it, unlike the next heckler who walked right into his trap. All I want

to get is a 22. That's it. 22 caliber. Protect the house. No big deal. Little [ __ ] That's

it. Ah, come on. No. You think I wasn't setting them up? How many times did I say 22 caliber? I said the first time I

heard the groans, you must be sending that fishing line out. There's always one guy who takes the and he didn't relent laying into the heckler and your little guy. You got you got a holster between your butts. Put that gun, sir. Let's just say for the hell of it, I had a loaded 22 in my hand and I started shooting at you. What would you

do other than run screaming out of the building, sticking babies in front of you like Mark Sheen in the dead? Right. But while Bill was always ready for hecklers in an audience, he kept the same energy for celebrities, too. Like the time the host of the radio show The Breakfast Club, Charlemagne, asked an unnecessary question. I've I've only met two people that had like a vibe like her in my life. Um and the first one was a

dude. He was just So that wasn't that. No, he was like, "No, just walked in the room, you know, and you just knew the person was coming in the room." She has that vibe, right? Hold on. You got to

clear that up. I want to be clear about that. You didn't date the guy. Nothing. No, I'm just I just want to make sure.

And in his signature fashion, Bill immediately pointed out how ridiculous the question was. Why do black people let go this homophobia? You always got a check. Like, what are you doing with your manicured eyebrows? Like, I'm [ __ ] going to sit here and act like you're all good over there. Like, you

don't swing a leg over the fence every once in a while. You got sandals on and white socks. You look like you just came from a steam room. But while Bill didn't spare the host from his absurd question, he gave that same treatment to a heckler who was fishing for a compliment. No offense, but there's no Eiffel Tower here. I think that's a little

crazy. You're welcome. And he went on to point out how odd her heckle was. Thank you for laughing. Thank you for verbally letting me know that you appreciated that. Thank you.

But Bill wasn't satisfied yet. She either has no stairs in it or in her house or someone doesn't know how to walk up. Did you call Did you call the planner? Thank you. That's what she said. She said it

not like I was 10 ft away. She said like I was downstairs in the rec room or something. Changing a fuse or something. [Applause]

[Music] Bill didn't just hate being heckled himself. He disliked seeing other comedians get put down, too. Like the time he was a guest on the Kill Tony podcast. This is brutal. Is this going to be an hour? This I don't want to do

this to people. Back in March 2016, Bill attended the podcast to open mic event where aspiring comics were given a chance to perform for one minute. But Bill didn't like the way the host Tony was treating a performer who had bombed. That was an interesting way to get to that Trump thing. You made Pat do that whole thing. Yeah, I know.

How did Yeah, but didn't you kind of [ __ ] him with the music on the way up? Yeah. Like he's going to suck. You put everybody's mood like can weing can you give him a chance? It was it was going to be that bad no matter what music played him up. Prompting Bill to share

his honest thoughts about the show's format. This is brutal. Is this going to be an hour of this? I don't want to do this to people. Horrible. Nobody can be funny in

a minute. It's This is stupid. It's stupid. You're fine. You're fine. One more and then I'm

out. All right. Nevertheless, Tony went back to berating the comic again. Uh, you did so bad. One of our guests is about to quit. Uh, I don't know what

else to tell. Oh, if there's a negative lining, Tony will find it. There it is. Right between the ray of sunshine. There's that little nugget of negativity, youing.

Bill could be harsh with critics and hecklers when he needed to be. And a perfect example of that was when a heckler interrupted him while filming a special talking about hitting women, sweetheart. And I think you just added another reason. It started when Bill asked a question as part of his set. How come you can't ask questions? You can

only ask questions about what the guy did. You can never ask about the woman. Why is that? Answer him right. Why is that? What does that answer him right?

What does What does answer him right mean? What does that mean? Are you the idiot who got up halfway through the special during the bit and you're like walking around like I'm noting taping a special here? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? Bill showed no

mercy as he continued to tear into her. Had to ignore all of that and now you're going to like yell out and not only that yell something that makes no [ __ ] sense whatsoever. Answer him. Answer him. Finally, he returned to his routine. Every [ __ ] special I do,

there's always one. Oh, he's right down the [ __ ] middle. But not before throwing one more jab at the heckler. Talking about hitting women, sweetheart. And I think you just added another reason. Jesus [ __ ]

Christ. Love this. I'm not even in a relationship with her and she'sing nagging me. Unbeliev heckler thought she had the answers. Just like the your mom's house podcast host Christina P when she tried to psychoanalyze Bill. It's just I just

felt like a after a while. Like when are you going to just, you know, get off thising couch here and go live your life and stop having to talk to thising person? Yeah, you're full of anger cuz you flog yourself for for being vulnerable. Would you stop it like you have some sort of psychology degree? 10 years in therapy. It's so I've watched

football for 40 years. I shouldn't be somebody's coach. But Bill made her regret the interruption almost immediately. Then you're going to like superimpose youring issues of the psychos in your life onto me? It's likeing alcoholics. They they just

always like, "Oh yeah, you drink. You must be like me." The whole world cuz they're addicts. So they're so self involved. The whole world has to be like them. Even her husband and co-host Tom

Sigura had something to say to her. Can shrink right now. I mean, let the guy be angry sometime. In the end, Christina got off easy because she knew when to back off, unlike Ethan Klene, who dug himself deeper and paid for it. I went to therapy after that episode. When Bill

appeared on the H3 podcast back in 2018, the host, Ethan Klene, seemed noticeably uneasy. Do whatever Comic Con of podcasting, would you be nervous? Yes. Nervous. I'm I am so neurotic. I am

nervous. I'm nervous right now. Okay. Very nervous. I don't think that's going to help. How do you How do you Was there

ever No. Unfortunately for Ethan, it turned out that Bill was right. It seems like you're in love with your daughter hearing you talk about her on the podcast. Jesus Christ. Well, you're pretty perceptive. like you care about

your own child. And things only got worse when he couldn't figure out when to let a topic go. And uh he also had a zillion kids. So I mean, yeah. Really?

How many siblings do you have? I don't know, dude. The internet's too weird to give out all that information. Oh, you don't even want to say how many because you're afraid that it will compromise your talking about it. Is there anybody you can cut this out? I'm honest, dude.

Like Yeah. No, dude. I Yeah, there's lunatics out there. And by the end of the interview, he was a wreck. All right. I don't know why that got so

flat uh on my part. Tell me about uh all things comedy. I don't know. You see, I'm nervous. I'm sweating here. I'm just

going to let you sit. Leading Ethan to reveal the effects of it a year later. I went into therapy after that episode. I'm not even I'm not even being kidding. And after that episode with Bill, I came home and I that's when I started taking anti anti-depressants and I went to therapy. Wow. It was soul crushing.

While Ethan drew fire from Bill due to nerves and inexperience, the same can't be said for Howie Mandel, who came across as rude after saying this comment about Bill's daughter. Four years of hatred toward me. Four years of hatred. Get ready, cuz you got a daughter, too. Wait till she's a teenager. Wait till

the hell. Everybody who fails as a father says that to me. I failed. I think so. Yeah. Although Bill explained

what he meant, he didn't spare Howie's feelings. I'm just not feeling like good vibes between the two of you. We're doing a podcast together. It feels like a business decision. After that, things got awkward when Howie took a chance to show off. How many How many one-armed

kids in Africa had to dig out that [ __ ] aluminum for some [ __ ] over here to make that thing? What are you going to do with that? Put it next to your cable ace award. You held that up like it was a Golden Globe. We're We're in the middle of my interview and you're sitting here accepting awards. How do

you think that makes me feel? Bill was no stranger to schooling people like Howie, like the time he brutally roasted the whole city of Philadelphia for ruining a show. Standing backstage for 3 hours to get booed by this GED stupid ass piece of [ __ ] crowd. Back in 2006, Bill was part of Opie and Anony's comedy tour along with other great comedians like Patrice O'Neal, Louis CK, and Tracy Morgan. When Bill tried to perform his set, the drunk audience started booing him, causing him to teach them a lesson. Bunch youing

losers. And Rocky is your hero. The whole pride of your city is built around a [ __ ] guy who doesn't even exist. What's that, sir? What do you have to say, sir? Never pass the eighth grade.

What brilliant are you going toing tell me, huh? Go back to the dock and go unload some, you [ __ ] warehouse working, weed smoking. disappointment for your mother. While many of the other comedians had cut their time short, Bill refused to walk off. Seven minutes left. Seven mother

left and I'm doing all seven. And when his time ran out, he couldn't help but leave the city of brotherly love with one final parting shot. I'm out of time. You guys, you guys are here, man. Thank you very much.

All of you goes in your own ass. Have a good night. Closing off a legendary rant that wouldn't be forgotten anytime soon.