---
video_title: "When Comedians KICK OUT Annoying Hecklers"
video_id: VBI_redGxZU
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VBI_redGxZU
video_date: 2025-04-17
video_description: |
  From sending a heckler out, To calling one out till she left, Here are 9 times comedians kicked out annoying hecklers.
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From sending a heckler out, all right, leave now. Go. I'm done. to calling one out till she left. Everying special I do, there's always one. Here are nine

times comedians kicked out annoying hecklers. Starting with Frenchie, whose heckler got instant karma after his malicious action. [Applause] It all started when Frenchie was doing a [Applause] show. cuz I miss it's a you're scared. Shut the up.

Did you pay 40 bucks to just watch someone's color be if you go? Initially, Frenchie tried to be friendly with the heckler. How basic are you? [Applause] You got to stop yelling out too, otherwise you're going to have to get kicked out, man. Okay, I'll scar it at some point. Don't worry, you'll see it,

mate. I don't want to peek too early. You'll leave us. Actually, will you leave if I don't? But when the heckler didn't quiet down, Frenchie turned him into material instead.

What? Does anyone I don't speak math, bro. Oh, sold that off. Give me a car. Get an original car back. You basic. And he

wasn't done calling the heckler out yet. What do you do for work? That's not a job, bro. You work for the government, too, don't you? So, so I I don't know if you know how.

Yeah. House, mate. Okay. And they paid to see me, not to hear your comments. Okay.

That only infuriated the heckler, and in response, he did something messed up. [Applause] [Music] Say it. Say it. I got time for this. Good call. Good

call. And he got instant karma.

Go spend some time with his kid. He wasted a drink, too. He's not getting that money back, bro. But while the heckler's attack hurt, Frenchie still chose to let him off the hook. Press charges. No, bro. I think he's got

enough charges against him. Oh, good. Yeah, don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. I don't want to ruin his life, man.

He's already done. While Frenchie spared his heckler, Troy had no plans to do the same when he was interrupted by a couple right at the start of his show. All right, Elvis. Elvis, you didn't. You said, "All right, Elvis." Then you look down like I wasn't

going to see you. It came from right here. It came from the guy who was dressed like a 1940s Chris Brown character. Close both sides of your lips. I don't give a You say one more word by name in my note tonight. And

when the heckler's girlfriend tried to fight back, Troy immediately shut her down. Think of a comeback. He's speaking in cursive right now. I don't know if you know this. Everything you say is another thing. I'm not drunk. I'm not

drunk. I work a 16-hour shift. Mr. Elvis guy, I'm here with him to piss off my dad. Whatever the heckler did afterward was just ammunition for Troy's gunfire. You need a little bit of

help. You know they're not laughing with you, right? That's the white woman move. When you win, they do [ __ ] Look at me. I'm 3 in closer.

[Applause] And eventually Troy turned the couple into accessories for his own material. You two should go make a whole other [ __ ] We'll call him Elon Musk.

I'm going after the people who are ruining the show. I'll go after anybody who I want to. That's why I'm up here and you are down there. Because one of us had dads who didn't love us and one of us did something about it. When the heckler couldn't take it anymore, she resorted to something worse. I can't hear you. You're laughing

too hard. Was that supposed to hurt my feelings? Whoa, that was a hard end. Say it again for the rest of the class. I said no.

And instead of taking offense, Troy flipped the script. [Music] Yeah. Say something about it. Yeah. What you going to do? Yeah. Come up here

and talk to me now. Yeah. But despite being warned, the heckler continued being racist. I can see the door. Go ahead. Oh no.

[Applause] [Music] [Applause] Amen. This is the weirdest career day of my life talking with two people who don't have. Troy is used to hecklers charging his stage because another heckler also tried to do it after getting triggered by a Russia Ukraine joke. Where you from, sir? Russia. Russia. Oh, or as we

call over here, Ukraine. You're from Ukraine. Sit down. Russia. He stood up immediately. You

stay seated. That's why you lost your country. And as the heckler became more aggressive, Troy amped up his roasts. Sit down. Sit the down. Steve from Blues

Clues. We are the world. We are the Putin. Don't sit the down. You want to stay since I'm a Russian and I'm a prince and a president. You look a

lot like But as security kicked the heckler out, Troy dropped one last witty bomb. Well, if anything made me not a communist anymore was watching capitalism kick their ass out. While Troy kicked the heckler out of his show, Tony roasted his so hard that she left the show by herself in tears. We're going to make fun of disabled people. It all started when Tony was doing his usual dark comedy, abortion.

is now illegal in the state of Alabama. A state in which abortion should be mandatory. We don't need babies from Alabama. But Tony was only getting started. Helen Keller. Perfect abortion.

A this is the sound I make when I want the person next to me to think I'm a good person. And it wasn't long before someone in the audience got offended. It's too soon for the Helen Keller jokes in here. Really? Is it the PC world [ __ ] that we live in?

What? Do what? tease kids with special needs. She didn't she's she was blind and deaf. But Tony made it clear that he wasn't going to justify his jokes. Yeah. You know

she's dead, right? Are you aware of this? Oh, okay. Do you know that if she was alive and in this showroom here tonight, she would have no idea what I just said about her? And yet you're offended.

You're not going to survive the rest of this show, lady. I promise you that. Let me save you some time. And when the heckler tried to take a moral high ground, Tony quickly shot her down. For 14 years, why don't you do it anymore? You got sick of those dumb

bastards. How dare all of them enjoy themselves out at a comedy show? You're right, you miserable wretch. But Tony didn't ease up there and kept roasting the heckler using her own friend. I feel bad for that guy. That must be her one friend in

the world. That poor guy probably works at a department store she was at. Tried to be nice. Hey, you want to see a comedy show? Friendly gay guy and she snaps right out of it on a Helen Keller joke of all things. And

when the heckler couldn't fight back, she called it quits. A there she goes. Remember I kicked you out. This wasn't your choice. I told you to leave. I told

you you couldn't handle me. While Tony's heckler walked away with emotional damage, this next heckler got instant physical karma after trying to start a brawl with a comedian. Ray, have a seat. Ray, have a seat. Ray, Ray, if you put your hands on me again, if you put your hands on me again, if you put your hands on me again, you're going to regret it.

Okay, go sit down. Despite getting warned, however, the heckler kept agitating the comedian. Start the show, [ __ ] Bring on the next comic right now and stop making fun of me. You do that all by yourself, Wayne. No, you do that all by yourself. But when

the heckler got offended, the comedian gave him a lesson of a lifetime. I'm a 60-year-old baby. I don't get my way. Listen, I don't shoot right now. What' I tell you? What' I tell you? Come

on. He put his hands on me once. He was going to do it again. While this heckler saved himself from further embarrassment when he passed out, Ryan Long roasted this next one even after he left because of his constant interruptions. Hell yeah, brother.

[Applause] There was a rumor going around that there was an interesting guy and I swear to God, I was just thinking I don't know what they're talking about. Oh, there he is. But instead of letting him ruin the show, Ryan turned him into a laughingtock instead. How you guys feeling about it? Are you popped or you hate this guy?

This is the thing about you have no idea like this guy's going to go home, text his girl like crushed all night. Comedians loved it. Audience loved it. I should up there if you think about it. Hell yeah, brother. He's already

repeating material like this. Unfortunately for the heckler, his loud antics wouldn't last for long. Me? Yes. Get up. What I do? What do you mean?

That's pretty funny, though, that they're like, "All right, you got to get up." And he's like flabbergasted. All right, you got to go. He's like, the heckler tried to take the spotlight one last time, but Ryan quickly set him straight.

What? What? That's the dude that's been like stealing from work for like and his boss is like, "You got to go." And he's like, "Please."

And Ryan continued dunking on the heckler even after he left. I'm pretty sure his friends stayed too, which is even better. That's the best though, cuz when he left, he's like, "All right, guys. We don't need this club anyway. Just like Ryan Heckler got abruptly kicked out, Nesh Patel got the same treatment as a comedian after cracking sensitive jokes in front of a woke crowd. I think the comments that you

were making about being gay and black was very disrespectful to me. I got that from a gay black dude. He gave me that joke. Absolutely. Cut the mic.

Have a good night. It all started when the Mesh was telling a story about his old neighbor. Every time I leave my apartment, this guy named Freeze. I named him Freeze cuz he wears like these like fishnet shirts, like the shirts with the holes in it, which I guess are practical. Like someone throws salmon at you. You could

catch it. But he makes fun of me every time I leave my apartment. He's like, "Your socks don't match your outfit." I was like, "I didn't know I had to do that for Breeze. My bad, dude." And Nesha's

story led to a setup for an incredible joke. But I try to learn things from people all the time. And this is like, it took me a while, but I learned from Freze. It's a gay black dude. I like what can I learn from Freze? I said, "Oh, this is this is how

I figured out that being gay can't be a choice." Cuz no one would choose to be gay if they're already black. But when the audience's reaction wasn't up to the mark, he called them out for it. No black dude ever wakes up, looks in the mirror, and thinks, "You know what? This black too easy.

I'm going to put on a Madonna halter top and some Jordans that make some Indian dudes real uncomfortable. That's never happened before. You guys get tense on the weirdest things. That's a strong joke. I know it very much. While Nesh moved on with his

set, he got a wild surprise later on. You seem like a nice person. Are you? Thank you so much for being here. Are you ready? Yes. Thank you so much.

Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I have 30 minutes left here. And the mesh soon found out the reason behind the audience's stale reaction. Yeah, there's a change of program. Why is it because I'm talking about uncomfortable stuff?

I think you can be uh respectful while being uncomfortable. Like I I think there's a distinction between uncomfortable being disrespectful. I think I'm being respectful. But despite the host's disrespect, Nesh still tried to convince them to let him stay. I just don't think you are entitled to certain jokes you're making.

And I don't think it's I just don't think it's But like what what I think the comments that you were making about being gay and black was very disrespectful to the I got that from a gay black dude. He gave me that joke. This would be this this is this is strange. Let him stay. And when nothing worked, Namesh started packing his bags, but not before politely dismantling the host's entire point. I don't know if it's

overtly political correctness, but you can't you can't insulate yourself from how the real world is. And this I'm I'm quite confident that none of this is disrespectful. I'm a generation older than y'all. I know what comedy is. I know what disrespect is. I've been

through a lot. And before he was forced to leave, Nesh gave everyone a lesson on common sense. I'm offended, but I'll take it in stride, which I think everyone should do. Like, there's a way to change things and by marching on stage and being you got to get the off stage. That's quite disrespectful. I'm

going to leave because it's your stage, but know that you are incorrect in this. While Nomesh was kicked out himself, Steve Hoffetter flipped the script by kicking out not one but nine hecklers who were ruining the show. All right, leave now. Go. I'm done. Go. Bye. Go. It

all started when multiple hecklers kept interrupting the previous comedian's jokes. It was Easter Sunday. I just figured what would Jesus do, you know? Wait, what? He's risen. Yeah.

Thank you for not contributing at all. I don't understand that. Why are you here? Jesus Christ. You guys just shut the up for once during this goddamn show. But

when Steve came on stage, he was having none of it. Some of you guys have been really one. Some of you guys, I think stumbled in from the prom next door. I don't know what the is happening, but some of y'all have been acting like you've never seen alcohol before and you took one sip and you lost your mind. This is live entertainment. We can

see y'all. We can hear y'all. you are ruining it for other people. However, Steve's warning fell on deaf ears. Let's get chatty. Calm it down.

Trying to be nice here. Trying to be nice. It shouldn't be that difficult. Y'all have been in a movie theater. It's It's like that except the movie can see you. Imagine if the middle of Avengers,

Captain America was just like, "Shut the [ __ ] up." But when he was interrupted again, Steve didn't hold back. It's a It's a true story of going through high school, getting bullied a whole lot, then finding comedy as a way out. So, that's good. All right, leave now. Go.

I'm done. Go. Bye. Go. And in his discussion after the show, Steve revealed the amount of people he actually kicked out. By the end of the

show, four tables of nine people had been thrown out. I've never seen anything like that at a show before, and I hope to never see it again. And just like Steve, Jean Marco Sors was also cursed with a chatty heckler who kept trying to steal his spotlight. That was a good one. Is this you? Yeah. Are you Are you alone

at this table? [Music] I mean, yeah, right now you do. I That wasn't a joke. And when John Marco entertained her, she took it as a sign to be more obnoxious. What's your name?

Janette. Hi, Janette. Uptown J. Okay, I'm not going to like write an email. My Instagram handle is But John Marco quickly gave her a reality check.

Let's just get to know you today. Join me. J, to be fair, you joined in on my conversation a long time ago. I've been responding to you for the first time. Is this your guy coming back right now?

Oh [ __ ] He's going back. Oh [ __ ] God damn. He's like, however, that didn't stop the heckler from trying to steal his spotlight.

Yeah, I wish this was a private event. But I made it my private. And by the time security came, John Marco was done holding back. We're having we're having a nice time. You saw me the whole time. How could I

call on you? Do you think I got like a [ __ ] secret on my mind? Someone take care. Uh, we got a code right over here. Listen, don't let her see me. While Jean Marco still went

easy on her, Bill Bird didn't extend the same courtesy when he was interrupted during one of his jokes. I said you shouldn't hit a woman. I'm just saying, how come you can't ask questions? You can only ask questions about what the guy did. You can never ask about the woman. Why is that? Right. Why is that?

What does that answer right? What does What does answer them right mean? What does that mean? And Bill immediately took her to the cleaners. Are you the idiot who got up halfway through the special during the bit and you're like walking around like I'm not taking a special here? What's wrong with you?

What's wrong with you? Had to ignore all of that. And now you're going to like yell out and not only that, yell something that makes no sense whatsoever. Answer him. answer him. But

before he moved on, Bill made sure that the woman would never heckle a comedian again. Everying special I do, there's always one talking about hitting women, sweetheart. And I think you just added another reason. Jesus Christ. Love this. I'm not even in

a relationship with her and she's nagging me. showing that anyone who annoys a comedian too much will find themselves kicked out in no