---
video_title: "When Comedians Shut Down Flirting Hecklers"
video_id: _0yz7KA3Kqw
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0yz7KA3Kqw
video_date: 2025-06-09
video_description: |
  When Hecklers Flirt With Comedians
  
  Suscribe :)
---
From a heckler trying to rez up Jimmy Carr. Is it hard to be as good looking as you are? You never flirted before. You're terrible at this. To Matt Refeing down a thirsty one. Jealous. I do want

kids someday there. Be my daddy and abandon you like the last one. Here are nine times hecklers flirted with comedians. Starting with Jimmy Carr, whose heckler got destroyed for her awkward pickup line. Does it hurt as good looking as you are? Does it hurt?

What? Have you never flirted before? You're terrible at this. What's your name? Kate. Kate. And what do you do,

Kate? Recruitment. No, I mean sexually. Where'd you draw the line? You do recruitment. What? Like Elaine Maxwell?

But when the heckler tried her shot again, she herself was shot down instead. Who do you recruit? Me. Okay. Feel like this is a this is a really budget version of Baby Reindeer.

She's too lazy to follow me to my place. She just comes to the gig. And while Jimmy was heckled in the middle of his show, Troy Bond got his flirty heckle right at the start. Put your hands together for Troy Bond. Hey, thank you.

All right. This is what this guy. What the Thank you. Oh my god. What part of 50 ft away at all times do you not understand?

And Troy couldn't help but keep the jokes coming. The judge was very clear about this. I was what? We could Yeah. After just let me just give me like 15 minutes to explain to them why you love me. Then we could take pictures. Thank

you. I I love this and I'm so hard right now. Sorry, dog. My bad. While the heckler's advances were sadly rejected, Matt Reich returned the RZ 10fold when a woman gave him a genuine gift. Thank you

so much. What is this? Don't clap. It could be a bomb. We don't know.

You don't know yet. I came to Iowa and I I guess the gift, however, wasn't as innocent as it seemed. That's because Bill,

listen, guys. I've never ended a show early before, but I I'm sure you would all understand if I had to wrap things up, right? There's there's one more thing in here. Cookies. Are you kidding me? But as if

the gifts weren't enough, the woman's age was the cherry on top for Matt. I was going to have a hard time beating this. This is awesome. Christina, you are so hot. Thank you so much.

Oh my god. Grandma, you're a grandma. Let's put that shower chair to use. There's already plastic on the furniture. Let's make a mess, you know.

And when Matt did start roasting, his cannon was pointed everywhere else except the woman. 40 to 45? Are you serious? Are you Are you from here? Really? We got to get you out of here.

You're not married or anything, you bunch of idiots. Oh my god. You local morons not marrying this beautiful woman who makes great cookies. Stupid. I'm so sorry. But when

Christina showed Matt her daughter, his priorities quickly changed. This is your daughter? How old is she? This is the 21-year-old. All right. So, I'm gonna

date you for the next 10 years and then we'll we'll trade up. This is about to be the most uncomfortable Thanksgiving I've ever been to in my life. And it didn't take long for Matt to raise up both the daughter and the mom. Facetime.

Maggie, that is not your angle. Where are you right now? I'm over it. Oh my god. But when a thirsty woman tried to do the same at another show, he spotted her dishonesty and eviscerated her. Interesting. Do you have any kids?

No. Really? I'm jealous. I do want kids some there. be my daddy and abandon you like the last one.

And while Matt brushed off one admirer's flirty shot at a relationship, Sam Moral indirectly helped break one when a fan's boyfriend got too rowdy. So he's not a fan. I can tell you boo. I've seen a million versions of you, dude. She's not happy.

What were you drinking? What are you 14? And little did Sam know that his roasts were about to end a relationship. He's so mad at you right now. Rum and Coke. This is This is a nice

club. [Applause] How long you been with this guy? Is this one of those nights you're like, "That was the one that broke the camel's back. This is it." But while Sam just got complimented, Katy Perry acted worse than a heckler and sexualized the then barely adult Bo Burnham during the 2008 YouTube special.

He's funny, he's filthy, and he's gotten over 20 million views on his YouTube. And he's only 18 years old. Thank God you're 18 at least. [Music] He's here to play his world premiere of his new song, Welcome to YouTube. Come on, everybody, make some noise for Boto.

Thank you, Mrs. Perry. And while he was subtle at the time, Bose's real call out came 10 years later in a VidCon interview. I remember watching YouTube live like the first live event. And you could not be more bored to be performing with Katie Perry than I've ever seen anyone. No. She was laying on my piano

and she was like she was like it just introed me and she was like he's 18 18 at least and I was like I was like aren't you a Christian artist cuz like she was at the time I was like what is happening not stopping there but also put shade on the entire event as well. Yeah that was in some airport hanger in San Francisco. It was so weird. No, I felt this weird pride that you were already over the industry of YouTube and they had just introduced Katy Perry to it and you were like I don't need this. Well, what am I doing? But that Yeah.

Yeah. YouTube Live was crazy. It was very weird. It was like, "Here's Taison Day and the Shamwow guy wrestling." And we were like, "What?" Even the

interviewer joined in to expose the event one last time before moving on. Yeah. That you were a puppet for to perform for people. Well, this Katy Perry, we didn't really know who Katy Perry was at that point. It was all It was a wonderful hybrid.

Uh, if you haven't seen it, highly suggest you go back and Google that. It's and look at the disdain on his face the entire time. And while Bo doesn't regret calling Katie out, Ally Woods sure did when his roast kept getting flirtier replies during one of his standups. D, nice to meet you. D, how you doing? You all right? Oh,

okay. I've never had that someone be polite and rude at the same time. I've never sticking around for you. You're sticking around for me. Okay, now it's sexually threatening. I don't know where

this conversation keeps turning in ways I wasn't expecting. And you know what? I'm excited. I've got a And that's where we are. Good toad. Sorry. I'm glad.

You're glad. Okay. No, I shouldn't have said that. I take that back. I'm flaccid as they come, man. This is me. While

Alli got flabbergasted by the heckler, Adam Mueller immediately exposed one when she pretended to be a fake fan. I grew up in Canada who played hockey. I don't know. I don't know any hockey fans, but I'm sure you've all heard it, right? All game last night. Wow.

Doesn't mean you're a fan, Mr. was getting a hardcore Islanders fan a herd of the Islanders. I've seen ice. But when she continued her desperate attempts, Adam stopped her once and for all. In my fridge, so [Music]

I can see the her face right now. While Adam's heckler got more annoying throughout the show, Barry Ferns had one that got more charming as the show went on. Dream leads us together. Okay, [Applause] man. I've never been to Italy, but I'm going tomorrow. But her start wasn't so

great when she asked Barry a question and then tried to backtrack. Why? Why were you asking if it was true? I'm just curious as to what happened there.

You know what? That is one of nature's more disturbing phrases. And when she interrupted him again, he pushed the rose petal all the way down. You understand? I'm Italian, right? Is that

what we're doing at immigration now? Is that kind of like, listen, you're allowed in, but you're not allowed to talk. All right. That's proof of visa, right? What? You're Italian? Yeah. Don't give

it all that. Get a job. Shut the up. You can stay in. Like, what's going on? Come

on. Oh, you're still talking. Sorry. But slowly the heckler's accent started working its charm. All right. So, you're

Italian and because you're Italian, you talk a lot. Is that what you mean? Is that No, no, no, no. The previous platform, so I don't The what platform? What? Uh, never mind. What's wrong with

you? [Applause] Well, I'm hot. Nevertheless, Barry still had a show to run. Never mind. Just perform for me, Richard Branson.

Man, make the other people laugh. I'll be talking back here, but you'll do what you like. You sound like Dr. Evil's wife, is what you sound like. Yes, carry on. Do what you must. I'll be back here.

I'll be very quiet. I won't be laughing. I'll be very quiet. But when the heckler spiced things up, she wrapped Barry around her finger. Why did you just say something Italian to me? Like biscuit

drink later. Okay. [Applause] Man, I've never been to Italy, but I'm tomorrow cuz I cuz if this is how it does, I I I get into these kind of conversations all the time in the UK, but they never end in. But while the previous heckler took time, this next one jumped at the opportunity when Ashley Gavin made a sexual joke. Only some people clapping, other people going, "What do you mean the whole show is not gay? I'm going to

require you to eat on stage. All

right, put your money where your mouth I'm sorry. Put your where my mouth is. No, sit the down. But when Ashley found out who was sitting beside her, she quickly switched to roast mode. Are you with a man right now?

What's that? Is that your boyfriend? Okay, shut up. I hated the word partner before straight people took it. Calm yourself, Ashley. Everyone else is quiet, but I

want to have sex with you on stage. Ashley, however, wasn't going to move on without showing some game first. Wouldn't that be crazy if I was like, "Yeah, we're going to do something special. I'm going to that." No, I'm the boyfriend is like really like, "Okay, are you guys in an open relationship?"

She threw that. Yes. Yes, yes, yes, we are as of right now.