---
video_title: "Comedians Shutting Down Disrespectful Interviewers"
video_id: hHEoZn_kzwU
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHEoZn_kzwU
video_date: 2025-04-12
video_description: |
  From sarcastically swatting away a personal question to putting a passive-aggressive host in her place. Here are 8 times comedians shut down disrespectful interviewers. 
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From sarcastically swatting away a personal question with her consider her your girlfriend? Oh my god. This is going horribly. To putting a passive-aggressive host in her place. Stop it with and you do this and you're mean and you're that. You are not the

one to interview a person who does humor. Sorry. Here are eight times comedians shut down disrespectful interviewers starting with the time Louis C.K. appeared on Jay Leno's show only to be roasted for his outfit.

That is probably the most heterosexual outfit I've ever seen. is right now. It's just You look like a man who tried to dress himself. You look like a cop. Is it inside out?

I do. Look like I'm protecting the president. I hope I can say this without insulting you. You're No, you're the weirdest-looking person on the planet Earth. But he shut down Jay's outfit insults for good.

Jay, if you weren't famous and you robbed a bank and the dude was describing you to like a police sketch artist, he'd be like, "No, seriously, what did he look like?" Nobody Nobody looks like this. Nobody looks like you. I can't I can't believe I'm looking at you all the time I'm looking at you. Another comedian who fired back with humor was Eddie Murphy on The Dick Cavett Show when the host asked an unexpected question after the comedian confirmed that he had seen Huckleberry Finn.

Are you offended by the word in it? Why Why Where did that come from? Prompting the host to repeat the word. No, it's just that there's a big flap in various parts of the country where people want that. You know, great American novel taken off the shelves because the word Jim is a character.

I thought you said in various parts of the various parts of the country that where they enjoy hearing someone say that on television. No, no, no, no, no. This is cable. No, I was sitting in Memphis like this. I like that, Cavett boy.

Leaving Dick on the defensive. You see him sitting right in front of me. You don't like this. Sitting 2 in away. No, I I you you know me better than that.

While Eddie Murphy had to deal with an insensitive host, Trevor Noah had to handle an interviewer who was a little too sensitive. Trevor Noah was on BBC when the host turned the topic to racial sensitivity. Do you now regret some of the jokes you made? Let me give you an example. You said, "My mother, black South African, was saying, 'Get me a white guy. Get me

a white guy.'" Well, my father was white Swiss. Of course, he liked chocolate. That sounds funny to me. Even when you say it. That sounded really funny. Why

would I regret that? Nevertheless, the interviewer kept trying to prove her point. About African-Americans, you have said this, "You are not African, but we play along. It's a very loose term, African-American, because half the time you use it for people who aren't even African. As long as you're black, they say, 'African-American.'"

I didn't deliver it like that. You're not doing my jokes justice. right. Leading him to hilariously demonstrate what he meant. What you're doing right now is the equivalent of me saying, "Now it's raining more than ever. Uh

I'll be here with you forever. You can always be my friend standing under my umbrella, ella ella ella ella ella ella ella ella a a a a a ella ella ella a a a a." I seem like a mad person right now. Unlike Trevor Noah, who got serious with his interviewer, Hannibal Buress decided to have a little fun with his instead over the seating arrangement. know we were doing my segment on a couch. I thought I was going to linger

behind y'all in those seats over there. That'd have been better. We should just do the interview this lingering right here. All right. Like, "Hey, what's going on?" That's me

lingering. What's up? I like this. It's way better. It's not awkward.

But it was awkward, and Hannibal wasn't done. Our couch is awfully comfy, though. It's all right. It's all right as far as couches go. Are you a little chilly? You can take

the blanket and cozy up there if you want want to. Guys just don't respect the decorative throw. It's not It's not I thought it was uh It's for warmth. Finally, Hannibal didn't let her get the interview under control. We we like to use it for decoration, but it is very warm and comfy.

That's a waste if it's just decoration. That move tells me you're not married. I'm not married, no. Because your wife would say, "Why are you using the decorative throw?" And I'd say, "Cuz I paid for the decorative throw, and now it's decorating my legs cuz I'm cold."

Another comedian who completely took over an interview was Richard Ayoade, who went on Channel 4 News to talk about his book, despite not being a fan of interviews. If you were asking yourself a question now, what would it be? I mean, couldn't you get anyone else to come? You know what happens now? In the Normally, in an interview like this, I ask you a few questions about your book, because that's what you're trying to sell. So, I then ask you something

serious. Now, the serious thing I'd like to ask Which I will parry. And he made good on that promise. Also, I don't I don't dislike interviews. It's just it's a bit more like it's like commuting. I accept it as a

part of this, but no one, you know, loves it with all, you know, but it's fine. that. I get that, but give me give me something in return. I mean, because the other you want? That was not a good chat-up line.

Nevertheless, the interviewer tried to save the interview. I've been pushing this big campaign about diversity in television, and you're not going to go there as a subject. How do you mean go there as a subject? Well, do you do you do you Do you go there as a subject? Well, I do personally, yes.

Where are you? there should be more, but now you're interviewing me. in the end, Richard came out on top. Well, Richard, thank you very much indeed for coming. Don't thank me. I've I've done nothing

for you. Conan O'Brien also refused to give his interviewer anything when Howard Stern asked a highly personal question about his ex-girlfriend, Lisa Kudrow. She said when she got married, she was a virgin. So, What's the deal? But Conan deflected the questions.

I'm impotent. No, you know you're not. You're not impotent. I tried several times, and I just couldn't. No, seriously, you you had So, that's right?

Well, please, a gentleman doesn't tell tales. Yeah, but so in other words, you had Oh, please, Howard. You know what? No, we weren't married. I don't believe in premarital sex. And kids out there,

if you're listening, it's wrong. Save yourself. Causing Conan to share his feelings. Did you consider her your girlfriend? Oh my god. This is going horribly. I

thought we'd come in here and talk about all the good times we had together. If it was true, you would be doing Lisa a huge favor to say, "Yes, it is true. Uh we never had never had Really? Not to lie, Conan. You just said I if I could say that.

And in the end, Howard couldn't get what he wanted from Conan. Conan, we've learned nothing about you through this whole interview. I know. I'm sorry. While Conan played it cool, Joan Rivers gave her interviewer a piece of her mind.

You are not the one to interview a person who does human. Sorry. Are we serious? It started with the interviewer criticizing Joan's cutting brand of humor. Uh even with your fashion critiquing, while it's very mean in some ways, people mean. It's not mean.

It's not mean. You can It's not mean. I tell the truth. I'm sure I say the same things that all your viewers say to their friends sitting next to them on the couch. But she kept pushing.

You have some shock value to you. I mean, on the cover of your book, you're wearing a fur, and you knew that there would probably be animal rights activists this whole interview is becoming a defensive interview. Are you wearing leather shoes? Yes, I'm wearing You're wearing leather shoes. You're eating chicken.

You're eating chicken. Yeah. You're eating meat. I don't want to hear this nonsense. Come to me with a paper belt, and I'll talk to you.

Despite Joan's clapback, the interviewer didn't stop. But you did hear it in some of those press conferences. There were people who were upset, and you're just saying, You know, I'm going. I really am going because all you have done is negative. All you have done is negative.

Causing Joan to finally put her foot down. I make people laugh for 50 years. I am put on earth to make people laugh. My book is funny. I wear fur that was killed 15 years ago. I work for animal

rights. Stop it with and you do this and you're mean and you're that. You are not the one to interview a person who does humor. Sorry. Are we serious?

While Joan walked out on her interviewer after calling her out, Katt Williams went for the throat when a radio host mentioned his past arrests, breaking a promise to keep it off limits. Damn, you good at heating stuff up. Uh, you're good at telling us about what's going on in jail. Yes, ma'am. And getting out to tell you.

But I'm going to tell you at an arena named Philips and you going to tell me at the Atlanta Comedy Theater. But Wanda made it personal. And help me get to the salon. All right, it's the people station 102.3. Your hair

is kind of That Joan was My hair is 19 in long and I have no perm. You don't. Oops. Oh, that's not a perm. No, it is not, nice lady. Come run Come

run one of your narled fingers And she kept up the attacks. Whatever, little mama. I'm little mama's baby daddy. No, you little mama. You probably shouldn't talk about sizes.

No, that's okay. You big on the radio. That's right. And you're And you're a big person and you're big in prison. never been to prison.

Uh, you have. 19 felonies, no convictions. Knock it off. Prison and jail aren't the same. Causing Katt to deliver the final blow.

Only one of us has $12 worth of jewelry on. If you want to If you want to have Wanda's jewelry, please go to Citgo Don't shake your head at me. Don't shake your head. any point. Come get your back.

And two packs of Newport 100s. They will give you everything Wanda has on right now for $7.99 and it comes with a free car wash. Won't you come on down? Showing her what happens when you disrespect a comedian.