---
video_title: "When Matt Rife Makes Hecklers CRY"
video_id: fwU8iQQZIcs
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwU8iQQZIcs
video_date: 2025-06-27
video_description: |
  When Matt Rife Makes Hecklers CRY
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From breaking a S's heart. Oh, my question to you should have been asking for your number. Security to roasting a couple till breakup. Know we have chemistry right here. Sounds like y'all are about to be history.

Here are 10 times Matt Refe made hecklers cry. Starting with a heckler whose plan of resing Matt backfired instantly. How old are you? How old do you think I am? How old do I think you are? You don't

want to do that. I think you're 27. Yours are three. It all began when Matt tried to cheer someone who was still visiting the hospital years after his accident. You're still going to the hospital for more work? Good for you, man. Thanks for

taking a night off. I appreciate it. Can I um can I can I do something to cheer you up? Sure. Don't be super obvious about it, but there's a big pair of right behind you.

If you look behind, if you look right now, if you look right now, don't cover him up. He's hurt. He needs some milk. But when the woman interrupted him, Matt quickly put her in place. Matt, what?

What's that? Great. How old are you? How old do you think I am? How old do I think you are? You don't

want to do that. I think you're 27, you're three. And when the heckler persisted, Matt shut her down for good before moving on. Are they real? They are.

That's me later question asking for my number. Oh, my question to you should have been asking for your number

security. While the heckler got burned for her interruption, this next one got scorched for her opinion when Matt was asking everyone's red flags. But what's what's a more fun one? [Music] college baseball. Oh man, you've been in a dorm for sure.

Okay, good. Okay. All righty. Let's dive into this. All right. All right. So, who went pro and

didn't take you with him? Who was it? And when Matt decided to let her speak, it was only to use it against her. All right. What What is it that you don't like about college baseball players?

The ego. the ego. The ego of playing a a collegiate sport at a high level. He can't be proud about that. The seventh pitcher on the team.

I love how you're clowning them for that. But low key, you the seventh pitcher on the team. But Matt wasn't finished taking her to the cleaners just yet. Yo, your is the bullpin. Do you know that?

Strike one. He would He You never him. Damn. You couldn't even the seventh pitcher on the baseball team. Damn.

[Music] Strike two. And the heckler's final strike came just moments after. You didn't go to You didn't go to college. Strike three, baby. Have you tried little league?

For the love of the game. Come on, guys. While the woman got humbled for telling her red flags and others, this next one was destroyed for being an obsessive red flag herself. I still have your tattoo. You have a tattoo?

The one we took a picture with in Alabama. You were at the Alabama show. Good to see you. You grew teeth since then.

Oh my god. She said I was crazy. She has a tattoo of my signature on her arm. How crazy is that? And Matt's reaction was the complete opposite of what the heckler was expecting.

Are you married? No. You're not going to be with a mistake like that. That's I mean that's insane. Sign whatever I want. How about a

restraining order? No, you're cute and probably not that dangerous. You're fine. Watch her. And just like he eviscerated the heckler's dreams of being with him, Matt wrecked a couple's dream of being with each other. No, we have chemistry right

here. Doesn't sound like it. Sounds like y'all are about to be history. It all started when Matt spotted a grumpy couple in the crowd. Who fought on the way over here? All

right, y'all are clearly a couple. Who Who Who's the guy in her life that you hate? Oh, it's her best friend. According to her, it's her best friend. Where'd you meet this best friend?

At work. At work. Oh, that's worse. Oh, no. She has to see him every day.

But instead of getting them back together, Matt added fuel to the fire. Okay. Where do you work? At a school. At a school. Are Are you a teacher?

Yes. Oh, okay. All right. Okay. Okay. What do

you teach? Math. What is he a teacher as well? Uh, yes. What does he teach?

Uh, science. Science. Would you say you two have chemistry? And Matt's last bomb might as well have been the couple's final straw. We have chemistry right here.

Doesn't sound like it. Sounds like y'all are about to be history. Just like the couple's burns started with their grumpy looks, this next heckler got owned for looking too innocent for his hobby. You got a gun? You do? Nice. What kind you got?

AR-15. You cannot look like that.

I'm actually fit a lot. And Matt's jokes only got sharper as the heckler shared his background. You shot them competitively in high school.

We're all a little nervous, right? Like I want to keep with people like I like to be doing. But as if one wasn't enough, Matt also caught someone else in his crossfire. You gun first line of defense. Somebody breaks in. What would you do?

I'll take care of it. You take care of it. That boy is ready. Whom all the hecklers were laid into, even without them saying anything. Matt left this next one redfaced after his polite request.

I said my wife gets a picture. Bro, I don't know what you're saying. You said what? So long as my wife gets a So long as my wife Are you bored, dude? So long as my wife gets a picture with you.

Where are you from? But before moving on, Matt scorched the heckler for being too desperate. Where are you from? Nia Blackburn. Blackburn. You got

him. And then his wife. Oh, England. Centuries later, you still love a good rain village, don't you? Not stopping at accents, he didn't hold back, obliterating everything about a heckler when he suddenly shared his story.

I had tendon transplants in my my right leg. You had tendon transplants? Whose did you get? Left side, I'm a 70y old man. Left side, you're a 70-year-old man.

Right side, I'm a 35y old black man. On the right side, you're a 35year-old black man. Your legs must hate each other. And Matt kept his witty jokes coming. Is your right leg faster?

Are you wearing jorts? You say why not? How about why? He said, "Some of us have good-looking legs. They're not even yours. The right one's

ashy." But as if Matt's gunfire wasn't enough, the heckler provided him even more ammunition. I was protecting a woman. You were protecting an old woman. Mr. Guy here free.

What was happening to the old woman? Did a roundhouse kick? Hold on. Who did a roundhouse kick? I did.

You roundhouse kicked an old woman? A guy who was bothering her. Oh, a guy was bothering her. Your old legs were Asian. And before continuing the show, Matt had some final bombs to drop.

Well, thanks for trying to be a hero. You should work for the Secret Service. Relax. Jesus Christ. What's on the back of that? DEA.

DEA. The Drug Administration. Narc. And while he took shots at an older guy this time, Matt has no problem dunking on younger hecklers either. How old are you? The new list came out.

You had to have known something was up when you got to dinner and it was all a kids menu. But as if safely taking down younger hecklers wasn't hard enough, Matt wonuped himself when TV star Shamar Moore from Criminal Minds was in his audience. Cross. Which just goes to show that celebrity status means nothing when you heckle Matt.