---
video_title: "When Bill Burr Has 0 Tolerance For Disrespect"
video_id: QyPH6Q5FKYo
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QyPH6Q5FKYo
video_date: 2025-06-18
video_description: |
  When Bill Burr Has 0 Tolerance For Disrespect
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From calling out Jimmy Kimmel to his face, liberals are so stupid the way that they handle Trump. To destroying Dan Patrick on live TV. This is your inner child and your mother didn't hug you and now you're putting it on me. Here are nine times Bill Burr made interviewers regret their questions, starting with left-leaning Jimmy Kimmel, who asked Bill for his political opinion. You want to see a great case thing on like narcissism? Liberals are

so stupid the way that they handle Trump. What do you mean? You should shut up. He's a narcissist. Neutral energy. Yeah.

You think neutral. After that indirect burn, Bill gave Jimmy a reality check. You know what I think he was? I think he was a one- hit wonder. Uhhuh. Right. He

wrote the twist and then that was it. He was on the casino circuit and then you idiot liberals wrote him Twist again when you indicted him and now he's a martyr. He's coming back. Jimmy temperament twist is back. He's coming back. It's going to be great for comedy.

He's coming back. But Bill soon made it clear that he was not a big fan of either side. I want somebody in their 40s, somebody that's going to have to live with their decisions. I don't want like, you know, with any luck, with any luck, they'll both natural causes before the election and maybe you could get somebody that still has something to live for. Wow. You know, and when Jimmy

pushed back, Bill shut him down fast. This year you're not going to get a visit from Santa, but you are going to get a visit from the Secret Service. Why? I said peacefully. Oh, you did? I

didn't hear peacefully. I did. No. And then you threw that in. I must have thrown that in. Yeah. Bill Burr is here.

It means no harm. How long you been wearing suits? You're supposed to unblutton the coat when you sit down. me the whole time. And viewers loved every second of it. I love that

Bill called out Jimmy for empowering Trump by always talking about him and attacking him. Narcissists need neutral energy. Bill calling Jimmy an idiot liberal to his face made my day. And just like Jimmy, Dan Patrick regretted not stopping Bill from discussing certain topics on his show. You had some guy that he made the mistake of uh either his contract ran out or it didn't run out and he went to a different supper club and performed uh that was run by a different family and they damn near beat him to like he had to learn how to talk again. Like they cut him

like tongue hanging out of his neck and stuff. He's a comedian. Way to bring things down here, Billy. The atmosphere was already uncomfortable, but Dan pushed it further by fishing for compliments. Been able to follow and it's been great. You've been a lot of

fun. I I I appreciate it, man. See, you're trying to bring it back. Feel good family. Yes. Well, hey, I've been a

big fan of yours for a long time. That That's fo. No, no, no. I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what.

You were part of the the only last generation of sports angers on ESPN that knew the highlight wasn't about them. And as Dan got personal, Bill did, too. It would have been nice if you said that and then I complimented you. You want to do it over again? Can we do this? This thing's on a delay, isn't it?

See, you you know that's you. That's the dark side of you that you didn't want to say something nice. I get it. But me, I'm sort of the Jimmy Fallon. You know, this this is your inner child and your mother didn't hug you and now you're putting it on me. But instead of

deescalating the situation, Dan only made it worse. Somebody's got to go first in the compliment game. So what are you saying? I always have to go first. That's kind of egotistical. Nice

if you go first. Well, I'll tell you what. I'll I said nice things last time about you. You could have said that last time you were here when you were hung over. It always comes back to that, does it, Billy? I can't tell if you're being

passive aggressive or if you're actually being nicer. I don't know. As the interview came to an end, however, Bill fired one last sarcastic shot. Bill Bird doing big boy things. Look at him all dressed up doing the town. Look at you.

We'll take a break here. Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Dan. You know what? I love your glasses. Thank you, Bill. See,

that was first. Now you're supposed to say something about my jacket. It's from the Han Solo collection. We'll be back right after this. But while Bill only called Dan out in retaliation, he took Bobby Lee to task right away on his podcast. You look like

a guy that was so shady he had to move to Key West. I do. You go like, "Hey man, where you from?" You're like, "Yeah, know I lived in a lot of places." Right now I do cuz of my energy. No, the whole outfit. Oh,

yeah. Yeah. Sorry. That's kind of like if I was doing something like underhanded, I'd be like, you know, this is a guy. I bet this guy knows some people. And as they moved on from attire

to aging, Bill kept dropping bombs on Bobby. Jing just don't have an adult face until like our 50s. Yeah. Koreans, too, huh? Well, there you go. Maybe

that's why we get along. We get along so good. Yeah. But is it like a when he gets in his 60s, his mustache connects with that on his chin? Does it like you know how Asians it just happens overnight and you like wake up and you're like oh it's not a gradual aging.

It's like an overnight aging. Does that happen? Why you guys broke up? But when Bobby's girlfriend made a confession, Bill clapped back on her behalf. No, that's what he told me last week. He's

like, "You're still really pretty but like really old." And I'm like, "Oh, why would you say no? You're gorgeous. You have uh you have non-traditional good looks." Ever seen that? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,

whoa, whoa. That seems not good. That's what they That's what they're going to attack. That's what That's what they say with that. That That basically means if you weren't famous, you'd be ugly. And

as Bobby resorted to his weird antics, Bill gave him a friendly smackdown. I never understood sports before the Premier League. Like when I used to watch, let's make this as intimate as possible. No, no. I'm just going to may I touch you here for a second. Am I

supposed to be uncomfortable? No, no, no. I'll just do here this. But what I'm saying that back in the day when I grew with your wispy facial hair, you look like you transition. But that's not the only time Bill busted Bobby's balls. He did it again when he

crashed Bobby and Andrew's Bad Friends podcast. Oh, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the great Bill Bird. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How many time

every night we see each other at the store and now you're acting we acting like we don't live in the same city. Like, oh my god. Like I came in from New Zealand. It's the last person I ever expected to come into the the studio. I did. Do it one more time, but not as And

right off the bat, Bill started dunking on Bobby. Somebody just said you just missed Bobby Lee. So I was like looking in I was looking for your car. The first thing I was looking for was a bumper hanging off the I don't see his car here. Yeah. Yeah. The perpetuation of

the stereotype is real. Bobby got in an accident the first month he had the car and then now again yesterday. Yeah. Yesterday. Yeah. But it has nothing to

do with Asians. It just has to do He doesn't care. But before he left for good, Bill couldn't help but sneak a few more jabs in. It just so happens you got into two car accidents within a month. Yeah, I know. Does that offset Tokyo

drift? Can I tell you guys what I learned or Can I Can you not Can you learn You talk the whole show something. He learned something. I learned Let Let Asian Bobby Kelly say something. Just like Bobby loosened up with Bill and instantly regretted it. This next

interviewer tried to get too comfortable and got shredded for it. If we went to a movie together, would we sit next to each other? Would you want to seat between us? You know, oh Jesus. Cuz that's a tough I'd want to sit like nine rows behind you and and just tug on your ponytail, you savage. That's what I

would do. Scream 1988 is over. But the interviewer's real regret began when the TV crew asked Bill to read the comments on their last interview. What do you have on the sheet? Huh? What do I get?

Evidently, this is some highlights from our last unbelievable intro. I liked how Bill Burr kept turning the tables on that honky douche. Oh, these are comments. The dude The dude kept trying to tool him, but Burr just toled him back and busted on him. One. I like how

Bill just ripped this douche a new Jesus. Southside Steve, what a joke. And when things kept going downhill, even Bill joined in on the fun. Steo wouldn't know irony if it tried to choke him out. He's like a giant 225B visual gag. But

whatever. International mail catalog sales would be down like 79% for the fourth quarter if Stevie stopped buying any more clothes. Who let the wannabe wrestler? You really do look like Triple H. I know. That time, Bill let the

comments do the roasting, but he didn't hold back when comedian Rick Glassman started opening up about his mental issues on his podcast. It It's very relevant to things I've experienced in my past that's happening now. Um, I think I will want to edit this out. Um, you an exotic dancer. Uh, I was diagnosed with with autism 5 years ago.

I'm being serious. Uh, I'm laughing seriously. Uh, that'sing great. And uh, I've developed a lot. Let's go to Vegas.

We'll moon a bunch of money. And when Rick brought up his mental health again, Bill wasn't going to let it go. Um, my OCD during the first year and a half of CO was insane. We're doing How about the fact that I saw you take your shoes off and I just took my shoes off. I appreciate that. I didn't even I I just

saw it. It's the name of my podcast. I saw the way you walked 3 ft from your apartment and still locked the door. I was like, "All right, this guy is a very particular dude." But little did Rick know that Bill was just getting started.

This looks like a sitcom set with the trophy, the random basketball up on the mantle and autographs thing. This is just Are we going to go to some sort of uh uh Regal Beagle or coffee place after this where you meet your impossibly good-looking friends with their giant apartments? I'm on a show now. Are you Ross from Friends? Later on, Bill mocked Rex's entire outfit and took a shot at his autism for the final time. You look

like aing pro tennis instructor. I feel like if I talked to you for another five minutes, I could go at least to the third round of Wimbledon. You seem like a grass surface kind of guy. One of the things that I What's in this, by the way, chory root, some type of sweetener, cold brew coffee, oat milk, and autism. Just like he did on the podcast, Bill was as unfiltered on a Swedish live TV interview when he responded to a host with a controversial joke. Welcome to

Sweden. Well, thank you. Thank you. You have been here before, right? Yes, I have. I came here uh in August of 2009.

Uh my first time ever coming to uh Sweden. And I got to tell you, I got to go with on this one. You guys are some good-looking sons of Yes. Some of the best looking people I've ever seen. And if once wasn't enough, Bill went in for round two. You

talk a little much about the relationships as well. Uh do you have a girlfriend or Yes, I do. Yes, I do. She's an angel cuz she puts up with me. And uh we recently got a pitbull, which I know a lot of people don't like cuz they ate a couple of kids. I understand.

They're great dogs. Unless you're a bad owner. If you're a psycho, which I am. While Bill made the Swedish regret asking him about his trip, he made the hosts of the Breakfast Club regret asking him about his marriage. You've been married 11 years. Uh-huh. And you

said you finally got it right. What were you getting wrong for so long? He didn't know happy wife was happy life. Yeah. Which sounds cute. It's a threat. What

do you mean? Happy wife, happy life. What do you mean? What do I mean? Married twins. Yeah. And you're smart

enough to say, "What do you mean?" So I say it so you don't walk home. Don't try that slick I gave Soon another co-host tried to make false accusations only for Bill to demolish him. So you think God is a rapid dog that needs to get put down by millionaire? No, I don't think that. Jeez, that was You remind me of

that thating English guy. That awful head. The hell's his name? I can't remember his name. He's always He's Yeah, he's always saying like you're saying you don't like babies. Is

that what you're saying? But when the conversation moved to religious beliefs, Bill made his stance clear. Do you think about dying? Cuz you just said, "Uh, reincarn." Yeah. But not in a bad way. I

don't I don't believe in an angry god. And I don't believe that he's going to judge me. Uh, it's like you made me. Yeah. Did I up? Well, that's your

mistake. Jesus. Yeah. Well, like I always equate if I built a car and it doesn't start up, I mean, I'm going to get mad at the engine. As the host tried to correct him, Bill scorched him for good. But if

you tell him we had put this type of gas and then somebody put something else in it and it up, it's not your it's not the builder's fault. Is that the devil analogy? No, I'm just talking. Cuz like my thing is just talking. You just went reverse Henry Hill. I'm just listening. I'm just

talking. But while it was interviewers this time, Bill didn't spare his fans either on an episode of Actually Me. When is Bill Bird's next special coming up? Are there enough? There are enough standup specials. Jesus Christ. They put

out one a week. That's classic me. This person's like a fan. They won't want to know when my next and I take it as like a, you know, let's go, let's go. Like that's how I heard it. I'm learning. And

as Bill was grilling his fans, he caught an old friend in his crossfire. Okay. How come John Loveitz looks exactly the same as he did in 1993? Oh, that's because his dad is a bassad hound. He comes from a long line of sad people.

When he's funny from a distance, but if you get too close to him, that sadness comes on you. He's a horrible human being. Sorry, John. They're saying you haven't aged. For the first few questions, it was obvious that Bill was just having fun until he exposed this next person for making this comment.

Prosperity is never guaranteed regardless. So, why not fail at what you love rather than fail at something you don't care about? All right. I don't understand why they had to jump on what I said. That's like a big thing like an Instagram. Like somebody's doing

something and all of a sudden your head is just sitting there and like it's like this person's playing an amazing guitar solo. I can't enjoy it unless I see what your reaction is. That's a major red flag for a narcissist, which is something you need to learn to recognize. And while he held back for his fans, he came out guns blazing for this reporter who didn't have a fashion sense. I've always wanted a short sleeve sport coat. Yeah, I think that they

just I feel like that's what's the world's been missing, you know? I mean, seriously. Yeah. With the global warming, you know, but you still want to look presentable at work. I think you're on to something here. Forearms like

this. Although, I don't know. You need to do the little solar paneling necklace you got there. This costume jewelry to the next level. And as the interviewer asked absurd questions, Bill matched his energy with his answers. Are you going

to be a Star Wars? Am I You mean Star Wars? Yeah. It's like the perfect sci-fi dude. Star Wars.

Um, lightsaber. Uh, yeah. Uh, yes I am. The Mandalorian. I don't know. I believe that that

qualifies, right? Feel like you're setting me up for something. You going to be in Star Wars? When does that come out? What do you think? You're bigger

than me. But when the reporter started making it about himself, Bill quickly humbled him. Just not a fan of it. Great. Just me. So, am I supposed to

help you out with that? No, but maybe I will. Dude, you are too old for this Instagram vibe. He asked me all these questions about it like he gives a just to bring it back to him. Like I'm supposed to be like, "Wow, you never saw an episode." Jeez, you're interesting.

Do you read books? No, I don't read either. I can't read. Joking. I know you don't read. And after roasting the

interviewer's IQ, Bill went straight for his outfit next. I got to tell you, dude, I just love your outfit. Like, it's from like all different decades. Everything that was cool. Those Jordans were cool in the early '9s. These were

cool jeans. What kind of pants are they? What kind of pants are those? Those are inside out stonew washed overcast gray uh grape smugglers. But when the guy tried to stop Bill's roast with his promotion, his plan backfired. And then

you got the uh the sport coat that matches Pete Carol's pants, right? What about the costume? Let's talk about the Monday shirt. The shirt kind of stinks. You want to cover that up. You want to

cover that up. You want to Less is more with that. Jesus Christ, dude. This was This was like a burlap sack that you justing put a collar on. This is terrible. And that just goes to show

Bill would never let it go when interviewers ask stupid questions.