---
video_title: "When Woke People Get Destroyed By Matt Rife"
video_id: FmBcZAGhhIs
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FmBcZAGhhIs
video_date: 2025-08-14T16:00:33+00:00
video_description: |
  When Woke People Get Destroyed By Matt Rife
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From destroying Twitter trolls, to indirectly roasting an entire city. Here are 9 times where people got destroyed by Matt Reif, starting with his Netflix special natural selection, where Matt logged off the filters and got real about the digital world we're all glued to. I hate the internet, I really do. Social media especially, I can't stand social media, which I know is crazy for y'all to hear, because it's why you're all here. Matt's a fun fact for y'all to know about me. I hate social media, I never wanted to do it. I put it off for years. I can't stand it. I think social media is awful. It's such a negative toxic place. And Matt's brutality cut the Twitter crowd down to size. It's awful what people say. These people, these trolls. Much of losers, but no friends and no life, no profile picture. Sit at a home all day trying to care to people or say mean comments, because their life sucks so bad. But Matt's words echoed everyone's thoughts on keyboard warriors. They can't possibly imagine a life of misery by themselves, so they have to try to drag other people down by leaving mean comments and saying rude stuff. I respond every time. I can't not. I cannot fathom a reality where people can talk to you as disrespectful as they want without facing any physical consequences that drives me absolutely insane. And that drops one last grenade on Twitter City before logging off. Kill yourself, dude. I... That goes for any internet. Talk to Ralph Bear, man. And I know that's a harsh thing to say to somebody, but the way I see it, nobody who's a good person and actually contributes anything positive to society, is ever going to go out of their way to leave a negative comment under something you have been so brave as to create and share with the rest of the world. And we just don't need people like that at all. But Matt wasn't done calling out cancel culture just yet, and he not only did it again, but also pulled in trans people in his rampage when someone called him a red flag trans argument. Also, she had the curtain on the hypocrisy of woke white culture and his first special only ones. I'm glad we could all come together for a night of laughter. It's good to see y'all. Black people. Good to see y'all. White people. Sitting in the back. How's it feel? Did you say sorry today? Get your Venmo out right now, cash out of every black person in here. $5. But no one could paradise white culture better than Matt. White people have been so sorry in 2021, have they? Oh my god. It's been my favorite show to watch. Just white people showing out woke each other in front of black people. Because they don't always start reasonable and then just gradually get out of hands. Like white person number one will start low. I thought you know, I voted for Obama two times in a row. And Matt wasn't afraid to sneak in jobs on black people and an audience full of them. Now white person number two has to top Obama. So he's like, it's crazy. I was just talking about how Jesus was black. Walked on water probably couldn't swim. Now white person number three is going to top Obama and black Jesus. He's panicking. He says some ignorant. Like, well, Medea is my favorite franchise. You're like, gotcha. All right. Medea is nobody's favorite franchise. But Matt's jokes kept poking into the wreckage woke culture left behind. It's all this white guilt. It's heavy. It's starting to feel like alcoholism a little bit. I'm like every room I enter like an AA meeting where I got to plead my case. Hey guys, my name is Matt. I just want to introduce myself. Let you know I do identify as a straight white male and everybody's like, boom. And even while joking, Matt highlighted the irony of today's world. I know, I'm trash, but I would really appreciate it if he used my proper pronoun, the problem. What an uncomfortable time to be a straight white male. It's a tough time for my people. For once. Matt made it clear he was done being raceplamed. It's just uncomfortable because to be a straight white male in 2021, you're kind of guilty by association, aren't you? Which is a shit place to be if you didn't do anything. Like I just turned 25. I just got here. You know what I mean? Like, I didn't do anything. I'm a new white. Give me a chance to wipe my wrongs. You know what I mean? And before switching gears, Matt reminded everyone that apologizing for your race isn't activism. It's not like I made the conscious decision to be born a straight white male. I probably would have. Historically speaking, why not be on a winning team? You know what I mean? But I didn't get to choose. It wasn't my decision. Therefore, I can't apologize for it. That'd be weird. Matt reminded white people to get rid of their apologetic stupidity. Much like the time he reminded the entire horoscope community of how absurd their movement is. And I just feel like younger girls are in too many dumb things. I think it's that don't even actually exist. Like, like, horoscopes. All people got mad. Preci, do you know what you're saying, is? I think it's agitarious. As a Sagittarius, what are some of your, like, attributes of other things? I think it's high energy. I think you love her. You hate, right? You love and you hate? Yeah. Even if she was a host, Matt wasn't going to let her zodiac BS slide. You know who else loves and hates? Everybody in this room, Chrissy. You know, Vink S.S.S.? That sounds ridiculous right now. That would give me the worst catchphrase ever. If you got two arms, two eyes, and two legs, you might be a Sagittarius. I like that, bro. Girls, really care about that, Jack, you believe that? It doesn't matter who you are or what you really like if you got the wrong birthday. I'm not crazy. And Matt quickly set every horoscope girl's stars straight. It doesn't matter who you are, Jesus could come back. Just... Woo! So, girl, Jesus Christ. And girls would still be like, yeah, we know. Your birthday's December 25th, your recapricorn. My ex is a capricorn. Won't make that mistake again. Before liftoff, Matt crashed a meteor on every astro addict. I'm literally walking on water right now. Yeah, he was a show off, too. Like, I feel he's getting so out of hand. Women's guests are holding in their babies longer, so that I'm born in certain months. Like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. My baby will not be a Leo. Your water just broke. You know who else is broke? His daddy, who is all so long, Leo. You're a man. Something else that came crashing down was Matt's focus in another show. When you noticed a very open woman sitting in his front row, that wasn't the only progressive woman on Matt's hit list that night, because he also spotted another one chatting up with molding. Where you going? What's that? What the fuck? But when the friend came back and shared her side, Matt's disappointment knew no. All this was just women being too open, Matt encountered a guy with limited perspective and still managed to stray off. What did you honestly say or do? You cheated? Oh, man, you know what they say, and I for a knife. It all started when Matt locked eyes. Well, I, with an unfaithful pirate. You got an eye patch? Good shit. Why? Motorcycl accident. I don't know what happened. You don't know what happened. You lost an eye. That's what happened. Were you wearing a helmet? An adviser? You went through the visor? I don't know. But before Matt could go all in, he needed more info. What if I do the whole show over here? What row is that? That's not I, is it? What's your name? Arturo. Nice to meet you, Arturo. What's your nationality? You Mexican? Gush. Dude, how old are you? You turned 35 in the hospital. And with enough ammunition and tow, Matt began firing like the Mexican cartel. Would you get for your birthday? Just a bunch of people that came to see me at the hospital. A bunch of people that came to see at the hospital. What a good family. Or was this ice? So, did you have a license for this motorcycle? When the guy shared the reason behind his breakup, however, Matt softened up. Arturo, are you single? You don't got your eye on nobody. Single? OK. When was your last relationship? A year ago. OK. Can I ask why it ended? Honest. You were honest? Oh, never do that. But the same Matt folded the shameless cyclops like a taco for what he said next. What did you honestly say or do? You cheated? Oh, man. You know what they said? And I for an eye. God said, you will never see another bitch on the side, ever. So if you're winkin' eye. Just like Matt took the cheater to the cleaners for his sudden plot twist, he also took down a woman who kept switching up her sexual orientation. Oh, my husband was more attached to me. Your husband? This story keeps getting me going. You really not a lesbian? Are you really not a lesbian? I guess. You are? What's happening right now? It all began when Matt spotted a flamboyant specimen of the woke species. Dead? Yeah. It's all a forearm. I'm going to go inside. And the hair cut was a dead giveaway. You look like a woodpecker. This event is the exact strap one you want. A woodpecker? But as Matt asked her about her story, he realized something was a miss. We were talking about fears earlier. Do you have a bigger sphere? You're not really just a, my fear's talking about, you know. You're finding stuff with your parents' closet. My daughter. Your daughter found something in your closet? Hold on, daughter. And sure enough, the woman soon made a confusing revelation. Oh, what's she finding in the closet? Her mom? What would you tell her who was? Oh, my husband was more attached to me. Your husband? This story keeps getting me going. Every time I think I got this story figured out. Nope. But Matt wasn't wanting to let these shenanigans slide. Are you really not a lesbian? Are you really not a lesbian? I guess. You are. What's happening right now? You're married to a man? But you are a lesbian. No. No, not for real. I'm not a lesbian. Oh, I asked twice and you were like, ah! And sadly for Matt, his lesbian confusion would continue on to another show as well. But it didn't stop him from shooting everyone. And Matt had one last friendly back and forth before moving on. How much do you have a stationing? My hand's dirty down. Dutters down! Oh my god! Oh my god! You're nine millivit. Punches with the trans guy, despite the risk of getting canceled, he extended the same treatment to a religious guy during one of his shows. Do you practice any religion at all? I was seeking. You're a Sikh? All right, I'll hide. But he hunts you with a laser scopes. You just get a little dot right here when he hunts you. It doesn't really like going on. And Matt also let everyone know that it wasn't just others religion that was fair game. What does a Sikh exactly? I was so, so, we've been in some different religion. Totally different religion from Hindu. Oh, I did not know that. Not totally, but like an off-brand. There's Catholicism. Like there's like, there's little branches. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Like there's little branches of the same kind of thing. It's more different than that. Good. You guys fuck adults. But in his true fashion, Matt couldn't help but sneak a final jab in for the pro-known police. Am I allowed to convert to Sikhism? Could I really? Is there a process? Like, you know, for like, catholicism you're going to get baptized and shit. Is there anything I have to do? If I say I'm a Sikh right now. I'm a Sikh. All right. But that easy? Wow. Huh. You can just identify as a Sikh. Showing that Matt Reif will always find a way to destroy the woke warriors.