---
video_title: "When Comedians Try To Warn Their Audience"
video_id: qBn2lPKR7IY
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qBn2lPKR7IY
video_date: 2025-06-24
video_description: |
  When Comedians Try To Warn Their Audience
  
  Subscribe :)
---
from exposing Diddy way before his allegations cuz P. Diddy be wanting the body and you got to tell him no. YOU GOT to tell him no. To warning the United Healthcare CEO in advance. There's a [music] guy from Nestle that doesn't think water is a human right. I

mean, that guy should be hunt down and right here are six times comedians tried to warn us. Starting with Cat Williams, who jokingly revealed Hollywood's rampant drug use way back in 2006. a doing drugs in the ATL to at least excuse himself, go to the bathroom or some in Hollywood just do the drugs right in front of you and act like ain't happen you in the middle of a goddamn meeting. Yeah. So, what we're going to do is we're going to do the movie with you and then we're going we're going to go back.

Did you know that I can see you right there? It's on your nose. And after Hollywood producers, Cat [music] indirectly blew the whistle on Diddy next. Mother be gay in Hollywood. You never expected they be having these big mansion parties. And the mansion party,

the whole mansion is a party and then it's a separate party in the little rooms. I ain't been famous that goddamn long. I'm excited in a mother to be at the mansion party. You be looking at all the goddamn rooms and you around and look in the wrong room. Still joking, Cat also exposed the [music] devious nature of Diddy's parties.

[cheering] Nick, come here. Come here. Is that two kissing? Is one of them Professor Opie? He came out the closet. He came out the

closet. But an even more brutal exposition came when Cat predicted Diddy's arrest months before it happened. Cat's biggest reveal came when he explained how Hollywood Top Shots forced [music] black comedians to wear dresses on TV. And I won't work with Ricky Smiley again unless he's in a dress. Now, what was [music] Ricky Smiley's next movie? Did he wear a dress

in it? You bet he did. It's in my contract. An only cat. Even Dave Chappelle had the same sentiment in his 2006 interview with Oprah.

I mean, I'm a conspiracy theorist to a degree. Like, when I I connect dots that maybe shouldn't be connected, I don't know. But certain dots like when I see that they put every black man in the movies in a dress at some point in their career, I'll be connecting them down like why all these brothers got to wear a dress. That's happened to me. And Dave soon recounted his own story.

They come in. It's the writer comes in. I think he's a writer. He's like, Dave, listen. We got this hilarious scene where Martin's sneaking out of jail. So

he disguises you as a pro [laughter] and you put this dress on and Huh? What? No, I'm not doing that. I don't feel comfortable with that. That should have been in the discussion.

But unlike Kevin Hart, Dave had his boundaries set. I'm not wearing no dress, man. I'm funnier than a dress. Just give me something funny to say. I don't need to wear no dress to be funny. What am I

burrow? You know, we're going like this. And then finally, he's like, "Ah." And he he leaves. And then like the director comes, Dave, it really would be great if you wear the dress. What is wrong? What

is this broke back mountain in here? And Dave's firm decision instantly put the spotlight on Hollywood's lies. Why Why are they putting us in these dresses? But the minute it was clear, I was adamant. I'm not wearing the dress.

I'm not wearing the dress. All right, fine. Think of something else. Guy comes back 10 minutes later, the whole new scene. Hot damn. How did you write the

scene so fast? You know, it's like, so you got to take a stink. [music] And just like how he warned about Hollywood this time, Dave also had a premonition about cop brutality against black people. Sometimes we want to call them too. Somebody broke into my house once. It's

a good time to call him. But Imm House is too nice. It ain't a real nice house, but they never believe I lived there. He's still here. [applause] Oh my god.

And Dave's jokes had no limit. Win and shut case Johnson. I saw this once before when I was a rookie. Apparently, this broke in and hung up pictures of his family everywhere. [applause] Well, let's sprinkle some crack on him and get out of here.

Someone else who also has no limits with his comedy is Bill Burr, who called out Kanye's Nazi transformation years before it happened. THAT'S A DIRECT QUOTE. MY BIGGEST REGRET IS I'LL NEVER GET TO SEE MYSELF PERFORM LIVE. DUDE, YOU PUT THAT EGO IN A WHITE DUDE THAT IS IT BEEN IN THE ST. WHAT'S THE BLITZ CREEK? WHAT'S A SUPERIOR RACE?

IT all started when Bill discovered Kanye for the first time. Early on, she was loving the guy and and I I was think, you know, thinking he was cool and then one day I saw him do an interview and he was talking about how great he was and there was just this look that was in his eye and it just made me nervous. I'm like, dude, this guy is uh this guy is like this guy's volatile, man. There's something with this guy. He's making me nervous.

This guy is like right on the edge of like snapping, right? He also explained how problematic Kanye sounded. I didn't know it was him. And he was just in the middle of talking about how great he was. And I came walking in and all I did was hear this and like literally a chill ran down my spine and I just started thinking like, "NO, NO, [screaming] NO." AND I TURNED AND I

LOOKED BEFORE it even registered that it was Kanye. My first thought was, "Oh, thank God. Oh, thank God. It's just a black guy. Oh, thank [laughter] God.

It's just a black guy. But Bill wasn't finished taking Kanye to the cleaners yet. If that ego, however, HAD FLOATED DOWN and landed in a blue-eyed white dude, there is no telling the damage THAT COULD HAVE BEEN DONE. You're talking entire civilizations wiped out, worldwide famine, the moon colliding with the Earth. Thank god that ego LANDED IN A BLACK GUY.

And he kept putting the spotlight on Kanye's narcissism. Next time Kanye's going off on himself. I'm telling you, just close your eyes, forget it's him, and really listen to what is coming out of this guy's mouth. He says like I'm a genius. I'M A GOD.

I'M SHAKESPEARE. My biggest regret IS I'LL NEVER GET TO SEE MYSELF PERFORM LIVE. That's a direct quote. Finishing up, Bill dropped one last truth bomb. DUDE, YOU PUT THAT EGO IN A WHITE DUDE THAT IS IT BENIGN AND IN THE STEN? WHAT'S THE BLITZ CREEK? WHAT'S A

SUPERIOR RACE? VIENNA WILL RETURN TO DWAN FIRST. [laughter] And it would come true years down the line. That's right. You're not Hitler. You're

not a You don't deserve to be called that and demonized. Well, I I see I I see good things about Hitler. Also, the Jew I love everyone. I'm done with the classifications. Every human being has something of value that they brought to the table, especially not stopping there, Bill also had another foresight on a Conan interview about the assassination of greedy CEOs.

There's a guy from Nestle that doesn't think water is a human right. I mean, that guy should be hunt down in Right. And they're going to sit and just talk about talking about all the I don't know what they're talking about. Yeah, we got to get America back to work. It's like, dude, this guy wants to own the rain.

Can [laughter] we do something about this guy? He wasn't Nestle. You're supposed to be happy. And Bill had no plans to hold back his opinion. This guy's like going, "Well, people are running out of water. What if we owned

all the water and we kept it under our place and in the future and everybody's That's how you picture the guy talking. I want to own the water. I want to have underneath my house and just [laughter] I'll come to a I'll come to the door in a robe slightly a jar." Just like Bill warned everyone that CEOs have it coming. Shane Gillis also jokingly warned everyone that Drake likes him young.

First of all, R. Kelly's missing, dude. What the is What? R. Kelly's missing.

Kell is missing. Kell is missing, dude. He was He conired and he got away. What? Yeah, dude. R. Kelly got away.

That reminds me. I do want to say this. I want to be on the record. Drake's going to be He's on that R. Kelly tip.

You think so? Drizzy Drake likes him young. But even as a joke, Shane delivered a scarily accurate prophecy. that's somewhat known already. But this is one of those things where I want to, you know, you got to say something like remember Louis that whole thing.

Yeah. And like we knew about that. Yeah. And we were just like, I don't know. Drake, Jersey Drake's into the young ones. He's going to get got in the next

5 years. Oh, unfortunately. Love me some Jersey Drake, dude. And while Shane tried to backtrack, it was already too late. He just likes young girls.

Okay, how young again? Post pedoph. Ah, dude, that's called a pedophile, bro. No, it's not. Like it's not a pedub.

Okay. Yeah. You got the guy with that itch. You don't think he's maybe going to Thailand. Just like Shane's political disaster joke came through. Joe Rogan also

foreshadowed the LA wildfire disaster 6 months before it happened. He goes, "It's just going to be the right wind and [music] fire is going to start in the right place and it's going to burn through LA all the way to the ocean and there's not a thing we can do about it." I go, "Really?" He goes, "Yeah, we're just we just get lucky." He goes, "We get lucky with the wind." She

goes, "But if the wind hits the wrong way, it's just going to burn straight through LA and there's not going to be a thing we [music] could do about it." And Joe predicted everything down to the last detail. When you're talking about like thousands of acres that are burning simultaneously with like 40 mph winds and the winds [music] just blowing embers through the air and those embers are landing on roofs and those houses are going up and they're landing on bushes and those bushes are going up and everything's dry. And once it happens, it happens in a way where it's so spread out that there's nothing they can do. Just like Joe recited everything about the LA Fire, Shawn Wayans recreated Will Smith and Chris Rock's jaw-dropping moment years in advance.

And you know the address, WWW.YOU ain't dead yet.com. Thank you very much. Oh no.

It all started when Shawn hosted MTV's awards parodying as Chris Rock. Well, check your self-esteem at the door cuz the rudest comic in show business is back. Give it up for Chris Rock. [cheering] [music]

[music] [cheering] Thank you. And this version of Chris Rock had no chill. Britney, boy, look like white team 999 up in this. Britney [cheering] got her new album out, her new song. Oops, I did it again. Oops, she did it

again. She did it again, y'all. What the did you do the first time? But as if Britney Spears wasn't enough, Shawn also took shots at P Daddy. Man, how could you mention rap without talking about my man P D P D Sh John Sean puppy got in a little bit of trouble this year, huh? Got in some trouble. Went out

and hired Johnny Cochran. Actually, you didn't hire Johnny Cochran. You just sampled OJ's defense team. But what happened next could only be described as a one ina million coincidence. Speaking of OJ, OJ's in the news again trying to make a comeback.

promote this new website. And you know the address www. [music] You ain't dead yet.com. Thank you very much. Oh no. And it just

goes to show that comedians can make scary premonitions before anyone else sees the signs.