---
video_title: "When Comedians Get Revenge at Award Shows"
video_id: afS0SsnZVa4
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=afS0SsnZVa4
video_date: 2025-05-01
video_description: |
  When Comedians Get Revenge at Award Shows
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From exposing the entire industry, is Hollywood racist? You're damn right Hollywood's racist. To calling celebrities what they actually are. Disgusting pill popping sexual deviant scum. Here are nine times comedians got revenge at award shows. Starting with

Chris Rock, who exposed Hollywood's racism when talking about his meeting with the president. Like, Mr. President, you see all these writers and producers and actors? They don't hire black people. And they're the nicest white people on earth. They're liberals. Jeez.

That's right. Is Hollywood racist? You're damn right. Hollywood's racist. And Chris couldn't help but joke about the topic.

This is the wildest craziest Oscars to ever host cuz we got all this this controversy and no no black nominees, you know, and people are like, "Chris, you should boycott. Chris, you should quit. You should quit." You know, how come there's only unemployed people that tell you to quit something? Huh?

But instead of playing safe on TV, Chris pushed the dark humor pedal all the way down. I'm sure there were no black nominees some of those years, say ' 62 or 63, and black people did not protest. Why? Because we had real things to protest at the time. You know, it's too busy being to care about who won best cinematographer. You know, when you when

your grandmother's swinging from a tree, it's really hard to care about best documentary foreign short. Before he finished, Chris would even take Jada Smith to task. Jada got mad. Jada says she's not coming protesting. I'm like, is she on a TV show?

Jada's going to boycott the Oscar. Jada boycotting the Oscars is like me boycotting Rihanna's panties. I wasn't invited. But when he did the same six years later, it resulted in the infamous disaster. Jada, I love you. GI Jane, too. Can't

wait to see it. All right. Uh-oh. Richard. Oh, wow. Wow, dude.

Yes, it was a GI Janger. Keep my wife's name out your mouth. While he didn't say anything on the spot, Chris's destruction came later on his own show. For people that don't know what everybody know, Will his wife wasing her son's friend. Okay, now I normally would not talk about this but for some reason these put that on the internet.

I have no idea why two talented people would do something that low down. What the? And Chris immediately put Will on blast. Everybody called him a They called his wife a president. Everybody called him a Everybody.

And who's he hit? Me. A He know he could beat. That is some [Music] But even in jokes, Chris expressed how betrayed Will made him feel. I love Will Smith. My whole life. I love

this. saw him open up for Run DMC at the Nassau Coliseum. I have rooted for Will Smith my whole life. I root for this Okay. And now I I watch Emancipation just to see him get whooped.

And finally, Chris broke his silence on why he didn't fight back with one of the best mic drop moments in history. And a lot of people go, "Chris, how come you didn't do nothing back? How come you didn't do nothing back that night?" Cuz I got parents. That's why. cuz I was

raised and you know what my parents taught me? Don't fight in front of white people.

Just like Chris was having none of Will's BS, Ricky Jerbas also let everyone know that he meant business during the 2016 Golden Globe Awards. Shush. Shut up. You disgusting pill popping sexual deviant scum. I want to do this monologue and then go into hiding. Okay. Not even Shaun Penn

will find me. And it didn't take long for Ricky to start his usual award rampage. Relax. I'm going to try and be nice. You're global mega stars with amazing talent. Most of you.

A few of you just married. Well, you know who you are. We We all do. We all do. From there on, Ricky kept sniping celebrities one by one. But as I say,

I'm going to be nice tonight. I've changed. Not as much as Bruce Jenner, obviously. Now, Caitlyn Jenner, of course. What a year she's had. She became a role model

for trans people everywhere, showing great bravery in breaking down barriers and destroying stereotypes. She didn't do a lot for women drivers, but And the next target was Angelina Jolie for her adoption choices. Some people still think this award means something. the winners. Just listen to me. Listen. It doesn't just

Right. When Brad and Angelina see our next two adorable little presenters, they're going to want to adopt them. Please welcome Kevin Hart and Ken Jong. But before he left the stage, Ricky took one final jab at the dark side of award shows. One Hollywood publication said that me hosting would mean that some film stars would stay away for fear of being made fun of. as if film stars are stay away

from the chance of winning a Golden Globe, particularly if their film company has already paid for it. While Ricky burned everyone indirectly, Jimmy exposed A-list celebrities with jokes that were too on the nose. And congratulations to Sillianne's co-star Robert Downey Jr. who is this night is this is the highest point of Robert Downey Jr.'s long and illustrious career. Well, one of the highest points.

Um, but and next on the chopping block was Bradley Cooper for his interesting partner choice. Bradley brings his mother to every award show, right? She was dated last year at the Oscars and the Tony's and the uh Soul Train Awards, etc. It's very sweet. But I guess the question is, how many times can one bring his mom as his date before he is actually dating his mom?

Are you working on a movie about Freud right now and not telling us? Moving on from celebrities, Jimmy also took shots at Hollywood itself. But the rest of us said we will not accept a deal without protections against artificial intelligence. And as a result, actors no longer have to worry about getting replaced by AI. Thanks to this historic agreement, actors are now able to go back to worrying about being replaced by younger, more attractive people. And I

think that's great. But before Jimmy was done, he made sure to call out everyone's hypocrisy. Now Barbie's a feminist icon thanks to Greta Gerwig, who many believe deserve to be nominated for best director. Hold on a second.

I know you're clapping, but you're the ones who didn't vote for her, by the way. Don't act like you had nothing to do with this. Jimmy roasted everyone for entertainment. Unlike Jim Carrey, who had a valid reason to humiliate the hosts when they made a bizarre request, Jim Carrey is nominated for his show, kidding. Because at the 2016 Golden Globes, he called out the awards vanity. Perry also

put pretentious celebrities in their place right at the start of his 2007 speech. At moments like this, I would like to quote my good friend Carl Reiner, who has often said to me, "You don't give awards to comedians. Your whole career as a comedian is about making fun of pretentious, high-minded, self- congratulatory BS events like this one. But Jerry wouldn't stop dunking on award shows just yet. The whole feeling in this room of reverence and honoring is the exact opposite of everything I have wanted my life to be about. I I I really don't

want to be up here. I want to be in the back over there somewhere over there saying something funny to somebody about what a croc this whole thing is. And Jerry kept roasting with facts that everybody else was too afraid to say. Honestly, it is beyond me that we feel the need to set aside a night to give out these Jagoff bowling trophies six times a year so all these people can pat each other on the back how much about how much money they're making boring the piss out of half the world. And if I hadn't already won all these awards, I would not be talking like this.

As the show came to an end, Jerry pointed out the futility of giving actors awards. Playing dress up and pretend is not genius, ladies and gentlemen. It's not genius. Roll the cameras. Put on these clothes.

Stand there. Ready. Say what we told you to say. Fantastic. He did it. Give this man a

huge golden trophy. He's a godamn genius. While Jerry took jabs at award shows in general, Amy Polar and Tina Fay came out guns blazing against celebrities. Good evening. Good evening and welcome you bunch of despicable, spoiled, minimally talented brats.

We Phoenix is nominated for Inherent Vice, but obviously he isn't here tonight uh because he has said publicly that award shows are quote total and utter bull. Hey Wen, there he is. And the duo kept firing shots into Hollywood's ironic award system. George Clooney married Amal Alammudin this year. Amal is a human rights lawyer who worked on the Enron case, was an adviser to Kofi Anan regarding Syria, and was selected for a threeperson UN commission investigating rules of war violations in the Gaza Strip. So

tonight, her husband is getting a lifetime achievement award. But their most scathing joke came at the end of their speech on Bill Cosby's essay allegations. But Bill Cosby has finally spoken out about the allegations against him. Cosby admitted to a reporter, "I put the pills in the people." And just like the duo's scathing roasts, Bill Burr also put the Grammys on blast when they forced him to announce Latin award winners.

Was I the only one who wanted to kill myself during that piano solo? Uh, I bought a suit for this. I thought I was going to be on TV. I'm such a I am losing so much money right now. All right. Shout out to all the rock stars

that I wanted to meet tonight who are watching at home instead. I'm talking to you. Don Dawan. All right. But Bill wasn't going to let the Grammys get away that easily and took revenge in his own way.

I can't say this name. Natalie. Natalie. What? All right. Uh, and the winner, the

Grammy goes to Natalia Lafet. All right. Hey, how many feminists are like going nuts? How why is this sis white male doing all this latino stuff? Uh, and the Grammy goes to Groupupo Niche.

While Bill's words were intentionally mispronounced, Steven Colbear's roasts were on point during his monologue at the 2017 Emmys. Can you feel it? This room is crackling with the collective energy of people who for the last 48 hours have consumed nothing but distilled water and crest white strips. Just a reminder, if you do win, don't forget to thank everyone who helped you get up here. Mainly Game of Thrones for not being eligible this year.

And moving from Steven took Bill Maher to the Cleaners Next for his n-word controversy. And there's so many talent African-American nominees. Jeffrey Wright, Anthony Anderson from ABC's Blackish,

and of course, Bill Maher. I uh [Applause] I assume he's black since he's so comfortable using the nword. As if taking shots at celebrities wasn't ballsy enough, Steven went for the president next. And we all know the Emmys mean a lot to Donald Trump. I tell you this, if he had won an Emmy, I bet he wouldn't have run for president.

So, in a way, this is all your fault. Why? Why? I thought you people loved morally compromised anti-heroes. You like Walter White. He's just Walter

much wider. And Steven wasn't done with Trump just yet. And even during the campaign, Trump would not let it go. This actually happened. This exchange actually happened in the debates.

There was even a time when he didn't get an Emmy for his TV program three years in a row. And he started tweeting that the Emmys were rigged again. Should have gotten it. This. But before he left, he made sure to drop one last bomb.

But he didn't. Because unlike the presidency, enemies go to the winner of the popular vote. While Steven took direct shots, Dave Chappelle was more subtle with his roasts when he was talking about his fellow comics. We watch you guys fight. But when we're together, we talk it out. I know comics

that are very racist. And I watch him on stage and everyone's laughing and I'm like, that mother means that. And little did anyone know that the previous joke was just a setup. Don't get mad at them. Don't hate them.

We go upstairs and have a beer. And sometimes I even appreciate the artistry that they paint their racist opinions with. Man, it's not that serious. The first amendment is first for a reason. The second amendment is just in case the first one doesn't work out.

But Dave wasn't afraid of anyone and made it clear before finishing his speech. And I want everyone in America right now to look at me. Look at me smoking indoors. I didn't ask anybody. I just did it.

What are they going to do? Kick me out before I get the prize? No. This is called leverage. Proving that comedians aren't afraid of humiliating everyone to get their revenge at award shows.