---
video_title: "When Woke People Get Destroyed by Bill Burr"
video_id: Vg2-Gux_HmE
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vg2-Gux_HmE
video_date: 2025-07-10
video_description: |
  When Woke People Get Destroyed by Bill Burr
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From calling out transgender athletes, you have your cut off, you put on a sports bra, and now you're the number one tennis player in the world, to dunking on the Me Too squad. Your side of the story, you have aing bull. We don't want to hear it. Here are 10 times woke people destroyed by Bill Burr. Starting with the time Bill made the mistake of dating a woke feminist.

He was like really into like women's issues. So, we used to always have these dumbass arguments. So, one time she came up to me, she goes, "Okay, explain this to me, Bill. Why does a guy make more an hour to do the exact same job?" Huh?

And Bill had no hesitation in destroying feminism and its irony. I go, I'll tell you why. Because in the unlikely event that we're both on a Titanic and it starts to sink for some up reason, you get to leave with the kids and I have to stay. No, think about it. If there's a house fire, it's always women and children first. I got to stand

there with like the back of my shirt on fire going, "Let's go, people. Let's go. Let's go." On top of that, Bill's roast train had no plans of stopping at its tracks. You hear a bump in the night, I got to go check it out. Like, yes, he does have a

knife. Anytime there's a hostage situation, who do they negotiate for first? Well, at least let the women in Shelvin go. Well, what about me? Bullets hurt me, too. Why the do I got

to stay in the vault? And before he finished up, Bill had one last verbal smackdown to drop. Where are all the feminists in those situations? You know what I mean? Can't find them. There are no feminists in a

houseire. There it's a guarantee. You could take the most hardcore feminist. Some chick right in your face like he showing this son of a [ __ ] Little short little haircut. The whole nine yards. Right.

Second those flames break out. She's going to twist those little hairs into pigtails. No, I'm just a girl. I want to go play jump rope. Just like Bill revealed the true side of a feminist, he exposed the sad reality of female transgender athletes.

Transgender athletes. I don't understand that. You know, I understand it. You know, you want to switch around. I don't give a [ __ ] But I'm a sports fan.

That's a really new concept to me that you could be a dude, right? Ranked 80th in the world. You have your cut off, you put on a sports bra, and now you're the number one tennis player in the world just coming out there. And Bill wasn't ready to drop the mic on the trans community just yet. I might just be an old guy. I have no

idea. But I'm hearing rumors like some of them are getting into that MMA. You can't have that. Am I nuts? That is a [ __ ] dude beating the [ __ ] out of a woman. Jesus

Christ. He might as well hit her with his discarded like a flashlight and hold still. On top of that, Bill also questioned the IQ of the LGBTQ community. I'm not saying these people are right, and I'm not saying that I'm right. I know I'm a [ __ ] you know, but that Duck Dynasty guy.

I know what he said was wrong, but I don't get the shock. Said that homophobic stuff and people like, "Can you can you believe can you believe?" Yeah, I totally can believe it. And Bill kept the mockery coming until he was ready to move on. Are you seriously shocked? Some redneck

with a beard down to his sitting in a boat in the middle of a swamp shooting varmint. Like what did you think he thought? Did you think he had like some progressive ideas on same-sex marriage? Yeah. Another community that Bill didn't hold out on is the Me Too crowd, who got a taste of his medicine in his Netflix special, Paper Tiger.

There's been uh the Me Too movement has happened since the last time I was here. Well, no, it had to happen. Jesus Christ. But, you know, I think it's dying down, you know. I don't know. I

think they got everybody. All right. Just judging by the stories, I feel like they kind of got everybody. And Bill's jokes that followed further highlighted the movement's downfall. Yeah. So, the stories were big in the

beginning. Like, oh my god, what a bunch ofing animals. And then they they just started tapering tapering off. And about I don't know 6 months in, they just sounded like bad dates. It was like he was he was 10 minutes late. The chicken

was cold. I think I was career over. Your side of the story. You have aing. We don't want to hear it.

But after mocking the woke crowd themselves, it was now their slogan's turn. They got these hashtags like, you know, believe women. Believe women. Right. It's a little open-ended, huh? It's just

straight across the board. All of them. Every last one of them. What about the psychos? What about the ones that key your car and light your on fire?

Noticing some disgruntled feminists in his crowd, Bill let them know exactly what he thought of them. Look, I'm sure that there's some uh feminists in the crowd right now not appreciating this joke, feeling triggered, feeling like they need to put out a hashtag or some be brave and speak out. You know what? You full of But before anyone called him sexist, Bill made it clear his roast were rated E for everyone. People are so scared now. You now have

you have the male feminist. Like where the did that come from? Just out of nowhere last couple years. I'm a male feminist. I've always championed women.

No, you haven't. You haven't. This came out and you're scared. You did something. You grabbed some What the did you do? Nevertheless, he couldn't help

but sneak one final strike before moving on. I'm a male feminist. I totally see the way you see the world. It's It's impossible as a man who was raised right. [Laughter] To be a feminist, you can't do it.

You're a man. Just like Bill roasted male feminists, he also roasted male creeps before finding better targets at his Red Rock special. One great thing about this pandemic is it kind of slowed down a little bit of that cancel culture. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's kind of hard to take your out

at work when you're at home. You know, some people still managed to do it. They were on a Zoom call, no pants on, all of a sudden standing up. They're chunk right in the screen. But when the cancel crowd attacked his favorite actor, Bill had no plan to hold back.

There was this kind of hilarious moment like last year where they started to try and cancel like people. Remember that? All of a sudden, out of nowhere, like John Wayne was trending and all of a sudden it was all these stupid woke white people, right? Oh my god, did you see what John Wayne said in Playboy in 1971? And Bill turned the heat all the way up.

This is a bunch ofing white people all up in arms about a white guy. I can no longer tolerate this. I can no longer tolerate for 45 years John Wayne saying things in a magazine that doesn't exist anymore. But Bill not only exposed the community's absurdity, but also the reality behind their label. Idiots. What kind of aing idiot white

person refers to themselves as woke? You know, if you were if you actually were socially conscious, you'd realize that white people stole that word from black people once again doing the Elvis thing and some white person heard it like, "Ah, what was that? Oh my god." But unfortunately for the cancellation committee, that was not the only time they found themselves in Bill's scope. This world now of where, you know, you you go back into somebody's Twitter account 8 years and find a bad tweet and they're like, "This is who this guy is.

This guy's anshole." And and it's like I always looked at it like you had to go back 8 years before this guy was you went seven years like this guy was totally cool but in 2014 oh and Bill was surprised how much the culture had degraded. I just thought that whole era was really fascinating to watch people like just trying to just sort of ruin people. Like I understood the beginning of it when they were going after these monstrous people, but then it just became this this, you know, like these tickytac misdemeanors [ __ ] and they were just like just burn them down. It was like a Frankenstein movie. Like they were all

coming up theing hills. So not stopping there, Bill took the community to the cleaners in another task. Usually women that want to push this and men who are it's like these these men that don't like aggressive they don't like aggressive men. They don't like manly men. And so they they push it as well.

It's no because they're aggressive and they're controlling and they want to run cuz that's the thing where like if you really look at their agenda when they say the future is feminine that's not inclusive. And Bill soon shed the curtain on extreme feminism and and they're all about oh make this more inclusive. It's like no let us in so we can take it over and then we'll push you down. Is is the psychology of the kind of person that goes after that. Someone that's after like power. I'm not

saying the average woman is like that. My wife is a feminist and she's into like inclusive but like people who are spearheading stuff. But Bill also had a rational take on why feminism gets most of its hate. So what they think is this is their time. This is their time to get back at men. Did you not see the women's march?

Saw a bunch of people walking. Right. Listen, I'm not saying the points that they're making don't need to be made. I'm not saying that their complaints are not just it's it's the execution of it. Yes. where it's like you're going to go

through intimidation and destroying people. And Bill dropped a truth bomb on his own side before moving on. They're bullying people. Yes. Some of the biggest bullies right now, I can't believe it cuz I'm a lefty are on my side of the fence. And you

know, when someone's on your side of the fence and you're looking at them like you sound like aing crazy person, that's when you've entered like, you know, what was your special? Strange times. Where? Yeah. And after putting the woke bullies in their place, Bill put the body positive community back in line, too.

They're always talking about body issues. That's the dumbest one ever. They talk about Hollywood going like, "Hollywood, they they create these impossible body images, blah, blah, blah." You know, that whole thing, the plus-size actress, right? The fatties, you know, that's like a big thing.

They're sick of being treated like fat people. And Bill's acute jabs highlighted the toxicity behind the body positive movement. I don't know what it is they're doing. They're going on the cover of magazines now just like showing how fat they are wearing a little bit amount of clothes and everybody's like hyping them up like, "Oh my god, that's so brave. That's so courageous."

I'm not saying it doesn't take balls, but that's a bit of an overreach with the word brave, right? But if that wasn't enough, Bill had a few more sarcastic shots ready to go. Like, what am I supposed to do if I ever see a fireman running out of a building carrying a baby and an old lady? Am I going to sit there like, "Oh my god, you're like a fat actress that takes her shirt off to do a magazine shoot to promote the movie she's in. I know you're not supposed to make fun of fat people. I understand. All right. I don't

know why, though." And Bill soon started writing out reality checks the woke community couldn't cash in. Eat an apple and go for a walk. You know, why are you yelling at everybody else? What are you giving me [ __ ] for? All

right, you put the cookies in there. I didn't. How is this my problem? Jesus Christ. You ate your way in. You

can walk your way out. But even in jokes, Bill still tried to guide his victims to a better place for one last time. I know nobody wants to be fat, so I'm not sh about that. But don't come at me like it's my problem and I need to rewire myself. No, you're overweight, okay? There's plenty of things that can

help you out. This is Everybody's got something to deal with. I'm a [ __ ] lunatic with my temper. This is something I have to deal with. I do. You

know, you you can't stop eating pork chops. That's something you have to deal with. And just as he clarified his actual take on his show, Bill did it again on a podcast that he was invited to shortly after the show. How annoying has the press tour for Paper Tiger Ben? Because everyone's like, "Hey, Bill, what do you think about cancel culture?" The special was

about me being an idiot and trying to clean up my act so I don't, you know, screw up this great thing that I have with my wife and kids. So, um, what the media and Bill had some choice advice for the cancel crowd. I understand why the cancel culture people are doing what they're doing. Their hearts are in the right place. It's just the the uh the way that they're going about it.

Execution. Yeah. Yeah. And it's just like, you know, telling a stupid joke is a long, long ways away from taking your dick out at work. I mean, I think I could say that.

But Bill and his interviewer called out the woke culture for precisely what it was. I don't know how you somehow get lumped into that where it's just like, how could you in front of all those adults, right, who watch online? Could just be a disagreement. Somebody being like, hey, I didn't like that joke. And that should be the end of it.

But if it's a famous person uh or somebody with a check mark tweeting, "Hey, I didn't like that joke." to a comedian, all of a sudden now it becomes a story. And just like Bill dismantled the outrage mob to hit them where it hurts, he also simplified racism to show what triggers the woke squad. Like, I've noticed black people have the genius to put the curse word after they say the race of the person. Where white dudes, we always put it in front. And if

we would just make that little adjustment, we could save so many careers. So many jobs could be saved in the white community if we would just put it after. And in a single joke, Bill exposed their hypocrisy. Like, man, I was standing there. This Asian mother came in. He starts talking

about, you don't even hear it. You're just sitting there. Oh, what did this Asian mother do? Dude, I would tell the exact same story, right? I'm standing there, right? This Asian comes

in, right? Everybody's like, whoa, whoa. Hey, easy, easy, Jesus. And as if parodying their racism triggers weren't enough, Bill also ripped into the trigger team and their pronouns in his special Drop Deadad Years. Jesus Christ, I went up to that Capitol Hill, a hipster area. I think it was the

only guy not transitioning. [Applause] [Music] Unbelievable. It's a whole new race of people out there. Who knew? Who knew? It

used to be you're either gay or you're straight. There's no [ __ ] in between. Oh, yes there is. Oh, yes there is. And after finishing Fake Allies, next on the chopping block were the cancel cultists.

I don't know. That just blows my mind, you know? It's like it's 2024 that all of these people got in trouble, got cancelled, you know what I mean? Never came around to the clan. None of those groups ever got cancelled.

But if you said in 1992, "Hey, nice." Comes back to bite you in the ass 30 years later. And despite leaning left himself, Bill had no problem putting woke liberals on blast. Yeah, the exact same people. If the clan of Proud Boys does some up, what is the best we have? The most liberal of my

people. What's the best we got? Oh my god, that's terrible. Can you believe that? What is wrong with people? I I just

don't get it. God. But when the right got a little too excited, he shut them down as well. Iing hate liberals. I do. I hate them. No, don't get

excited. I hate conservatives, too, cuz you're all a bunch of racist. All right. Now, I know that's a blanket statement, but I'm just trying to speak your language. And as the show neared its end, Bill double slapped the two-faced woke liberal group.

What I hate about liberals is you don't do other than covering your own with your dumb signs. I hate that [ __ ] The [ __ ] Remember that? That was the worst. I was in Hollywood, you know, during the whole Black Lives Matter and the white people putting like my people putting the BLM signs in. It wasn't even about black people. It was about that they were

doing it. They were like Instagramming it like h. But before he left, he had a farewell gift for the influencer crowd. All those flamingo-legged chicks, you know, influencers. We used to call them.

Now they're like, now they're leading they're leading the herd, evidently, right? Yeah. Back in the day, Back in the day, women like that did not survive the winter. All right. They froze to under a buffalo blanket or some proving Bill can demolish woke groups with just a couple of