---
video_title: "When Jimmy Carr Demolishes Talk Show Hosts"
video_id: KA3z-eS4T9M
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KA3z-eS4T9M
video_date: 2025-06-04
video_description: |
  When Jimmy Carr Demolishes Talk Show Hosts
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From owning NFL star Pton Manning, Payton, you look like if a kid with Down syndrome wished he was big, to mocking comedian Shawn Lock. Shawn is a symbol and that symbol is proceed with caution. Here are nine times Jimmy Carr demolished media personalities. Starting with one of the NFL's greatest quarterbacks of all time who was destroyed on a Comedy Central special. Pton Manning is here.

Obviously, I don't know much about American football, but I'm told Pton Manning is one of the top three quarterbacks in his family. Payton, you look like if a kid with Down syndrome wished he was big. And after Payton, Jimmy put the entire NFL in his scope. Pton had a long and prestigious career in the NFL. He played with some of the all-time greatest piss and wife Peters. Come on. on the only people who

get more concussions than NFL players are their wives.

Oh my god. But Payton wasn't Jimmy's only target in that special because he went for Nikki Glazer soon after. Jimmy a car is what Ralph Machio has to do to find a place to sleep every night. But when Jimmy took the stand, his comeback was brutal. Nikki Glazer is here. One of my

favorites on Nikki's Comedy Central show, Not Safe, she found out her father is hung like a horse. And we found out Nikki inherited her face from her dad's. And as if getting destroyed on her looks wasn't enough, Nikki exposed herself to more roast by being too open about her sexual past. Uh, well, my first job was um, okay, damn. Well, here we go. It I

know that everyone all you do is talk about that. I really Well, I did have a good story. to talk to women about work and they just want to tell you I don't want to hear about when the first job was and it wouldn't be Jimmy if he didn't put her on blast for it right away. So Rick uh surrounded by four men this feels like a night out for you doesn't it? After a couple of drinks you can sleep with a guy but if you if he gives you $14 you really feel like a a budget.

I would love that. Nikki Glazer budget that could be that could be the new special title. As the podcast went on, Jimmy scorched Nikki for her comedy specials, too. I think you should uh start a family there. I'm gonna go there. I'm I think you should start a

family right now. I think you would make a I would be a great mom. Oh. Oh, so I was going to I didn't think so, but uh No, I'm just I think you're running out of things to talk about in your comedy specials. I think you should have a family. Not stopping there, Jimmy also

took digs at Nikki's alcoholic past. You think you'd be a great You think you'd be a great mom? Oh yeah. I think I know someone who's going to start drinking again. That's a thing. Mommy needs a

lifeer. Wait, what? Get mommy's special juice. Get mommy's special juice. That's You have to Uber to school. Jimmy Uber.

That Uber driver is cute. Tell him I like him. And before Jimmy left, he dropped one final reference bomb. I would do a little bit of vodka, a ton of soda so I could just chug and chug and and and and consume volume without having the uh without blacking out too fast. You need vodka less. I love I love

that people wake up from food. All of this all of this relates to the size of her father's is my take. It probably does. It's all about volume. Oh my god.

And just like Nikki, British TV host Jonathan Ross was also destroyed on his own show when he tried to call out Jimmy's professions. Yeah. I just thought it'd be nice to get a bit of a break. And I'm working right the way up to sort of the last day and then and you'll be working what? Doing standup comedy? Yeah. Yeah. Doing stand. Not

really working then, is it? Not proper work. It's not like a proper job. The people at home watching have to get up like me and get their hands dirty like you. Yeah. Yeah. To pop in and drink

some goose fat. That's a diet book no one's going to buy. And when Jonathan started getting freaky, Jimmy shut him down for good. Are they thinking, "Look at his big fat ugly." Cuz when I'm above now, I'm quite old.

Look. Look at this. Imagine me bearing down on you. A I feel like I'm being groomed. B. This is the kind of conversation that

internet chat rooms were built for. But someone else who got humbled for being too freaky was Bonnie Blue, the OF star with her 1001 world record. Was she trying to break a record? She got the world record. What for? Most

disappointed dad. It all started when a woman heckled Jimmy, asking his opinion on Bonnie. What do I think of Bonnie Blue? Have I had a stroke? I can't smell toast. I have no

idea. What? What? Sorry. The young girl who's just slept with a thousand men. The young

girl that's just slept with a thousand men. What? In in how many hours? 12 hours. 12 hours. And once he got to know

about her, Jimmy used her as ammunition to shoot down a different heckler. Well, I don't know. We're very judgy about such things. But we've all seen hot dog eating contests. It's no different. How?

All right, mate. Your mom's been in the news. But Jimmy not only exposed the hypocrisy over the outrage, but also sneaked in a jab. Imagine someone goes on honeymoon uh and they get for 12 hours straight by their fiance or by their husband, right, on the on the honeymoon. But if you have 12 hour 12 hours of with a thousand random guys, oh like her her must be ruined.

Same same. I think you should do it. And once he knew everything about Bonnie, Jimmy eviscerated her for good. Was she trying to break a record? She got the world record. What for? Most

disappointed dad. She broke the world record for most men in 12 hours with 1,000 men. Okay. 1,057. Okay. In second place,

two. She really overcorrected there, didn't she? But that wouldn't be the last time Bonnie's name came up because it would happen again just a month later. Bonnie Blue. Bonnie Blue.

Hey, listen. I like I like gang banging a porn star as much as the next man and the next man. The next And the next man and the next man and the next man. This is quite a long bet. And the next man but Jimmy came prepared this time unleashing the brilliant puns he had been brewing. So uh let me let me

explain what happened here. So a woman on only fans slept with 100 guys in one day. So another woman a second woman slept with a thousand guys in 12 hours. So now the first lady is saying that she will have as much a as is humanly possible in a day. It's literally a race to the bottom. And even when someone

made a great heckle, he had a comeback for that, too. Are you proud of your mom? Am I proud of my mom? [Applause] He doesn't say much, but when he does, it'sing gold. Sadly, the only thing you're going to get in my mom is an ashy.

Still a good joke. But before moving on from her, Jimmy buried Bonnie 6 feet deep with one final shot. Biggest you've met? The biggest I've met. Well, it's going to be a girl from Only [Music] Fans. Be like a wind sock at the end of

that. I mean, [Music] just like Jimmy hit Bonnie exactly where it hurt, he also took Alan Carr to the cleaners twice on live TV. Alan, how do you cope with loud bangs? away at loud bang. [Music] That would have been like Michael Jackson when his head went on fire and got addicted to painkillers. I think if

your hair was going to catch fire, it have to be a bloody good shot. Would Alan Carr, he's either a human with above average intelligence or the cleverest beaver that ever was. And unfortunately for Alan, Jimmy wasn't getting off his back anytime soon. Between them, they are respectively the funniest thing to come out of Birmingham and the funniest thing to come out of the dentist's office. It's Joe L and Alan Carr.

Here's Alan. Here's you. Here's you 10 years ago. And that's when you were working as a Basilbrush tribute. While it was just Allan this time, Jimmy went on to roast not one but four British celebrities on his own quiz show. Great to have you all here. Uh,

Chico Time was 2005. I'm not sure you're famous enough to be on a celebrity special. No, cuz we'll just We're four. We can do it with four contestants. We'll do it with four. Chico, if you can go.

Well, you know, it's not your No. Listen, listen, listen. I'm happy to go. Yeah, it's Jimmy then took shots at TV host Ryland Clark, but caught an old friend in his crossfire. This is proper telly. This is none of your daytime

nonsense. I'm looking at you, Ryan. Yeah, I know you are. Jimmy, I've been around so long. I'm looking at you.

Jonathan's at an age where he's looking at me trying to go, I know him. I know him. But when Ryland answered incorrectly, Jimmy pointed out his lusty priorities. Let's hope you're right. I was too busy looking at you and the cameraman. Yeah, it was the cameraman

actually. Is it Martin? It was Martin. Yeah, Martin is a looker. Yeah. Yeah.

He's got sort of an RAF tash. Yeah, I look. Okay. Well, let's see if you're right. You're definitely not.

Okay. I mean, it's for charity this evening, but you're too busy trying to get some. Okay. And last was British TV personality Josie Gibson, who got humbled for both her accent and her career. Can I ask, are you drunk or is it just an accent thing? No, it's it's

just a Britian accent, right? Cuz you sound hammered. I I just done two and a half hours of life telling. What? This morning? That's

right. Is that still on? It's still against It's still on. Against all odds, just like Jimmy put all the celebrities back in line on live TV, he did the same for Katherine Ryan on their show, Your Face or Mine. Uh my first job in the morning as a 24 year old girl, very naive, would be to check through images which had been sent for um babes babes at home. Um and they were

predominantly liners with different objects inserted. Um, and I So you guys know each other and Jimmy's 18 plus jabs just kept coming. You that your drag name is Cheryl Hall and mine is Sherah Hall. You can take that any way you like, but like she does take it anyway. But even as Catherine set herself up for a joke, Jimmy had no plan to pull his punches.

She is stunning. She's gorgeous. If we had to take bets on who on this stage looks like they were born a woman, I would lose. Oh, I wish I could disagree with that. I really like And it didn't take long for Jimmy to come back at Catherine with another friendly beatdown. They normally

open their legs. Oh, well going to happen. Good. So, you normally opening Catherine's legs is pretty easy. You can normally just fire a drink. You

can't do it in that skill, can you? Okay, that's exciting that you're not going to get. Okay. Okay. I'll I think that there's a guy in the front row that's going to need I don't know grief counseling. While Jenny roasted

Catherine for her age, Claud McKenna got cooked on her own cooking show for her pronunciation. And then I'm putting in fresh tar in a near tube, but you could use thyme. You could use flat leaf parsley if you want to. Isn't it rosemary and thyme? Did you say thime?

No, I never mentioned thyme. Th sounds like you said. You want me to say thyme? Because you know I What do you mean some people say? Okay guys, I've got a lot of things wrong. But when Clad started

reusing leftover bones, Jimmy lightly dunked on her again. You'll be left over with a carcass. So you grab your carcass and you pop it into a big saucepan. Some pop it in the bin. And then you put in some vegetables like carrots, scallions, celery. The chicken's done until she

finds out about stock cubes. He's going to feel a fool. They're not even expensive. But despite almost getting cancelled for his remarks, Jimmy didn't stop sniping celebrities on live TV. Like the time he roasted the eight out of 10 cats. Legitimate words usually

edited out of Countdown include [ __ ] doshite, and wankers. But they're all here tonight. It all started when Jimmy entered roast mode on another show. And the first one in his line of fire was John Richardson. John keeps all these clocks fast so he's never late. And it

works. Of course, the other reason John is never late is because Jon is never invited. I was invited here. You keep turning up. John has been going out with his girlfriend for over 12 months, and to mark their first anniversary, her friends and family released a special video message pleading for her safe return. Next on the hit list was Susie

Dent, UK's most famous lexographer. Susie has written 14 books about the derivations of words, and you can find them all in your local library. Just ask for the sleepy go bye-bye section. Okay, Susie, what have you been looking into recently? other than glory holes.

And then came comedian Izzy Suddy who got completely outclassed. True fact here about Izzy. Izzy once made a 5-ft tall papermâé penguin in an attempt to save an alien relationship. It's the classic story. Girl meets boy, boy leaves girl, girl makes a giant papermâe penguin. Boy is pretty sure he made the

right decision. But Jimmy wasn't done with just three celebrities because last in line was the late comedian Sha Lock. Sean recently turned 51 which as Rachel will tell you is a no longer in your prime number. Sha is a sex symbol and that symbol is proceed with caution. I'm not saying Sha is bad at countdown but Sha Lock is to words and numbers what Shalock is to thick lustrous hair. Sha left school with only

one A level. But that didn't hold him back. What's held him back is his laziness, personality, and looks. And whether it is live TV or behind the scenes, Jimmy has no problem demolishing media personalities.