---
video_title: "When Comedians Make Rude Interviewers Leave"
video_id: NNjnKa4GFWs
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NNjnKa4GFWs
video_date: 2025-06-14
video_description: |
  When Comedians Make Interviewers Walk Off Set
  
  Subscribe  :)
---
From Joan Rivers getting a taste of her own medicine

to Bobby Lee roasting a host till he leaves. George has been under a tremendous amount of No, no, no. Stop, George. I want you over here with me. Here are eight times comedians made interviewers walk off set. Starting with

Donell Rawlings, who couldn't handle getting destroyed by a small-time comedian. It's too late. It's too late. You I'm about to leave right now because No, you're not. Come on. No, I'm going

to leave. Holy, this is really happening. All right, let's get right into it. By a show of hands, guys, how many of you got your eaten? It all started when Donell rudely interrupted Tony right off the bat.

Bunch of people signed up for the show tonight. We have a couple surprises for you. And uh also, Heather, can I get my drink by chance? Heather, Heather, Heather, I'm sorry. Was I rude? But as

Donell kept doing it, Tony and his co-host were forced to call him out. You know your time is up. You know your 60 seconds uninterrupted. Why are you making eye contact with me? For those of you that don't know Donnell famously while being one of the funniest and the best guests in the show's history, he's also the most interruptive. Yeah. I

mean, I'm in the middle of a thing. You're ordering drinks from Heather. And he has the most knocks of his microphone to the table. And that wouldn't be the last of Donell's obnoxiousness. I love it. But you made it all the way here to

Austin. Did you uh fly? Fly. Yeah. Yeah.

Why you asking a black man if you fly? I don't know. Could have taken what? An underground railroad or something. Donnell didn't hear that one. I got away

with that one. But when Donell tried taking shots at a contestant, the guy quickly set him straight. That crispy cream. Let's go. Get the out here with them corn. Joke. Go back to Iowa, [ __ ] Get

the out of here. Where'd you get those Jordans before or after Chappelle gave you that chain? That's too funny. You guys are laughing, right? The fact don't let him tell you what's funny that well. And Donnell

quickly made it clear that he couldn't handle the heat. It's too late. It's too late. I'm about to leave right now because No, you're not. Come on. No, I'm

going to leave. Holy [ __ ] This is really happening. All right, let's get right into it. By a show of hands, guys, how many of you got your ass eaten? But when Joe Rogan confronted Donnell two years later, he tried to spin the narrative until Tony gave him a public dressing down. Did you edit it out the

show to make it look like Donell was set and then a man clowned him and he walked off the stage? A black man. Did you edit it? First off, nothing. Tony was edited.

Tony, you [ __ ] full of nothing was edited. So Tony, what you see is actually the true events that took place. No, 100%. And this time, Tony made sure to bury Donnell 6 ft deep. We have pictures of him outside of a firehouse uh after the moment he was saying hi to people at the fire department. They were like fans of his

and he went and hung out with them. He had nothing to do. He had nowhere to go. He showed Lord, this is getting worse. I can't believe I can't believe you left out details only to use them as a weapon when confronted by propaganda. Kudos to you, sir, for

holding your cards. No. But Donell is not the only Kill Tony guest who couldn't handle being on blast because Ric Flair also had a dramatic exit on another episode. I can have fun. I will never make fun of time of people donate their personal time to making children better. Rick Flair, everybody,

the legend, the nature boy. It all started with Kill Tony's usual routine of contestants bombing and getting roasted for it. Who car? Um, illegal. Was it your boring set? If you

watch the show. Yeah, I know reputation. I know it wasn't you cuz whoever did it could kill. Hey, let's go. He's got a dead. What a dumb,

dude. My alive, dude. My [ __ ] I love my But instead of joining in the fun, Rick got busy on his phone instead. Fall asleep. Oh, sorry. No, he's on his phone.

He's like, "Fun Joe Biden teasers these days on their phone." Am I right, guys? Shut up, Daniel. You're not You're not part of this thing. And it soon became clear that Rick didn't really understand the format of the show. The minute w someone says

something disrespectful to me or to you, I'm out of here. I probably should have sent you an episode to watch before uh we make fun of people. Thank you, Rick Flair. I don't I don't make fun of people. Anyway, uh I'm ready to leave in one minute, guys. I love you. I am.

But when a contestant with a wrestling background came, that's when the camel's back officially snapped. I'm a wrestling coach uh for a high school in Dallas and I do jiu-jitsu as well. So, okay. My son was a great amateur wrestler. He a heroin overdose.

I can have fun. I will never make fun of time of people donate their personal time to making children better. Ric Flair. Everybody. Just like Ric Flair.

Someone else who had a low tolerance for disrespect was Joan Rivers who stormed out of a CNN interview. I make people laugh for 50 years. I am put on earth to make people laugh. My book is funny. I wear fur that was 15 years ago. I work

for animal rights. Stop it with and you do this and you're mean and you're that. You are not the one to interview a person who does humor. Sorry. Are we serious? But when Joan came on

David Letterman's Tonight Show a few days later, she was still boiling with anger. The the woman was interviewing you. What was the woman's name? I don't know. And and you felt that she was being very judgmental, very uh nasty, very opinion, negative. It was like my wedding night,

you know? It was like just And when Joan made fun of veteran actress June Allison, she got instant karma. Remember June Allison? Hi, I'm Jun Alison. While I'm talking to you, I'm taking a dump. I

mean, it was what a great

[Applause] congratulations. But instead of getting down, Joan took the reigns of the show instead. I'll just take over. I'll talk to me. How's your like you old? Thank

you for asking. My vagina is so dry. How dry is your [Applause] I took a bath and all the water went whoosh. That's another veteran female comedian who wasn't going to let insults slide is Lily Tomlin, who got a vulgar gift from Chad Everett during an interview. [Music] Oh, well, you do that so well.

[Music] You heard that we don't serve lunch here and you brought No. No. Do you know what I have here? No. I can't imagine.

A pair of panties with big heavy straps for your friend. Oh, you Oh, you rogue. On top of that, Chad also threw indirect jabs at Lily's income. It's something that I have going on there called what you call it sponsored by the other guys who also feed dogs. Yeah. Oh, I hope it'll be

very tactful. I was trying to be. Yes. You know, I mean, I Well, I signed the thing. Did you sign a thing? There are

no rivals. Anything. I never signed anything. How do you get paid? I do it for free. Oh.

But when Chad crossed all boundaries of misogyny, Lily didn't let it slide. So, first of piece. I have three horses and three dogs and a wife. You want to think about the billing order there? No. No. She She's the most

beautiful animal I own. Yeah. You own? Wow. I have to leave.

But while Lily left instantly, Bill Burr stayed around to dunk on interviewers looking for viral headlines. Tell us about your reaction to Luigi Manion. I was reading up, you know, that perhaps you've been supportive of what he did. What is your take on that? If you were reading up, I don't think you read up on it cuz I said what I felt about it and I said what a lot of people took it that way. So could you clarify what you did?

No, I'm not going to just have some controversial moment so they can get clicks. I'm not doing that. And even if the interviewers got in his face, Bill kept his cool and jokingly avoided their questions. What do you bring up next? The Middle East. I I'm I'm I went to

summer school three out of four years in high school. I'm not qualified to talk about this. I was just global warming. You said about Elon that he was ruining Earth. I saw on the view you're critical of him. What do you

think of all the boycots? Like even the violence. I don't watch the news. I have no idea what's going on. But when the interviewer made a stupid claim, Bill clowned him on his own channel.

comedians are on top of current events. You're No, no, that's that's weak. That's you guys passing the buck. You guys need to have balls again, which you don't. You guys always goes, "Should we be thinking this?" Duh. You guys present

stuff like that. You You guys used to have You need to You need to get your back. And it's not my job. I am a dancing clown. And just like Bill's interviewers, this next one regretted interviewing Tim Dylan when he came out guns blazing on his CNN interview. the

news got a little dumber and comedians got a little smarter. Tell me what you think about that. Like why is this happening? I think it's just a lot more interesting to people, especially people who grew up online or are younger people seem to gravitate towards that kind of media more than the kind of fake stilted corporate speak of kind of the traditional legacy media. And things only got worse when the interviewer kept asking nonsensical questions. I'm sure

you're aware of the like where's the liberal Joe Rogan like that whole conversation. That is a question they're asking. That is a question they're asking. So I I mean I was interested in that. I like did a lot of research but I think that's maybe not the most interesting question. Joe Rogan has

changed comedy. I think Joe Rogan has changed media. Can you explain how that works? But if that wasn't enough, she also started making completely wild claims. one comedian who was like kind of in that, you know, Fox, etc. Yeah. Uh that I tried to interview,

his manager told me that he wouldn't do an interview with me because Rogan would get mad at him for talking to CNN. And that's untrue. That's completely insane. That's completely insane. Okay, that is completely nuts. To avoid giving CNN

viral clips, Tim dismantled the claim in the most polite way possible. There's no such thing as Rogan would be mad at someone for talking. That's crazy. Oh, well that's good to hear. Okay. No.

Good. Um, I'll let him know. You think that's how it works? Rogan sends emails. I know you don't. But that's a crazy

thing. Like Rogan's like, "What are you doing? Oh, you're doing this." No, do Gutfeld instead. No, no one cares. Roast

that Tim couldn't say on the interview were completed by the comment section instead. She talks about Rogan like he's the Wizard of Oz or something. It's hilarious. Back on his podcast, Tim finally shared his two cents on the interviewer. But really, this woman just didn't know a lot of things and she had made assumptions based on not having the information. She read a few articles

about podcasts and then did this interview. She doesn't understand a lot of the topics that she's talking about. And while he held back a lot during the CNN interview, he was on roast mode when he was a guest on Whitney Cummings podcast. But I don't have the white man thing of I'm just like, who wouldn't want to hear me talk for three hours about anything? Like I don't I'm not allowed to be boring. I

have to be twice as good to get half as much respect. Um, okay. Is that a line from like a country song? You guys can definitely working 9 to5. Nobody listening cuz I'm a woman. Is that true?

But when Whitney still kept crying wolf, Tim gave her a reality check. People want to listen to women talk for three hours a week. always their fault? Is it always the people's fault? Then now that we've established that, we have to assign blame. Yeah. And we have to go,

well, what well, who is it at fault? Masculinity. Let's blame that. Is it that? Well, but then there's half the country's women. That's your own

internal thing. It might be my insecurity. It's your internal thing. When Whitney tried to fight back, Tim exposed her pretentious nature. There's always going to be this unspoken thing between old Hollywood and young Hollywood. And that's that's what's

happening here. And I'm old Hollywood. Yeah. It's a You're a legend. By the way, you're not any Hollywood. You're

young internet. You've never been Hollywood. But that is Hollywood. No, it's Young Internet. No, Hollywood still exists. No, it no one cares about your

friends like Sandra Bulock. No one cares about them. But when Whitney just couldn't stop, Tim hit her exactly where it hurt. I don't want to perform for Cars. I can just be funny for an hour or two hours a week that uh I'm sorry my fan base isn't my other celebrity friends. I apologize.

You know, I apologize. Jennifer Aniston and Sandra. Who are these people? It's over. It's over, ladies. And just like Tim, another

comedian who called out the interviewer's big ego was Andrew Schultz on Bill Maher's podcast. I'll give you two options. Either you're kidding or this is stupid. Well, that's this pretentious. But that is, if you don't agree with me, you're dumb. Is why Trump

is elected. It all started when Andrew called out Bill's narcissism halfway through the podcast. And believe me, they know that in Israel, and I appreciate that, and and I wish I could come and visit them as they keep asking me. But there's somebody who the Trump administration just just is is now is now. That's the reason I was waiting for that is the reason I was waiting for like there's a war happening and you're simply just like I'm not traveling. And during their debates,

Bill kept getting more and more personal. These hypocrites would even survive for a week in you wouldn't want to live. I don't know if that's true anymore. like the UAE. I've I've been to the UAE is not the Muslim world if you're talking about in the Middle East.

That's what you're talking about. Okay. But you would not want to live even in a moderate country like Jordan. And your wife certainly wouldn't enjoy living there. But Andrew didn't even need much to dismantle Bill's entire point. If I

throw a dart at a map Yeah. of the entire all 60 Muslim minority majority countries, uh will you say you'll live there? I could survive in every single one of them. You couldn't. I don't know what how could I not I'm not a gay guy.

Like I'm not I could live with any single one of them. And when Bill lost the debate, he tried to win with his fake moral high ground instead. You could live with yourself knowing that that's how women are treated in your world. I hate this moral argument like we give a about women around the world like No, but this is like Yeah, you said you'd be happy. This is such a argument.

I could live easily in every single one of the countries outside of the wars that are existing. But you're saying in peace time easily? Easily. Easily. But when Bill resorted to petty insults, Andrew took him to the cleaners for good. I'll give you two options. Either

you're kidding or this is stupid. Well, that's this pretentious that is, if you don't agree with me, you're dumb is why Trump is elected. And this is what Democrats do. Yeah, but sometimes dumb is dumb. Yeah, but people are dumb, so deal with that. While Bill was just

verbally foul, this next interviewer took things to the next level when he couldn't handle Mark Summer's roast. I was just wondering who told you that because my my wife tells me that often. She says, "Good morning." I'm still married, as a matter of fact. Yes. Well,

you [Applause] It all started when Mark was talking to Jay Leno about his TV show when co-host Bert Reynolds got offended. Now, do do you like doing the messy stuff especially? Is that No, it's very strange because I am really a I'm Felix Younger. I'm a neatness fanatic. So, it's just kind of weird that I've been for the last nine years doing that kind of TV. Have an you were a neatness

freak. Yeah. Uh, I just say that because your back is too mean and I I I was just talking to her back. No, no. I I could talk to you too, Bert. Thank you. But

when Mark's joke hit a nerve, Bert had an instant crash out. I was just wondering who told you that because my my wife tells me that often. She says, "Good morning." I'm still married, as a matter of fact. Yes. Well, you

[Applause]

And while Mark tried to let it slide, Burke kept crushing Mark's olive branch. This what's known as losing control of the program, ladies and gentlemen. Not really. He's not a neatness freak anymore. Reynolds just threw water on me. Did you notice that, folks?

Then you'll treasure it, ladies. Don't touch me. I used to be on your show all the time. Win, lose your draw. I used to love that show. Funny, I don't remember. But now

that peace was off the table, Mark swiftly took his revenge. There we go.

Doing his Milton girl impression. Take a look at that. Too obscure for the room. Anyway, it's too good for the room. I bet that plays good on Nickelodeon. Yeah.

At least I have a full-time job, though. That's the thing. That's true. If that wasn't enough, Mark also called him out three decades later. Bird happened to be on the show that night. He was uh out of

his mind. And stop you there. What do you mean by out of his mind? You know, he just seemed edgy. He was going through a divorce. Yeah. Um his career

was kind of on the downward direction. I took water and I threw it on him. What the audience, what you didn't see at home was the audience gave me a standing ovation when I did that. While Mark still went relatively easy on Bert, Bobby Lee roasted George Jacko till he literally left. Um, there are certain he he is clocked out. I know. George has

been under a tremendous amount of No. No. No. No. Stop. George, I want you

over here with me. It all started when Bobby came to the Impulsive Podcast and started firing at George right from the get- go. They just looked at you and assumed you dealt with it. Bro, bro, let me just say I'm warning you right now. Don't touch me. Okay. I'm a celebrity.

Some girls hate sucking dick, too. Like, they don't like anybody who likes sucking. Does that have to do with anything? That's a nothing. That's a That's a piece of information. No, I

think that doesn't mean that's a piece of information. You shouldn't have said this. First of all, you ruined the flow of everything, dude. And Bobby didn't stop getting personal there. You're strong. You're funny. You got all the

You have everything. Cool friends. You have cool friends like this guy. Well, what about on the fence? This guy's on the fence.

Although you're not a stand-up comedian because that's who I usually do podcasts with. All three of you, even you, man, right? Um have a playfulness like a professional comedian. M. But even as George was monologuing, Bobby made it clear he wasn't a big fan. And I don't

mean this in a cocky way, but like dude, this put me on a very strong map and it made a lot of my avenues blow up. So I'm very blessed, but I didn't know I was going to be here. So it's like that's Are you done? That was just a long monologue. He was just wait. I was Let me just say

something. I loved what you were saying. It was just very long. And when George tried to take a swing, Bobby shut him down in one jab. Yeah, we just need writers to edit that down.

Like if we had a staff of writers, they'd be like, "Yeah, we'll cut that, cut that." But essentially, it was a really good model. Usually when I do my comedy, I don't have writers in the room. I actually write my own stuff. Okay, I could tell. But um

maybe you should get a writer. But while Bobby was just doing his usual banter, it proved to be too much for George. Um there were certain he he is clocked out. Yeah, I know. George has been under a tremendous amount of No, no, no. Stop.

George, I want you over here with me. I swear to God, Bobby Lee, you [ __ ] pissed off my co-host. He's probably crying in the driveway. You know, the Beatles could have lost Ringo. Proving that if you piss off a comedian enough, they can send you running back