---
video_title: "When Disrespectful Interviewers Get Destroyed By Theo Von"
video_id: GlBzKPIo8Jk
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GlBzKPIo8Jk
video_date: 2025-05-21
video_description: |
  When Disrespectful Interviewers Get Destroyed By Theo Von
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From dunking on a radio host, Chris, you look like a deaf guy that goes to the gym. To exposing an ex NFL podcaster faking injuries, I think to get his contract money still. Here are seven times disrespectful interviewers got destroyed by Theo Vaughn. Starting with Christa Stephano, who went off on Theo during an episode of the Opie Radio podcast. I feel like a woman, dude.

Yeah, well, you look like a woman. You look like a woman right now, dude. You look like Eileen Wernos, the first female serial killer ever killed. Look at her haircut. Google Island same mullet haircut. Theo,

look at that. You look tough. Same cut. Let me see you. Same cut.

And Chris continued to amp up the heat. I auditioned for his pilot today. And he talk. Unbelievable. He auditioned for your pilot.

He's got the balls to come in here and talk. All right, we're going to see what up now. Player. [Applause] I don't think you got the role. This guy want to make fun of my head. We going to

see. But soon it was time for Theo to clap back. Chris, you look like a deaf guy that goes to the gym. 100%. If you could ever meet yourself.

You would hate it. You would hate it, dude. You are like a Teenage Mutant Ninja. Wow. Worst Turtle Hill. Go back to Turtle

Hill. But as if making fun of his hair wasn't enough, Chris also took friendly shots at Theo's past drug addiction in another podcast. First of all, you look like you're on crystal meth. Like, you know what I mean? Like, I know you're not, but like you look like like like it would be it would be shocking to me that a guy that looks like you isn't using crystal meth and really like and just like the hair and the beard. It's like

it's like you just look like kind of beard. Well, whatever. Like, you know, he's got like a Civil War head. You know what I mean? And Theo had the perfect comeback.

Locked and loaded. So, you seem like a dude that works at a toll booth that [ __ ] tells people he's going to do something different. Like on your lunch break, you tell all the black ladies you're going to be doing something different, but you still keep coming back. Yeah. And you always pocket a couple of quarters. You think you have a scheme.

It's like stealing like 75 cents a day and stacking it up at home for like a big adventure. Yeah. I live with my mother for sure. Despite Theo's roast, Chris managed to keep things playful. Unlike podcasters Will Compton and Taylor Leuen, who took it a little too far.

People were dying, dude. And then you said you guys said you did, you know, I got that text on that airplane and that's when Will Compton said that you Yeah, man. I remember I was I was literally crying in my seat and some It all started when Will pulled a prank on Theo that quickly went out of control. So he text you and he was like, "Dude, did you hear what happened to Caleb?" And you hit him back right away. You're

like, "What happened?" And he was like, "He passed away." And then he immediately took a photo of me doing like this in my little gown. But then you're on a plane. So the photo didn't come in.

The photo didn't come. But Theo wasn't ready to forgive just yet. And he's like, "I'm absolutely gutted." That's what he said with the photo, I guess. And so that's all I got. And then

that Wi-Fi kept cutting in and out. Yeah, man. I remember I was I was literally crying in my seat. And when I landed, I found out that it was a joke and you were still alive. So you do you and Will still have beef?

I mean, I would say I'm not super fond of somebody that's going to fa first of all, not even fake their own at least fake your own. And Theo's anger took form in heavy jabs. And they run. They have like a show. I don't know what it's called, but they do it. It's uh

Yeah. It's like, but it's like they're on a short They're on like a little bus or with the tall guy. Yeah. Yeah. The other guy played football here, Taylor.

Mhm. And he's And you know, they're on a I mean, first of all, they're on a little bus, which is like not saying that's where they belong. While the co-host tried to backpedal, Theo didn't let it go. Compton. And I think his eyesight's real bad and he has CTE. He has CT EFG, dude.

I saw that's between you guys, man. Taylor got some new teeth. Did he really? Wow. See, that'sing rich. But I'll just say

this. If somebody wants to put some meat on the grill, I'll watch it cook in front of them boys. And Theo made sure they knew his roast weren't just friendly banter this time. Intelligent faking injuries, I think, to get his contract money still. Do you I mean someone's got to pay for the teeth.

I'm not putting a bounty out on Taylor or anything, but if anybody rolls up with the ivory that's in that dude's mouth, all right, I'll pay you heavily for it. But instead of apologizing, the duo painted themselves as the victims. This man's coming at us. Yes, this man, for whatever reason, last two episodes, George KD and Caleb Presley, he's thrown some he throws some weird shots at the boys. Wild shots.

Meat shots, dude. Just punching us right in the groin for no reason. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, it seems like he

has beef with me faking the whole Caleb Presley when Caleb was on a ventilator. While the two got offended over Theo's light roasts, Bobby Lee took them like a champ multiple times. Would a bowl be the same as a as as a as a plate? Go beat a cup apart. I'm sorry. With a

hammer. That's true. You flatten it out. Maybe there there's a tape it together. What do you have?

You have a plate, dude. You got a plate. And he won. Howd is he Theo Von? I don't know how you do it, dude.

You're crafty, dude. Huh? [ __ ] mate, man. Would you say [ __ ] face mate? And with Bobby giving him free reign, Theo dunked on him on another podcast as well.

Hygiene risk they call it. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Hepatitis risk. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Wow.

Are you asleep or awake? What are you, dude? I feel like I'm on a yellow mirror. Have you seen that show? [Laughter] Bro, do it, bro. Bro,

Theo wasn't afraid of getting cancelled, so he took his jokes to some outrageous places. Okay, let's just I have this weird disease where I have a I'm in a coma where I can pee. Yeah. And and and if I think if they call it the yellow sleep, they call it, you know, it's just like I just want to say this is that just don't say yellow sleep. My bad again.

They call it the kungpow coma. And before he eased up on Bobby, he dropped one last bomb in his podcast. I could see somebody with like a vitamin deficiency or like severe, you know, uh, DNA deficiency or something immediately being like a chromosome deficiency being like, "Oh, this is our guy, you know, this is our mayor, you know, this is our Wizard of Oz." You don't like that at all. Come on, guy. Theo isn't afraid of

roasting popular comedians like Bobby, so it's little surprise that he even took shots at Joe Rogan. I love to look at the world through your eyes for 10 minutes. You think I take you right to the hospital. I feel like whatever medication we're on, we got to change it. We got to fix this.

Bro, you should meet yourself then, bro. You are extraterrestrial, man. But if once wasn't enough, Theo did it again in another JRE episode. See that? I usually do this right after cardio. So, this is like a cardio

session. Wow, dude. Yeah. You look like one of those turkeys when they tie it up and it gets all like kind of like lined out. What?

You know what I'm talking about? When they put that rope around that uh that ham and it's got all Oh, my sixack. But while Joe Rogan let the roast slide, Chris Delia wasn't about to let things go without a fight. Let me say this, man. I will never cancel a show.

Cool. Here's what things That's a great sound bite. That's a great sound bite. I see what he's doing here. I have some news for you. Theo didn't cancel his

show. Theo cancelled his whole European tour a week before it happened. And Chris's scorching didn't end there. So, not only did he do what he said he would never do, wow, he's doing the same thing I'm doing. I would never do that. What he's doing?

Who's the stepdad now? And who's the real daddy? Dude, he was Oh, is he okay? But Theo wasn't about to get clowned on for free. Uh, first of all, Chris Leia wears deodorant on his whole arm. Okay, so

people should know that that he starts at the wrist with the stick and brings it all the way up to the pit. So that right there, that's something. You will not find me postponing a show because of the air elements. Okay. On top of that, Theo made it clear that he was leagues ahead of Chris. Storm,

rain, fire, second coming, third coming. In case Jesus gets lost, you feel me? Sunlight, no light, drizzle, missiles, driles, ice missiles. I will be there. Bring it on, mother nature.

And in the same breath, Theo also showed Chris who really ran the show. And will Crystalia be there? No. Will I be there? Yes.

So, I'm the real daddy. All right. If you put my Johnson on a record player and played it backwards, you can hear it go, "Daddy, daddy, daddy." Cuz I got that Bose surround pound. You feel me?

While Chris lost this friendly spar, he tried again during April Fools when the two exchanged each other's podcasts. Guess what, dude? Exposing Theo. Guess what? He uses a HP computer. He uses an

HP. It straight up is the last one. That's the last HP that ever came out. And Theo was like, "I'll take it." And then he said toing uh Nick. Nick, right? He

said, "Hey, if anybody ever asks, just will you please say that that shit's you?" And Chris jumped on the opportunity to get his revenge. So he has an HP and he does the podcast alone in his room. Do you know what that means? He's crazy. That's what that

means. You can't if you're in a room alone. By the way, it's what, 8 feet by 4 feet? It's a cell. It's a cell with artwork in it.

But it was ultimately Theo who stole the spotlight. Uh, first of all, a lot of people have said there's rumors going around that Chris bought a college and shut it down. A lot of poor choices by the one and only Chris Delia. There's a rumor that Chris Deia's feet are very small, but his shoes are very big. Doesn't make a Ronald McDonald.

Taking advantage of the prank, Theo ripped into Chris in his own studio. Chris is, if you look at Chris from far away, you're like, "Jesus Christ, dude. What's going on over there, you know? Uh, that guy looks malnourished, but tall and athletic." Um, but if you get up close to him, you see that first of all, the guy has more ribs than anybody.

And Theo's roast train didn't stop there. I don't know if you've ever seen uh y'all's daddy with the shirt off, but the guy has Dude, I got, let me see, eight ribs, right? Chris has probably, bro, no joke, 76 ribs, dude. But Theo had a few more friendly punches to throw before calling it a day. Like when you're on vacation, they don't want to descale it or whatever, and they give you that fish, then they got uh and it's got all the bones in it. That's

like him, man. And his face around his chin, it looks like you ever seen after a fire goes over a hill and they put it out. He has that he has that very fire growth, you know, like that Malibu postfire kind of stubble. And after Chris, Brendan tried to get slick with Theo on the Fighter and the Kid podcast, but it didn't go so well. You're the one that beat Down Syndrome in Louisiana.

Fresh off the boat. You look like you're an extra from Water Boy. But after Brendan's failure, Theo showed him what true roasting looks like. You're not going to influence Indian children, dude. I don't think a lot of Indian kids look at you and be like, I want to, you know, look like a French Paul Bunan when I get older. You know

what I'm saying? French Paul. You look like Why am I Why am I French? Dude, you look like Paul Bunion if he just drank champagne all day and never did uh any forestry. And Theo's creative demolition knew no bounds.

Oh, you're easier to hate, I think. Well, what? Well, you think I mean there's just more I mean not in like a if I know you know but if I just see you dude walking by dude more more than you. Oh dude this bro you look like a mechanic from Nordstrom rack. After his looks Brennan's IQ was next on Thea's hit list.

You're like the dude who if everybody was escaping prison you'd be like nah I got to I got to be up in the morning for breakfast. You know what I'm saying? Like you'd be the dude that's like doesn't get that everybody's getting out. you know, okay, guy. Have fun in here.

You look like the biggest [ __ ] kid in Sacramento. But Brendan didn't give up and tried going at Theo again in a different episode. Bro, I saw a possum last time in my backyard. I thought, I can't believe Theo doesn't have one. I swear it's all possome like that.

There's certain animals that just go with other people. I'm like, dude, I can see Theo walking up. His plan, however, quickly backfired. I used to have a pet toad, man. Really?

Yeah. I put I put I put mud in a laundry basket and then kept in my backyard. He was big. Bro, that is one of the definitely most lesbian things I've ever heard somebody do. You know your daughter's going to be a lesbian when you give her a laundry basket and you put so much of mud and a frog in it.

And before stepping away, Theo served a few more scorchers. You're always smiling with your eyes closed. Can you smile and open your eyes at the same time? Bet you you can't, bro. Bet you you can't do it. While Theo

pulled his punches for his old buddy, the same can't be said for his interview with Logan Paul, whose out-ofouch take didn't go un. And this just goes to show that interviewers who get too disrespectful get sniped down fast by Theo.