---
video_title: "When Comedians Shut Down Disrespectful Guests"
video_id: Rr9CFpJPqoQ
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rr9CFpJPqoQ
video_date: 2025-04-08
video_description: |
  From obliterating a racist guest, to humbling a fellow comedian. Here are 10 times comedians shut down disrespectful guests.
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From obliterating a racist guest The only person you will ever make happy is the Mexican who digs your grave. to humbling a fellow comedian. Going after my religion, you piece of Here are 10 times comedians shut down disrespectful guests, starting with Conan O'Brien who turned the tables on Jennifer Garner when she tried to correct him on his grammar. But wait, there's a time when you snuck into the room to see what the sneaked into the room. Sneaked isn't a word, Conan, and you went to Harvard and you should know that.

You should know I went to the Harvard driving school, by the way. They didn't teach me much there, but I can parallel park like a bastard. While it seemed like Conan let it slide, he schooled Jennifer later. I keep a dictionary down here and I just found it. Just want to look at Oh, WHAT THE HELL? LOOK RIGHT HERE. SNEAKED, past

and past part of sneak. Conan isn't the only late-night host to call out someone on live TV because Jimmy Kimmel also called out a striking celebrity in his Oscar speech. We want you to have fun, we want you to feel safe, and most importantly, we want me to feel safe. So, we have strict policies in place. If anyone in this theater commits an act of violence at any point during the show, you will be awarded the Oscar for best actor and permitted to give a 19-minute long speech.

Not stopping at Will Smith, Jimmy also exposed Hollywood's hypocrites. No, but seriously, the Academy has a crisis team in place. If anything unpredictable or violent happens during the ceremony, just do what you did last year, nothing. Sit there and do absolutely nothing. Maybe even give the assailant a hug.

While Jimmy owned Will Smith for his physical assault, Ann Coulter earned her humiliation for her verbal offenses. You are so bright and articulate, and I guess I can call you articulate since you're not an American black. Um can't can't say that about them. That's That's derogatory. Oh, and I agreed with many, many things you said during In fact, probably more than than most other candidates.

When you were running for president, but I still would not have voted for you because you're an Indian. And after getting invited to the Comedy Central special roast of Rob Lowe, David Spade showed her exactly what he thought of her. Is Pete white? Is he black? And Coulter needs to know so she can decide if she hates him.

She seems stiff and conservative, but Ann gets wild in the sheets. Just ask the clan. Looks like she's having a good time. I haven't seen you laugh this hard since Trayvon Martin got shot. Followed by Pete Davidson.

You know, Ann describes herself as a polemicist, but most people call her a Ann Coulter, if you're here, who's scaring the crows away from our crops? And then came Jimmy Carr's turn. Ann Coulter looks so much like a truck stop transvestite that I saw Jeff Ross run to an ATM just before the show. Ann Coulter is one of the most repugnant, hateful, hatchet-faced alive. But but it's not too late to change, Ann.

You could kill yourself. But surprisingly, the star of the show was Nikki Glaser's punny and devastating jokes. And without further ado, Ann Coulter. Ann Coulter has written 11 books, 12 if you count Mein Kampf. Ann's been called things like a racist, anti-Semitic, homophobic, a white supremacist, and that's just while getting plowed by Bill Maher.

And before she left, Nikki made sure to put the final nail in Ann's coffin. The only person you will ever make happy is the Mexican who digs your grave. Just like all the comedians didn't hold back roasting Ann, Bill Burr didn't hold back in calling out Jim Gaffigan after inviting him on his podcast. Was your dad fat? Was your mom fat? No.

Genetically, you're thin. Are you asking me that? Yes. Oh, yeah. No, you don't even know what you're talking about.

Listen. Yeah. All of you guys do that What's that? You guys who are out of shape see someone who's in better shape and go, "Oh, dude, yeah, you can Women do that. And Bill wasn't in a mood to pull his punches.

Yeah, I'm going to pull it up. I'm going to pull it up here. those things. Nerd, nerd, nerd, nerd. things like, "Ooh, look at my my watch said I took 10,000 said I did. My watch said I did. Look at

this. Look at those sneakers. You don't work out. What What are these? Look at those I got to put Even as they were about to finish, Bill didn't ease off.

First of all, it what really counts is who's scarier. Dude, there's no way I'd ever let you get those farm hands on me. I think we both love acting. Yeah, we do. It would have been nice if you found common ground earlier in this episode instead of attacking me, going after my religion, you piece of Are you Protestant?

I'll bury you in that behind that sign if I find out you're Protestant. And while Jim was arguably an easy target, Bill didn't hold back any jokes on a celebrity who used to KO people in a single hit. Bill Burr, comedian, baby. Made headlines in October 2000 and 2000 after controversial monologue. You know, my [ __ ] 2000 and 2000, Mike, that's 20 20.

[ __ ] listen, man. schools, man. But it wasn't only Mike who got caught in Bill's jokes. What's the best part about mushrooms, Mike, for you? The best part, the best feeling in of on mushrooms.

Not being badgered with questions since you enjoyed the high. And even as the podcast came to an end, Bill just couldn't help himself. He's Schruman and he's wearing pants like he went riding a horse today. Like side saddle or something. Now, what is it about that that you like?

Huh? Does it fit your junk better than uh Yeah, that that too. It was made for me. It was made for me, yeah. Yeah.

While Bill was just busting Mike's balls, Shane Gillis was forced to go all out with his roast on Tony Hinchcliffe during Skankfest South. Tony's father was a mafioso and his mother was the teddy woke up next to. It all started when Tony was roasting Shane during his segment. Shane Gillis is here. He had to take some time away from his day job playing the son on the Teletubbies.

I'm kidding. Shane's not a [ __ ] baby. America loves and accepts [ __ ] babies. Shane's more like the opiate crisis. Largely ignored but tolerated because he keeps hillbillies entertained and only kills in the Midwest.

But he didn't stop at insulting Shane's IQ. Sorry you didn't get SNL, Shane. You deserve the privilege of reading stolen tweets off of cue cards in between Arby's commercials. Shane's banned for life from SNL joining the ranks of Adrien Brody, Sinead O'Connor, and good jokes. Then it was Shane's turn.

Tony, Tony looks like Matthew McConaughey's skeleton. I don't have a joke for this but something about Tony being Young Sheldon. Do you say "bazinga" every time he makes one of his gay jokes? Little did Tony know that was just the start of it. Tony for real thought he was going to be the Joker. You ever see the movie The

Joker? It was a dream of his. He does the laugh sometimes in front of his friends and they told me this when he wasn't around and they all make fun of him behind his back. Isn't that funny? As soon as he left the room they're all like, "Dude, he keeps going Isn't it such an embarrassing dream to have?"

For his final roast Shane dropped Tony with back-to-back bombs. Tony also, I believe, had a Corvette with a license plate that said I roast. Is that true? Damn, that sucks. Tony's father was a mafioso and his mother was the teddy woke up next to.

While Shane was just joking around, Joe Rogan was completely serious when he humiliated this next guest for his controversial takes. You're saying that's not a choice. That's nonsense. Of course it's a choice. You're choosing to chemically change this child's body. It all started

when Adam Conover came on JRE and started indirectly arguing in favor of trans athletes in normal sports. We could sit here and talk for 3 hours about like all the different ways that hormones might affect your body, might not affect your body, and I'm not an expert on that, and I don't want to claim to be, right? But, a sports with uh trans athletes who are uh you know, competing with the you know, with their gender, right? That's uh that is a sporting world that I'm more interested in. But, Joe Rogan dismantled Adam's entire argument in seconds.

There's a reason why we make the distinction to have male athletics versus female athletics. The reason is that males have a physiological physiological advantage over women. So, in most sports, most physical sports, we do not have males compete with females. And Joe kept empirically dunking on Adams. Well, the evidence in competition seems to be that it shows that it does apply, particularly in weightlifting, rugby, mountain biking, power heavy sports that are that favor larger people, stronger bodies, males that transition to females have a significant advantage and they're breaking world records.

But, Adam's takes only got more absurd when he showed support for child trans surgery, citing his friend's example. he's explained that like, well, you know, my child from a very young age consistently like said, I am a girl. Like and has never contradicted themselves, never changed their mind, and so the humane thing and the thing that he felt was good to do as a parent was to like embrace that choice on his child's part, right? Leading Joe to quickly put him to shame again. You're saying that's not a choice?

That's nonsense. Of course it's a choice. You're choosing to chemically change this child's body. You're choosing to inject things into this child's body on a regular basis that are going to radically affect the physical development of their body. Yeah.

And you're saying that this isn't a choice. Well, it's definitely a choice to do that. Joe is not the only comedian who destroyed the woke agenda because Piers Morgan also did the same on live TV. You know what, Reese? For a bright young woman who's getting a very good expensive education, you do behave like a complete foul-mouthed idiot. You don't

do yourself any favors. Why do you think coming on a show like this and just repeatedly using the F-word, why do you think that makes you look any better? Before that happened, Piers was interviewing a woke activist regarding the recent vandalism of an anti-oil group. Reese, you supported Just Stop Oil. Uh no one at Wimbledon today supports oil.

They just think you're a bunch of idiots. I know you weren't there today. You were shouting at the royals up in Scotland. Why do you support this kind of protest that we're seeing at all these sporting events? But instead of taking accountability, the activist kept expressing her agenda.

Uh I'd like to talk about coronation cuz it's But uh to respond to that question, uh we're in a climate crisis. It's horrifying. I'm terrified for my future and Just Stop Oil are one of the only uh groups of people at the moment who are doing anything about that. Prompting Piers to school her. I'd like to focus on what's just happened because it's indicative of of a summer of protest by people who think that they can convert people to their cause. Even if people are inclined to do

so, we're now at a point where you can tell from the audience reactions of these events, they literally want to garrote them. And what worries me is it's going to lead it is going to lead to bad situations if this carries on. But when met with logic, the activist only did what she does best. Uh Sorry, that's stupid. Sorry.

Why don't you stop swearing, Reese, with with respect? If you want to talk about the protest Reese, you don't have to keep swearing. And despite the foul language, Piers didn't stop educating her. I believe in peaceful protest. I don't believe in wrecking ordinary people's lives as they go to work, as they go to hospital, as they on some occasions going to funerals. I don't think that

that when they pay for sporting events that they may be saved money for all year long. It's like how those were. But when the didn't stop swearing, Piers finally buried her 6 ft deep. Uh the Kings feed the hungry cuz that's what we want to talk about, right? Uh you what, Piers, you've always for a very they they've done this.

what, Piers, for a bright young woman who's getting a very good expensive education, you do behave like a complete foul-mouthed idiot. You don't do yourself any favors. Why do you think coming on a show like this and just repeatedly using the F-word, why do you think that makes you look any better? Just like Piers kept clowning on the activist for her foul mouth, Tim Dillon kept roasting Whitney Cummings for her obnoxious behavior. Whitney hit us up and she was like, "Yo, you need peptides. You only any

peptides. Right. I got you the guy. I'm sending they're going to your house. Whitney Whitney's famous for you wake up and then she's putting you in a group text with Michael Jackson's doctor and he's like, "Yeah, this guy's a good guy.

He's got a lot of different stuff you should try." On top of that, Tim also threw shade at Whitney's drug addiction past. I think we should do a podcast where I'm actually on these drugs so you guys can see like the difference. Right. And see that my personality is just this bad.

No, it's it's No, you're you're three minutes to dial if it makes us all feel comfortable. Following it with a mimicry that mocked Whitney's entire online persona. I'll be Whitney. We're the We're the guy. You start, ready?

I'll be I'll be burnt on a date with Whitney, okay? You ready? Yeah. Um I heard this restaurant is good. Here's five things you need to do immediately right now, okay? Right now,

I want you to go on your Instagram page right now, okay? Okay. This is what you need to do because we're building brands. The whole thing is about cross-promotion. But Tim wasn't finished putting Whitney on blast.

Yeah. So she does that and then what a guy does is it falls off and he starts stepping on it with his foot and grinding it into the floor of the restaurant and then he inserts it into his While Whitney didn't see her insults coming, Bobby Lee saw his roasts coming from a mile when he set himself up for them with nonsense statements. I grew up in San Diego so obviously, you know, I grew up in the middle class area, right? With tennis courts and stuff like that, right? And surfing bra and all that stuff, right? Bra. But if I

grew up in an area where I had to be hardened, oh bro. I'll be hard. But you didn't. BUT YOU DIDN'T. YOU DIDN'T.

YEAH, I KNOW BUT I'M JUST SAYING WE'RE TALKING ABOUT YOU RIGHT NOW. AND Andrew Santino immediately called out the stupidity of Bobby's statement. Yeah, and if I was black I'd be IN THE NBA. WHAT DOES THAT EVEN MEAN? YOU'RE JUST MAKING UP [ __ ] LATER, Andrew Schulz asked Santino and Bobby to do a skit.

That's your That's your son, okay? Needs a heart transplant. There's no donor. And you realize there's only one heart that can go in your son's chest. Little did Bobby know that Santino was setting him up.

My son I love you so much. And I got to tell you the only heart that you can have is mine. Thank you, daddy. But I'm not going to give it to you. What the Because there's so many other Koreans I CAN BUY.

WHAT? GOODBYE, MY SON. BOBBY'S GREATEST HUMILIATION, HOWEVER, was when everyone came together to set one of the best jokes in flagrant history. What do you think love is, Bobby? what addiction does.

Is that why you stayed in that relationship so long? You got up like a Transformer. Bobby's the only Transformer that's more dangerous as a car, though. Showing that no disrespectful person is ever safe from a comedian's brutal shutdowns.