---
video_title: "When Matt Rife Has 0 Tolerance For Disrespect"
video_id: OyjbilExzAs
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OyjbilExzAs
video_date: 2025-07-06
video_description: |
  When Matt Rife Has 0 Tolerance For Disrespect
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From shutting down a disrespectful Karen, you say, "Who am I? I'm about to be your shut up." to annihilating a loud heckler. If you say one more thing, I'm going to let both these dudes the Here are 11 times Matt Refe had zero tolerance for disrespect. Starting with a guy whose actions justified the injury he got.

Playing horse. You dunked on horse. You a piece of dude. You deserve exactly what you got coming to. It all started when Matt spotted an audience member with crutches.

You got crutches? You okay? Yeah, I'm good. You good? I mean, not really. What

happened? I tore my patella tendons. You tore your patella tendon? Yeah, I did. Oh, that's one of your tendons, dude.

Doing what? Dunking. Dunking. You know you're white. Why would you do that?

And Matt's destruction intensified the more the heckler provided context. heard of soon as you jumped it just snapped. That's pretty funny. That's pretty humbling for God. How old are you?

30. 30? Yeah. You done doing that, man? Sit down. Pick up pickle ball like an adult

trying to dunk at 30. Are you crazy? Oh, John Morant shoots you, dude. But when the heckler made an awkward truth drop, Matt stopped holding back altogether. I was just playing basketball with her messing around with her. You were dunking on your

girlfriend. This story keeps getting lamer and lamer. Oh my god. Were you [ __ ] Were you doing her dirty, too? Were you Were you crossing her?

Play horse. Playing horse. You dunked on horse? You a piece of dude. And from that point, there was no stopping Matt's rampage.

That's some petty [ __ ] to do, man. To dunk on horse. That's soing rude. Selfish. Really?

I hope she cheats on you with a basketball player. A white one. A white one. That's not going to ruin his life. All right. Matt

humbling someone for insulting their partner isn't new because he did it again in another show while he was asking the crowd for their red flags in others. Who can talk flip-flops? What's Legos in his bedroom? Well, maybe don't 8-year-olds in the first place. Maybe not.

elaborate. He had a Lego village in his bedroom. He had a Lego village in his bedroom. Okay. So, you don't with architecture.

And Matt didn't take long to call out the woman's hypocrisy. Nice. What are you doing out here? Uh working. Working. Oh, what do you do?

Uh crypto. I want to roast you, but you going to be poor in 4 years, and I really don't want to really don't want to with that. You mad at this dude for building imaginary cities. You playing with imaginary money. While this heckler insulted her ex, this next one disrespected Matt indirectly by ruining his live show.

Please stop yelling. You're in the front row. You're 4 feet away from me. It's super loud. You say, "Who am I?" I'm about to be

your murderer. Shut up. Yeah. Not just for me. For the beautiful couple right next to you, I would really appreciate if you would stop screaming in their ears.

And Karma had Matt's back. She was one of those people, right? She wasn't

her seat. It wasn't her seat. Who was supposed to be there? She's from up here. She's from up there. Ew.

You guys let a poor person sit up here. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm scared. But luckily, Matt struck a roast gold mine when he found the heckler's phone.

Throw it. Throw it. Throw it. Throw it. Throw it. it.

[ __ ] There's a face pose. Who's ugly? [Applause] Does anybody have too much makeup on? And Matt kept amping up his mockery. You know what? You know what makes the

most sense? This [ __ ] has an Android. Ew. Ew. [Applause] Dude, he runs on minutes, dog.

We make sure this burner phone gets back to her. But just as Matt was running out of ammo, an audience member reloaded his arsenal. It was their first mom's weekend. It was their first mom's weekend. Those are mothers.

[Applause] Child protective services. Ew. Somebody came inside of them. And as if humiliating her smartphone wasn't enough, Matt took shots at her income, too. Is there cash?

We'll toss that up here. I actually want that. Thanks. She threw five, which is exactly what she was. Oh man, she threw a whole $5 up here. I'm sure

that's a whole shift for her.

And as much as Matt hates inappropriate simps like this one, he also expressed his hate for openly disrespectful astrologers and his Netflix special. This is going to be the death of me. I swear if I hear one more person blame how their life is going on Mercury, I will kill you myself. Do you understand? I am so tired of you ladies blaming your poor decision-making skills on planets that don't even know you. And Matt hit

zodiac enthusiasts exactly where it hurt. Astrology is not this magical life guideline that that predetermines your future in the stars. No, none of that. Your future is depended by your own thoughts, opinions, and actions. You are in complete control of how your future turns out. Just because Jupiter has a

ring and you don't doesn't mean doesn't mean that's who you're supposed to look up to. But Matt wasn't done dragging them across the Milky Way yet. The girl of your dreams will look you straight in the eyes and say some dumb like, "Would do you even know how the universe works?" No, but tell me, professor. Well, there's a little planet called Mercury, and when it slows it rotation around the sun a little bit, it causes it to go into retrograde 98 million miles away. And that's when my life is

just in absolute shambles. You know what I mean? Like it's it's literally not even up to me. Like And before he moved on, Matt mocked their celestial fantasies two final times. It's in the stars and like we're literally all stardust. You know what I

mean? Yeah. You're going to die alone. Your life isn't in shambles because of a planet in the sky. It's because you can't live without a vape in your mouth.

And you only guys who need to borrow your car. Okay. And just like Matt didn't hold back roasting the astrology community, he didn't have any problem grilling the gay community either. I know. I know. I I just couldn't

support gay marriage. It all went down when Matt encountered a sassy gay couple in his front row. Gay. He said, "Uh, duh. You can do whatever you want.

You can do whatever I want. Can you have a Can you do that? It's personal preference, really." But even if it was playful, Matt wasn't going to let the disrespect slide. Married, you said already. I missed I

missed the wedding. It was this past May. Yeah, like two weeks before we were supposed to see you. Two weeks before you were supposed to see me. I know. I know. I I just couldn't

support gay marriage. And Matt kept dropping backtoback bombs. Indoor, outdoor? Um, both. Both. the wedding reception. It was like

a glass roof with, you know, it had a a switch that like we open the roof. You could retract the roof. Oh, that's pretty good. This is an expensive ass wedding. Who paid for this? Not your

parents. We'll retract the roof so maybe you can get into heaven. But before he moved on, Matt rubbed some salt in their wounds one last time. You got no kids? Not yet.

Not yet. Keep trying. We do. Keep trying. And that's not the first time Matt has had trouble in his front row because this next guy also got humbled for drinking beyond his capacity. It all started when Matt

spotted an odd man out near him. You guys got dressed up. That's nice. Except for you. You just come from a pickup game and you got full on shorts on right now.

You just got off of work. What job let you let you dress like that? But the guy's reply completely stumped Matt. I actually sell houses. You sell houses? Get the out of here.

You think I'm buying a house from you? There is no way. This is a You twotory cardboard boxes. I don't fix them. Right now I'm drinking and then in 5 minutes I'm going be drinking.

You don't sell houses, bro. There ain't no way. There is no way. And regardless of how many indirect hints Matt dropped, the guy was unaffected. Thank you, man. as you scratch your bare

leg at me like we in the living room, man. I love you, man. But god damn, this is an event. I You are not going to manage a goddamn thing. You couldn't You couldn't manage to put on pants. You think I'm going to

let you manage my career? But Matt was having none of it. They're expensive, bro. You want one? A Newport?

No, I don't want a cigarette, man. Is this show? This has been one of the worst shows. Not overall, but like a very select 3%. And the guy's antics didn't stop despite the rest of the crowd turning against him.

Well, you guys are over it. He was about to punch him in the back of the head anytime y'all want. I'll back y'all up. Who you texting right now? Your dealer.

Sorry. I know. I know the purple one. You still haven't lit the Newport yet. It's been like 15 minutes.

But when Matt couldn't handle his BS anymore, he gave the guy a lethal warning. Like, don't don't drink more. No, it's not almost done. That's like five good chugs in there. My mom never raised quitting, but I'm done. No more drinking. No more drink.

I'm done. If you say one more thing, I'm going to let both these dudes of [Music] God. And just like this heckler, this next one also turned the situation awkward with bizarre statements until Matt set her straight. Black Jesus. What?

Why did that sound like the whitest possible woman? What did you say? I have black Jesus. You have black Jesus. You brought him with you. I hope he's

related to you or this is going to go terrible. And the woman's response didn't make the situation any better. Do you know him? Well, he came with me. I'm sure slave owners use the same excuse. You can't

you can't just say it like that. We No, they they just came they they came with us. But when the woman did clarify, Matt wasn't so pleased. What do you mean he or do do you guys know each other? Right.

Thank God. How do you guys know each other? He's my adopted boy. He's your adopted boy. I don't like anything about this. I

don't like that you purchased him. I don't I don't like that you called him boy. And whatever the heckler said after that was just ammunition for Matt's gunfire. Like legally you adopted him. His mom wouldn't let you, so you stole him.

You know this doesn't sound good. He likes you more than he likes his mom. I feel like you're making him say this. But when the heckler told Matt where she found her adopted kid, Matt gave her a reality check advisory. So you you were at your son's high school and you were like, "Who's your little friend?

The the the one with a year round TAM. Who who is who is that? You're by the staff. Family. Your whole family. Smart family.

You're adorable. But I' I've seen the blind side too many times to know how the story really goes. And just like this show was interrupted by the heckler's absurd statement. This next one was stopped by someone's absurd laughter. I've tried everything.

Is somebody choking the out of a swan? It sounds like someone's scooting their chair, right? And while Matt tried to be understanding, the laugh would pop up again. I have to be able to see. I want to make sure they're not rich.

How bad would that have been if we're like what a stupiding laugh and they're like I can't help it. You okay? Not choking, right? Well, but this time Matt put her on a sarcastic blast. I'm going to need you to not enjoy this show.

That's bad. Before Matt transitioned to his next joke, he couldn't help but throw a one-two combo. Where is she? She's beautiful. We'll see.

You are beautiful. On the outside, you are a moose on the inside. Like she used to be like he was like, as if laughing loudly isn't already disrespectful enough, another audience member started smoking weed during one of his shows. Matt also caught a guy's awkward wardrobe malfunction. You been having a good time, Joe?

Awesome time. Can I make it awkward for you? Bring it on. I can see your whole in the back. I can see I can see the whole thing. Don't

look. He's got a They are really nice green slacks, but they areing squeezing that thing. And Matt cleverly masked his call outs as compliments. They is getting strangled. Also, congratulations.

You got a nice beard, Joe. Can't wait to see what that thing wears. Christ, you got a toupe on that mother. Got Theo Vaughn's hair for sure. But while Matt went easy on this guy, he went full roast mode for this next drunk heckler who kept ruining his show.

Already passed. [Music]

speaking right now. Is it really you being annoying me, too? And when the woman tried to fight back, Matt ended the battle with a verbal checkmate. [Applause] You have a girlfriend? Yes, I do. No

dude wants to get you. [Music]

[Music] clearing up once and for all that if you disrespect Matt Refe, you better prepare for what's coming for