---
video_title: "When Bill Burr Demolishes Talk Show Hosts"
video_id: SIEuyqLFpyY
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIEuyqLFpyY
video_date: 2025-04-25
video_description: |
  From dodging Sarah Silverman’s delusion to calmly dismantling the interviewer’s entire point. Here are 10 times Bill Burr demolished talk show hosts.
  
  Subscribe :)
---
From dodging Sarah Silverman's delusion as I'm driving home, I get a text from you that says, "You know I love you, right?" I'm like, "Oh, yeah, I love you, too." That isn't me. To call me dismantling the interviewer's entire point. Don't you think the Catholic Church went a little too far?

More so than my cartoon. Here are 10 times Bill Burr demolished talk show hosts. Starting with Jimmy Kimmel, who fired shots at Bill for getting too angry all the time. You can't take Tom Brady out of a game. You know, you you can't take these guys out. I guess you

could eject somebody. I don't know. Why? Why did I do that? I'm supposed to come out here and you're supposed to be happy. This is how you do. You have

trouble with happiness. Is that hard for you? And that question instantly sent Bill over the line. I'll tell you what bugged me was your fake concern there. The way the way he leaned in and you squinted your face. I tell you, do you

have trouble being happy? No. I I don't have a problem being happy. I have a great time being happy as long as nobody asked me that question. I'm not walking around in a rage, but like if you say something stupid, I'm, you know, I'm going to look at you. But when Jimmy

later tried to make a comeback, he only got shot down again. Bill Burr, he takes the fun out of absolutely everything. You can see. No, no, no, no. Wait a minute. Wait a minute.

Tom, you ain't leaving on that. I'd like to see you playing softball where they had the I used pitch from a regulation mom. They moved the wall in like 200 ft. Get the out of here. Good everybody. And just like Jimmy,

Conan and his co-hosts were also caught in Bill's cannon fire when he came guns blazing out on their podcast. Why do you have athletic souls on your wing tips?

I just noticed that. You never know. I just noticed that. These are beautiful wing tip shoes. And then at the bottom, they just have a little like a rubber grip. Yeah. In case a pickup game of

hoop, someone would pick you on the team. All right. And with the shoes came the socks. Gold toe socks. I'm a banker. What are you, a sitcom dad

in the 50s? Honey, I'm home. Hello. I got a new I got a new company car. Listen. Ah, it's great to be white.

Later, when Bill was talking about arguing with his wife, the co-host got caught in his crossfire as well. I just think like, you know what? It's it's just going to be an argument and I'm going to I'm going to give in and then we're going to do this dumb anyway, so why not just act like I want to do it, you know, and it keeps the peace. I slowly die inside, but as we're doing it, I don't need you to act like you care. And Bill wasn't going to move on without dropping one last bomb on her.

You sound like you're watching a rescue dog commercial. A You want one? No. No. I I work too much. Gas it. Well, I'm

sure your wife is always right, too. Just No. No. She is right a lot of the time. She is. See how that works? Very

nice. Just you just agree with them. You talk like this. Ear to ear grin. Have you done? While Bill was just busting

Conan's balls, he went all out on Oprah Winfrey twice for her nonsensical takes. The first happened on Build when the interviewer asked Bill about his opinion on one of his past jokes. Talked about how women praise each other all the time for for being mothers and they say m being a mother is the hardest job out there. Most difficult job in the Oprah said that. Oprah said that. Yeah. Has

that has your opinion on that on that phrase changed at all since since you had a kid? No. And Bill just couldn't help joking about it? It's not the most difficult job on the planet. It just isn't.

Dude, I did roofing in July. I almost as a redhead, I almost died. But no one knew that Bill was just getting started with one of his legendary rants. There's people that work on like oil. What was that movie that guy made? The oil the

you know when they Horizon. Yeah. Those guys were working on on an oil rig. Theing thing blows up. They're on fire.

They got to jump into water that's on fire. And Bill ended the argument in one go. Salty water into their wounds. You got to swim out of that oil and fire and then tread water praying to God that the Coast Guard is going to get there before the sharks do. Now talk to me about a toddler. Oh,

he was so fussy today. I just he wouldn't eat his peas. Putting Oprah on blast wouldn't be a first for Bill because he also did it on Conan's show while discussing Lance Armstrong's doping controversy. I didn't think Lance owed anybody. Uh, he didn't do anything to me.

You know what he did for me? He raised $500 million for cancer research. That's what that lie did. Yeah, it was great. And everybody had the bands on. Remember

the bands? Sure. Right. That that blocked out the sun. Right. And soon,

Bill brought up Oprah's interview where Lance admitted taking drugs and immediately floored the roast pedal. And I hated how Oprah was interviewing him and acting like she was dumbfounded that this guy would do this. Like she's been in show business for 35 years and she can't like wrap her head around some guy doing whatever it takes to get to the next level. Didn't she for the first 5 years have like midgets who wanted to bang their mailman's boyfriend? And Bill's rant only got better and better.

But she stood on the heads of those little people for five years until she got and then she's sitting there across from this guy like like so how could you you know exactly what he's doing? It's the stupidest thing I've ever seen. Just like Oprah, someone else who was humiliated for their dumb takes was Bobby Lee who asked Bill a stupid question as soon as he sat down. We good at Did you shave your head for a part? Huh? a roll. No, I'm bald. But why are

you Your head looks like you know um Darth Vader when he took his helmet off. Wasn't remember that when he was just all up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And Bill

immediately put him on blast for that. I I'm I'm trying to answer your question. Yeah. Go ahead. I just process you coming out of the gate on me. I love how

you came at me aggressive and now you're going you got your p your little panda hand. I love how you attack my little panda hand. That's what you look like. You look like a little panda. I know. I was

just because when you took your shot hat off like a little adolescent bear. Even when Bobby tried to have a conversation later, Bill's sarcasm just wouldn't stop. I was going to tell you how I discovered you. You know, I I do owe my whole career to you. I was I was struggling until Bobby Lee discovered me. I remember it was a

big day in my career. Bobby Lee is finally aware of me. Am I on Bobby Lee's radar? See, this is what he's going to This is when things start to happen. And later, when Bobby started underplaying his achievements, Bill corrected him on the spot. Things are kind of slowly

happening for me as well, right? It's just nice to see like, what are you talking about? You've been oning television for like almost 30 years. What are you talking about? Mad TV and everything else. Okay, first of all, MAD

TV was like doing community theater. That's how much we got paid. Happens. But you were still on TV. You still walk down the street and people like, "Oh my god, it's Bobby Lee from Mad TV." Oh,

but before he moved on, Bill made sure to bury Bobby 6 ft deep. But I'm just saying that kind of empathy that I have for you right now is just off. How much of your day is trying to pick this up and keep it buoyant? I know. Just like Bobby, Colin Cowardd also asked Bill absurd questions only for Bill to turn the tables on him. You seem so

reasonable. Pat, our Patriot fans like it's so funny with the Red Sox. It doesn't matter how great you are. I just love how you go into questions. Okay.

So, just let me You seem so reasonable. Okay. What unreasonable Boston person you going to trash this time? Okay. So, with the We're discussing politics. And

Colin's exposition didn't stop there. Do you feel do you lean a little can a little Boston? They look at Tom and go, "He kind of stuck it to the system. The guy beat the system." Oh, this is such a real housewife question. Is his victory somebody else's

defeat? But when Colin kept bashing Bill's home baseball team, he finally took Colin to the cleaners. You You hate Boston. I get it. You hate Boston and you're you're I don't know what your deal is. I don't know what happened to

you when you went to Boston. I don't I don't know what happened. Okay. But I am not their representative. I left almost I left more than a quarter of a century ago. I'm sorry you went on the freedom

trail and uh you didn't get to meet Paul Rivere or whatever they promised you. While Bill might have gone too hard on Colin for his takes, he went even harder on Sarah Silverman, who earned her roast by being aggressive right from the start. Please welcome brilliant comedian who I love to pieces but who makes me crazy, Bill Burr. But you have to We always fight. We fight. No, cuz I go on stage and then

you try to correct my jokes. I don't try to correct you like, "But what if you said if the woman did this because of this?" And as if being aggressive wasn't enough, Sarah also started making absurd claims. Sometimes I read interviews with you and you talk about everything you hate and if you added it all up, you would get me. But somehow we love each other. Am I correct in saying that? I

think that you love me. Cuz every time we fight, as I'm driving home, I get a text from you that says, "You know I love you, right?" And I go, "Yeah, I love you, too." That isn't me. But instead of backing off, Sarah only made things worse. Are you serious?

Well, my memory isn't good. But I don't remember doing that. I'll show you. I What? You saving? I can't believe you're

No, texts just exist. Yeah, I I pressed save on my text. What kind of phone do you have? No, I like delete them after a while. What are you saving it for? And

when Sarah tried making the interview awkward again, Bill flipped the script on her. You delete texts? Yeah. Oh, I never do because all our friends and then it's all you have left.

How many have you had? I'm I count. I have a huge list. 30. 30? Yeah. Get

something funny out of that. But Bill's mockery wouldn't stop there. Who's the guy you think I think you are? I I don't know. I don't know who sent you those texts.

I'm going toinging host them. No, I won't. Okay. I remember driving home and you being like, you know, I love you. And I was like, I love you, too.

Does not ring a bell at all. When the way you just did it, it did. As Sarah became more obsessive, however, Bill had to finally cut her down to size. I love you. Look at my posture right now. I'm

like I'm as far over into this chair as I could possibly be. I just feel like kind of came here to hang out and have a good time. And you're just like like that intro was just like it was just I thought you'd like that. I hate this guy. He's a douchebag, but he came down here. I That's how I heard it.

While Bill went soft on Sarah, these next news hosts wouldn't be so fortunate after accusing him of being disrespectful. So your Christian background is is part of the the show. Yes. And I wanted to talk to you about Jesus after that. Well, I the only reason why I bring it up is some people thought maybe you went a little too far, you know, as far as what? Well, they

thought that maybe you were being disrespectful to the Christian religion. I'm telling you, you need to Google. Oh, good lord. But Bill's comeback would soon point out the irony of her statement. I don't even know what I mean, we did maybe two jokes about that.

Yeah, exactly. Don't you think the Catholic Church went a little too far? More so than my cartoon. A couple of jokes. I know this is a morning show.

You can't bring up all those crimes. You know what? They just they just sort of kept moving them around. You know, like those killer whales at SeaWorld, after it kills a trainer, they'll then move it up to Seattle. They don't give them their background. And while both hosts

tried taking subtle jabs at him, Bill stayed unfazed. So Ethics for family, I mean, it's really politically incorrect before politically incorrect was even a term. People, they laugh because they're they're already talking about it, so it's not that big a deal. We all have dark thoughts sometimes, but you go there public and you do it, even though it's edgy, kind of make it safe in a way. Yeah. Well, what's going to happen?

I'm just talking. I mean, it's not like I'm not doing anything. Nevertheless, the hosts kept trying to politically correct him. I remember when I moved here in '94, it was, you know, Alphabet City, you were taking your life in your hands and it was like junkies and stuff like that. So, it was just really like a lot harder than to like even like impress people. And now, I mean, I don't

I don't know. I again, the good old days. Anyway, you know what? They don't even call it Alphabet City anymore. You know that? They call it like the Lower

East Side things, gentrification, whatever. Was that offensive to illiterate people? But before the show was over, Bill made the news hosts regret their remarks. F is for family on Netflix out right now. He'd be a little more comfortable. He threw some trash

around the studio, right? He misses the old New York. And you're not the only one. I want to meet those religious people that got upset. I want to quiz them on their religion. All right, we'll

talk about why did I bring that up, Bill? Why did you bring it up? This morning show this supposed to be an easy one. Just like these two hosts regretted inviting Bill, this next host felt the same when Bill used not so TV friendly language on her family-friendly TV show. You know, I was reading a little bit about you and it says that you have a tendency to kind of go with your first thought. Yeah. Because reading makes you

sleepy. That's right. And my first thought is this is the best week to be here. The week before the Super Bowl. That is so true. Before all the fly in,

you know. Yeah. Just want to get out just want to get out of here before that. But it's true. This is like the Oscars for Okay. All right. This entire

week, let's remember, we're two-rated here, folks. And to quickly change the topic, the interviewer came up with a game. Sorry. Did you know this is National Blueberry Pancake Day, right? I'm sure you woke up and that was the first thing on on on your mind.

Absolutely. So, I want to give you a little quiz, a little test. All right. Because you can't look at my script, but okay. There are some very famous cereal box icons and I want you to be able to look at some of these characters and see if you can determine which cereal it's associated with. However, her plan

quickly backfired. Okay, let's look at our first one. You're going to see the monitor down here. Let's look at our first one. Okay. Oh, it's behind us.

Sorry about that. Oh, it's behind us. Yes. Who's that? That's my uncle. No,

it's not. Although you do resemble him. Yeah. But next, let's see who Okay. Who's that? That's the uh that's the

tricks bunny. Yes. Wired out of his mind. And Bill didn't miss the chance to embarrass the woman even more. All right. This guy, can you see him? Yeah.

That's the uh Oh, that's one of the founding fathers who said that all men are created equal as long as they're white, right? Isn't that what it is? One of those guys. No, it's not. It's oats man.

And we have bsentennial froot loops guy. No, it's not. While the interviewer escaped Bill's roasts, Howie Mandel couldn't do the same on his own podcast when Bill exposed his real personality. You know what I like about you? What?

You ask me questions. Mhm. Like if I give you the answer that you don't want, you're going to consider it. But I know you're not. I know you already have your mind made up about when I'm going to air it. Just about everything. After taking

shots at Howie's persona, Bill went for his germaphobia. You have like the violet lenses for whatever reason. So I don't get headaches. Oh, why why is that funny? Why? Because

you you like live life on a pillow and you just you walk around like you're in a war zone. You won't shake hands. You got like violet like glass. You're very you're very sensitive. Despite this how he tried to build his image up only for Bill to quickly dismantle it again.

Well, I I am living in a war zone. I have a war zone going on inside my own head. I've talked about it. I've been very open about it. Mhm. But this is why

you go on TV and judge other artists to make you feel like a big man. You know, I like the juggling of the pins, but I felt maybe you could have had five instead of four. Guess what? You're not going to Vegas. Before the podcast came to an end, Bill made sure to tell Howie exactly what he thought of him one last time. You'd never put me in anything. I

know you direct and you write. You never call me. You never You're a lot. What? You're a lot.

It's not about talent. Howard, we know you have talent. Do I want to be around this person? Do I want to deal with this guy 14 hours a day? And sometimes you're on the fence and other times it's just an obvious no. While Howie's podcast was

brutal, it pales in comparison to this next interview where Bill's roasts literally made the interviewer cry. It all started when Bill was talking about the problems of having a woke audience. You can make fun of fat people, cripples, anything you want to make fun of. And then when you come around to the thing that they just decide that this is not a joking matter no matter what. Then all of a sudden you're not a comedian anymore. Then all

of a sudden you got to be like right it's like you're on Meet the Press. Little did Bill know, however, that his interviewer was one of them. You could curse as much as you want here. But don't please don't say Why? Because politically. Politically I think

they're called differentlyabled or Okay. Something so crippled funny. Can you try not to say crippled? Crippled sounds like that old school, you know. Yeah.

Wagon wheel. Broke you on the wheel. But things only got worse when the interviewer started criticizing Bill's new DVD special. This this photo of you on the back. That's me in action. Yeah.

I I don't believe that that's you in action. I feel like that's me in action. This is you in action, not posed. What did they do to this microphone? I don't I'm sure you can't see this, but this microphone is clearly It's clearly not a wireless mic, but there's no but there's no wire coming out of it. And when he

got the chance, Bill finally took the interviewer down a notch. What kind of interview was this way? And I was just going to all over it. That's so funny that you picked that out. I thought everyone was going to notice that. I am

holding the smallest microphone. This is totally a photo shoot. So, you're lying to me. That is a photo shoot. I'm not lying to you. I was having fun with you.

5 seconds later, if I tell you what it actually is, that means I'm breaking balls, man. That's all I'm doing. Nevertheless, the interviewer kept criticizing him. So, Bill finally took him to the cleaners. Look at this.

That's for mechanics out there. What's wrong with that? Really? Is that Is that you in action or is this another photo shoot? Yeah, it's a photo shoot. People do photo shoots. I

know. Have you ever seen like a movie poster and you'll see a movie star who's clearly 5'2 yet somehow he's as tall as the super? Yeah, that's that's a photo shoot. They fix stuff. Look, I'm sorry. You're just on the web,

man. And as if nailing his coffin wasn't enough, Bill also buried him 6 ft deep. You You took it this He took it to this place. I'm not trying to on his website. What is it called again? Huh?

Zippitydooah.com. You got it. Huh? You mother. You have me

on your show and you start trashing my DVD. You're a sensitive man, dude. I'm I'm joking. Come on, man. Listen, you know, it' be great if somehow I made you cry. But Bill didn't know his silly joke

would actually come true. Bill, we're going to we're going to go. Okay. Uh this has been Bill Burr. You've been watching a tight five on punchlineagazine.com and on rooftop

comedy.com. Bill, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much for having me. I really appreciate it. I hope you

didn't take anything personal. No, absolutely not. Okay, cool. Come on, man. Don't be like that. All

right. Look at me. Comforting. See that? You're a goddamn man.