---
video_title: "When Comedians Have 0 Tolerance For Disrespect"
video_id: TfDZgNWexA0
channel_name: "Page"
channel_id: UC__1MDk4Tyu5P9vN-9tKiDg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TfDZgNWexA0
video_date: 2025-05-31
video_description: |
  When Comedians Have 0 Tolerance For Disrespect
  
  Subscribe :)
---
Because Matt Refe was also rushed on stage during his standup in Chicago. Crushed the Oh my god, dog. Can Can I help you? Jesus Christ. I mean, my security ising on one, dog.

Holy

[ __ ] Is that the guy in Australia? But despite almost getting attacked, Matt still kept the jokes coming. First of all, no one's ever rushed the stage ever. And also never as lovingly. At first instincts I was like do I have to hit this person? But he was

like I was like while he praised his personal bodyguard the audience security was put on blast. Yeah. Are you good? What a tackle dog. Damn. Good.

[Applause] I could have been st. He did make it to the middle. You fired for sure. But it didn't take long for Matt to turn a scary situation into material for the show. I'm pretty sure I heard you say, "There he goes." He didn't look like he could

afford those seats. That's what threw me off. I was like, "Is this really happen?" And then I'm like, "Is this my guy?" I was like, "Is this how my cameraman quits?" He's just like, and just like

Matt's obsessed Stan ruined the show, a drunk heckler did the same by constantly cutting off Jimmy Carr's jokes. Teenage, there's better to be something on there. Is that Is that guy all the time? Shut the Hey, man. You're great. Just sit there. I've got

you at a 10. We need you at an eight. You're not in the rest of the show. Is that all right? But when the same guy interrupted his show once again, Jimmy was having none of it. Say that. One of

my best friends in the world is a lesbian girl. And um is that the same guy? I've got some terrible news for you, sir. You look as if you've been drinking fairly heavily, my friend. Possibly a little bit of cocaine in the mix. We're

going to buy you a beer, but you're going to have to off. And as the heckler left, Jimmy took him to the cleaners again and again. I don't think you're quite getting up and [ __ ] off enough. I'm I'm absolutely serious. I hope hope we haven't ruined your evening. I'll always remember the €30

you spent. We're going to have him beaten and outside. Christ, if I hadn't kicked him out, I think you might have. While Jimmy just roasted a single heckler for being annoying, Bill roasted every disrespectful gold digger out there in his legendary ramp. You see Sugar Shay Mosie, one of the greatest boxers of all time. He's losing his

championship belt in a divorce. Losing. Yeah. It's like you're trying to break a man. Why does she want those?

Right. They they go with her shoes. I love how when you get a divorce, all of a sudden it costs like 50 grand a month to give a kid Froot Loops. And once he was on, Bill did not give a damn if he was on live TV. An epidemic of gold digging in this country and it is just not being addressed on any level. What are you

talking about? What do you mean? What am I talking about? Every guy out there is just getting that nobody's safe. Oh my god. Nobody's safe. But even in jokes,

Bill pointed out a very real problem in today's world. Guys need to be educated. There's nothing out there to help a guy handle becoming rich and famous for that that that platoon of that's gonna come over the hill like like Braveheart faces painting skirt on just there's nothing out there. And after Gold Diggers, the last target on Bill's hit list were TV personalities. I'm so sick of all these trolls coming on TV judging these great men. All these

guys, anytime one of these guys gets caught for screwing around, these guys come waddling out of their cubicles with their jawbles. Absolutely reprehensible behavior. Like, they have any idea what it's like to be tempted at that level. While Bill went off on shallow gold diggers and nasty TV personalities for ruining men's lives, Ricky went off on the trans crowd that were attacking women online. Women. Not all women. I I mean the

oldfashioned ones, you know, the oldfashioned women. Oh, God. You know, the ones with wombs. Oh, those dinosaurs. Leading Ricky to roast the woke community with acute sarcasm. No, I love

the the new women. I know the new women. They're great, aren't they? You know, the new ones we've been seeing lately, the ones with beards and they're as good as They're as good as gold. I love them.

And now the old fashioned they oh they want to use our toilets. Why shouldn't they use your toilets for ladies? They are ladies. Look at their pronouns. But Ricky wasn't done obliterating the wannabe activists just yet. What about

this person isn't a lady. Well, his her you bigot. What if he me? What if she you [Music] and just like Ricky Rob Schneider also scorched the LGBTQ community for the excessive respect they get. I'm all for gay pride, gay weekend parade, I will say gay pride month seems a little greedy. It's a month we only get

12 basically 11 because then it's gay pride month again. four weeks in a in a four weeks in a row. And Rob began offering the community some options. They didn't even try to break that up, you know. Have a week in January, come back in April after he healed up, you know, and then August, who gives a August, who cares, you know, and then New Year's, you know, New Year's, who hasn't sucked on New Year's, frankly, live your life. Don't cheat yourself. But in that

same breath, Rob also exposed the irony of modern woke culture. Four weeks in a row we get veterans day. You fight for the country, you get a day. Thank you for fighting for the country. Oh, sorry.

Day's over. Take the meat off the barbecue. That's it. You get a day. That's it. Day. Thank you for fighting

for the country. Memorial weekend. You for the country to give you a weekend. And Rob had one last anecdotal bomb to drop. Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves, kept the Union together. Gets a date.

Not even his own day. He's got a share with George Washington who founded the whole [ __ ] country. He doesn't get a day either. But if they would have sucked each other's dick, they would have got a whole month. That's all I'm saying. But

while Rob took shots on someone else's behalf, Andrew owned the Full Send podcast when a host got busy texting in the middle of a conversation. Most people don't offer deals. True. So they're going, "Well, I'm getting he's probably getting you know what I'm saying." It's hard to have empathy for that. Yeah. No, that makes sense.

I think we lost him. What? No. My fault. I don't even know where I was going to go. Where are we at? And Andrew wasn't

going to let the disrespect slide. You know what bothers you the most right now? Nothing. Nothing bothers you. You looking at your phone while we're doing this interview and everybody seeming disinterested. Were you looking at notes

or or or texting girls? Notes. Notes. Yeah. I'm What do you mean? Me taking

time out of my day to do this and then feeling like forcing you guys to do the podcast? I've never been more excited to do a podcast. Say again. I've never been more excited. I'm sorry. But Andrew

recognized something off in Steiny's apology and tore into him for it. No, to apologize. You asked me what annoyed me and I gave you an honest answer. Wait, are you being serious about that? Yeah, that annoyed me. Really? Yes. So, if

someone is surprising to you? Well, if I'm looking at my notes, I have some things personally that I wrote that I wanted to ask you. Not on my So, I can't look at that and then ask you that. I mean, you can, I guess. What if someone in the audience is on their phone when you're doing that? Then they don't get

the same treatment you got. And now that he had entered roast mode, he took shots at the entire podcast. Are you guys friends with each other? Yeah. Like you don't get that vibe? No. Why not? Cuz

the chemistry is weird. Well, I there's almost none of it. Why do you say that? I don't know. It's just I like I don't get it. What? What's What's

confusing? So I can help break it down for you. It's like a weird thing. But no matter how uncomfortable it got, Andrew's brutal honesty didn't stop. Do you guys like do you have stories where you like bust balls? Like are there

Yeah, we usually have a different guy who sits in. We wanted to have Steve on this one. So Brad and what Brad usually drives it or something like that? What do you mean? Like is he usually driving the interview? Why? You don't think

we're doing a good job of that? No, not really. I mean, it's not my favorite. And as the episode came to an end, he had some final words for Steiny. And right now you're making this podcast about you, which is the most boring part of the conversation. We have much more

interesting people to discuss whose lives are more fascinating. No. Oh, I don't ever want to do a podcast again. I I honestly can't tell if you're playing a character or not. And I think that that's a real problem. But when Louis CK

guested on Andrew's podcast, the script completely flipped with Andrew disrespecting Louiswis's part Mexican ancestry. The Alphab bad city used to have its own character, its own It was its own place. Yes, it was. And now it's kind of Yeah. been gentrified by you people moving here to follow your dreams to our great city. Yeah, me and the

Mexicans gentrified the Mexicans coming in. That's right. Now, you lie a lot about being Mexican. Can Can you You're a big time liar about being Mexican. Can you cut that out a little bit? And when

Andrew kept doubting Louiswis's heritage, he resorted to a racist test. Why do you think it's lie? Do you speak Spanish? CLIP way.

Go ahead. Yo, he was struggling. You don't speak Spanish. Shut that up already. But this time, Lewis wasn't going to stay silent. Yeah, it's a

grammar. That's what makes a person a person. Don't be defensive. I own it. I'm defensive about it. But you don't

even know anything about why I'm Mexican. I mean, why do you think Do you really think I don't know why you're Mexican? I don't know anything about what you know. I think that you're I think you're from where you are from in the world. Where am I from?

Like stupid land. Is that called? And Lewis dismantled Andrew's entire upbringing in one roast. You act like a dumb guy cuz you make you make money acting like a dumb guy. Okay. But you're

smart. You're educated. You were raised with a lot of money. Party school. Yeah.

People with the money intelligent people with money go to party school. You wish you were like with Leonard Conn and people like smoking Hatch. I don't know who those but you live in East Village. Nice. You had nice parents. You were

sheltered. You had a good life. It was beautiful. It was a great life. But when Lewis questioned Andrew's New York City origin that he prides himself on it struck a nerve. Up in the East Village

Place. Wow. And there was a French influence. Place. Yeah. Yeah. Starbucks.

Did you just question whether it was the East Village for a second? I didn't dislike you until that moment of this podcast and I almost wanted to punch you in your head. You looked over at Joe like Joe is going to know what the the East Village was. Then Lewis didn't miss the chance to hit Andrew exactly where it hurt. Do you see how important it is to him that he's from the East Village?

Nothing if he's not a New Yorker. That's it. New Yorker. East Village. That's how important that is to you. No, it was

just what the hell is of growing up on Aster Place is that you're not quite there and you'll never close. Right now we're on Lafayette. You're in the border. You wish you were. While Andrew took Louiswis's roasts and good banter, this next heckler got offended over Steve Hopsteader's simple cop joke. And

sometimes I talk back to cops. Um, I'm still alive cuz I'm white. But like, oh, do you not know? Do you not know what's going on? It's a thing.

Um, by the way, if anyone's really offended cuz they're a cop and they're offended that I'm talking about them. I'm talking about the cops, the people. So, if you're offended by that joke, you're a cop. Um, and despite Steve clarifying it, someone in the front still ended up getting triggered. I have this thing where I don't like people. Some of y'all get it.

Some of y'all need to meet more people or uh guys in the program. Thank you. I appreciate that. I disrespected you. But the heckler took his leave when he knew he couldn't handle the roast coming his way. How did

I disrespect you? Oh, that's exactly what I wanted. Perfect. That worked out great. Actually, that was a weird like after school special moment for a second.

I was like, if you please bite down, stop disrespecting me. Like, I think a lot of people have disrespected you for that chip on your shoulder. Holy [ __ ] Steve wasn't done taking him out of the oven just yet. I could have been way meaner. I was like, "Hey, can you keep it down? You don't control me." By the

way, call your dad. Tell him you love Whatever the that was that was weird. All right. What was I talking about? Oh, right. I don't like people. But before

he moved on, Steve let the cop's friends know they were totally fine. What's your name, man? Jeremy. Jeremy. Uh, here's what I'm going to do. Uh, I'm going to

give you a copy of all of my albums after the show because you're a really nice dude and you're the people that you must have picked up at the bus stop or wherever the [ __ ] I don't want him to ruin your night. And after the show, Steve had some parting shots for the cop. So, to the officer who showed up drunk, stole someone else's drink, tried to pick a fight with strangers, wanted me to insult your friend, and embarrass yourself and your colleagues, I hope you see this when you're sober, and you are mortified by your actions. I hope that you learn that to protect and serve doesn't give you the right to bully and intimidate. And I hope you realize that the only person who disrespected you last night was you. Another Steve who

couldn't handle their audience's disrespect is Steve Harvey when half his front row left in the middle of his TV special. Hold on. Hey dog, where y'all going? This a movie we shooting. We just can't have the front row empty. Bring

back. Hey dog. Hey. Okay. Okay.

But when they came back, Steve pinned them down for good with his subtle jabs. I knew you was going to come back. Left something, didn't you? They told me backstage your name Boogie. All right, Boogie. What you do for a living,

Boogie? Computer school. Computer school. Boogie, come on now. And despite it being obvious that he was lying, the guy kept doubling down. I

asked you what you do for a living and the answer that popped into your head was computer school. Let me rephrase the question. How do you earn money? Computer technology. Computer technology. Forcing Steve to

finally call him out. I know we shouldn't say this to one another as black people, but you can't spell mother technology. Know good and hell well your ass ain't into nothing technical. There's nothing about you that says computer or school. And while Steve called the guy out on his real profession, now Boogie, I'm going to get off of you cuz it could lead to trouble cuz you look like you done shot four, five people before. He also let him know

that he was from the hood too. Cuz don't think for one minute you can just whoop my ass. You get that [ __ ] your mind. You can forget about the WB in these goddamn suits. My ass is from the projects. You [ __ ] with me boogie. My

ass projectish. And this just goes to show that if you disrespect a comedian, they are not going to let it slide.