---
video_title: "China's High Speed Rail is Deadly"
video_id: AJgoZObisv4
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AJgoZObisv4
video_date: 2024-02-20
video_description: |
  Shield your online activity from scoundrels! Go to https://Surfshark.deals/serpentza and use code serpentza to get a huge discount and up to 3 extra months for free! 
  
  The harsh reality behind china’s High speed rail...
  
  C-milk's video debunking the whole USA vs China nonsense:
  https://youtu.be/Q60iyRA_7aI?si=fL82cXywiGpkLBRR
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
The harsh reality behind China's highspeed rail. This is China's highspeed rail. I hope you like your drinks shaken and not stirred.

Traveling by train in China can really be a nightmare.

[music] If you enjoy secondhand cigarette smoke, you could be lucky enough to have smokers on board your slick highspeed rail journey.

[music]

China's highspeed rail is deadly, but not in the way that you think. Sure, there have been fatal accidents and huge quality control issues due to the usual Chinese official corruption. In fact, we saw the third deadliest high-speed train wreck in history in China, in which the Chinese authorities tried to black out the media and actually bury train cars to hide the evidence. Yes, unlike any sensible government which would investigate the wreckage thoroughly, they immediately sent out excavators to dig holes and bury the train cars in a failed attempt of getting away scot-free. I mean, why not? The CCP

senses tragedy all the time and gets away with it. It was a horrifying scene. One of China's super elite high-speed trains smacked into the back of another train that had stalled, killing 39 people. And now China's government is trying to bury the lead. They sent out instructions to Chinese journalists covering the tragedy.

Among the highlights, do not investigate the causes of the accident. Instead, the government says concentrate on touching stories like how people are donating blood. They insist all stories have the same theme. In the face of great tragedy, the memo reads, there's great love. Bottom line, do not question. do

not elaborate. But this time they failed, which led luckily to a massive safety overhaul of the highspeed rail, which was for the most part a success. Although further fatal accidents were to occur, like the one in Guay Joe caused by mud on the rail from a landslide. But like I said earlier, the highspeed rail isn't necessarily deadly from an accident point of view. This is you in a coffee shop. This is the coffee shop's

Wi-Fi router. [music] Once connected, you're very happily browsing along, doing your thing. Everything is fine, [music] except for when the man in the middle arrives. This guy tricks your computer into thinking that he is the router, and he tricks the router into thinking that he is your computer. So now everything that goes through from your computer to the internet and back goes through him. He can sniff out the

websites you're going to. He can see the passwords you're entering into those websites. He can see what you're searching for, the pictures you're viewing, and more importantly, he can grab the session tokens, which allow him to go into your banking website or whatever website you have accessed while in the coffee shop and pretend to be you. You can see how bad that could be. What do you do to prevent this? [music]

Simple. Use Surf SharkVPN. Amazing reveal. What happens here is when you connect to the internet using a VPN like Surf Shark, it's all encrypted. It's a virtual private network. So even

if this guy does trick the two of you, even if he does get access to all this information and he can [music] see the traffic, he cannot decipher it. He cannot read it because it's secure. And that is why I use Surf SharkVPN. Go to surfshark.deals/surpa and get a huge discount off of a 2-year plan, plus up to 3 months free. Hey

babe, I just got us three months for free off of Surf Shark. That's surfshock.deals/serpza and use the code serpenta. And now back to the show. Here we see a heroic rail worker saving a young woman from an attempt to end her own life. Thankfully, his quick thinking

saved the day. But this unfortunately highlights the other way in which the highspeed rail is deadly. It is very often used as a way to escape the land of the living by those who see no other way out. In [snorts] a cruel twist of fate, the president of the China Railway Group himself decided to take it upon himself to leave this mortal coil under suspicious circumstances. As to what led to this, scandals and corruption are my educated guess. During my many, many, many, many

journeys on China's highspeed rails, I very rarely didn't run into trouble. Popular routes are hell to travel on due to the crowds. This is what a normal trip from Guanjo to Shenzhen looks like during a normal weekday. And don't get me started on using the highspeed rail during any sort of holiday. It's an absolute nightmare.

Not to mention the overbearing security checkpoints, the constant noise.

And unfortunately, due to no fault of the highspeed rail themselves, the inconsiderate passengers that make life difficult for everyone on board.

In all fairness, I did have plenty of uneventful trips, too.

But noise and crowds are impossible to escape. What I'm trying to point out here is that China's highspeed rail isn't the amazing win most Chinese propagandists would make you believe. Yes, in China, since the vast majority of people are much poorer than even minimum wage earners in the West and cannot afford their own transport, China's robust public transport system makes sense. The highspeed rail, unfortunately, is still too expensive for many, and the entire highspeed rail network runs at a massive loss, incurring huge debt year after year. But hey, it looks great in a propaganda video. Now, I'm not trying to

wholesale poo poo the highspeed rail network in China. I think it's fantastic. It's very convenient. And often in China, because all the planes, I think 80% of all flights are delayed in China, taking the highspeed rail is often faster than flying somewhere. Seriously, I used to do it. But it isn't

some sort of miracle. It's a train. Next time it's raining and you walk into your garage, get into your car, and head off to your destination dry and warm, think of all the poor souls who had to brave the cold and wet to find their way to a bus or train station in China, queue in long lines in order to have their bags x-rayed and themselves frisked. All so they could join a massive undulating sardine tin of a train or bus, endure the noise, sweat, and morning breath only to have to rush back out into the wind and rain to make it to their final destination. So, while you sip on your drive-thru Starbucks listening to your favorite tunes on the radio, spare a thought for all those poor souls in China.

By the way, on a related note, I'm sure you've noticed how many China versus the USA videos are being pumped out by the Chinese propagandists lately. You know, the ones where they'll show um you know, Kensington Avenue with all the drug addicts and then some propaganda oversaturated picture of a Chinese city or something to try and compare America to China. Well, let's nip this in the bud. Semil actually made a proper video completely debunking all the nonsense propaganda. America is worse than China.

Claim number one, China is richer than the USA. False. There are fake websites that come up with completely false information as the first search result. They're saying that the average Chinese person is pulling in like four grand a month. I don't think so.

$339 per year. Not even per month, per year. Please go and give it a watch. Link is in the description below. And don't forget to join us on Friday for the China Show. It's our weekly show. It's a

live show where we talk about all the news coming out of China, the latest and greatest, the funny stuff, and everything else in between. I can't wait to see you then. And as always, you know the drill. Unlike unrealistic propaganda, stay awesome. Smoking is a strictly prohibited on the train. And please do not use a perfume,

hairspray, and other spray products in the toilet. These behaviors will trigger the smoke alarm system and affect the train operations. Smoking on the train would be fined from 500 to 2,000 to1 according to the regulations on railway safety depending on the circumstances. Meanwhile, it would be credited to the personal credit information system according to the regulations on credit information industry and would be imposed restrictions on ticket purchase in 180 days. For your good personal credit, [music] please obey relevant national laws regulations and regulations of the railway company.

Please don't smoke on the CR train. Thank you for your cooperation.