---
video_title: "Kung Fu Master Challenges Tyson - Finds Out"
video_id: GtL_Pwi4V_U
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GtL_Pwi4V_U
video_date: 2024-08-24
video_description: |
  Shield your online activity from scoundrels! Go to https://Surfshark.deals/serpentza and use code serpentza to get a huge discount and up to 4 months extra!
  
  Why would this delusional Kung Fu guy think he could beat Tyson??? Find out....
  
  Byron's Youtube channel Mu Shin Martial Culture:
  https://www.youtube.com/@MuShinMartialCulture
  
  Byron's book - Dragon Body, TIger Spirit:
  https://tinyurl.com/4bapexns
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
So, what happens when a Chinese Tai Chi master challenges Mike Tyson to a boxing match?

So, why would this guy have this crazy idea that he could beat Mike Tyson in a one-to-one match? Well, I was kind of confused. I'm pretty sure you guys are confused as to why this guy would have this ridiculous idea. So, I got a Chinese martial arts expert to come and talk to us. So, everybody, I'd like you to meet my friend. You may know

him. His name is Byron. He's an absolute master at Wushu and Kung Fu and everything that's got to do with Chinese martial arts. I mean, you'll find out through this conversation. But, today we're talking about this absolutely ridiculous situation where a Tai Chi master challenged Mike Tyson. Before we

discuss this ridiculous situation, a quick word from today's sponsor. Wouldn't it be nice to trick somebody who thinks you're going to be somewhere into believing you're somewhere else? Well, that's what a VPN does. When you've got a cybercriminal who's out to get you, he's expecting you to be at a certain IP address. But, your VPN masks your IP address and puts you elsewhere, in a different country even. I don't use

the internet anymore without a VPN, and my VPN of choice is Surfshark. It's a fantastic way to give yourself peace of mind and that little bit of internet security that we all need. But, not only that, it helps you with things like discriminatory price gouging. If you set your server to a different country, you'll find out that you can actually get deals like flights and rental cars cheaper than if you were to order them from your own country. It's weird that way. Surfshark VPN is awesome, though.

Check it out to get some peace of mind, give yourself that extra little bit of security, and take advantage of all the extra services like being able to watch videos that are blocked in your country online. Go to surfshark.com/serpentza to get a huge discount off of a 2-year plan, plus 4 months extra. Hey, babe. I just got us 4 months extra of Surfshark.

Again, go to surfshark.com/serpentza and use the code serpentza and now back to the show. Can you maybe fill everyone in? All right. So, once again, this has been an ongoing thing. We spoke about this

last time. In fact, I was on your show because there was another gent who was a Tai Chi gent. Now, this again, please don't take this as a not sure a bad mark on Tai Chi. It's more of a blot or a bad mark on these individuals, and that's what I think gets lost in the discussion. But, it was a similar situation, and in fact, it involved a similar guy.

That in that case, it was a Tai Chi master called Ma Baoguo. And he was prior to that challenging Xu Xiaodong who had kicked up a hoster and made a whole lot of problems when he beat initially, once again, yet it's Tai Chi master in a couple of seconds, and since then a whole bunch of people had a challenging him. Um he was getting challenges left, right, and center. Yeah. Sorry to interrupt you, but for those of you who don't know who Xu Xiaodong is, he's an incredibly well-known MMA fighter, correct?

Yeah, so he was he called himself China's first MMA practitioner. At that time MMA was very underground here. So, he he is a pioneer in the sense that he started transitioning and introducing concepts and studying other concepts into but he himself wasn't in like there was no professional leagues and things like that for him to fight in. The what you were talking about earlier, the thing that really made him famous is he called out these Tai Chi and these Kung Fu guys who were pretending that they were so powerful and they could beat anyone in a fight and that their Kung Fu was so great and he called them out and beat them in seconds and that's that was his kind of rise to fame, correct? Yeah, well his big rise to fame was in what he called it was called "Dajia".

What he used to say "Dajia". He wants to fight frauds. So, he wasn't against martial arts Chinese martial martial artists but say these people and it started off with a particular person called Wei Lei who were making claims that were utterly ridiculous. In fact, the night before he fought that Wei Lei guy I was at his gym and I was talking to him about this issue and I didn't even know anything but nobody knew anything about this issue. So, he's like I'm going to fight some Tai Chi guy. I'm

like, "Why?" He said the guy made a whole bunch of false claims. I called him out. He said show me so we're having this match. They're just ignorant. They

don't know what they don't know. Like they think they actually are supremely powerful for some reason. They've They've And maybe it's a mental issue. Maybe these people genuinely have some sort of psychological issue. Well, they drank the Kool-Aid. I mean,

think about it. They they're practicing this martial arts and they, you know, read all this stuff about it and they learn all this stuff about it and things get passed down and I guess they just never challenged really and they just believe it. They believe like, "Hey, they've got supernatural powers. But yeah, definitely a lot of frauds and and that's that's where Xu Xiaodong came into play is he really exposed the level of these frauds, you know? And it was kind of interesting to see. So, I mean,

what what's the deal with this guy challenging Mike Tyson though? Cuz that's ridiculous. He's just another guy who obviously is deluded and got delusions of grandeur. Mhm. Um and he thought that, you know, he can generate an immense amount of power.

Now, I can quantify that. Realistically, would be to go in and actually test it. Like, the only way I would open my mouth and say that I can help somebody improve with something is that I genuinely tested it in an environment or a setting that uh is related to what we're talking about. And that doesn't mean just like I mean, even punching a bag is not enough. So, if you're striking a bag and you're hitting it really hard, maybe you could say something like that. I don't even

think this guy did that. Sure. had these ideas on body mechanics. Now, to be clear, Chinese martial arts, and particularly internal styles, which are classified as internal of which I do too, I do Xingyi Quan and Baguazhang, they are heavily focused on the refinement of body mechanics. And they do have body mechanics that are very good for understanding whole body power to generate more power. So, this guy

obviously thought, well, I can show Tyson a thing or two. You know, Mike Tyson is the wrong person to even think about this because Mike Tyson's striking style is whole body. He was literally I mean, he used a peekaboo style, which is a style that comes up very close with huge rotation uh when he strikes. I mean, he has massive body rotation. That's obviously whole body power. He

can hit very, very hard. So, to have to say this just shows that this guy was deluded, had delusions of grandeur, and he didn't actually know the reality. And he thought, you know, I'm just going to open my mouth and say this. But this guy, once again, went to try out on Xu Xiaodong, who's very reluctant because he's basically not allowed to fight. You know, um they they made that very clear.

His old gym that we were training at was shut down for odd reasons. We won't get into that. Um after all of this, he's he's moved to a new gym. He embarrassed the whole, you know, propaganda of, you know, Chinese martial arts. Yeah, there were There was a lot of There was a lot of propaganda going on, very deliberate at that time with that goal. And And I think they they could

have done this a different way because Chinese martial arts is, as we've discussed before, immensely valuable. I think it's It's a It's a practice that is hugely beneficial to anyone who does it with a real teacher, not with one of those frauds, with a real teacher who's not a good Yeah, so um they could have done it a different way. There was a lot of fakeness going on, and I think he exposed that, and it kind of stopped since he did what he did. So, that's the positive that came out of this. Yeah, good.

But this guy went recently to Xu Xiaodong, and Xu Xiaodong didn't even challenge him himself. He said, "You You You fight one of the guys that's here, one of my junior coaches, or one of the the guys that's there." And he got just I mean, the video is out there. He just got hit once or twice, and that was the end of that. So, it's like Mike Tyson said, in fact, it's very apt what Mike Tyson says in this situation. Mike Tyson

says, "Everybody's got a plan until they get punched in the face." Yeah. And that's exactly what happened here. That's one of my favorite quotes, literally one of my favorite quotes. You can apply that to any anything in life, you know?

Yeah. Yeah, now I've got a question for you. Cuz of course I I watched the video of him talking about how he's going to beat Mike Tyson, and I'm curious about this this technique he was saying he would employ about using his waist and you know, grabbing Mike Tyson's fist or or arm or whatever. Can you explain what he was trying to achieve? Again, this is coming back to the ideas that are incorporated within what we call internal styles heavily, although internal style is also seem to forget that so-called external style. That's

why I don't like the differentiation between the two. It's But anyway, uh, refinement of martial arts requires you to use your body in the most efficient holistic manner as one unit. In other words, driving from your foot, talking your knee, twisting your waist. That's a big thing in Chinese martial art to generate the motion that travels up creating a a continuous whole body action to utilize your waist to strike as opposed to just using your arms. Now, beginners in any martial art have a tough time not just using a the extremity or the the limb alone when they're trying to strike and it just becomes something very robotic utilizing the power that you can generate with your shoulder, your upper back, and your arm itself. Um, when you add to that the

motion of your whole body which is heavily reliant on the motion and twisting of your waist, you generate a lot more power. And this is a key concept in these styles including Tai Chi, Xingyi, and Bagua. And it's something that you constantly try to refine. Now, the what what has become a type of a meme in Chinese martial arts is that they kind of sometimes try to think that they're the only ones who do this. Right.

They think that everybody doesn't know this and they're just, you know, they've got hundreds and hundreds of years of boxing in the west and in fact, Europe had its own martial arts system including weapons that have just kind of been, you know, fallen fallen away due to practicality purposes. They don't seem to fathom that other martial artists probably came to the same conclusion. And if somebody's boxing every day, you'd imagine that it at the highest level when it's a professional sport that feeding this up. This guy just assumed that nobody knew this and he's going to help teach or use this superior body mechanics to beat Mike Tyson. Meanwhile, Mike Tyson's body mechanics, especially in his prime, I mean, he'd take your head off.

Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, nobody ever wants to be on the receiving end of uh Mike Tyson's punch. That's for sure. Exactly.

Let's see whose fist is the fastest. Yours or mine? So again, it's just self-delusion and ignorance. You know, that's one of the things that I think you've heard of this tiny saying, "Jing Di Zhi Wa", which means the frog at the bottom of a well. Oh, yeah.

So that's very apt to this situation. A lot of these people, for better or worse, they don't have access to a lot of outside information easily, etc. So they've made assumptions based on what they don't know. They're like the frog at the bottom of a well who looks up to the sky and thinks that's the entire heaven, right? They only see that little portion, they think they know everything.

That's right. So yeah, that's the issue here. And a lot of the times, it's by situation, but a lot of the times it's by them being deliberately ignorant, you know? Correct. a character issue.

Well, okay, that explains it. So I think everybody can understand why you saw this guy getting the absolute bejesus, you know, beaten out of him by somebody who's much shorter than him, by the way, and smaller than him as well. Um, which I think kind of really adds insult to injury here. And that guy wasn't high-level who fought him. It's not like they got some top top-tier guy. I mean, I know that

guy. He was he's pretty clunky and awkward, anyway. Um, Yeah. So it explains it. So he So he put out this kind of challenge saying he could beat Tyson, and then he went to Xu Xiaodong, and and Xu Xiaodong said, "Okay, well, how about you just fight one of my, you know, trainers over here", type thing. That's kind of how it

went down, right? Yeah, and to be honest, that's how I used to go down in his gym a lot, even before the whole thing, cuz it wasn't the first time that they were challenged matches. He was getting it throughout his life. I got you. And a lot of the times they'd come into the gym like, "I want to fight you", and Xu Xiaodong is like, "You know, you don't really want to fight me. Just

Just fight one of my instructors here, all right? Let's see how you do against him. And if you give him a hard time, sure, then you can you can challenge me, but but And then he'd ask them the next question, "What rules do you want to use?" Because that's the other complaint people have. Like, I couldn't do this killer technique, you know, touching this point and punching him in the groin and poking his eyes. And a lot of them

would say, uh all rules. Like, you kicking the groin and uh everything. Yes. And she would have been fine. You want to wear gloves or no gloves?

Uh I love sometimes you say, let's just put on MMA gloves because you can still grab. Just for safety so you don't get cut. You know, and that's how it used to go down a lot of the time. I must say he was very more mild-mannered though in this latest um interaction. It was actually It seemed to be that the follow-up they sat and they had a productive discussion and they were very cordial. There wasn't

this animosity and uh you know, I hate this style and you guys are all the same kind of going on. So Yeah, I think that's maybe he's learned something. Maybe he's learned something from Yeah, valuable lessons. I'm sure valuable lessons were learned. Now, um I just want to quickly uh segue a little away from this and um you you're the one person I know I've known I've known you since South Africa.

That's where we met. So I've known you for pretty much my entire adult life. Uh probably since I was about 20 or something around there, 19, 20. I can't remember. Um yeah, we were young. Yeah,

super young. And I remember you've always dedicated your life to martial arts, specifically uh Chinese martial arts. And um as far as I know, you are well, you're you're one of the top experts in this field. And that's just from my own personal experience. So, I'm curious.

You know, if any of my audience wanted to get into Chinese martial arts because let's be honest, they're not really the most popular of the martial arts. You know, if you go around, you see a lot of taekwondo, you see karate, you see, you know, that judo, that type of thing. Uh you don't really see a lot of the the the Chinese martial arts. If people are interested, uh how can they find out about it? Well, if you wanted to get some information and an introduction to Chinese martial arts in general, I mean, I've run a a YouTube channel for quite a few years now called Mushin Martial Culture. The

goal of my channel initially was to spread interesting information that is not really out there about Chinese martial arts to get people introductions to to the concepts and the practices. But, over and above that, I released a series of introductory practice lessons on the styles that I practice, namely Xingyi Quan and Baguazhang. And I released a series of 10-minute primers, literally, the core foundation of practices of each that you could follow and learn from that to get you into either of the styles. And then from that, yeah, from that it grew into I grew a a full online learning program, which is called the Fajin Online Learning Program. Well, then it's grown. It's been growing for

for 4 years. It's almost 200 lessons that I've got in the program to date at least. You know, every week there's a new lesson. Additionally, I I actually for the last 10 years, it was part of my training with my teacher. He would always when he taught me, he would repeat the classics like the classical text of training pool that we call it in in Chinese martial arts. Like

martial manuals and classics. We have a corpus of of texts that all the styles of Xingyi Quan, for example, and Baguazhang agree on is being a classical corpus of the style irrespective of lineage. And for Xingyi Quan specifically, over the years my teacher would recite these and explain them to me. He's an older generation legitimate lineage holder, he's a very good teacher. So, I mean, he he had a lot of these memorized so part he would just recite them, which is how this was taught classically. And I would

write down notes and then, you know, I'd get copies of them from him and I'd sit and try to translate them and try to understand them and then write my notes about what they meant over for years through his teaching and through my training, and through my own understanding that uh over 10 years or more, this just became a book. And um Well, this is the book here, actually, that I finished writing last year. Uh I published it. And it's called Dragon Body, Tiger Spirit. Now, what's in here, um the subheading is a translation and explanation of the classic text of Shiliuchan.

It's the classic corpus of the of the of the art, the texts that are the foundational texts. That's the original Chinese a translation, not as in a direct translation, cuz that does not work if you're trying to explain something, specifically with the classical way that they used to write. And um and then an explanation, and that's the main part of it. It's one thing to translate, it's another thing to explain to people what it means. Yeah, you know, what you're doing with this with this book is you're really preserving um a a sort of a what what what do they call that? That intangible cultural

heritage, you know? Um except it's tangible now, you can read it in a book. Cuz this kind of stuff is actually very hard to come by unless you go and study under a a master or, you know, like uh your shifu, you need to go there and experience it. So, I think this is an incredibly valuable book you've written here. Well, thanks. It's not that you know,

the issue is that it's not even an issue of uh simply learning with someone. A lot of people repeat these texts. I've met a lot of teachers who repeat these texts but don't understand what they mean. Or couldn't explain them in a way that has any meaning to your training and and practice. I was lucky with my teacher. That he was able to explain

them. And then, of course, he just gives you the food. Let's just call it like that, which is the knowledge. You still have to digest it. And that digestion period leads to you understanding things in in the reality of your experiences and practice in your own body. And

that's also what my explanation portion of I mean, often the Chinese text might be this long of one one particular poem or verse. My translation would be a page. But then the explanation could be 12 15 pages so that you can actually understand what they mean. Because these texts weren't they weren't made for outsiders. These texts were made for teachers to give to their students so they could preserve concepts that they had already been taught. So it's not a introduction.

A lot of the time the information is dense because it's just about reminding you. So that doesn't help anybody who doesn't understand what these means. You need an explanation. And they used to come by mouth. They used to come by mouth through training. So you know, I'm

trying to do my piece. The some of the texts were in other publications in the past released in in the West in English, but they were either direct translations without explanation which again leaves you almost as as clueless as when you read it in Chinese and can't even read Chinese. Um and secondly, a lot of the translators weren't martial artists. So a lot of martial artists who were so passionate in the in the older times about these arts wanted these texts translated, but they themselves didn't speak Chinese. So they had to get a translator who often wasn't a martial artist.

Well, that's excellent. I mean, look, there'll be links to everything down below. Links to your channel if people are interested in taking some of your primary courses or looking at it or finding out about martial arts. And obviously your book. Uh I just want to say a massive thank you for coming on here. It's always a pleasure to to talk

with you. Obviously we're we're good friends, but um to have you on because I do consider you a foremost expert on the subject and I wanted everybody to you know, learn about this ridiculous incident, but you know, it adds so much more value to have you here. So thank you once again. No, well, thanks for having me. It's always good to talk to an old friend.

Um I always have fun being on your on your show the couple of times that I've been on. And most importantly, you know, I think it also is uh it shows that uh there are valuable parts to Chinese culture and history. There are valuable parts to its practices and its traditional things. And a lot of people seem to always focus on the negative, but there's a lot of positive there, too. And they sometimes misconstrue, you know, what you are and your efforts are to think that you're always, you know, focusing on one side when that's not the case at all.

Yeah, I appreciate that. Thanks. Because absolutely Chinese history and tradition is very rich and it's it's incredibly valuable. You know, I'm just kind of sick and tired of the the nonsense, you know, the flashy cities and the propaganda and so on, you know. Oh, that's a whole different topic.

Yeah, for sure. And you know, like I've said in I think in our last thing, culture and its history and its practices are older than any political regime, any dynasty even. So, you know, this will outlast anything and it doesn't matter what what what what tries to detract from that today. This is something completely disconnectable. Awesome. Well, thank you. And we'll

definitely have you on again. And if you guys like to you know, have Byron back on, please let me know in the comments. But of course, go check out his channel and leave him a comment and subscribe. Awesome.