---
video_title: "We Lost! China has Won the Future"
video_id: hSXjiWXCyUQ
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hSXjiWXCyUQ
video_date: 2025-10-26T22:19:31+00:00
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  China is living in the future... not really
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Everyone says China is the future. I lived there for 14 years, dear viewer. It is not the future. It's theater. It's amazing just how much money and time China has poured into its external image. You see sleek tech, glistening

skylines, high-speed rails, leggy beauties, and drone light displays. But the sad truth is that it's fancy wrapping paper on a broken and crumbling country. A country that hopes you'll be distracted by the bright lights long enough and fight amongst yourselves long enough so that they can cheat, steal, and destroy their way to the top. In reality, the shiny skylines and slick propaganda are all hiding social decay, censorship, debt, slave-like living conditions, and environmental destruction the likes of which the world has never seen. I mean, if you were to look at social media and even opinion pieces in mainstream media, you'd think that China has cured cancer, cured diabetes, invented flying cars, reversed aging, conquered green energy, made money and wealth appear from nothing, invented nuclear batteries that will power your phone for 50 years, and is the answer to all the ailments of your failing and crumbling country.

But in reality, China pollutes the world more than all developed nations combined, has the most cases of diabetes and cancer in the world. The people there are suffering greatly from the toxic environment, stifling governmental control, lack of food safety, and fast and loose way in which things are done there. People on average earn less than a minimum wage McDonald's employee in the West and are expected to deal with an unsustainable rise in cost of living. The debt-to-GDP ratio is off the charts, far worse than the USA. People cannot own property in China.

People are struggling, wages are being withheld because the government entities cannot afford or refuse to pay their workers, sometimes for years at a time. Oh, and by the way, your country is not crumbling. China just wants you to think that it is. >> [snorts] >> No, China isn't some sort of shining example of what to follow. It's a puffed-up peacock, a paper dragon who wants you to be impressed by its overabundance of stolen technology.

Speaking of technology, how safe is your internet?

Just as time continues to march on, bad actors continue to find new ways to get a hold of your data, to mess with you on the internet, [music] to steal from you, to scam you. I mean, you've got SIM farms across the world trying to find vulnerabilities, trying to take advantage of you when you're online. So, what do you do about it? Well, the first thing you can do, and something I suggest everybody does, is get a VPN. Surfshark VPN happens to be the best VPN in the world.

A VPN encrypts your data through a secure tunnel, keeping it away from prying eyes. And if you are worried about Surfshark keeping an eye on what you're doing, they have a strictly no logs policy, which [music] means they won't keep your data. When you choose different VPN servers, it's like you're teleporting yourself across the world. And now, you'll get ticket deals and avoid other types of location-based [music] price gouging. Surfshark is the only VPN to reach the coverage of 100 countries.

Use Surfshark today. Go to surfshark.com/serpentza and use the code serpentza at checkout to get four extra months off of Surfshark. Hey, babe, I just got us four months extra of Surfshark. Again, go to surfshark.com/serpentza

and use the code serpentza at checkout to get those four extra months. And now, back to the show. China is a warning of what happens when extreme hubris is encouraged, when a boastful and prideful bully is never tested, but simply believed. It's the kung fu master who has convinced the world that his secret energy technique can defeat foes without even touching them.

Put him up against a real fighter and the truth will be exposed.

>> [music] >> China is all flash and talk and no substance. I know I'm being a bit brutal here, but I need to be honest. And I will also be brutally honest in saying that China has copied and stolen technology from around the world and put it to good use. Let's face it, no government around the world is any sort of blameless bastion of morality, but the CCP lacks even the most basic moral values. They will sacrifice their people and the world we live in in order to get ahead.

As a result, they've built undeniably, at least in terms of scale, impressive factories and production facilities. I mean, it's pretty simple. Steal the technology blueprints and know-how, forcefully evict whoever's on the land, use the cheapest and most environmentally destructive way to clear the land and build the factory. Doesn't matter if the local water supply gets poisoned since, well, it's already contaminated. 90% of China's groundwater is contaminated. Doesn't matter if the

locals get cancer because you use unsafe chemicals or building materials because they don't have a say or chance against any government-backed linked project. I'm not making this up. There are countless examples of this happening around China still to this day. Make sure to build at a massive scale. It's subsidized, after all, because the government knows that if it is to topple industry in other countries, for example, the automotive or solar panel industries, it needs to build bigger, cheaper, and faster.

It's easy since no money was spent on R&D. The technology was stolen. No need for environmental permits or lengthy surveys. Just go ahead and intimidate and silence anyone who protests later. You have a massive workforce that work for peanuts and don't have the protection of unions or workers' rights organizations. Pay them, don't pay them,

it's up to you. Either way, you end up with a mega factory that foreigners will ooh and aah over when you fly them over for a propaganda tour. China doesn't innovate the future, it manufactures the appearance of it. When you see a headline or stat that states something like, "China is the world leader in green technology," what that means is that China builds the most green technology items. So, the most solar panels or the most wind turbines, etc. This doesn't mean that China builds

the best green technology, it just builds the most. Quantity over quality. Think about it for a second. The wind turbines that they build are stolen technology. In fact, it's very well known that China used prostitutes and sexual favors to get a technician to steal the source code behind the software that controls the wind turbines so that they didn't have to pay licensing fees.

They didn't invent the technology, they didn't invent the wind turbines or solar panels or any of the green tech. They stole it and pump it out en masse, and suddenly they're the leader? No. In fact, their technology is inferior and a derivative of something that someone else did better. This is a trend that goes across the board. With this

stolen technology that they're pumping out cheaply, they can now undercut the original products. People will settle for worse quality because, well, it's cheaper. You force out the people that invented it, you force out the innovation, and what you're left with is a derivative substandard product. I mean, we have all bought stuff from Amazon that falls apart, right? Do you remember when you could buy something like a radio or a TV or a Walkman or something and it lasted you for decades?

Remember that? When you really break it down, China doesn't do anything better other than build a lot of something. A lot of skyscrapers with a lot of LED lights. It looks impressive, but in reality, when you're on the ground living in China, these hollow ivory towers do little to help the average man on the street. They are not there for the benefit of the Chinese people. No,

they are there to serve the image and ego of the Communist Party of China. They are there as a shiny facade drowning out the real issues that the people of China face. Put yourself in their shoes. If you were earning around $140 a month and had zero pension or social security, but the government spent billions building shiny skyscrapers in the CBD of your town, would you be happy about it? Wouldn't you rather the government spent that money improving the lives of your families and those around you?

Let's cut the crap. I get it. It's obviously easy to fall for China's propaganda. They have complete control on what people online can post and say. You won't see their problems.

They will show you not only the shiniest and best curated content, but also show you the worst parts of your own country. It's a double whammy. But once you look closely, you'll notice that it's all a bunch of Fancy libraries lined with fake books. And look how effective it is. Chinese propagandists were sharing a clip of a smart port claiming it was China's high-tech port. It got millions of views

and people were praising China's innovation. Well, turns out it was a clip of the Long Beach, California smart port that has been in operation since what, 2016? Seems like these days you simply have to slap Chinese scientists create on the front of anything and people will suck it up. If I make a post on exclaiming Chinese scientists invented dehydrated water, not only would people blindly accept it, but China's propaganda machine would boost the hell out of it. And the next moment it'll be used as a reason why the USA is so bad and behind and crumbling.

In the end, the people who lose out are both you and the average citizens of China. The people who win are the communist grifters, politicians, and the CCP. Let's turn the tide on this relentless, one-sided propaganda offensive. Educate yourself and others about the methodology being used here. Start looking for sources on these outlandish claims when you hear them. Let's stop

allowing a foreign government to tell us that our country sucks and is falling apart. It's not their place and they're just jealous. Unlike [snorts] the CCP and its propagandists, stay awesome and uh check out the China Show on Friday. It's fun and we cover everything that's happening in China, from the news, the funny stuff, the propaganda, everything in between. Anyway, guys, I'll see you next time. Stay awesome.