---
video_title: "China's Rotten Electric Cars are a SCAM  - Fields of TRASH no one wants"
video_id: Wvyb9Mp69ew
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wvyb9Mp69ew
video_date: 2025-06-14
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  I was right all along, this is a Ponzi scheme
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  Best way to support what I do: https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Why are brand new Chinese EVs facing so many problems? Why are they bursting into flames all over the place? Why is it that their self-driving features are failing and sending people to their deaths and putting people in very awkward situations, smashing into things all the time? [Music] Why is it that the airbags are not deploying in these fancy brand new Chinese EVs?

The Chinese EV industry is like a Ponzi scheme and it's probably going to fall down very soon.

I'd like you to look at this field of brand new ghillies. I mean, it's not a field. It's just a huge amount of these things stored in front of one of the factories. It's impossible to count how many cars we're actually looking at here, but this is a common site. All over China, there are these massive storage areas with thousands upon thousands, tens of thousand, hundreds of thousands of brand new cars sitting there just waiting, either rotting away or waiting, doing nothing.

Well, there's a new thing that has been uncovered. Well, something I've talked about in the past, and that is zero mileile used cars or zero kilometer secondhand cars, whichever way you want to say it. Now, I've talked about these plated cars sitting in fields before. I've shown you footage of BYDs and other new, brand new Chinese cars with license plates on them, but with the plastic still on the seats and they've got weeds growing over them. Yeah, I've shown you this before. This is not a new

phenomenon. This has been going on since the beginning of China's EV boom. And I'll explain to you why it's so important. And I'll also be able to ratify myself here a little bit because I've taken a lot of uh criticism for pointing these things out in the past. There are a lot of zealots out there, EV zealots. Not just Chinese EV zealots,

and not just Chinese propagandists, but actual EV zealots who cannot face the reality that China is the land of shortcuts and facads. And China is playing a very dangerous game here. So, let's talk about these zero mileile used cars, shall we?

There just never seems to be enough time. We're busy with work. We're busy with the stresses of life. You know, the last thing we need to worry about is internet security. Yeah, they hacked the crap out of me, stole my passwords, got into my internet banking, found out all my weird browser history, but it is such a big threat. So, why not get a bit of

peace of mind and use a VPN? Better yet, use Surf SharkVPN. There's so many good reasons to have a VPN. It creates a secure tunnel and prevents people from looking over your shoulder and seeing what you're doing online. But not only that, it helps you with things like discriminatory price gouging. If you set

your server to a different country, you'll find out that you can actually get deals like flights and rental cars cheaper than if you were to order them from your own country. It's weird that way. Surf SharkVPN is awesome, though. Check it out to get some peace of mind. Give yourself that extra little bit of security and take advantage of all the extra services like being able to watch videos that are blocked in your country online. Go to surfshark.com/serpenta

and use the code serpenta at checkout to get four extra months off of Surf SharkVPN. Hey babe, I just got us 4 months extra of Surf Shark. Again, go to surfshark.com/serpenta and use the code serpent at checkout to get those four extra months. And now back to the show. The Chinese government

gives subsidies and has historically given massive subsidies to EV manufacturers, but on top of that, EV manufacturers, of course, like all companies around the world, rely on investments. So now, if you're going to prove to your investors that your company is doing well and that you have a successful product, you're going to present them with sales data. You're going to go to your board meetings. You're going to approach everyone and say, "Hey guys, guess what? We sold way over Target this month. We sold so many. They're just

flying off the shelves. This is a great product. What a great investment you've made." On top of that, it's bragging rights. You get to see articles around the world in international news. Chinese

EVs are now the leader in EV sales globally or the leader in EV sales. Full stop. They're flying off the shelves. So many are being sold. It's incredible.

But what if I told you that not that many were being sold? What if I told you that the numbers had been messed with? What if I told you that the companies themselves were registering these cars, making them look as if they were sold because now they've got a plate on them. Now they're insured, but they were just parking them in a parking lot and then trying to deal with it later. Well, that is what has been happening. It's been

happening so much that the CEO of Great Wall, which the most creative name you can think of when it comes to a Chinese brand of car, um has come out and has complained about this problem. In fact, he's bought the entire automotive industry's attention to this very problem and he has compared it to China's Ever Grand situation. You know, when the real estate market, which could never see a failure, started to fail. This is what we're seeing with Chinese EVs at the moment. So, let me explain to you how it works. Very simple.

Company A, and it doesn't matter which company it is because all Chinese EV companies are guilty of this. In fact, not just EV companies, just, you know, automotive companies in general. So, let's just say company A, that's their name. Company A goes and builds 200 cars. The government says, "For every car sold, we will give you a subsidy of a certain amount of money." Okay,

nobody's buying their cars. No problem. They just sell it to themselves. They register it, put it on a plate. Of course, no money changes hands, but they put a plate on it and then they go put it in a field somewhere or they put it in their parking lot, but now it's registered. Then they go to the

government and say, "Look, all 200 of them sold." The government gives them the subsidy money. So they take that money for each one sold and that covers the cost of the car itself really to manufacture most of the time if they make it cheap. On top of that, they go to their investors and say, "Look, we sold our entire inventory. Things are going well. Invest more." investors are

like, "This is a great deal. We're going to put more money into this company." And so they do. More money comes in and they rinse and repeat this process. Of course, they have some legitimate sales.

There's a lot of hype. They put a lot of money into advertising, marketing. Of course, the investors do the same. So, they make some legitimate sales, but they constantly have to make these fake sales so that the numbers exceed expectations. So, they get more investment, more more subsidies, you know what I and also more prestige around the world in the press and within the local Chinese press. What you end up

then is with fields upon fields of either rotting old rubbish cars that now can't be used because they've been sitting too long and have become, you know, broken as a result or very serviceable usable cars but they don't belong to anyone. So what do you do? Very simple. you put them on the used market and say look at this a brand new zero mileage zero kilometer car and it's 30% less than the real like if you bought a new one. So that's how you try to get rid of this inventory. Sell it at at a cut cost, you

know, sell it at a loss. And that way you can now wash away all of your corrupt dealings, all your cooking of the books by still making a little bit of money off of this thing and selling it out onto the market. Here's where things start to make sense to me and to some other Chinese bloggers who've been talking about this.

You know, I talked about how airbags aren't working in a lot of these crashes. I've got lots of footage, lots of uh video clips of airbags failing to, you know, work when they really need to work.

I also have lots of footage of these cars bursting into flames.

Lots of footage of these cars failing in many different ways. stopping in the middle of the highway. My theory is that when they build a car to not sell it, in other words, if you're going to build a car that you know you're just going to put a fake plate on, well, no, it's not fake. It's a real plate. They actually go through the registration process. But

if you're just going to put a plate on it and put it in a yard somewhere, maybe you start to cut corners because you know that car is not a car you're going to sell at full price. So, even from the get-go, when you start to manufacture it, you're like, "Well, maybe we'll be able to sell it on the secondhand market at a at a loss." So, you know what? Don't put in good quality things here. Maybe it we don't need to do very good quality control on this particular car.

Maybe we don't need to put in new parts. Just put in some used parts. Or maybe put in some some fake rubbish parts or lowquality metals or whatever the case. Because that's not going to be a premium car that's sold new from one of our dealers. That's going to be something that we stick outside and put on the secondhand market and sell, maybe sell because there's like a 100,000 out there and you know, we don't know if we're going to sell them all. And you we're

trying our best to dump these crap cars that we've got in inventory all over the country onto poor countries around the world. Um, you know, and we don't care about like African countries or whatever. So, that's my theory and I think it's a pretty sound theory because it would explain a lot. You know, China is capable of making decent quality products. And I've always said this from the beginning, you know, having lived in China for so long. There's nothing wrong

with uh the capability and the skills of Chinese people. They can make the best products in the world if they want to. But the way Chinese society and Chinese business works is that it's always about taking shortcuts. It's always about maximizing profits over anything else. And as a result, actual Chinese brands always lack at the end of the day. You

can get a brand like Apple, for instance, which the majority of their products are made in China, and they're top-notch quality, but that's because they have such stringent quality control from the international company, the American company Apple, that the shortcuts that normally would be taken cannot be taken. And if they are, Apple will have to take the brunt of it. They're going to have to eat the cost because, you know, they cannot allow an unsafe product onto market. If iPhones started catching on fire and exploding all over the place, you know, there'll be legal trouble for Apple. But if a Chinese unknown brand starts exporting cars and they start exploding and catching on fire on the streets of Nigeria, you know what? It's not going

to be a problem for the Chinese company because the Nigerians won't be able to sue them and they won't be held to account. So, there's always that. So, at the end of the day, the whole Chinese EV Ponzi scheme looks like it might be coming down and it might be crashing because what are you going to do with all these cars? Unless they can manage to to dump them on unsuspecting countries in Europe. Maybe Australia seems to have no problem buying inferior lowquality cars. So, maybe they'll end

up in Australia. Maybe they'll end up in Africa in South America. Maybe they'll dump them there. But remember, all of these cars were built on an unfair system. All of these cars and companies have relied on massive government subsidies. So, it's not fair when it

comes to normal competition because they've been subsidized. And although you can knock off a Porsche Tyan and make a car that looks very similar, almost exactly like it, you cannot knock off the safety features. You cannot knock off the many years of experience, the decades of experience, trial and error, R&D and all of that that's gone into making a Porsche Tyan. So, of course, you're going to make a car that crashes all the time, a car that has fitment and fit and finish issues, a car that is generally not safe, and generally, well, just a a good-looking but poor quality product. This industry is built on a house of cards. If you

decide to invest in a Chinese EV, you are a fool. And I'll tell you why you're a fool. Is because if you buy a cheap one from an unknown brand or a very small brand, the chances are that brand's going to go away. Then you're not going to have any support. Then when the thing breaks itself or needs an update or has an issue, you're stuck.

This has happened to many Chinese people. They're very unhappy about this. If you buy one of the bigger brands, well, you're helping to fuel this Ponzi scheme, which is incredibly, incredibly detrimental to the environment. You have no idea. You've seen the cars. Do you

know how much energy, how much pollution has been caused to create these seas of cars sitting around in parking lots, and it's all a money-making scheme. To create just one of these things uses up huge amounts of resources around the world. There's mining involved for all the lithium and the rare earths and the various other things that they need. There's slave labor involved in many cases. Of course, all the energy and the water and the everything that's used to create everything that's in one of these EV cars is astounding. Buying a Chinese

EV is one of the least environmentally conscious things you could possibly do. But at the same time, you're also guaranteed that you're not putting your family and yourself in any undue danger. So yeah, I did speak about this a couple of years ago. I knew I was right because I was getting it from Chinese sources. I was seeing it from the Chinese internet.

I had Chinese friends reach out to me, Chinese car enthusiasts who I'd met living in China reaching out to me about these issues. I mean, a lot of the dealers were putting videos online explaining this situation. You know, Chinese people are pragmatic. They're not going to hide this stuff. But wow, the amount of push back. There is some

sort of force really trying. I mean, obviously the Chinese government and the Chinese EV industry, yes. But there's something else. There's all these EV zealots around the world who for some reason have taken it upon themselves to stand on this mantle and attack anyone who wants to bring any sense to the situation, anybody who wants to point out the faults in the industry. And the Chinese EV industry has many, many, many faults. And its problems far outweigh

any of the positives. It's a very bad thing for the earth. It's a very bad thing for financial markets. It's a very bad thing for automotive industries around the world. Anyway, I'm off my soap box now. Thank you guys for

watching. Please join me for my Friday show, the China Show, where we talk about everything coming out of China. crazy things, funny things, the latest news, the biggest propaganda out there. And if you really want to support me, check out my secret show on Monday. Anyway, until next time, guys, you know the drill. As always, don't go buying a

zero mile secondhand used car from a shady Chinese EV manufacturer. I mean, you're just helping to bring an end to the environment. Anyway, until next time, you know the drill. As always, stay awesome.

I'm feeling more

[Music]

[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] There we go.

[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat.

[Music]