---
video_title: "Do Not Take This Chinese Pill! You'll go Insane!"
video_id: ZlyZPouPvD4
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZlyZPouPvD4
video_date: 2025-11-19T15:45:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Take your personal data back with Incogni! Use code Winston at the link below and get 60% off an annual plan: https://incogni.com/winston
  
  This dangerous "Shill Pill" is causing havoc worldwide!
  
  *I am not a doctor (I used to train them)
  this is not a medical pill and I am not 
  qualified to give medical advice
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Breaking. This pill from China causes autism. This unassuming pill from China which is sold and advertised around the world is causing a serious outbreak in autism. After taking this pill, people lose cognitive ability, lose basic reasoning and common sense. It's called the shill pill. And if you take it,

you'll make stupid announcements like China has no potholes. I'm sorry, but that's absurd. China outside of the influencer tourist bubble is more pothole than not hole.

All jokes aside, I loved exploring China. And I did explore the entire country by motorcycle. And well, the proof is in the pudding. Granted, my last motorcycle adventure in China was in 2019. That was what, 6 years ago now.

I know China builds fast. I mean, look at the newly built mall that had only been open three days and the ceiling collapsed on Monday, injuring eight people. And how about that newly built bridge that collapsed last week due to the fast and loose way in which China builds? They didn't do proper geological surveys and built it badly. Well, turns out that was the third super bridge to collapse in China this year. Yeah. Three

very important and highly propagandized bridges, the kind that are built to impress, have fallen down in 2025 alone. Who knows how many smaller, insignificant ones have fallen down. But yeah, back to the fuss building idea. People who have taken the shill pill will say that my experiences from six years ago don't count because China builds so quickly, albeit poorly, that all of those potholes and bad roads and impoverished places I've seen with my own eyes no longer exist. The problem is that they do still exist and Chinese people themselves post fresh new videos about them. All of these clips that

you're seeing now are from 2025. Do you think Chinese people like it when their cars are swallowed by massive potholes? Absolutely not. They're not happy about it and they post about it no matter how much the police and government and chillpill prescribed influencers try to cover it up and deflect from it. The fact remains that China does have massive problems. And

I'm going to give you a shocking example. But before that, a data broker rap. Deep within the corporate offices of a data broker, something is happening behind closed doors. Theft is our [music] main attribute. We're sneaky data thieves.

You're our intended victim. [music] You help fulfill our needs. We sell your [music] private info to shady corpse and peeps. You [music] cannot escape us with data broken bros. What if there is somebody who doesn't like you? Somebody who's a business

competitor, somebody who's a jilted ex, anyone, a classmate, it doesn't matter who, a business colleague, someone who's out to cause trouble for you. They can pay private investigators who use special tools which gather information about you. I'm not talking about a Google search here. I'm talking about those nasty little tools that can find out exactly where you live, how much money you make, all that kind of stuff. Well, guess what? All that information

comes from data brokers. And there's a way to fight back and it's incogn. I use incognally because I am a target of the Chinese government. So, I don't only have the Chinese government and all their cronies after me, but all sorts of funny zealots and weirdos who want to prove themselves worthy of the Chinese government. I hate serpents at a Not only does Incogn to these countless data broker websites and demand legally that they remove all of their information about you, but they also have a custom removal feature on their unlimited and family unlimited plan, which allows you to tell them if you find your data on any website out there, you tell them and they'll go and get it removed. Go to

incogn.com/winston to get 60% off incogn. Use the code winston. That's incogn.com/winston.

Use code winston. And now back to the show. China has an horrific kidnapping and human trafficking problem. The thing is they actively try to suppress any news or discussions about it. I suspect it's because in many cases local authorities are involved. And of course it's

embarrassing on the world stage. The Chinese government often mocks countries like America for their homeless and gun violence issues. So for them to admit or allow people to see that they have equally bad issues like kidnapping, mass knife attacks, huge vehicular homicide events, homeless problems, and more would be egg on face. Either way, we have a situation where parents of kidnapped and missing children try to raise awareness about their missing loved ones only to be brutally suppressed, arrested, censored, and have their banners with pictures of their missing children torn up.

influencers [cheering] and white monkeys that take the shill pill will never talk about these very real and very important issues China faces. They'll pretend because they have no choice that China has no problems and only America and the West have problems. Let's take a quick look at a few examples, shall we? Shill guzzlers would have you believe that China takes care of their citizens and that health care is free or at least very cheap and good. This is not the case. This old man passed out in a

hospital after climbing the stairs. And although plenty of patients and even doctors see him, they all walk past him as if he's a pile of dirty laundry. Not one person tries to help, let alone see if he's okay. Health care is prohibitively expensive in China. if you're earning a Chinese wage and in fact is one of the leading causes of bankruptcy in China. Yes, not only

America's healthcare sucks, China's does too. And the worst part is is that the medical care you get is seriously substandard. I used to train doctors. I know. I've seen it. Shell pill knob

slubbers would also have you think that China's living in the future. They show night shots of cities with Christmas lights and captions like communism works. China is proof. All the while knowing that shiny drone shots of the cities do not represent the vast majority of China. And in fact, the vast majority of China is still very far behind the rest of the world. Travel 1

hour out of any major city, and you'll see for yourself. China is still in many ways living like medieval Europe, using oxen and hand tools to ek out a living. Also on the whole communism/socialism works thing. Showing some remotec control toy robots and pretending as if this was the result of communism is nonsense. These people need to learn a thing or two about history. China only

grew due to embracing capitalism through Deng Xiaoping special economic zones which allowed foreign investment to flow into China. If it wasn't for the West investing in China and allowing China to copy, knock off, and undercut their own markets, China would still be incredibly poor today. Shill throat strokers would have you believe that China has a high trust society and that you can leave your wallet and valuables out in public and no one will steal them. This has to be the most absurd thing anyone has ever dreamed up. China is a zerorust society.

People don't help others when they truly are in need. And theft is one of the biggest issues facing China. Theft is so common that even temple offering boxes aren't off limits to thieves. Nothing is safe. Ask yourself why people wear their backpacks on their front in public.

Okay, I could go on and on here, but I think I've proven my point. We're living in a world where people now get all of their news from social media. People form their opinions from social media. And China censors all negative news coming out of China. Any social media posts within China showing anything controversial or negative are taken down. They're blocked and scrubbed from

the internet. However, anything bad about America and the West is boosted by Chinese officials and shill balance on Western social media like X, Instagram, Tik Tok, etc. So, we have a situation where a government is pouring billions of dollars into using our platforms to attack us. the same platforms that they ban and block in their own country and do not allow their citizens to use. It's a one-sided war. I'm not allowed to post

anything negative about China on Chinese social media websites. However, Chinese agents and shills and government officials can post whatever negative tripe they want about the West on our platforms. It's time to wake up and start questioning every single post you see about China on social media. realize that it is most likely fake, trumped up, and in all essence, propaganda. Start doublechecking these outlandish claims like China has no potholes. You

won't have to look far in order to see it's a load of bollocks. Everywhere you go in the world, you'll find large Chinese communities and China towns. Countless Chinese people flee China for a reason. If it was a great country living in the future, surely millions of Chinese people wouldn't be constantly fleeing, right? When we start to see the cues lining up to get visas to go to China, I'll start taking the propaganda seriously. But

until then, tell the shill wankers to take a hike. I hope you've learned something. And unlike the shill pill tosses out there, stay awesome.