---
video_title: "The \"Racists\" were Right! China Demands you Lick it!"
video_id: F5egi2L_aI8
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F5egi2L_aI8
video_date: 2025-04-26
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  I can't believe that people are finally waking up!
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  The article about NGO's and non-profits working for China: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/05/world/europe/neville-roy-singham-china-propaganda.html
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Well, what do you know? The racists were right. CO 19 did come from a Chinese lab in Wuhan. You know what time it is? It's time to debunk some Chinese propaganda. The Chinese government has

always operated in a rather sneaky and sinister way, and that is to use the systems that are in place in whichever country they deal with against that country for their own purposes. In fact, I came across this fantastic clip which sums it all up. The Chinese Communist Party has a saying when it comes to their warfare, psychological warfare operations and other forms of subversion. Strangle you with your own systems. In other words, observing how different countries operate, what is controversial within their systems. How does their

system function? How can we use those systems to twist things around, to cause chaos, to mess things up, to use it against them? You say you believe in free speech, we'll have protests in your own backyard calling you out. You say you believe in free press. Well, we'll start up staterun media in your country and we we use those state-run media to lie to your population, to spread our propaganda. That's what they do. You

believe in free markets? How about we bring state-run companies that can sell below cost and put your companies out of business and take over your industries? That's what they're doing, right? Strangle you with your own systems. And what is controversial in the United States? What is most controversial?

Racism. This race narrative. They know they can use it. They've been doing it for a very long time. There are different groups, for example, Committee of 100 in the US, where every time a Chinese spy is arrested, they call it racism because they know that's what we're sensitive to. The Chinese military

has a doctrine on this, the three warfares doctrine, psychological warfare, media warfare, and legal warfare. This is a publicly adopted into their military doctrine. This is part of their military system. Now, what is what are these? Psychological warfare is not necessarily lying to you. Psychological

warfare is altering how you interpret information. And so when you see a virus coming out of China and people say this virus came out of China, if you call it the Chinese virus, they want to they want to use this and twist it around and say it is racist. If you talk about the origin of this virus, what is media warfare? Media warfare is the manipulation or control of outlets of information. Not just news outlets but say social media, online platforms, the ability to speak openly. Anything that

would allow people to communicate would be a target of media warfare. And what is legal warfare? Legal warfare is a manipulation of international legal systems. The Chinese Communist Party for them this is adopted into their military code. This is war fighting to them.

Anyone who had common sense knew that CO 19 breaking out in a wet market close to a lab that studied corona viruses was no coincidence. But somehow China and its collaborators managed to force everybody to actually think that it was a conspiracy and racist to claim that CO 19 came from the place it came from. We'll dive into this in a minute, but you know what? Internet security is important, so please listen to this. If you use the internet, you should be using a VPN. I mean, it's not

just for people that are going to hang out in coffee shops and use public Wi-Fi, because trust me, you should be using a VPN if you're doing that. But even if you're at home, VPNs are fantastic. And my choice of VPN is Surf SharkVPN. The reason I enjoy VPN is not only does it give me peace of mind, masking my IP and putting everything I do through an encrypted tunnel, but it also allows me to avoid discriminatory price gouging depending on where I live. On top of that, region locked content like certain shows that are blocked in my country, no problem. I can just set

my server somewhere else and bingo, I can access it. VPNs are fantastic and I can 100% recommend Surf Shark. Go to surfshark.com/serpenttoday and use the code serpentday at checkout to get four extra months of Surf SharkVPN. Hey babe, I just got us four months extra of Surf Shark. Again, protect your internet by

going to surfshark.com/serpenta and use the code serpent a day at checkout to get four extra months of Surf SharkVPN. And now back to the show. To those of us in the know who lived in China, have dealt with the Chinese government, have met and whined and dined with Chinese officials and have Chinese family and have walked the walk and talk the talk. As soon as this whole shutdown of Wuhan happened, where they allowed people to travel internationally out of Wuhan, but not to travel anywhere domestically within China from Wuhan, we knew what was going on. We knew that this was a big problem.

And just like SARS before it, bird the bird flu breakout and a couple of other instances in the past that have been very very hectic, we knew China had a new virus and we knew it was spreading and we knew it was coming from Wuhan and the Chinese government itself told everybody it was from Wuhan in the beginning and the doctors like Dr. Leewan Leyang who tried to spread awareness about this new pneumonia breaking out in Wuhan at least to his colleagues was forced and they were called in to sign confessions and put their fingerprints and sign to say that they were spreading rumors and they were disciplined. Of course, we all know that Dr. Leewan Young, an absolute hero, died trying to fight the Corona virus a short time after this. It's crazy to think that China managed to brainwash absolutely everyone into thinking that the Corona virus didn't come from China. Oh, they said it came

from Italy. Then they said it came from random other countries. They blamed it on the US. Then they blamed it on a military exercise. Then they blamed it on Fort Dietric. Then they blamed it on

everything. They had the WHO in their pockets spinning lies on behalf of the Chinese government, telling the world and tweeting out that there is no humanto human contact when the Chinese government already knew that there was. But the WHO was tweeting out that according to the Chinese government, there's no humanto human contact. An absolute betrayal. And of course the WHO would do so because the leader of the WHO at the time Tedras owed a lot of his position, his success and of course his career to China. So why would he not act

on their behalf? The fact of the matter is is that China is responsible for millions of deaths worldwide. It's been common knowledge amongst people who actually understand China for the longest time. But it's only very recently that the rest of the world has started to take this seriously. So the White House released this lab leak origins website. Let's

look at it together and I'll tell you what I'm talking about. All right. So I've pulled it up here and it says lab leak the true origins of CO 19 and we have a picture of Trump in the middle of it. All right. Number one, the virus pro possesses a biological characteristic that is not found in nature. Of course,

we know that data shows that all CO 19 cases stem from a single introduction into humans. This runs contrary to the previous pandemics where there were multiple spillover events. Number three, Wuhan is home to China's foremost SARS research lab which has a history of conducting gain of function research, gene altering in organism supercharging uh and inadequate biosafety levels. We know many people have complained that the lacks level of safety. And by the way, having lived in China for 14 years, I know factories are very unsafe when it comes to worker safety. So many

shortcuts are taken. We've seen what happens when they build bridges and build buildings. They collapse because they use the wrong materials. If a shortcut can be taken in China, it is. China is the land of shortcuts and facads. So to think that a biolab is

going to be safe is nonsense. The fact that I have been to hospitals where the nurses draw blood and they don't wear gloves and and doctors are smoking in the hospitals, that type of thing. Come on guys, let's get real here. In China, they're going to be breaking all the safety protocols. People are going to be eating their lunch next to a petri dish.

It's going to be disaster. Number four, the Wuhan Institute of Urology researchers were sick with COVID-like symptoms in the fall of 2019, months before CO 19 was discovered at the wet market. By nearly all measures of science, if there was evidence of a natural origin, it would have already surfaced, but it hasn't. Okay. And we can see a map of how close the Halan seafood market was from the Wuhan Institute of Urology.

Now, if you know about Chinese wet markets, they're very unsanitary. They're very crowded. People come there, they buy meat that's not refrigerated. It's all lying out in the open. You've got live animals. You've got it's

chaotic. It's it's jovial in a way. And it's something that people go to every day. So the entire community will go to the wet market in order to buy their food for the day every single day. So it's a huge meeting spot and all you need is one of those infected lab workers or somebody who delivered food to the lab or something like that to go and get their groceries and it's a brilliant place for the virus to spread.

It's so close to the lab. This is not coincidence. And again, anyone with common sense would have been able to figure this out by themselves. But if you did, you were labeled racist. And I'm going to get to that again in a minute. As I scroll down here, I start

to get a little bit disheartened. Of course, we've got the Ecoalth Health Alliance mentioned here. If you've been watching the show for any length of time, the China show, it's my life live show I have. We've been making fun of and raising awareness about Dr. Peter Dazag, we call him Dr.

ballsack almost every episode for years now because not only was he involved in this research and using that lab and friends with all of the people in the lab, he was brought in as an expert to go and inspect the lab to see if there were any leaks. And he went in there and he drank his Watson's water. Hey, what's that? And he walked out and he said, "No, it's all fine here. there's no evidence of any kind of leak. And he

also did all sorts of things to try and convince people in the Nature magazine and so on to write that anyone who thinks it came from a lab, his lab, the lab he was working with, well, they're conspiracy theorists or, you know, later on, of course, the narrative moved on to racists. The Chinese government pushed that narrative. So, you know, Peter Dazz, yeah, he needs to be um looked at a little bit. Um, we've got Anthony Fali, and of course, he needs to be looked at, too. But you see, there's a problem here. I'm starting to see more and more

focus on domestic US politics here. and we get to, you know, Andrew Cuomo and we get to um, you know, various other failings within the United States, which of course are valid and I'm not going to take away from them, but I feel like the focus tends to go back to domestic US politics and China once again escapes the blame. And here's the thing. I'd like to give you an analogy if I may. If I were to pay a contractor to um do some renovations on my house and that contractor screwed up so badly that the house collapsed in and killed my family.

Am I responsible for the death of my family or is the contractor who didn't abide by safety laws and didn't do a correct job, is he liable? Because that's what we're looking at here. China was doing this research anyway, by the way. So the idea that it's just uh you know Fouchi and the Peter Dazzac and the Ecoalth Alliance and the gain of function stuff is only coming from the west that is incorrect. China was doing research on these kinds of viruses anyway. And I think it was just a

situation where these two different interested parties decided to come together and say let's work on this together. We'll send you some funding. You go to the the go look at the Mojang miners. You go to the mines. You get some bats. You do some testing. you do

your things, let's uh you know, what have you. So, China was doing it anyway. And then you've got these questionable people um from American groups and uh the NIH and all that stuff getting involved as well and behind people's backs too. Terrible stuff. But again, I refer to the analogy if you pay somebody to go and cut a tree down in your yard and it's a professional. You put it in

their hands and they go up there with their safety harness and their chainsaw and everything, but then they don't even look at what they're doing and they chop the tree and they don't care where it falls and it smashes your house and your car and destroys everything you own and kills your family. Who's at fault? The person who went up the tree that you hired, who didn't look at any of the safety precautions, who didn't do a good job, who didn't care that what he was doing would hurt other people, uh, or you. And again, imagine that person then tried to bribe you to not let anyone know that he'd screwed up because that's what the Chinese government did. They covered it up and they bribed people whether it was through coercion or whether it was a car or a stick. Who

knows? But they got the WHO to bend to their will. They got the entire world to bend to their will to kind of pretend that it didn't come from China. They blamed Italy for goodness sake. They blamed everywhere and they were testing fish and they were testing rocks and they were testing truck tires with swabs to see if CO was on it and they were spraying disinfectant on the runways. I

mean, they had no clue what they were doing. They locked up their entire populace. Caused one of the most traumatic experiences in modern history to the Chinese population. And I should know, I have many Chinese friends and acquaintances and Chinese family and it affected them all horribly. If you're the kind of person who hates uh the co jab and you're an antivaxer and you are against the government for forcing you to have a coid9 vaccine, you know who you should blame? You should blame China

because none of that would have happened if China hadn't unleashed this on the world, covered it up and allowed it to spread maliciously by covering it up because it could have been contained. It really could have. But it wasn't. It went everywhere. And the people that you know who caught it, the people that died of it, the people now who are concerned about the vaccines they've taken, it's all because China covered up the outbreak. And that's why I'm getting a

little annoyed here with the focus on domestic politics in America. Everybody's talking about Fouchy and Quomo and uh vaccine mandates and all this kind of stuff rather than looking at the person that did this to us and that is the Chinese Communist Party. They were laughing at everybody. There were celebrations while the rest of the world was suffering. There were tasteless and horrendous posts put out.

All official state stuff, mind you. The fingerpointing from the bad guys, from the bullies, the Chinese Communist Party, blaming everybody else, and then calling anybody who questioned where the virus came from racist and somehow contributing to Asian hate. It was just the final straw. Never before has there ever been a situation where the origin of a virus has been considered racist. The Ebola virus comes from the Ebola River. The Spanish

flu, which may not have originated in Spain. In fact, some say it may even have originated in China. Believe it or not, nobody said that was racist to call it the Spanish flu. German measles. I had German measles when I was a kid. Do I blame the Germans? Is it

racist to call it German measles? No. So to label something like COVID 19, the Wuhan flu is considered racist. Now to say that it comes from China is racist now. And it got to the point that if you were to say that it's very possible and probable that the virus came from the lab in Wuhan which was studying and experimenting on this exact kind of virus that all of a sudden you're the same as a thug who's beating up an elderly Asian person in San Francisco.

# stop Asianhate. They hijacked the stop Asian hate movement just like they hijacked the BLM movement and every other movement because they know what the hot button issues are. They know what's going to get people distracted. They know what they can do to get people to turn a blind eye and stop blaming each other rather than the Chinese government. The Chinese government is behind many of those stop Asian hate movements and they have co-opted all sorts of nonprofit organizations and they have ties to these people that go out and protest like Code Pink. There's an article all

about it if you'd like down below. And they go out there and they call you racist for saying that the virus came from where it came from. And the Chinese government can sit back and laugh at the rest of the world while they squabble in amongst themselves about their domestic politics, pointing fingers at at each other. All the while they had unleashed this terrible virus that wre havoc on the world, ground the world to a halt, affected countless families, killed countless grandparents, parents, daughters, sons, destroyed lives, and they get away scot-free. I don't like to see this. I don't like to

see the bad guy getting away with something like this and something so big. We need to hold China to account and we need to ignore China when they cry racist because guess what? It's not racist to say that CO 19 came from China because it did. Anyway, until next time, unlike the Chinese government who uh destroyed the world and got away with it, stay awesome. Doing what I do can be quite the challenge. You know, I've got the

Chinese government after me. I've got half the world who carries water for the CCP. People who are invested in and people who shill for China going after me all the time. I really appreciate your support by watching my video. And the best way to support me is to check out my secret show that I co-host with LA86. Link is in the description. Hope

to see you there. Stay awesome. How he's breathing right now. Yeah, wait a minute. Chain shape King Kong. Yes,

change shape King Kong. Like police brutality, all this kind of stuff, right? Where's Where are people sharing this with when people bring up police brutality or AAB and all? Yeah, exactly. Where's the Where's these? It

is the greatest ammunition you could ever use against CCP apologists of all time. Yes.