---
video_title: "The Truth about the SLAUGHTER in South Africa!"
video_id: c8pEGA1yhUk
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c8pEGA1yhUk
video_date: 2025-05-28
video_description: |
  Take your personal data back with Incogni! Use code Winston at the link below and get 60% off an annual plan: https://incogni.com/winston
  
  Time to set the record straight about the South African Farmers...
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
This video cannot be monetized and is being shadowbanned by YouTube. Please share it out. If you want anyone to know what the truth behind what's happening in South Africa is, please share this video. The seven people who were killed recently on a farm. The bodies of six women and a 17year-old boy were found on the Lismore farm on Friday. Yes, it's

true. Two women were actually raped by allegedly this two men and after the raping they went on on a shooting spree to kill all those seven people and some of them were actually stabbed. So it appears as if they wanted to make sure that all of them uh die. White South African farmers are being targeted. Leisel Vasil is recovering in hospital after she was tortured with boiling water and stabbed until she lost consciousness on Monday evening. Her

husband Tul did not survive the attack. [Music]

details.

They're being targeted for brutal murders, torture. Kill the poor, the farmer. I repeat, kill the poor, the farmer. This is the second farm attack in Bonnyville in the past six months. In December, the elderly stains were murdered in their beds on their farm in the refused Sundarin Mountains.

[Music]

[Music] They are being wiped out. We were attacked. I was shot through the back and my wife unfortunately was killed. I repeat, kill the poor, the

former. Adami. Kill the poor. The farmer. Kill the poor. The

farmer. My mother was lying face down, hands tight behind by behind a a back. My dad had a big gaping hole like the size of a golf ball in his in his throat. There was a pool of blood here all over. Um, when I when I touched him, he was cold already. My mother was lying face down,

but she was still hot, but I couldn't feel a pulse. Um, the their throats were slit. Um, they were tortured here. I found a iron cord around my mother's neck. Um, she was obviously they they they tortured her and uh the savagery of these crimes cannot be explained and I don't want to talk about it because it upsets me.

[Applause] Alliance shoot to [Applause] kill. Kill the poor. The farmer. Kill the poor. The farmer.

[Applause] I want to talk about what happened in the Oval Office the other day. The so-called uh ambush that President Trump pulled on President Suril Ramapora. We're going to talk about it. I'm going to tell you what was right, what was wrong about that meeting and hopefully put an end to this debate as to whether there is a genocide going on in South Africa or not. So, I've got something I want to read to you guys here. Um, before we do though, let's

lighten the mood with a data broker rap. Deep within the corporate offices of a data broker, something is happening behind closed doors. We're scummier than earthworms, stealing all your deets. We sell it to whomever. Spy stalkers and sus peeps. They pay us for your

info to bother you in heaps. You cannot escape us with data broken bros. When you browse the internet, when you click on accept a cookie, when you sign up for some other service in a shop, your data gets sold to data brokers and data brokers then sell it to other people. But there is a way to get your name and personal information removed off of these lists and that is incogn. You see, they do the fancy footwork and all the hard work for you. There are

thousands of data brokers out there and for you to go after each one and legally request for your name to be removed would be incredibly time consuming and costly. But Incogn does it for you. You give them permission and then they will on your behalf send legal letters to all of these different data brokers to get your personal data removed. If you're tired of junk mail and you want to get rid of all these targeted adverts and take your privacy back, go to incogn.com/winston and use the code winston to get 60% off. Protect your

privacy today. Go to incogn.com/winston and use the code winston to take your personal data off the market. And now back to the show. I have here the nine steps of genocide with context to the South African situation. Now bear with me. I'll get to

the Oval Office stuff. I'll get to all of that in a minute. But I wanted to quickly go through this. Okay. The nine stages of genocide with examples from the current South African context.

Classification. People are divided into groups based on race, culture, or background. Example, legislation like BBE officially classifies citizens according to race for access to jobs, contracts, and services. What the hell is BBBE? I know there's black economic empowerment, but let's see what this

is. Ah, BBE is broad-based black economic empowerment. All right. Okay. Now we got that out the way. Number two,

symbolization. Groups are labeled, identified, or treated differently based on these classifications. Example, terms like previously advantaged are used to justify exclusion. Race is recorded and tracked in all economic policy. This is true in South Africa. People say white people

are previously advantaged and black people are previously disadvantaged. This is a label that's given to people. Doesn't that mean that they're currently not advantaged and currently not disadvantaged? Wouldn't that track have made great strides in an effort to improve the lives of previously disadvantaged people, but still there's room for improvement. Over 50% of the land distributed to the previously disadvantaged has failed to render tangible benefits. A fair representation

of previously disadvantaged South Africans entering the field of accounting, especially those from previously disadvantaged communities. Tell you what, that's one terminology I thought I'd never have to hear again. For previously disadvantaged women, previously disadvantaged children, previously disadvantaged farmers. Number three, discrimination. A dominant group uses laws, policies, and institutions to deny rights and access to others.

Example, white candidates are excluded from job opportunities, university placement, and public sector roles under official quotota systems. This is true if you're white. In fact, you know what? There are 140 odd racebased laws currently in South Africa that discriminate against white people. I'm not joking. Look it up. I've actually

experienced it myself when applying for work in South Africa. You know, less qualified people would get the job because, you know, color of their skin. It's part of the BBB thing. All right. Dehumanization. The targeted group is

blamed for society's problems or depicted as less human. For example, public figures claim whites stole the land or are inherently privileged. African are blamed for apartheite decades after its fall. There's a lot to say about this, guys. You know, I get kind of tired of this whole thing. Um, white people being

being blamed for stealing the land. You know, I've never owned land in South Africa. I'm South African. I was born in South Africa. How the hell do I steal land based on the color of my skin if I've never owned land? I couldn't afford

to buy land when I was living in South Africa growing up. Are you kidding me? But you see, this is the problem when you've got such a big stigma in society and people are blaming a certain skin color for things. They'll look at me and immediately they will label me as a land thief, somebody who stole the land from someone's ancestor or something. I've never owned land. It's ridiculous. And

of course, this leads to a lot of problems because somebody might try and uh murder me out of spite or something along those lines. Yeah, it's just the tip of the iceberg. I could really get into this, but let's move on. Okay, next. Organization. The state or allied groups

organize mechanisms to enforce discrimination. For example, President Ramapora calls on the ANC youth league to become militant. I call upon you to return to the militancy of the ANC youth league of the 1944 era to go back to the militancy of the ANC youth league of the 80s and the '90s. We don't want to see an ANC youth league that is asleep during a revolution. You are the revolution.

Radical legislation is implemented through state organs. You know, this is actually the truth. Uh, President Ramapora did call for the ANC Youth League to become militant like in the past. Great. Like when I was growing up where they were blowing up shopping malls, killing little children, blowing up churches, train stations. Awesome.

Wonderful. What a great uh thing to call for. Next one. Polarization. Extremes in speech and legal decisions deepen social divides.

Moderates are silenced. For example, courts allow the kill the Bur song while silencing white criticism. Orana and Clark Fontaine are attacked in parliament as threats to democracy. You know, this whole kill the bur thing being defended uh by the South African court as some kind of a folk song, you know, struggle song. It's absolute nonsense. It's not a folk song. There's

no folk song in the world that uh calls for the eradication and the killing and the shooting of a minority. And if there is, it needs to be wiped out. You might wonder why this song has been allowed to proliferate, especially in South Africa where hate speech is taken very seriously. If a white person utters a slur, a racial slur, they will go to jail. No joke. But you can sing, "Kill

the bo, kill the farmer." And you know what? Abur is one thing and one thing only. Abur is an Africans farmer. A white Africans farmer because that is the Africans word for farmer. It's

nothing else. It cannot be misconstrued for anything else. It means kill the white farmer. Now the reason why this song is allowed to continue and the courts have allowed it is well because you know the president of South Africa and that little who goes around singing this all the time in his party and he whips every one up into a frenzy by the way not a fringe party that's a big party who says this is just a small party is so insignificant he says that's not a small party this party can gather 100,000 people under one roof in a stadium where I can't even see a single empty seat you can't say that it's a small party. We are not a small party.

That's why imperialism is very scared of us. They have a massive grassroots movement and they can whip up thousands of people at any given moment. Hundreds of thousands of people to go and do whatever they ask including kill people. Um anyway, Sir Ramapza, the president of South Africa himself wants Malemma to be back in the ANC and of course uh the EFF members uh we would want to welcome them back and in fact I would be able to say we would love to have Julius MMA back in the ANC. It's not he still down deep in his heart. He is a friend of malemma,

that little who runs around singing. They are buddy buddy. So of course when the president loves this guy who's going out singing kill the bo, kill the farmer, why would he not help him when it comes to defending his right to say these awful things. It's my theory anyway. Uh what else we got here?

Preparation. Victims are identified, separated, and isolated socially or economically. For example, white communities are demonized. Racial quotas force exclusion. White farmers are portrayed as illegitimate landholders. You know, this is the

truth. Um it's a very interesting thing when it comes to uh the the land owners when the Dutch arrived in South Africa you know in the sort of early 1600s whenever it was the Bantau people the causes the Zulus you know the kind of shoot the bush shoot the farmer kill those people they weren't there they came down later so none of that land belonged to them anyway all the land that was purchased was purchased legitimately. Well, I say legitimately as legitimate as it can be, you know, by the colonizers. You've got all the the signatures of the tribe leadership and all that, similar to America, you know, back in the day with the native Indians, that type of thing. Here, I'll buy you a piece of land for a blanket or whatever it was. Of course, it's not fair, but

there are legitimate deals all written and so on. Uh, at the end of the day, the people own the land. And here's the thing. If you were to fly in from Finland or something and you decided you wanted to start farming in South Africa and you bought a piece of land, you bought a farm from a black owner or a white white owner, doesn't matter. If you went and bought a farm, but you happen to be white, they'll take your land away from you. They can because

you're white. It's a race-based thing. It's not about historical injustices. Okay. Next, we've got persecution. Attacks escalate. The group

suffers harassment, exclusion, violence, or property seizure. For example, farm attacks are brutal. The state pushes land expropriation without compensation. White business owners are excluded from public funding. Um, this is very true. Now,

there's something that's needs to be said here. the president of South Africa, Ramapora, signed and uh created a law that allows the government to take property away from white people, white farmers, um as long as it's in the public interest, which could be anything. You could make up anything that's a public interest, right? But it's not just land. The way it's phrased is they can take property away. That

means cars, bank accounts, they could take your watch off your wrist if they wanted to. It's just anything that they deem is in the public interest. And although in the meeting with Trump, the president tried to pretend that oh, you know, we're not actually going to do anything. This is him himself saying that he wants to take the land away without any payment. The question of land, the land of our forefathers and our fore mothers must return to our people without any fail and without any payment of compensation and it must happen now. Finally, extermination and

denial. Mass killings begin. The state or society denies or justifies the violence. Example, violence is dismissed, hate speech is defended, international warnings are ignored, conditions are building towards extermination. That's exactly what's happening. The mass killings have begun.

If you're a white farmer, an Africans farmer in South Africa, the chances of you being killed are much exponentially higher than an average citizen. The way these farm motors are carried out are disgusting. They're brutal. They are horrific. I know people who've been victims of this, myself personally. Um, and of course growing up

in that environment, you hear about all the horrible things that happened to people in the farms nearby. Um, it's just disgusting. Very often nothing's even stolen. Just want to kill him. the uh sophistication of some of these farm murders as well with the cell phone jammers and what have you definitely make me believe that there is some government um support or at least something like that going on. Anyway,

the uh violence is dismissed. You heard the president when he went to the Oval Office saying that oh we have a problem with criminality. They're just trying to say oh South Africa just has rampant crime where people are brutally murdered anyway. So it's not really a targeted thing. Bollocks African boys are dance. The EFF is coming for you

boys. African boys. The NC has made you to think this thing is still orange free state. This thing is not orange free state. This is free state.

When we take over power, Africana remains. You will know your place. 100%. It's a targeted thing. And yes, South Africa does have a massive problem with criminality. It is a horrible

crimeridden country filled with criminals, the ANC included. Got that off my chest. Okay. Hate speech is defended. Yes. How is it

that anyone is defending the uh shoot to kill kill the bur shoot the bur song? How is that that is hate speech? If that's not hate speech then I don't know what is. Then I think we just need to drop this whole idea of hate speech because that is the epitome of hate speech. Um international warnings are ignored. Hopefully this warning from

America won't be ignored. And conditions are building towards extermination. And yes they are. And we've seen it happen in other places. Listen, I feel like one of those guys who's got a PowerPoint presentation and is reading it, which sucks. I feel like

a bit of a pillock. So, let me just get my actual thoughts out here. I'm going to talk about the White House meeting. Okay, so wow, that was quite a thing. Uh, first of all, I'm very glad it happened. This idea that people are

trying to say that it was in factual and uh, President Trump was pushing false narratives and so on, it's not correct. He did speak the truth. He got a few things wrong, though. And uh I'd just like to clear them up. The first thing that's glaringly what he got wrong was the the whole memorial with the white crosses on the side of the road. Those

aren't grave sites. Those crosses do however represent a white or at least the majority of those crosses represent 90% of them thereabouts represent white farmers who were murdered. There is the Vitrace monument which I've shown in a previous video which you can see he's got thousands of crosses each one for a Africans farmer or a family member who was murdered brutally. These are not people that are dying of natural causes. These are murder victims. Plasm the

monument has thousands of white crosses that pay tribute to white farmers who were killed during farmer attacks. Located on private property, the site can be seen from afar to draw attention to farm attacks. It was founded by the lady liter cross fury in 2004 in memory of her loved ones who were killed during separate farm attacks. And so those crosses do represent the deaths of farmers in South Africa. Not graveyards though. Um, but I

mean does it really matter? The other thing I think he got wrong is he said people come and kill people and then just take over the land. I mean in some cases that does happen because when the farmers are killed um the the lands if they kill the whole family the land just kind of goes to no one and the state takes it over or you know maybe some of the farm workers take it over. Who knows? I'm not entirely clear on that one but I feel like that's not correct. Other than that though spot

on. it needed to be said. The president of South Africa needed to be confronted and it was kind of kind of a funny situation. He brought a couple of token white guys along uh specifically for this meeting. He brought like this this billionaire guy who of course depends heavily on government support to run all of his enterprises in South Africa. of

course he's going to um you know be on the president's side and try to defend him because all of his money is tied up in that and all of his deals depend on the ANC allowing them to happen. Of course he's in the pocket of the ANC. What else is going to happen? Bought a couple of uh very rich golfers along because he knows President Trump's a golfer and he thought it would soften the whole thing. And uh well, you know what? It didn't work out as well as he'd

hoped because one of the guys actually let slip that his father's friends had been murdered and the farms were being burnt. So yeah, that didn't really work out too well. I grew up in an area in South Africa that is a farmland area, Poluani. And um yeah, there is some issues up there obviously. Uh my dad was a property developer as well as a part-time farmer and yeah some of his buddy farmers got killed. Um the farm is

still going. My brothers run it but it's a constant battle with farms trying to get they're trying to burn the farms down to uh chase you away. So it is it is a concern to try and make a living as a farmer. And at the end they you know without farmers there's no food on the plate. At the end of the day, I'm very glad it happened and I'm appalled at the push back against those refugees that came over. Um, just seeing what people were

saying. Oh, they're too healthy to be refugees. How What's your health count when you're being targeted for murder? When you've got people out to kill you and wipe you out and wipe your entire culture off the face of the planet. Does being healthy disqualify you from being a refugee? Oh, they're too fat. What?

How does that Have you been to a trailer park in America? Some of the poorest people in America are fat. What does that have to do with anything? Oh, they've got their families with Oh, there. You know what the real problem with that was? Is that they were

white. And people seem to think that there's a racist agenda here, that President Trump is somehow only helping them out because of the color of their skin. These people are in need of support. They are being targeted. Let me uh let me just quickly put an anecdote out here and I'm going to put something on the screen so that people don't cut this out and try to chop it up and say that this is something I said. The EFF, the guys jumping around

shouting, you know, hey, kill the bo, kill the farmer. They're not a small party. In fact, they're a rather large party. So they're an opposition party to the ANC. If you had an opposition party to the Republicans who are now currently in in uh power. So let's not the Democrats

are too big. Let's say the Libertarian Party. What if you had the Libertarian Party in America and they were going around having rallies and they were shouting shoot the Mexicans, shoot to kill, shoot the Mexicans, shoot to kill. and signed into law that you can take the land and property away from any Mexican land owners, would that not be a problem? Would that not perhaps constitute some kind of hate speech? Or

if they are running around shouting, "Shoot the Mexicans, take the Mexicans land and people are actually a bunch of rednecks or something at going out and shooting Mexicans." Would that not perhaps be caused to be worried about genocide in that country? You see, when you put it like that, I mean, it's such an absurd thing to even say, but that's what's happening in South Africa. When you put it like that, maybe some of your skepticism could be wiped away. These people are being targeted. They are being wiped

out and they have nowhere to go. You see, as a South African, we're a lost tribe of white white South Africans. The European countries that the majority of us come from won't accept us back because it's been generations. We don't hold their nationality anymore. I can't go and say, "Hey, listen. Uh, knock knock. Uh, hey,

England, guess what? you know, uh, can you take me and my family back? You know, I can't go and say, you know, my friend can't knock knock. Hey, Holland, guess what? You know, my ancestor left on the Mayflower in like 1620 or whatever it is. And uh, we uh, kind of

need to come back now. No, they're not they don't belong there anymore. They're not going to help them out. And we don't belong in the land which we were born in and well, we grew up in. Nobody wants us there. We're being persecuted. The

government doesn't want us there. We are the scapegoat for all of their problems. It sucks. You know what? I'm deeply ashamed of South Africa. I'm deeply

ashamed that I can't be proud of the country that I was born in. Because when you grow up in a place, you develop a certain attachment to a place, the the the environment, the uh the breeze, the sound of the birds, the uh the landscapes, the friends, family. There's something that's in you and to have to leave leave the place of your birth uproot yourself and go somewhere is one of the toughest things to do. Nobody should have to do that. But the first opportunity that I I got I left and I will never go back.

That country doesn't want me there. There are many people that believe that allowing these Africans refugees into America is a mistake. And I've been trying to figure out why they think it's a mistake. And the only thing I can come up with is the fact that they're white. That's the only reason. I saw

people on mainstream media saying that um they shouldn't be allowed in because their ancestors, you know, were the architects of apartheite. Imagine saying that persecuted people who are being murdered and who are getting their land taken away forcefully and there's a law that will allow the South African government to take that their land away. Imagine saying that they're not um allowed to have refugee status because of something their ancestors did. I mean the guy who said that had a German surname. I'm pretty sure that uh we shouldn't judge you on your ancestors behavior. I don't

think that you're responsible for gassing Jewish people, you know, got to see behind and beyond your prejudice and beyond your bigotry and your and your racism against white people. I've seen uh people say all sorts of reasons they shouldn't be allowed. But I'll tell you what, you're not going to find a better group of refugees. South Africans are hardworking. South Africans are serious and they'll get things done. Uh, sure you're going

to get the the odd artworm Fricky who's just there for a free ride and who's going to just coast along, but uh, for the most part, South Africans wherever they go, they flourish because they work hard because they don't take anything for granted. I certainly don't take anything for granted. I am so happy that my daughter gets to grow up in America. I'm so happy that my daughter is American. finally breaking that long chain of being tied to that awful, awful country. I'd like to leave you with the

final thought. Everyone in South Africa is struggling at the moment. Every single person except for of course the politicians and the people that are connected to the corrupt politicians. Everybody else is suffering. Everyone's struggling to survive. It's a beautiful country, but

it's on life support and only just. Everyone in South Africa truly truly deserves a better chance, a chance to prove themselves and a chance to go somewhere else. But it's impractical. Right now, there's only one group, one group that's being called to be slaughtered. There is only one group that's being targeted by both the government and political parties for discrimination, slaughter, taking their land away. And it's the white minority,

specifically the white Africans minority. Of course, all white people should be included, but um the white Africanas, the the farmers are the most vulnerable because they live out in the rural areas and they are being targeted. They are the most vulnerable statistically. You can look it up. They deserve it more than anyone else because although everyone else is struggling and being murdered and brutally um dealing with horrible crimes in South Africa, they're the only ones that the government truly despises and wants to get rid of. So let them have refugee

status. Bring them in. They'll do a good job. Give them a piece of land. They'll turn it into a garden of Eden.

Incredibly good farmers. They're called, their name is bloody farmer, okay? They know what they're doing when it comes to farming. Let them farm. Just keep them away from the brandy and coke and everything will be fine. Anyway, guys, thank you for

listening to my rather long- winded talk about this whole South African situation. I am pleased that some international attention has finally been thrust on this whole situation. If you want to support me, please check out my live show on Friday, The China Show, and my secret show on Monday. Stay

awesome. You're whipping a gay vampire. You're a Chinese woman. You're addicted to whipping a gay vampire. And your husband left you. 70 men in less than

two hours, huh? What the? That's cringe. [Music] Woof. I don't know why I want to cry.

And he says, "Cry if you want to." Glancing at you, a hint of pain flashed across his eyes. Okay. What's going on there? Why accidental Nazi? Well, he's a love

interest, you know. They look like women. They literally all look like women. I'll remember to keep my distance from you next time. Hold me. Oh my

gosh. It didn't take long. There's one more thing I wanted to say. If you stuck around this far, thank you very much. I just wanted to say thank you for your support. Um, I've

been very privileged to have grown such a large audience and I'm very happy that I've been able to get the message out about South Africa in previous videos. And uh if you haven't seen them, I put them up here so that you can go check them out. There's one thing I wanted to say is that um had I not grown up in South Africa, I would not have been able to stand up against the CCP, the Chinese Communist Party. There are certain things which I probably will never share with you, my audience, about how they've gone after me and how they've gone after my family. I might at some point, but um they've tried some very very terrible underhanded things to try and silence me. And uh there have been people that

have been constantly trying to besp bismerch my name, destroy my reputation, silence me through any means necessary. And if I wasn't a South African, if I hadn't grown up in South Africa, I feel I wouldn't have had the strength to stand up to all of this. And I probably would have given up a long time ago. I probably would have just stopped in order to try and prevent them from continually dogging me and my family. But because I'm a South African, they picked the wrong fight because they will break themselves against me. Now, South Africans don't back down.

Stay awesome.