---
video_title: "China's EV Car Bubble is Finally Bursting!"
video_id: mG-eJDtySU8
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mG-eJDtySU8
video_date: 2025-12-31T02:16:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  Time to pay the Piper...
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Living in China for 14 years, one thing I noticed about China is that China is wasteful. I'm talking from the top to the very bottom. Everybody is guilty of being wasteful in China. It's part of Chinese society. If you go out for a meal with friends, you order a huge amount and there's always leftovers that just get thrown away. Especially if

you're trying to show off, this is part of what you do. If you're a government official, you're going to have to have every single dish in the restaurant served to you. and then the majority of it gets thrown away. When anything is done in China, it is done in a wasteful manner. Go to a buffet in China and you will see firsthand what I'm talking about. People piling their plates up

with stuff that they could never finish and they don't finish. It's this ravenous gra now and use up all of the resources while you can sort of mentality. And this is why we have what we have with these Chinese EVs. What you're seeing here is the result of China's wasteful and frankly disgusting overp production onslaught. The CCP decided that they want China to be the number one leader in production of EVs and so subsidized, enabled, encouraged, and pushed Chinese companies to pump out unlimited cheap, substandard, and mostly garbage electric cars.

No one wants them. And there are so many of them now that they're lining the streets, filling up fields, filling up shipping ports, and even filling up parking lots abroad. Like the water park in Australia that had its entire parking lot infested with crappy unsold BYD cars just being stored there. Cuz you know, why not? >> I mean, there's just so many cars.

They're all literally bumper to bumper in here. >> Yep. When these large car transport ships uh arrive in port, they have about 7,000 cars on them. And those cars have got to go somewhere. >> Sadly, the things we like sometimes go out of style. Boom boxes, for instance.

But you know what doesn't go out of style, unfortunately, are people trying to take advantage of you on the internet. >> So, I clicked this link that said it was from my bank. And now all of a sudden, I can't access any of my accounts. And well, I'm a little worried. The internet is awesome, but it's also fraught with dangers. New exploits are coming out by

the minute, and it's really hard to keep up. The absolute best thing you can do for peace of mind is use a VPN. And I recommend Surf SharkVPN. A VPN creates a secure tunnel between you and their servers, making sure no one snoops in on what you're doing, not even your ISP. Surf Shark has a load of new useful features like the web content blocker that allows you to control what type of content little Jimmy gets to see on his iPad or other devices. Seriously, Jimmy,

stop trying to look up all those weird topics. [music] It's unhealthy. There's also an email scam checker. Absolutely key to [music] internet safety these days. It'll check any email in your inbox to see if it's a scam or a fishing attempt.

Surf Shark also allows you to take advantage of deals that are only available in certain areas like booking [music] a cheaper flight or renting a car as well as being able to watch content that is blocked in your location. Sur Shark has also reached coverage of 100 countries and is the only VPN to do so. [music] VPNs make sense and with Surf Shark's strict no logs policy, you can get the peace of mind that Surf Shark isn't keeping your data or jimmies for that matter. Go to surfshock.com/serpenta and use the code serpenta for four extra months.

Hey babe, I just got us 4 months extra of Surf Shark. That's surfshock.com/serpentza and use the code serpenta at checkout to get four extra months off of Surf Shark. And now back to the show. [snorts] There are too many cars.

They're crap and they're unwanted. Yet, China keeps pumping out more. You see, by making these cars, they're getting money from the government. They're generating jobs. They're keeping the supply chain going. Absolutely

destroying African resources, enabling forced child labor, and destroying entire ecosystems, amongst other atrocities. All for EV cars that won't be sold and will sit in a field or a port or a road until it's obsolete or unusable. This overcapacity has reached a head and now the bubble is popping. Why spend money on a car when you know that there are 50,000 million of them out there that are just lying away languishing unused? Let's talk about China's overp production for a minute. Did you know

that a huge percentage of fast fashion things people are buying on Shien and Timu are returned? I mean, millions of tons of garbage in the form of cheap clothing and plastic duads are shipped overseas on big tankers that burn massive amounts of dirty oil. Great for the environment, obviously. And then when this stuff gets returned, well, now it has to get shipped all the way back. And then from there, it gets shipped off to Africa to be sold for a pittance. And

it's such a wasteful amount of garbage. And all for what?

To create one of those EVs. Think about all the energy that is used. The energy that's used to smelt the steel, the energy that's used for all the robotics to put these things together. You have to make rubber. You have to um build these batteries. That means you have to

mine in Africa where there are these terrible labor conditions and forced labor and child labor and whatever to get the minerals out of the ground in order to make these batteries. You are really just generating pollution. Not only just using up energy, but just belching out pollution and you're making a car that's never going to be driven, a car that's never going to get sold, a car that's going to sit on the side of the road, sit in rot in a field somewhere, sit in a port overseas somewhere, or sit in an Australian water parking lot. It's [snorts] dumb and it's just making them for the purpose of making them. And we've seen this countless times in China, you know, with those shared bikes. Perfect example,

tens, sorry, hundreds of millions of these things were produced because it was a big Ponzi scheme. You got investment from the government. You got investment from private investors. So then they started to make them. Nobody was riding them. There not enough people

to ride all of those things. They just pumped them out and it became crazy. You were tripping over them everywhere you went in the cities. The government had to step in and get these companies to come in and pick up their bikes and move them. Finally, you had mountains of these things, aluminium, rubber, electronics in them because they had these GPS trackers so that they could see where you're going and you could pay and all that sort of thing. Little solar

panels. Everything all thrown away. An ecological disaster. I mean, decades worth of pollution created for what? For nothing. For a cash grab. And now you

just got remnants of these trash bicycles everywhere in China. Ridiculous. The same thing's happening with the EVs. And unfortunately, we're encouraging them by buying these Chinese EVs. We shouldn't be because, let's face it, they suck. I'm sorry. I understand

that there are some good models, good value for money. There are some big marks that are getting a lot of press, especially when they buy out these, you know, u what would you call them? motoring journalists and fly them over there to go and take a look at all the fancy new cars that are just knockoffs of existing cars. But I will concede that they do make some nice EVs, but that is the minority, a very small percentage, because the majority of the EVs being produced by China are absolute garbage. Not only are they trash and have a lot of quality control issues and they break down and their brakes fail and their suspension snaps and things like that and the wheels come off and what have you, but they're a hazard because if you have a crash, the airbags don't go off. And this is even in the

top end models. I've shown plenty of the top leading, you know, what do you call them? Flagship cars that the airbags don't go off in an accident. I got tons of videos about this you can check out. Not only that, but they trap people inside and burn them to death. This has

become such a huge problem in China, and there have been some very high-profile cases, especially that uh recently that knockoff Porsche um Chinese EV that the knockoff of the Porsche Tyan, it uh had an accident and burned three young girls or young women to death. And recently there was a crash. It burned the guy to death in a very very public manner. I mean, people were there taking videos and photos. It's horrible. But this

happened so much that the Chinese government actually had to step in and is now mandating that those kind of electric flip out door handles are no longer a thing that's allowed. And this is how you could tell the truth. Think about this. In the past two decades or so, what have you heard about the Chinese electric scooter market? What do you know about Chinese electric scooters? Obviously, if you've watched

my videos, you'll know that they explode and catch fire all the time. from the general press, from statistics coming out of China, from the news that you watch or the magazines or newspapers you read or whatever it is you read these days or see, you probably think they're fine. You don't hear much about them, do you? And that's because all the negative news about that entire industry is just not reported. The Chinese government doesn't release the statistics publicly.

News articles don't come out to say that these things are incredibly hazardous. But you know what? They are so hazardous and they've caused so many fires, burnt down so many shops and apartments and killed people in elevators and killed people in their apartments and so on that the Chinese government has actually mandated that all of them be scrapped. All existing EV scooters are being confiscated by the police, by the traffic police. And the new ones, they're not allowed to have storage spaces under the seats. They have to

have a weird kind of foam seat that can't catch fire. It is such a huge issue that they've had to redesign what an electric scooter is. Now, the reason I'm giving you this example, you might think this is great. The Chinese government's stepping in and upping the safety of these things. No, the Chinese government is reactive, not proactive.

They're doing this because so much damage has been done and so many lives have been lost that they finally decided that they're going to do something about it. And the same thing is happening with the Chinese EV cars. so many failures, so many fires, so many lives lost, and they still haven't stepped in to do anything about it because it hasn't reached critical mass. There hasn't been enough attention, and not enough people have seen this. And now we have the situation where these wasteful garbage things are just clogging up the streets and clogging up the parking lots and clogging up the ports. And for what?

Those cars are never going to be driven. It's dumb. I say don't encourage them. Don't buy Chinese EVs. And I'll tell you why. If you don't buy Chinese EVs, that

whole bubble's popping now anyway. They're going to have millions, tens of millions of these things that they simply cannot sell. You probably pick one up for free. They'll probably give you 10, maybe 20. Maybe we can make a whole city out of these cars, like a big car graveyard, and everyone gets their own car to live in. I don't know. But

there's going to be so many of these things left over all around the world, scattered everywhere that they can't sell that they're going to have to give them away or crush them or whatever they do. Just get yourself a decent car, something that'll last you a long time. I'm a proponent of buying old secondhand good reliable cars if you know what you're doing or buying a good brand like a Toyota or something that or a Hyundai or anything that has a good warranty and a good service and that doesn't fail within the first couple of days of you driving it. Anyway, um at the end of the day, you got to do you. But I want you to understand that this huge EV surplus, this overp production is bad. It's not

good for anyone or anything. It's not good for the environment. It's not good for Africa. It's not even good for China because it's messing up their automotive industry. Honestly, there's just too much of this stuff. It's driven

everything down. All the companies have to go at each other's throats and undercut each other. Now, no vehicle can make a profit in China anymore. It's impossible. every vehicle that they sell now is making a loss. It's no joke

because why would you pay a lot of money if you see that there's like 8,000 free cars basically sitting out there on the street that they have to move? Well, you can just bargain with them and say, "Well, if you're not going to give it to me for half of what it's actually worth, I'm just going to go to the next guy." And [snorts] the next guy's going to be like, "Well, we need to move this stuff on because every time they move a unit, it's good. The government rewards them. they get to continue this crazy machine that's just there for the sake of being there. So anyway guys, um unlike these

crazy Chinese Eevees, stay awesome. Oh, and don't forget to check us out on Friday for the Friday show. It's where we talk about everything funny, interesting, and of course, all the propaganda, the ins and outs of China. Cannot wait to see you there. Until then, you know the drill. As always,

stay awesome.