---
video_title: "This Comedian Screwed up BIG in China!!"
video_id: 1iPZmcceI_M
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1iPZmcceI_M
video_date: 2025-06-25
video_description: |
  Take your personal data back with Incogni! Use code Winston at the link below and get 60% off an annual plan: https://incogni.com/winston
  
  Dude is wack...
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to debunk some nonsense propaganda. So, grab a beverage, settle down, and let's take a look deep within the corporate offices of a data broker. Something is happening behind closed doors. We're planning out some nonsense. We've got targets to meet. Our

plans are so disgusting. They'll knock you off your feet. Your privacy is for fit. And all we know is greed. You cannot escape bus.

We're data broken bros. When you browse the internet, when you click on accept a cookie, when you sign up for some other service in a shop, your data gets sold to data brokers and data brokers then sell it to other people. You'll be absolutely shocked at how many sites share your personal information. Just try Google your name, city, and state and see what pops up. That is not cool. That crazy X can see

that information, too. Luckily, Incogn has you covered. With Incogn's custom removals feature in the unlimited plan and Family Unlimited plan, you can point to any website where you find your personal information, and one of Incogn's privacy agents will take care of the rest for you. There are thousands of data brokers out there, and for you to go after each one and legally request for your name to be removed would be incredibly timeconuming and costly. But, Incogn does it for you. If

you don't like the idea of your crazy ex looking up your address and targeted ads and junk mail, go to incogn.com/winston and use the code winston to get 60% off. Protect your privacy today. Go to incogn.com/winston and use the code winston to take your personal data off the market. And now

back to the show. You know, these days the Chinese government has been pushing propaganda out the wazoo and they've been getting a lot of these fresh off the boat naive people to spread propaganda on their behalf. Willingly or unwittingly, who knows? Why does China not have homeless people? Yes, Western media, China does not have homeless people.

Okay, so why are there no homeless people here in China? Because there's no homeless people here in China. Why does China have homeless people? Yes, Western media. China doesn't have homeless people. Okay, so why are there homeless

people here in China? Why does China have homeless people? Because there are homeless people here in China. But you get these certain videos that just take off. And there's a particular viral video I'd like to talk about cuz I saw it the other day on X and I thought, come on. So, there's this comedian,

Danny O Yang, and he went to Beijing and Shanghai for the first time and made this fresh off the boat video, which recently has resurfaced. And last time I checked, it was at almost 4 million views on X. The thing is, I know he's a comedian, so at first I thought he was joking, but I actually think he was being genuine about what he said. And I can't let this stand. It's nonsense. So,

let's get into it. I just woke up in Beijing. I know one of your first questions always, how's the air? It's clear as always. How's the air?

It's clear. I mean, I I'm sorry, but I don't know about you guys. That doesn't look very clear to me. I mean, it's pretty easy. We can actually just look it up right now. I'm going to pull up the Beijing

AQI and we can take a look. Okay, so Bro made this post on the 14th of March, 2025. Okay, so let's be fair. Let's go take a look at the Beijing AQI right now. as it stands, man, that is not very good. Unhealthy 153. That's

actually really terrible for your health. Let's go and be fair, though. Let's take a look on the day that he made that post because you can see the historical data. And remember, these are the numbers coming out from the Chinese government. So, you know, you normally can't trust them anyway. But let's just

go by these numbers. If we take a look at March, let's see, March 14th, it was an average of 140. That means it was much higher at some point during the day. Just for comparison, let's take a look at Los Angeles. We all know that Los Angeles is like the most polluted city in America. So, if we go to Los

Angeles right now, um, we can take a look that it's 33. And okay, let's be completely fair. Let's do the historical data on that one as well. Let's go back to 2025 and let's go Well, you can actually see where the wildfires were. That's interesting. Remember those?

Let's go to March. March 14th. Come on. Same day. I mean, an average mean of 14.

14 compared to 140. That's 10 times worse. The air when he was there on that day was 10 times worse than in Los Angeles, the most polluted city in America. I don't think that's clear skies or clear air. I think the guys really taking the piss. Let's move on.

The buildings are nice. Yeah. Okay. Buildings are nice. Yes, they are. The

buildings do look very nice in downtown Beijing and downtown Shanghai. Also, in any of the bigger cities, they do look nice, and that's because it's a government mandate to make sure that they have impressive skylines. Unfortunately, it all goes to hell if you travel about half an hour to an hour out of any city center. In fact, 10 minutes sometimes, you'll see what's actually behind the shiny skyscrapers, and it's not pleasant. I mean, this is easy to prove. Here's the building that

you can see out of the window that he's looking at. I filmed this myself. And downstairs from where I filmed this, you can see it's not very far away. This is what it looks like. This is Beijing, the capital. And I mean, this is still

nice. I took the highspeed rail here from Shanghai 4 hours to travel like 2,000 kilometers or something. Something we only have in America. Dude, the train had like lay down beds and business class. Yeah, I mean the highspeed rail is great in China. I'm not going to try

and argue that because I'm all about facts here. It's great, but there are a couple of things you have to keep in mind. It's not for the lowincome people to use. It's incredibly expensive for Chinese people earning Chinese wages. If you're a foreigner and you're just visiting, it'll be cheap for you because you're bringing your dollars that you earned in a strong economy somewhere else. And

that's the biggest difference I can say. Look, the highspeed rails do operate at severe debt in China. There's a lot of problems with them. There have been unfortunate incidents where um you know, we've had big coverups when there were big accidents with the highspeed rails. We've had the shiny metro systems flood with everybody drowning to death slowly and painfully and live streaming it for instance in the Junga floods. Awful

situation. And the government tried to cover it up so much that they even tried to block off the flowers people were putting down um you know in remembrance of family members that they'd lost in the floods because they didn't want people to see how many people had died. They blacked out the carriages as they took them out on trucks so people couldn't see the corpses inside. I mean, China can look nice and fancy, but at the end of the day, it's all about image, and that's why you see that fancy stuff. I mean, he's also talking about staying in a sleeper bed in the train.

That's VIP stuff, man. That's top tier. If you go to a place like America or many other places in the world, the public transport is there usually for number one, convenience, but also for the low income bracket of people, people that can't afford to have a car. But it's the other way around in China. The highspeed rail is for the kind of people that can afford a car. It's for the

middle class and up. Lowerass people take the slow trains, take the slow buses, um, and various other forms of transport. So, just bear that in mind. But I will say very convenient to use the highspeed rails in China. And the food on the train is better than most American Chinese foods. I got to say,

the food on the train is better than most American Chinese food. food. Any Chinese food is better than American Chinese food. It's that simple. I could say the same about any Western food. You

try go have a steak in China, it's going to be horrible compared to any steakhouse, even a low-end one in the States or Australia or anywhere else. That's just the way it goes, man. Like, you're basically trying to make a a poor copy or your own reimagining of a cuisine. It's never going to be as good as the real thing. So, I mean, that's kind of silly. And this hotel room, look

at this. It's like one of the nicest hotels I've stayed in. And every restaurant here, the interior design is crazy. Here in Shanghai, even more, the architecture, the interior design, and of course, the food is incredible. Yeah, I hate to break it to this guy, but uh the majority of architecture in the fancy cities in China, um it's foreign architects that set them up. Uh there

have been some pretty successful Chinese architects too, but the majority, the fancy buildings you see, the interior design, those are foreign architects. So you're praising a not Chinese thing, if that makes sense. One thing I must say though is the cost for hotels in China is cheap. Very cheap. I mean, once again, you can get a pretty good hotel room for around about $50 US. They're

about $60 US a night. get a really nice one. But of course, this is a nice hotel. He is a successful comedian. And as far as I can see, he's staying in this Kerry hotel, which is about $210 a night, which may not seem a lot for a jet setter, but in China, that's a lot.

You got people that survive on around about $600 to 700 a year in China. You have to understand that when you're earning a Chinese wage, that is a lot of money. It does balance out. You know, if you're earning even a base level McDonald's wage in the USA, you can go to China and stay in a nice hotel. But if you're going to try and earn base level McDonald's wages in China, you cannot afford to go to that same hotel.

Does it make sense? I think most people miss this one very important fact. It's kind of like you can enjoy yourself if you're coming in there from a first world or a developed country where you've got a strong currency. But when you're living in China, as a Chinese person, you don't have the same opportunity. And I I see this as exploitative um in many ways. For me, even I feel

very westernized and American and I didn't know what to expect. And most importantly, it's safe here. Here Shanghai, my cousin told me you can just leave your moped out. You can leave your moped on on the street. Nobody's going to take it. Oh, it's safe. Is it because

your cousin said so? Well, if your cousin tells you to kiss a rattlesnake because it's a safe thing to do, would that prove that it's true? I mean, dude, I got friends that told me that they can hack the Pentagon. Doesn't mean it's true. Why are you taking someone's word for it? Here's actual footage of

Shanghai of mopeds being stolen right now, this week. This is a big farce and this is a big propaganda push. It actually kind of annoys me because here's the evidence in front of your eyes of mopeds and motorbikes and just random stuff getting stolen in Shanghai. Shanghai is the most sophisticated, most international city in China. It is the most expensive city and yet here things are being stolen. Get outside of

Shanghai, it's a given. Things get stolen when in a blink of an eye. pickpocketing, theft, motorcycle theft, all that kind of thing is a huge problem in China. Not one Chinese person is going to lie and say that it isn't a problem in China. It really is. And so,

this is where I start to get a bit sus. Like, why is this a talking point? Because I've seen this a lot. We all know it's not true. You cannot leave your bike unlocked. It's not safe. If

you do, it's for propaganda purposes. Or there's another reason why it's like that. Like the guy who owns the bike is sitting right there with his eyes on it. So yeah, I mean maybe try it for yourself, bro. Buy a moped and go and park it on the streets of Shanghai and leave your keys in it and see what happens. I dare you. I double dare you.

How about we place a bet on it. Get get a hold of me. I'll uh you know, we'll we'll play high stakes. Nobody's going to steal from you. You can walk down like a dark alley at night as a girl, as a guy, whatever. I mean, come on. Listen

again. Kidnapping is off the charts in China. Here's a couple clips from just a couple weeks ago. It's not safe for a girl by themselves. It's not safe for a guy by themselves.

[Music]

You can walk down like a dark alley at night as a girl, as a guy, whatever. It's going to be fine when you're fresh off the boat and you're in a tourist area walking around as a foreigner. It's safe. It will be safe. I mean, you're going to get scammed. People will target

you for for scams. I've done a whole bunch of videos. I've even caught the scammers red-handed in Beijing. Okay. May maybe. Yeah. Um, can I see a menu?

Let's see the menu first. It's a real thing, but if you're a foreigner walking around, you'll be left alone for the most part. But this idea that it's just safe for a girl to walk down an alley at night is not true. I can leave this gold chain anywhere and it'll be all right. You know what I mean? Okay, you're going to leave your

gold chain somewhere and it's not going to get stolen, dude. I mean, this is just ridiculous. It is such a blatant lie that it pisses me off because again, ask any Chinese person if you can leave a gold chain lying around in China. And of course, they're going to say, "No, you cannot do that." Rubbish. Look at

this. This is my lucky fish over my Billy Joel today. Feeling blessed. Wake up in Beijing. I mean, listen, I'm not here to throw cold water in this dude's parade. He's

talking a bunch of nonsense. But listen, this is called the honeymoon phase. It happens to everybody. When you visit another country, like for instance, if you were to go to, I don't know, South Korea right now and you'd never been or Japan or um Italy or you name it, any any nice uh country that's not in a state of war. If you were to go there right now, you'd have a great time.

There's so much to explore, so many new things to see, different kinds of food, different kinds of transport, things people do that are different to where you're from. And yeah, it's fun and exciting and you get this thing that's called the honeymoon period. And for some people it lasts a couple weeks, for some people it can last a year or more. It's just one of those things. Um I went through it myself when I first got to China. You know, things were so

different and so amazing that uh I really just absolutely loved my time there and I'll never take that time back. I had such a great time. But but very importantly here during the honeymoon phase you will consciously ignore the bad things you will consciously you will see a beggar or you'll see a terrible situation where you've got like a child being used to beg for instance and you'll not like it but you will not really pay attention. you'll be paying attention to like the amazing street food or you'll be paying attention to the oh it's so safe to walk here type nonsense or whatever and this is just human nature. This guy feels blessed in Beijing. I

again would challenge him to go and live there for a number of years, a number of months even and see how he feels once he's got used to the grind. And of course, if he was actually earning Beijing money, you know, and I'm saying even an office worker salary, he would suffer. He would see that it's difficult. You don't have the power to travel so easily and stay in nice hotels and eat in nice restaurants. You have to start to ration that. You have to start

to go out every so often and take a trip once a year. You know, that type of thing. You just got to put it into that perspective. But another thing I'd just like to quickly talk about here is this idea that going to a place that is completely unfamiliar to you where you cannot speak the language and you suddenly think you know what's going on is one of the stupidest things ever and hey listen I was guilty of that too because when you don't know what people are saying when you cannot read the signs you start to just make things up and you compare it to where you're from. So, you're walking down the street, you see a bunch of blurry signs. They don't

make sense to you. And you're like, whoa, this is cool. It's vibrant. It's colorful. But that sign in Chinese is propaganda saying, you know, we're watching you. And you know, you better

not do this. You better not do that. You stay in line. And then if you actually could read it, it would sour your mood a little bit when you start to see that they're telling you what to do when they're telling you they're watching you. When they're warning you not to do this, warning you not to do that.

When you're walking past and you hear people talking on the road, you don't know what they're saying. And you can make up these fantasies in your mind and oh, look at this wonderful, you know, culture where everyone's friendly and talking to each other, but they could be having an argument. They could be plotting to kill you. You do not know. So, it's it's arrogant to think that you know what's going on. You think it's

safe because you don't see anyone being assaulted in front of you. I can promise you that assaults, muggings, murders, big big in China. I mean, I've got the video evidence. I don't need to show you, you know, but I have the receipts if anybody would like to see them. The thing is, and I've used this analogy before, but bear with me. Imagine you

lived in a neighborhood and in your neighborhood there was a murder. So, let's say two streets down from you, somebody got stabbed to death, but it wasn't in the news because the news wasn't allowed to report on this because it's bad for social harmony. This is how China works. So, somebody gets murdered, say two streets down from you, the cops turn up, they take the body away, they arrest the perpetrator, or maybe he ran away, who knows? Um, but then you're not allowed to talk about it. And if

somebody tries to post about it online, all of their information, I mean, all their posts get taken down and they get a talking to from the police, perhaps arrested for trying to spread um, you know, disrupt social harmony. That's actually a law in China. It's called picking quarrels and and, uh, causing trouble. Um, so you're sitting there ignorant, not knowing that somebody was murdered two streets down from you, and you're walking around in your neighborhood as if it's the safest place in the world because you didn't see it with your eyes. So, you think China's safe because you don't see the bad stuff because the government is hiding it from you. It's so so simple, guys. I've lived

in America now since 2019. I've not seen a single person get shot. I've not even seen anyone brandish a firearm. And I've been around. I traveled coast to coast.

I've been everywhere. The only time I've seen a gun is when a policeman is wearing it. But am I naive enough to say that there's no gun violence in America? No. I'm not stupid. And of course, the

news tells me that there's gun violence in America. Social media tells me that there's gun violence in America. But in China, the news doesn't tell you that there are stabbings and murders and kidnappings and all the bad things that do happen in China. And social media does not tell you that there are murders and kidnappings and all the bad things that happen in China and drug addicts and homelessness. They do not tell you because it's not good for the image of China. So, they block it. So you you're

just walking around like an ignorant fool thinking that you're in the safest place in the world. And that's only because you don't see the bad news. It's simple people. Very, very simple. And if you wanted to know the bad news, if you wanted to know that it's there, people get the word out. Dissident do leak it

out. Videos come out daily of horrible things happening in China. Mass vehicular homicides, terrible kidnappings, big fires that have been set in factories, sabotage, anarchy, all sorts of things are happening every single day in China. And if you want to find out more about all that stuff, join me for the China show every Friday. Guys, thank you for hearing me out. This

kind of thing annoys me. This guy's a certified bell end. I'm going to put a little certified bellend stamp over his face. And again, I'll I'll let him off the hook this time. He's naive. He

hasn't been in China long, but dude, try leave that chain somewhere. And also get your eyes checked cuz that's not clear sky. Anyway, guys, until next time, you know the drill. As always, stay awesome.