---
video_title: "The Chinese E-Bike Fire Epidemic They Don’t Want You to Know About"
video_id: biexjMhcP3U
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=biexjMhcP3U
video_date: 2025-11-29T15:45:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  They're deady and they don't want you to know!
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
An ebike battery with a typical capacity of a 1000 W hours contains approximately 3.6 million jewels of total stored chemical energy which can be entirely converted to heat under certain circumstances, fires or short circuits for instance. That is equivalent to almost 2 lb of TNT. Yes, dynamite.

Boom goes the dynamite. Am I right? Just take a look at these things going up everywhere. It's It's really really worrying.

But you know what else is worrying is internet security. Check this out. Times were simpler when we didn't have to worry about internet threats and snoops. >> Yeah. So I clicked on a link in my email and now all my accounts are being hacked. Ho hom. Just another day on the

internet. The internet is awesome, but it's also fraught with dangers. New exploits are coming out by the minute, [music] and it's really hard to keep up. The absolute best thing you can do for peace of mind is use a VPN. And I recommend Surf SharkVPN. A VPN creates a secure

tunnel between you and their servers, making sure no one snoops in on what you're doing, not even your ISP. Surf Shark has a load of new useful features like the web content blocker that allows you to control what type of content little Jimmy gets to see on his iPad or other devices. Seriously, Jimmy, stop trying to look up all those weird topics. It's unhealthy. There's also an email scam checker. Absolutely key to

internet safety these days. It'll check any email in your inbox to see [music] if it's a scam or a fishing attempt. Surf Shark also allows you to take advantage of deals that are only available in certain areas like booking a cheaper [music] flight or renting a car as well as being able to watch content that is blocked in your location. Sur Shark has also reached coverage of 100 countries and is the only VPN to do so. VPNs make sense and with Surf Shark's strict no logs policy, you can get the peace of mind that Surf Shark isn't keeping your data or jimmies for that matter.

Go to surfshock.com/serpenta and use the code serpentaya for four [music] extra months. Hey babe, I just got us 4 months extra of Surf Shark. That's surfshock.com/serpentza and use the code serpenta at checkout to get four extra months off of Surf Shark.

And now back to the show. I talk about Chinese EVs a lot. I post a lot on X about exploding Chinese EVs, fancy Chinese EVs catching on fire, the defects that cause them to crash, the fact that the airbags don't go off in collisions, things like that. Plenty of evidence. And the reason I do this is not out of spite. It's not that I hate

Chinese EVs or EVs in general. It's because I know Chinese EVs. I lived in China for 14 years. I bought a Chinese car brand new. I can attest to the quality of these things. I saw the

ebike, especially the ebike industry, blossom from almost nothing. In fact, I used to spend a lot of time modifying electric bikes. The city that I lived in banned petrol-powered bikes and so the only way to enjoy, you know, motorcycles or bikes in general was to ride around on an ebike. So, I used to figure out fun ways to modify these things to go faster, like adding electric turbos, which is basically the equivalent of dumping extra voltage into the motor to make it go faster for brief periods of time. Anyway, uh I learned pretty quickly that electrical fires are a big issue when it comes to ebikes, especially slightly modified or more powerful ebikes. [snorts] And this was

back when lead acid batteries were still a thing. But of course, lithium ion became the new battery of choice for many reasons. It's got greater energy density, they charge quicker, they last longer, all of that. It's a much better choice, of course, much better technology. But with the introduction of lithium-ion batteries, the danger of the fires increased significantly. And this

is because of the absolute insane amount of energy that is stored inside of a lithium-ion battery. It's incredibly dangerous. It's like sitting on a ticking time bomb. In fact, very recently, a lithium ion power bank caught fire in a plane from China to Korea, flying from China to Korea. And of [snorts] course, this is not what you want to happen midair.

Something that small can cause such a major fire and potentially down an entire aircraft. This is not okay. There have been cases where someone's dog chewing a power bank in their house has set their entire house on fire. You know, these things are packed with power. And of course, it's very convenient, excellent way to store energy and to charge your devices and whatnot, but it's not good when they go wrong. Now, the reason I'm making this

video is very recently the US Consumer Product Safety Commission, CPSC, that's what it's called, has released a bulletin, a warning for people to stop using a specific brand of ebikes batteries and to dispose of them. There are a couple of different models from a brand called Rad Power ebikes and they've been linked to I believe 31 different fires and uh something like 740,000 odd dollars worth of damage because don't forget when an ebike battery explodes or catches fire, it burns everything in the vicinity. It'll burn your house down. It'll burn your car to a cinder if it's parked near your car. It'll burn down your garage. It'll burn

anything. It'll burn down a forest. It doesn't matter. When these things go off, it's spectacular. And the energy that gets ejected out, it's like a flamethrower. So, anything in the

vicinity is going to get burnt to a crisp. And you better hope you don't have anything alive nearby. >> And boom goes the dynamite. >> So, look, this is one brand, but this is a big problem that some people seem to be wanting to bury. And I get it.

Everybody loves EVs. Everybody loves the idea of saving the planet and uh using um renewable energy, which by the way, if you look into it, it's actually worse for the environment than using an old gas car from like 30 years ago. Thing is, it's devastating. There are no nationwide statistics in America as far as the amount of damage and ebike fires are concerned, except coming out of New York City. So just in this one city in 2023 alone there were 216 fires which resulted in six deaths.

In 2024 that number went up to 277 ebike fires and strangely enough another six deaths linked to them. I tried to do some calculations to work out an average based on population density and ebike density around the nation. And I'm getting a low estimate of about 1,500 to 3,000 ebike related fires a year. Of course, those are just my calculations. I could be way off, but at least we know for sure at le in one city we're getting uh 200 plus a year and deaths related to ebike fires. The only other country I

could find that posts statistics with regards to ebike fires is the UK. And in 2024, they also experienced 200 plus ebike related fires. Now, in the UK, it's a voluntary reporting system. So, we're not going to get all of the details, just the people that actually told the fire department, hey, my ebike caught fire and uh destroyed stuff. >> Jesus, man. That's electric bike.

>> Electric bike. >> Electric bike. Yeah, electric bike. electric bike. >> Yeah, electric bike is bleeding.

>> Yes. >> Sha. >> So, it's a lot. And the study goes in the UK anyway that 66% of them happen indoors and in your residential place. So, the place you're living. And this

makes total sense. When you come home from school or from work, if you're using an ebike or just, you know, a ride down to the park or whatever, you tend to park your bike inside for security reasons. You don't want someone to steal your fancy ebike, do you? And of course, you charge them inside as well. A lot of the the majority of the fires actually start when the ebikes are busy being charged. But don't let that fool you.

It's only a slight percentage more. They also catch fire when they're not being charged. They spontaneously catch fire. And I mean, this happens for a number of reasons, but usually if you go out and you're doing wheelies and you're jumping and doing whatever you want and you hit the ground and shake that battery a bit too much, you might cause a little bit of damage and then that little bit of damage sits there and simmers and slowly it expands until, you know, you get thermal runaway, which is the thing you don't want to happen with an ebike battery. That's when things go crazy and all of that energy gets converted to heat almost immediately all at once. And

it's a spectacular blaze and it's impossible to extinguish. Firefighters have had to try to figure out new techniques to stop these battery fires. They take whole cars and put them in a big sort of container full of liquid to try and stop it. It's it's one of those horrible situations that if an ebike starts to smoke, if an ebike starts to catch fire, all you can do is get the hell out of there as soon as you can.

because I've seen and I will not share on my channel some of the most horrific scenes in China where people bring their ebikes into elevators for instance with people in it and they catch fire. Nobody survives, you know, or in a in an apartment or in a crowded area these things go off. It's insane. I would like you to think about what lithium-ion battery devices you have in your home. Of course, I don't want to be scaremongering here, but there is absolutely some sort of a cover up going on. And as far as downplaying the news

of these ebike fires and EV fires in general, and I think it has to do with politics, I think it has to do with the the whole idea of it's good to go green and to use batteries instead of gasoline and things. People don't want to listen to the bad news. They do not want to acknowledge that these things are a massive, massive hazard. So, here's the thing. Think about what you got. Of

course, if you got something that's a well-known brand, if it's um, you know, got, I don't know, LG batteries or Samsung batteries made in Japan or made in in Korea, you're probably okay, you know, or if you've got a well-known brand of ebike or or so so on, you're probably okay. But it's these cheap Chinese ones that come in sort of in the gray market, you know, the kind of ones that you see the kids wheelieing down the street on, you know, these little souped up ebikes. A lot of them aren't from good brands. They're from like Xiao Hong Long or something, you know, unknown brands which are being bought in and sold kind of through unofficial channels and uh you could buy them off of online [snorts] websites and so on. These are the ones you really have to look out for because the batteries that are in there, you can never guarantee that there's been proper quality control and you cannot guarantee the quality of those batteries. I know how China works

and when shortcuts can be taken, they are taken and they don't care about the reputation of the business because it's all about making money now. If people get injured and these bikes cause massive amounts of damage, there will be no repercussions for them. All they do is change the name of the company and continue selling on Amazon or continue selling on T-Mu or whatever it is under a different name, same products. All they do is change the brand. So, you're going to end up buying the same dangerous stuff just under another brand.

So, anything like those hoverboards that were mad popular a couple of years ago that you kind of float around on kind of Segway looking things, those scooters, you know, like a Razor type scooter but a battery powered one. All of those things are a massive hazard. They've all got very large lithium-ion batteries in them and they all take a pounding because, you know, you're out riding them on the streets. It's kind of like if you took your battery bank for your phone and you kept throwing it around and shaking it non-stop and tossing it in the bushes and then go and throw it on the road and you know eventually it's going to catch fire. And that's one of the big dangers with these bikes is just the you know when they're out there being beat on it's going to just up the chances of something going wrong with the battery. So take your cheap Chinese

knock like knockoff things or rubbish sort of electronics that have big lithium ion batteries in them and please make sure that they're not sitting in your living room or in your bedroom or anywhere in your house in your foyer whatever you call that like where you walk in the house in your mud room something like that. Take them out of those places. Put them outside in a shed. Put them outside in your garage if you have to. But just bear in mind that if you they do go up, your car and whatever's in your garage is probably going to go up, too. But don't be fooled

into thinking that they're safe. Just because the news doesn't really focus on these fires, just because the statistics are constantly played down. In fact, in doing some research on the statistics here, I came across a bunch of websites trying to justify that um you know, it's not that bad. They're like, "Yeah, sure. There's like hundreds of fires and people die from ebike fires, but you're more likely to be, you know, hit by a car walking over the road." Trying to

downplay the fact that this is a real proper hazard. And it really is. You know, once you get bitten, it's too late. Once your house is done, it's too late. You know, you don't want your house to go up and your your pets to get engulfed in flame or something like that or even worse, family members, because then, you know, it's too late. So guys,

when it comes to Chinese batteries, Chinese ebikes, please heed the warning from the consumer protection, whatever it's called here in the United States, if you have any of those batteries, that specific brand, dispose of them. And if you have any batteries from an unknown brand, I'd dispose of them, too. Go get yourself a proper brand. If you enjoy ebikes that much, spend the money, get something good. And uh, you know, I understand not everybody can afford it.

And if that's the case, if you have your Hong Jing long, you know, Schwang bike, you can go and stick it out in the woods somewhere far away from anyone that uh you care about. [laughter] Anyway, guys, I hope I'm not trying to come off too um crazy about this, but there has to be a voice out there warning people about these things because every time there's a news story about it, it gets quashed. People don't care about it, and it genuinely is a massive, massive hazard. And it hasn't changed, you know, when it comes to especially these cheaper, unknown brands coming out of China being sold on all these online stores. Um, you're never going to get good quality from them.

They don't care about what happens to you. They just want your Daeneros, you know. Anyway, until next time, stay awesome. And please join us for the China Show on Friday. It's so much fun.

Uh, Seil and myself, we break down the propaganda. We go through some funny stuff. It's hilarious. We inject a lot of humor into it. and we show you what's happening on the ground in China every week. So, please join us then. And until

next time, you know the drill. As always, stay awesome.

Okay.

Enjoy your video.