---
video_title: "My Chinese Friend Hated the USA"
video_id: iCq_MUYdGIk
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCq_MUYdGIk
video_date: 2025-08-01
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  She absolutely hated it!....
  
  Join us for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Best way to support what I do: https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
So, I got contacted out of the blue by an old friend of mine from China. [Music] It's been over 10 years since I last saw her. And since she knew I now lived in the USA, she wanted to know if she could come and visit my wife and I here on the East Coast, and if we could show her around and take her on an all American road trip to her family living in Las Vegas. So, of course, I jumped at the chance, hired a van big enough for all of us, and we struck out on the 2,000 plus mile trip from Pennsylvania to Nevada, and my Chinese friend, well, she hated every minute of it.

Thank you for watching my video. But you know what? It's time to get a VPN. I know you think you might not need it, but guess what? Everybody needs a VPN these days.

>> So, as you can see, this is how your ISP knows exactly what it is you're browsing online. And without a VPN, well, they know everything. >> So, why not get a bit of peace of mind and use a VPN? Better yet, use Surf SharkVPN. There's so many good reasons to have a VPN. It creates a secure

tunnel and prevents people from looking over your shoulder and seeing what you're doing online. But not only that, it helps you with things like discriminatory price gouging. If you set your server to a different country, you'll find out that you can actually get deals like flights and rental cars cheaper than if you were to order them from your own country. It's weird that way. Surf SharkVPN is awesome, though.

Check it out to get some peace of mind. Give yourself that extra little bit of security and take advantage of all the extra services like being able to watch videos that are blocked in your country online. Go to surfshark.com/serpentza and use the code serpenta at checkout to get four extra months off of Surf SharkVPN. Hey babe, I just got us 4 months extra of Surf Shark.

Again, go to surfshark.com/serpenta and use the code serpent at checkout to get those four extra months. And now back to the show. [Music] Now, the first thing she couldn't stand were the relentless blue skies. I'm not joking here. It's something that takes

getting used to. When you've been living in China your entire life, and you suddenly come to a country where there aren't all these factories spewing pollution into the air. I mean, look, China does have blue skies. You do see blue skies, but it's not as perpetual as you see in the West. America's open blue skies were a shock. And it took a while

for her to get used to the fact that we didn't see a single day of smog, a single day of gray skies. The entire trip was blue skies, except for that one time it rained. [Music] The next thing that shocked her with the fact that the roads were free. I know it sounds weird, but we take it for granted in China. Every single kilometer of highway is a toll road. You have to pay

when you get on the toll road. You also have to pay everywhere you park your car. Whether it's at your home, at your apartment, whether it's at a shopping mall, anywhere. There is no free parking in China. You can't park for free on the side of the road in the cities. You must

pay. Everywhere you go, you have to pay. So, the fact that we did the entire trip without paying a single toll blew her mind.

But I must say the biggest thing that she hated about the USA were the rest stops. The fact that all these facilities were there for free for everybody to use. Clean bathrooms stocked with toilet paper. In China, there is no toilet paper in public bathrooms. It's not there because it gets stolen. So, you have to carry your

own toilet paper with you. So, the fact that there was free toilet paper everywhere, the fact that everything was clean, there were picnic areas, barbecue facilities for people to to use, pet areas for you to let your dog relieve itself and to relax after a long trip, nature trails at some of these rest areas, and in many cases, Wi-Fi, vending machines, and places to work and charge your laptops. I mean, not to mention that you can stay overnight in your car if you're tired and the fact that it's all for free. She hated this. And I'm sure you can understand why she hated this. It's because it made her realize

how far behind China is. [Music] I mean, the toilet paper thing especially. I mean, even in the most remote rest stops in Utah, the toilets were stocked with toilet paper. It sounds bizarre, but trust me, if you go to China, you'll very quickly realize that these very basic things that most people take for granted, they don't exist. [Music] Now, of course, I'm being facitious. She

loved America. She loved her visit. We had a great time. Her favorite part of the trip was when we were going through Colorado up in the mountains because it's just gorgeous up there. And you know what? Along the entire way, she was

expecting to see drug addicts. She was expecting to see homeless people. She was expecting to see people getting shot because that's what the Chinese news tells her. That's what Chinese media tells her. And you know what? We didn't

see a single homeless person in the entire trip. We didn't see a single drug addict in the entire trip. And we didn't see a single person getting shot either. Shortly after she had arrived, she was talking to my wife about how she was afraid that people were going to be racist towards her. how she'd been warned that Chinese people are picked on, they're targeted for crime, they're beaten up, all of these kind of things, because that's what the Chinese media tells them. Guess what? Everybody was

super friendly and polite towards her. She could not believe just how different the reality of America was from what she'd been told by social media and the CCP. You know guys, every time I get out there and do a trip and travel around America, I'm once again reminded why it is that I chose America as my home. Cuz we all get caught up in the negativity in the news. I mean, everybody's got some problem. There's always something

about how things are falling apart or this political party or this leader or this person is bad or this group is bad or you know what, they're corrupting our kids or whatever. you know, it gets to you and you start to become negative. But once you get out there and you see what an amazing country America really is, kind of wipes the slate clean. And being able to see through the eyes of my friend, a fresh perspective. It once again reminded me that everything we see in the news, in social media, is hyped up and overblown. The negativity is

focused on, and nobody's ever looking at the good stuff. And you know what? America's fantastic. and she's left America now with a very positive impression. I'm very glad that I got to show her around. Anyway, until next

time, guys. You know the drill. As always, like the USA, stay awesome.