---
video_title: "China Unveils Mosquito Sized Military Drones! We're Screwed!"
video_id: cBbtX6vMec0
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cBbtX6vMec0
video_date: 2025-06-28
video_description: |
  Thank you to Surfshark for sponsoring this video, go to https://surfshark.com/serpentza and use code: serpentza at checkout to get 4 extra months of Surfshark VPN!
  
  Whatever shall we do!?!?!?!
  
  Join us for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Best way to support what I do: https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
So, China is apparently ahead of the game. They've released a mosquito-sized drone which is not only for surveillance, but it's going to take over the world and give them a massive advantage over the battlefield. That's terrifying. Can you imagine a little mosquito flying around? You're like, "Oh, it's just a bug." Turns out, but

it's spying on you. By the way, I've brought in resident mosquito expert um Seil. That's what I'm here for. Yeah. Uh would like to welcome him to the Serpents at a channel and we're going to discuss this because of course it's going viral on the news and it's a bunch of nonsense.

Thank you for watching my video. But you know what? It's time to get a VPN. I know you think you might not need it, but guess what? Everybody needs a VPN these days. So, as you can see, this is

how your ISP knows exactly what it is you're browsing online. And without a VPN, well, they know everything. So, why not get a bit of peace of mind and use a VPN? Better yet, use Surf SharkVPN. There's so many good reasons to have a VPN. It creates a secure tunnel and

prevents people from looking over your shoulder and seeing what you're doing online. But not only that, it helps you with things like discriminatory price gouging. If you set your server to a different country, you'll find out that you can actually get deals like flights and rental cars cheaper than if you were to order them from your own country. It's weird that way. Surf SharkVPN is awesome, though. Check it out to get

some peace of mind. Give yourself that extra little bit of security and take advantage of all the extra services like being able to watch videos that are blocked in your country online. Go to surfshark.com/serpentza and use the code serpenta at checkout to get four extra months off of Surf SharkVPN. Hey babe, I just got us 4 months extra of Surf Shark.

Again, go to surfshark.com/serpent and use the code serpent at checkout to get those four extra months. And now back to the show. So this is what China put out. This is their official video on the subject and I'd like us to take a look at it. It's fairly boring, but the

most important part is this. [Music]

So, he goes on and he says, "Look at what's in between my hands here. It looks like a mosquito. And this is a little GT and a little robot." And then it proceeds to show it like fly off. Oh, I thought he was just embarrassing himself. Yeah. Oh,

[Laughter] no. Uh, actually not. So, yeah, let's let's see. The thing is that's that's it, by the way, because this is their official announcement of this drone, and this has taken the world by storm. You're seeing it in headlines, especially alternative news outlets are going completely crazy showing this as like, "China's made this drone. Oh no,

watch out." So, let's look at the rest of the video. I'm actually going to take the volume down cuz it's not important what they say. I love the way the guy's typing and it's just a static picture, but the entire rest of this is him just introducing this is like our robotics lab here for our like whatever our armed forces robotics. Yeah. And he's just

showing very basic robotic stuff. You know, in China, this whole humanoid robot thing is a huge push right now. they, you know, keep having our, you know, all these these like, you know, if you watch a China show, you'll know. Um, but the rest of the video is literally just about this. Like, oh, look, it mimics your movements when you move it around. Just very basic

stuff that's been around since like the 70s. This is nothing new. So, what happened to the mosquito sized drone? There's no content about it. Yeah, he had some a stationary object in his fingers. Correct. Could have been

made of paper. Yeah. And then he showed like a very basic looked like a high school project thing trying to take off with string in the background. You know, it's pretty ridiculous. But what's more ridiculous is people have taken those first few frames of this video and made it as if China has made this massive breakthrough. And this annoys me cuz

this happens all the time. We saw it with the nuclear battery. Yeah. where they keep saying this nuclear battery will power your smartphone for 50 years or whatever. It's debunked. It's

rubbish. Then they had the brain powered robot. Remember that thing? It's just a toy with a piece of like goop in it and they're like, "Oh, look. It's brain powered." Meanwhile, it's not true and

it's not a Chinese research anyway. It's based on Western research. Yeah, exactly. So, when you see this kind of news coming out, both you and I were like, "Come on, this is nonsense. Let's look into a little bit." And uh okay,

you see that that this this is what it's all about. This is what they're making a big hoo-ha about is this footage. That little thing taking off, which by the way, that thing was huge. Yeah. It's not a mosquito size drill. No. And I wanted

to show you the kind of stuff people are putting out. Actually, sorry. I'm giving away the surprise. If you go look on Twitter, sorry, X, or anywhere, you see this. China has unveiled a 0.6 6 cm mosquito-like spy

drone designed for co operations. Breaking news. I from my favorite source, too. Update news. Update news.

Yeah, that's one I'm sorry, but that was just the one that popped up. No, I just want to say something. This is the kind of stuff that pisses me off because that's how it starts and then it ends. This actually got full penetration on mainstream news. Yeah. Based on nothing.

Nothing. Yeah. So, I just wanted to to show a little something here which might I don't know put a little bit of a damper on this whole thing. Maybe people might think like, oh, it's not that important because look at this article from 2013. Harvard develops micro drones based on origami. So, China didn't do it. No,

dude. Imagine imagine because this is an old article like 2013 12 years ago. 12 years ago. Yes. a 12-year-old uh thing coming out with a little mini drone that um Harvard designed.

Imagine if we just saw Twitter erupt right now. America makes micro drones that are capable of surveillance and all that kind of stuff. You don't. It's only when China puts out some rubbish little short and people pick up on this and think it's real. They just always believe it. It really annoys me. What?

Why? Well, I mean, I thought we'd we'd we we'd actually like tackle this head on and take a look because you actually found this uh like what Straight Arrow News or something put out a video and we both watched it. But let's watch it together, everybody now, and just dis just just dismantle this whole I don't know, industry basically. It's an industry at this point. Fake China news.

Yep. Fake China news gets clicks. China is unveiling one of its tiniest military drones yet. A mosquito-sized aircraft apparently designed for battlefield surveillance. So, before we even get into this, um the guy go he's he's like they're unveiling this thing, right? Let's see how much

footage he has of their drone. Let's take a look because you know this is a whole new segment on it. Researchers at China's National University of Defense Technology showed off the micro drone during a state television broadcast. The tiny unmanned aircraft fits between two fingers. It flies using a pair of flapping leafshaped wings and can perch using three hair thin landing legs. The claim

is the So again, what have we seen that's new? Nothing. He showed those first few seconds of that video about the moving arm robots. That's what it was. That's all he showed. That's it. Yeah. So, where's the

I haven't seen this mosquito drone take off and be used. No. I mean, this is obviously just like a little 3D printed model. It's not It's not real. It's just not real. It's not. Compact size allows

it to stay hidden while gathering intelligence in urban or No. And this is what really annoys me is they ratify this claim by showing footage of other drones, other developed stuff. This is not a Chinese mosquito drone. No, this footage you've seen behind is not from a mosquito environments. The drone packs power systems, sensors, and control circuits into its tiny frame. That in

the top corner, these are all stock footage from Getty images that literally have nothing to do with the Yeah, that was just like uh circuitboard.org, you know? literally pushing the limits. Yeah, look, it does. You're right. Getty

Images. So, it's Getty Images of Microscope and tech, just general crap of micro robotic engineering. China's new micro drone. Is that China's new micro drone? No, that is the Black Hornet 4, which is um from some other company like in Europe. It's from

Norway. Oh, it's from Norway. Yeah. Yes. Now, we're looking at a non-Chinese drone that is not a mosquito drone. So

why are you showing this when you're talking about this fake product? Yeah. Why are you not showing that? And this is what I hate is it gives validity to this claim. You think people are eagle-eying this stuff like we are? No.

No. Joins a growing global race to field micro UAVs. Norway's Black Hornet, widely used by Western militaries, offers a palmsized platform. See how that's good technology? That's a real drone. It's being it's being used. It

had a Panasonic screen. Okay. All good, wellproven technology. You can see it's real. But you're showing all this real, properly developed stuff while trying to use it to ratify a claim that China's made this fake thing. It's annoying.

It's very annoying. The latest Black Hornet 4 features enhanced battery life, improved wind resistance, and a longer range, earning a US Defense Department Blue UAS. What does this have to do with the Chinese here? I know. It's It's kind of like that first Chinese video where they showed the thing for two seconds not it being used and then cut to a bunch of ro robots spazzing around.

Yeah, I like how Oh, it's got better battery life. And if you're watching this video about a Chinese drone in your mind, you're you're probably putting two and two together like oh so like that means the Chinese one does too or let's use some logic. Yeah. Proven technology that's being used right now with photographic and video evidence, right? Fits in your palm. nonproven, no field

testing, no video evidence, zero evidence other than state media saying that they have this thing. Yeah. With a paper clip in some guy's fingers. Yep. Now those are equivalent. Now you go,

"Oh, wait. So China did the thing." And in my mind, I'm looking at the footage of it being proven on the battlefield. Yeah. So they already have that, but it's smaller. Yeah. It's exactly what's

going on. It's a lie. Is also working on micro UAVs, though no operational versions have been publicly fielded so far. Beyond the battlefield. You want to see this?

Can you take a look up in the corner? Harvard. This What does that have to do with China? Yeah. What they're doing is they're showing that Harvard has already developed these micro drones. Just like

we showed you before in 2013, they've obviously been carrying on with that. One thing that you have to bear in mind though is when you see this footage of this particular thing is that it's tethered. In other words, it has a wire connected to it because it cannot carry a battery because it's just too heavy for it to lift off with a battery. Scientists see potential for minute drones in fields like medicine, disaster response, and environmental monitoring. Harvard's rooe project, for example, developed insectsized drones that can fly, land, and even transition between water and air. So, you just proved that

Harvard made this and showed no proof of China's. Yes. Why make a a news report about this then? Exactly. Har So Harvard made this. So why didn't we get a big

like hoo-ha about Harvard or America making a a small drone like this? I didn't know about this. Yeah, exactly. It's not newsworthy. Apparently, this thing, as you can see, is tethered. And

I think that's the biggest that's going to be the biggest obstacle when it comes to these kind of micro drones. First of all, to be able to put all the control circuitry in there in order to control it and have a like a a radio receiver transmitter in there is going to be very heavy. It's going to be very difficult to make that lightweight. But also, the battery is going to be the biggest problem. This doesn't have a battery cuz it's tethered, as you can see, and it's being controlled through that wire, too. This stuff does exist,

but China didn't make it. Nope. But on the battlefield, these ultra small drones could become a new tool for silent surveillance, giving militaries eyes where traditional systems can't reach. For more of our unbiased straight fact reporting, and I saw nothing of substance there. I saw no reality and it's been being portrayed as real. So

all you see, and remember the same with the nuclear batteries, you always see that same picture of like a a blue and gray box with a coin on it or whatever. Remember that? You just see the dude holding that little clips from put in his entire video. And that's the same with everyone covering this. They show those couple of clips and then they show real life stuff from Harvard and and the US military or Norway or whatever. And it's insulting. It's

insulting that people believe it every time. Don't you think? I hate it. Hate it. Anyway, um I hope you learned something here, guys. Don't buy this

until you see it flying by itself. Until you see actual proof of it, it's just vaporware. And it's typical of Chinese propaganda is they put some crap out. Everyone believes it, eats it up, and they're like, "Oh no, China's so far ahead of us. What will we do?" Absolute

crap. Yep. Hope you enjoyed this format, by the way, because this is what we do on the China show every single Friday. So, you know, me, myself, Serpent, and Matt, or also known as LA86, we get together every single Friday. We have a full show. It's usually an hour, hour

and a half. Super fun. Please come and join us this Friday. And don't forget our secret show on Mondays as well where we show you things that we just simply cannot show you on YouTube because they're either too crazy or too embarrassing. One of the two. It's true.

Podcast. Yes. Anyway, until then, thank you for watching. Stay awesome.