---
video_title: "This Place is Completely Gone"
video_id: oKNqclrswvI
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oKNqclrswvI
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  They can't harm you, if they can't find you! Use code winston at the link below and get 60% off an annual plan: https://incogni.com/winston 
  
  It's gone.. and its never coming back
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
Let me take you on a journey to a place that no longer exists. >> [music]

>> Now, why would you care about a vibrant urban village in the middle of a shining city? One that you most definitely have never heard of. Well, it's not this specific urban village that I want you to know about, but it's all of them. These are vibrant little pockets of life that you find in the big shiny cities around China, or at least you used to. And they're being wiped out. Not only is

it destroying a very authentic, very vibrant, very fun um environment, but it's destroying a way of life and a way of survival for migrant workers who come to the bigger cities. >> [music]

>> But I thought we'd have a little bit of fun. And we go and take a look at one of my favorite urban villages, which actually had a long history. It was very old. Had been there for a very long time. But, about 6 months after I filmed this footage in late 2018, was completely steamrolled and wiped out so that new shopping malls and apartment complexes could be built.

>> Of course, go out of the city centers and you'll still find a very run-down rural, almost a medieval existence for most people. >> [music]

[music]

[music]

[music] >> But within the shining cities, you don't forget this is China's showcase. These are China's showcases to the world. They cannot allow anything other than very vapid and boring, sterile skyscrapers. Of course, it doesn't stop China being China. You go into these major cities, you will still see a lot of ramshackle nonsense going on. It's

just the way it is. But, from the outside anyway looking in, China wants you to see shiny cities and doesn't want you to see this kind of vibrant, interesting way of life. So, this particular village that I used to go to, it's one of my favorites and it was not too far away from where I lived in Shenzhen. And it was kind of surreal because you'd be walking through the very sort of fancy skyscraper areas and you take a couple of turns down a couple of alleys and you walk down and you start to see China go back in time. In fact, some of the buildings and parts of this village that were sadly destroyed were very old and ancient and had been there for a very long time. I

could see just by looking at it, there were certain markings, there were certain little temples and stuff still part of the community. Of course, completely run down. There was nothing of uh significant beauty or, you know, anything really worth looking at from a historical architectural point of view, but there was history and culture baked in to the concrete and the slate and the bits and pieces that you found there. You see, places like Shenzhen, Shanghai, other big first-tier cities, they're all about the rich folk. In the downtown areas, you have to be incredibly rich to afford to live there. Nobody from the

rural countryside can move into Shanghai and just go live in a posh neighborhood. It's impossible. And they never will be able to because of the big wealth divide in China and the caste system that's built into your residence permit, which is like an internal passport. So, where do migrant workers eat? Where do they hang out? Where do they live? Well, they

used to live in these urban villages. These urban villages were the first part of a lot of these cities that sprung up after Mao Zedong had finally disappeared and all the devastation from his greatly backwards and cultural devolution that wiped out China's history and culture and plunged over 800 million people into poverty had ended. China had opened up. They were starting to build. They were starting to get investment from the outside world. The rest of the world was

funneling money into China and so China started to grow. And they started to grow in these little urban villages. Usually made out of cheap ramshackle buildings that were hastily built or that actually existed there before and were built on top of. These places kind of stayed in place while the rest of the city grew around them. And it was a fantastic place for migrant workers to live because when you come in from out of town, you have no money. You

have to put yourself in the shoes of a migrant worker because migrant workers earn almost nothing. Certainly not enough to survive in the big cities. A city like Shenzhen is incredibly expensive. I mean, you could compare the cost of living there to some big cities in America when it comes to at least the real estate. In fact, it's much more expensive to buy a house or a little concrete box in the sky, I should say, an apartment in Shenzhen than it is in most cities in America. It's crazy. And

if you compare to people's earnings, cost of living in China is actually sky high. So, these guys who come in to do all the manual labor, who work in the sweatshops, work in the factories, they need a place to stay, they need a place to eat, they need a place to hang out. And the urban villages were perfect for this because they could rent a really horrible, disgusting room. I'll be honest, I've seen them, I've been in them. And you can go outside and get a meal for under a dollar. You've got lots

of street vendors cooking food, selling their cheap wares, and this place would stay open all hours of the night. In fact, if you turned up at 3:00 a.m., you could still sit down, have a beer, have a bowl of noodles, watch the people walk past.

And I used to love doing this. I used to love to go to these places because I'm a bit of a night owl and I'm a bit of a an explorer. I love exploring and seeing different things and discovering different things. And, you know, the big city with the flashy lights and the shopping malls, it's nice and all, but it's incredibly boring. They close early, you have to go home. And the

lifestyle of the middle to upper class in China is stay at home, order stuff online. If you eat, you eat at home or you eat out at a fancy restaurant. You don't slum it in these villages. That's for the lower class. But that's where the fun happens. You

can really see Chinese culture first hand in these places. So, I loved walking around in this particular one and there were others like it too. Sadly, most of them have either been completely rolled over like this one and destroyed. In fact, here's some footage of one I used to go to. It was just knocked down.

>> [music]

[music]

>> Now, the time I used to walk around taking all this, you know, footage and B-roll and I used to do a lot of street photography and stuff in China, things were different. I wasn't an enemy of China at that point because, well, China hadn't become so sensitive and insecure and the Chinese government hadn't decided that its shining image is the most important thing and anyone who wants to reveal the realities that exist in China is an enemy of the state and must be silenced. So, things were cool. I used to have my challenges. I got shut down by security guards and the police often for filming in public even though you're supposedly allowed to in China. There's no law that

says you can't do that. Um but being a foreigner, of course, you know, they call the cops on me every once in a while. There's always those those evil uncles hanging around. But after I left China and I started to show the truth about China and criticize the Communist Party of China for the things that it's done in the the problems that it's created in Chinese society, um they couldn't handle it. So, there are teams of people constantly trying to mess with me now that I'm in the States.

There are people that are trying to mess with my life here that are in the States on behalf of the Chinese government. There's a plethora of these wacko foreigners who shill for the Chinese government who are after me as well. >> [snorts] >> And because of all of this, it's very important that I keep my details safe and secret so they can't dox me and come to my doorstep and do nasty things and try to uh do terrible things to my family as they've threatened to do. And that's why Incogni is a very important tool for me. And I find it useful and perhaps you could find it useful, too.

I mean, you may not have the Chinese government after you, but maybe you're a very private person. And you'd be surprised how easy it is to find out information about yourself. I mean, just Google yourself. I mean, I signed up for a membership at a car wash and immediately got spam texts the next day from tons of different numbers. And obviously, they'd sold my information to a data broker. Your information gets out

there somehow or the other. You don't know how, but you need to be able to combat it and stop it. So, use Incogni because they on your behalf will send legal letters to data brokers and get your stuff removed off the internet. There's also an exposure scanner and a risk assessment available in unlimited plans, which include unlimited family, unlimited, and Incogni protect. The exposure scanner goes above and beyond and finds your personal info if it appears online and surfaces in one place for custom removal. You also get a risk assessment,

which is a monthly download that gives you actionable insights on protecting your privacy based on your exposures. So, go to incogni.com/winston and use code winston to get 60% off an annual plan. That's incogni.com/winston.

Use code winston. And now, back to the show. They've either been completely knocked down, steamrolled, or somehow gentrified, sterilized, and all the migrant workers kicked out, all the street vendors kicked out and it's replaced with like fancy poncy nonsense which um is for the middle to upper class. But unfortunately, as time has marched forward, we've seen Chinese cities turn from vibrant, interesting places where you could still catch a glimpse of real Chinese culture and way of life into vapid, sterile propaganda showpieces that are good for travel vloggers to go point and say, "Oh, look, cyberpunk city what a what a what a flashy Christmas lights 22nd floor." That's it. It's

unfortunate, but that's the way it is. I'm glad I got to see it firsthand. By the way, if you want to experience real China, and I mean I'm being completely serious, I'm not trying to be facetious here, but if you want to experience real China the way it could have been, the way it used to be, go to Taiwan. Taiwan didn't have the communists wipe everything clean and destroy everything and burn the temples and the manuscripts and and all of that sort of thing. They preserved the culture. So, you still get

the tradition, the religion, the history, the temples with the dragons and the phoenixes and the stuff that you saw in kung fu movies when you were a kid. That's what you'll find in Taiwan. You won't find that in mainland China. Urban villages like the one I've just shown you, that was the closest you'd get to real Chinese culture in China. The rest is just a bunch of cheap costumes on actors dancing around to gratify the domestic tourists and of course the gullible tourists from abroad.

Anyway, guys, thank you for watching. And once again, as always, you know the drill. Stay awesome.