---
video_title: "You Were Lied to About Mandela"
video_id: 7LWdR0kIhCk
channel_name: "serpentza"
channel_id: UCl7mAGnY4jh4Ps8rhhh8XZg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7LWdR0kIhCk
video_date: 2026-03-22T14:30:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Take your personal data back with Incogni! Use code Winston at the link below and get 60% off an annual plan: https://incogni.com/winston
  
  I'm not supposed to tell you this
  
  Join me for my secret show:
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Join me for the China Show, a weekly dive into what's happening in China: https://www.youtube.com/advpodcasts
  
  And don't forget my secret Monday Show: 
  https://patreon.com/advpodcasts
  
  Support Sasha and I on Patreon: http://www.patreon.com/serpentza
  Bitcoin - bc1qxfjp2t6x5dpslv59u0jl89m6k643hcn8h2jsvp
  Ethereum - 0x6Da150a2A8529110017Ed4db68B3dF0084900280
  Paypal: https://paypal.me/serpentza
  
  DOCUMENTARY LINKS:
  
  Conquering China Boxset SPECIAL:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringchinaboxset
  
  Conquering Southern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringsouthernchina
  
  Conquering Northern China:
  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/conqueringnorthernchina
  
  Stay Awesome China (my new documentary): https://vimeo.com/ondemand/stayawesomechina
  
  For Motorcycle adventures around the world, and a talk-show on two wheels go to ADVChina 
  https://www.youtube.com/advchina
  
  Join me on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/winstoninchina
  Twitter: @serpentza
  Instagram: serpent_za
---
I want to see some magic. How about some Mandela Magic? I want to see some more Mandela Magic. I'm a South African and I'm going to be quite frank. I'd like to tell you all about Nelson Mandela, the international statesman and hero, who single-handedly caused the end of apartheid and let South Africa to the bright rainbow nation future that doesn't exist. Having grown up during the abolishment of apartheid and during the height of the Mandela craze, I've always wondered why people so unquestionably just accept this idea that Mandela was a great man. But looking at the fact that, well, he kind of wasn't. So let's discuss Nelson Mandela today. Let's not discuss the international statesman, the international hero. Let's discuss Mandela, the terrorist communist, and what he did to South Africa. Let's ease into this with this video of Nelson Mandela singing about killing all the white people and shooting them with AK-47s and blowing them up with bazookas. No, I'm not making that a bit surreal. Here he is with the Mkontoi Sizewa, which is the arm, the militant arm of the ANC that he created himself. We're going to talk about that later because it's very pivotal to this video. He's standing next to a very well-known member, very influential member of the South African communist party, Ronnie Cusrills. And they're singing and I'm going to tell you exactly the lyrics of the song. It goes like this. We members of Mkonto, this is that militant group. I'll prepare to kill all the booers. We all know booers are white people in South Africa, the white farmer. Get on the roof and tell them that when I hit the booer, my mother becomes happy. Whites and booers are troubling our parents at home. We're going to hit them with our AK-47s and bazookas. So you know, this is after Nelson Mandela had been released from prison. This is after apartheid was already over. It's before he took over as president, but there he is singing about killing all the white people. Maybe you weren't expecting that, but you know, it's more ridiculous than blowing people up with bazookas and AK-47s based on the color of their skin. A databroker rap. Deep within the corporate offices of a databroker. Something is happening behind closed doors. A junk mail in your mailbox that fake call from Mumbai. That's all our fault I'll admit. We fraudsters never lie. They pay us for your info. You make out dough it sweet. You cannot escape us. With databroken broads. I'm going to be real here for a minute. Most of my criticism of the CCP. I've got hoards of stalkers and paid trolls trying to constantly dox me and harass my family. I hate Serpent Zey. If it wasn't for Incogni constantly removing my address and personal details from the internet, I'd be in a lot of danger. Maybe you don't have the CCP after you, but there may be a nasty ex or disgruntled coworker or quite frankly someone you mistakenly cut off on the freeway. You never know who's trying to find out your personal details and Incogni can help keep you safe by sending legal letters to databrokers and websites on your behalf and getting your personal data removed. If you still happen to find your details somewhere online, you can also use Incogni's custom removal feature on the unlimited and family unlimited plan. Go to Incogni.com forward slash Winston and use code Winston for 60% off. Incogni helps you wipe yourself from the internet. They can't harm you if they can't find you. Click the link below and claim your 60% off and get your personal data off the market. And now back to the show. You may not be aware of this, but Nelson Mandela was only removed from the USA Terrorist Watchlist in 2008. Now he was on that list for a reason. You see back in 1961, him and a very well known communist, this white guy that you see over here is Joe Slovo, who's actually from the Soviet Union ended up in South African and was the leader of the South African Communist Party. Him, Walter Cisullo and Nelson Mandela started an organization called Un Conto Yisizle, which means the spear of the nation. And this was the militant arm of the ANC. Basically a guerrilla group that was there to cause terror, a terrorist group. And they started by blowing up infrastructure with bombs, targeting things like power stations and transformers, railway lines, train stations. But of course, they didn't stop there. Just like every other communist terrorist organization they went after civilians next, soft targets. And this included, of course, shopping centers, bars, sports stadiums, crowded public areas like Church Street. They even bombed a chain of fast food restaurants. Not only that though, of course they laid anti-tank mines in rural areas so that farm workers and children would walk on them and blow themselves up. We're not talking about a good group of people here. In fact, they were absolutely horrible. And they acted on their own discretion. So they were kind of told, you know, do whatever you have to do to destabilize the apartheid led government. And so they went and did it. And this included all sorts of nasty things that they did to people, torture, necklacing which we'll get to. And a whole lot of wacky stuff. And this of course was Nelson Mandela's creation. And is the reason why he was locked up in jail. You see, before he was locked up, he went abroad to go and train with, you know, mid-Libya and various other sympathetic communist states. And during this time, of course, he was a member of the South African Communist Party Central Committee. So everyone knows him as, you know, Mandela leader of the ANC. But at the same time, he was a communist and part of the Communist Party. And he, along with this very typical Marxist sort of tear down capitalism and tear down the systems, and burn it all to the ground sort of communist Joe Slovo. They were of course training with all the bad communists out there. And when he came back to South Africa to try and implement some of these terroristic things, he learned abroad. He was arrested. And he admitted to, I think it was, this is Nelson Mandela admitted to something like a 193 acts of sabotage and was put in prison. But now remember, a man in prison is still a leader. And during the time that he was in prison, his party and specifically his wife at the time were all about terrorizing the country. And you know, everybody looks at it from a point of view that here, the ANC, they were attacking the apartheid government. They were fighting what would you call it a revolutionary war. They wanted to overthrow an unfair system. And you could justify that. There are plenty of ways you can justify fighting against a corrupt moral system and you want to overturn it because it's unfair and all that in fair play. I mean, if you want to go down that route, I won't argue with you. However, what most people don't talk about is what the ANC was doing. And in Conto E. César, this group that Mandela formed were doing in the townships. So what are townships? Well, it's kind of interesting. In South Africa, before World War II, the majority of the black population used to live in hostels and servants quarters as they were called. And you know, that's just like it sounds. People that were working in the cities and working for companies and so on. If you were black, there were houses that were built for you, sort of like apartment blocks, things like that that you would live in. And after the war, 1948, the nationalist party took over. Sorry if I'm boring you with the South African history, but the nationalist party there, the bad guys, you know, they're part side guys. They took over and they put into law this kind of land, this land reform thing where certain pieces of land are for black people. Certain pieces of land are for white people and black businesses have certain land, white people, that type of thing. And so what happened is there was this massive urbanization, of course, of all the sort of the black people coming to the cities, the white cities to come and work. And of course, they weren't allowed to live in those areas. So they had to go to the black owned areas and they started to build these townships, which were basically a big community, a mixture of real houses and shacks, you know, sort of a shanty town. I guess similar to a Brazilian favela, something like that. And in fact, I could just show you on the screen now what I'm talking about so you can see what they look like and what they still look like today. They haven't changed. In fact, they've probably gotten worse, to be honest, as far as the way they look. But these places are highly unregulated. So they weren't really under the control of the apartheid government and the apartheid police, you know, they weren't placed that they would go into simply because they're too dangerous and uncontrolled. And they weren't regulated at all, really. Just this is where the majority of the black people used to live. Now the things that the ANC and them Conte de Sisi were used to get up to inside of these townships is something that for some reason people just don't discuss. So this is Nelson Mandela's militant group. They used to necklace people. And if you don't know what necklacing is, it's probably one of the cruelest, most barbaric things you could ever do to a person. And what it involves is you take an old tire and old car tire, you fill it with pet petrol. Well, first you catch someone, you beat them up and you tie them up, you put a car tire around their neck, fill it with petrol and set it alight so that they burn to death in the most horrific way imaginable, with molten rubber and you see them running around and rolling around as they burn to death in absolute agony. And I've actually seen personally with my own eyes the aftermath of a necklacing. Of course, I've seen footage used to be on the news a lot when I was growing up of actual necklacing taking place. I don't know why that was unsensitive but for whatever reason I used to see it a lot on TV. In June 1986, South Africans watched in horror as a woman got burned to death on television. Marquis Cossana's very public necklacing started a whole new trend. But few people know about the events which led to this killing frenzy in Doudouza on the East-Rand. But I've seen personally with my own eyes there was a township near where I used to live and they'd necklace someone on a drove past and saw the aftermath. Absolutely horrific. I don't think it's easy to catch fights. It's flammable. If I put on the tire, the tire is what is catching fire. And you'll put this on the person. And while we're beating you, you're very weak. I get you can't fight back. Even though you didn't take this tire, I want to get to like this. You're very weak. And this was the ANC's and Conte Assisi's where it's main weapon of terrorism. And something that they would do to the black populace within the townships. This was not something they would do to the white people. You know, they would bomb the white infrastructure and bomb the police stations and bomb the power stations and all that kind of stuff. And then bomb started bombing like I said bars and sports stadiums and shopping centers and that type of thing. They would bomb. That's what they would do to the white people. People inside of the townships, they'd burn them to death in excruciating barbaric manner. And the thing is officially the ANC said, I believe the leader of the ANC at the time, I think is Oliver Tombow. He said that although they don't condone necklacing, they understand where it comes from. I'm paraphrasing pretty sure, but basically they acted with ambivalence. They just, you know, officially to the outside world made it look like they didn't like it, but actually they were carrying it out. And proof of this is that Nelson Mandela's wife, Winnie Mandela, who was basically calling the shots on his behalf while he was in prison, came out publicly in 1986 and said, and I'm going to have to find the quote because I don't want to misquote this, this harpy. She is a terrible person by the way. Let's see, I'm trying to find out what she said. I did write it down just because I knew I'd have to say it. This was Winnie Mandela's words. She said this in 1986. Now, remember, you know, six years old at the time, I was a tiny little kid, but you know, I still remember the kind of stuff that was going on around me. It was an interesting time. So she said, with our boxes of matches and our necklaces, we shall liberate this country. Now I'm not quite sure how you liberate a country by barbarically burning people to death. It's kind of like saying with these stakes and piers, we will burn these witches and liberate the country. It doesn't make any sense, but you know, that was the way they did it. But now, who were they burning to death, you might ask. And why were they burning people to death? And by the way, there were thousands of people burned to death, you know, the sort of rough estimates is about 3,000 people were burned to death in a short period of time, but that's completely untraceable. People don't know how many. I'm sure it was a lot more, but let's talk about who they burned to death. First of all, they burnt to death other anti-apartheid groups. I mean, does that make a lot of sense to you? It doesn't make any sense to me, but the ANC, then Conte Césu, were burning in Carter, Freedom Party members, the IFP, who is another group of mainly Zulus, who were standing up. Césu was Cosa, Cosa, as I would say. Not Zulus. But so they were burning IFP members. There was another group called, what were they called? I'm going to find out here. I wrote it down. Okay. Azapal, the Anzanyan People's Organization, the UDF, which is the United Democratic Front, and others. So other groups that were against apartheid wanting to fight apartheid, they burned them to death. It doesn't make sense. Surely they are friends, you know, work together, you know, enemy of my enemy is my friend, something like that, you know, that whole thing. But no, they would also burn anyone that they suspected of collaborating with the state. Now this is, of course, a slippery slope. If they just suspect that someone is informing the police, the apartheid police or government or doing anything, you know, as far as giving them intelligence or anything, they would burn them to death. But I don't know if you've ever seen mob mentality in action because I have, and I was almost murdered by a mob in South Africa at some point, and it's a story I'll tell. But this mob mentality thing, it sparks off for no reason. I've seen a situation where they hear an accent and think it's a foreigner, you know, he's the xenophobic attacks and they've, they've threw stones and so on, killed them. I've seen people get killed for nothing, being labeled a witch. They think someone's a witch in the townships and they'll bludgeon them to death and necklace them or whatever. So you know this, like you basically just have to be in a place where someone's having a bad day and they think that you're collaborating with the government and you'll get barbarically tortured and burned to death. If you want to look this stuff up, feel free, but you'll have nightmares, so I'd suggest that you don't, but necklacing is, is neck's level cruelty. It's against the Geneva Conventions, against every single humane society in the world or just, it's against humanity, really. So they used to necklace anyone they thought was working and they used to necklace people that did actually work with the government. So black policemen, community counsellors, because they used to have things like that. People that had jobs, it was a terrible time and this is something that Mandela is 100% responsible for. He created this militant wing, the Conter Eastseeswear who used to run around necklacing people. They used to take people that they thought were collaborators and put them in these little camps that they used to have out in the middle of nowhere and torture them by injuring them and denying them medical attention, denying them food. A lot of the stuff came out during something called the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which happened after apartheid where basically it was a clean slate for bad people in both sides where they were like, okay, tell us what you did and we kind of wiped the slate clean, which was it, I mean it was a terrible thing to hear what went on on both sides, because of course the apartheid government was cruel and terrible too. But again, I just wanted to set the record straight here that Nelson Mandela was at his core a communist and he used to hang out with Gaddafi and what's that Cuban guy, you know, the guy with the cigars and the hat, it'll come to me, I'll put his picture up, you know I'm talking about Castro, sorry that was the name Castro. He used to hang out with these guys, you know the people that used to hang out with them who started in Conter Eastseeswear, used to go train in the Soviet Union and China and all of this kind of stuff. So basically dealing with communists that wanted to put an end to capitalism and put an end to civilization, because that's usually what communists want, they want to tear things down, they never want to build things up and they're incapable of doing so. So Nelson Mandela was a communist at his core, he used to be on the South African Communist Party Central Committee and that was during his whole, you know, phase of creating in Conter Eastseeswear and all of this stuff and he never left his communist roots behind. On top of that he was a terrorist and was responsible for bombings of civilian targets. You know, even though he was in jail during the worst of it and when the civilians were being hit, he was still the head of it and he still had the power to call an end to it and to stop it, but he never did. So after Mandela was released from prison, there was this hope and idea that things were going to level out and work out for everybody. This idea that, okay, now black people will be able to integrate into society. With their had been, by the way, for a long time, it wasn't, this is a myth. Mandela wasn't the person who ended apartheid, it was actually international pressure. It was the international community coming together and forcing the South African government through sanctions and all manner of other things to end apartheid, which is a good thing. I think it's a very good thing that it ended. It wasn't a good policy in the nationalist party or the national party that was running the government. It wasn't a good government. They were very staunchly conservative when I was growing up. All the TV shows were censored, you know, and there was all kinds of censorship and other stuff going on. So, you know, definitely not an ideal government or system. But like I said, that stuff had all been pretty much abolished. By the time I was, I'd say, nine or ten years old apartheid wasn't even a thing. Even though it hadn't officially, you know, and us and Mandela hadn't officially taken over, things had already changed. I had black neighbors. You know, my school was fully integrated with black people. Everything had changed. Everybody had the same opportunities. And so, you know, we'd already reached that point by the time Mandela was released and took over the government. So, anyway, he took over the government and everyone thought, way, this is great, this is amazing. But you know what? Nothing actually changed. You got a middle class of black people that came in, which is great. And that's something that we were all expecting and wanted to happen. But unfortunately, we got a system where it was all about nepotism and, you know, corruption. And so, you got some very rich people suddenly out of nowhere who were basically just cadres or, you know, friends of Nelson Mandela. There was a pretty well known case where one of his sort of higher ups was being investigated for corruption and the people that were trying to investigate his corruption. Also, his own in his party were fired and kicked out. So, you know, it was just about protecting your friends corruption, that sort of thing. He didn't actually make enough reform as far as the black community is concerned. And so, a lot of the minds and banks that were supposed to be nationalized, never got nationalized. So, you had all these big, sort of, corporations that managed to hold onto power and remain incredibly rich while the majority of South Africa just kind of stayed middle class or became poor. And the most unfortunate part of this is that the poor people, the people that were hoping to benefit the most from the end of apartheid actually are now far worse off in South Africa. So, he's increased an enormous amount. The unemployed statistics have just shot through the roof. And of course, you can see from the Mandela magic clips that I've been throwing in here and there just how much the country has fallen and how the infrastructure has fallen. So, the country went to shit. The black populist that was supposed to benefit from apartheid falling didn't in the long run actually benefit at all, other than a few small elite in a middle class. The white people that were hoping for everything to be great and for the country and everybody to work together are in a position where they are seen as the architects of everyone's problems. You have a situation where nobody can live safely. Everyone has to live in a prison of their own making with barbed wire and electric fences. The power goes off all the time. You have incredibly discriminatory government rules against white people where it's almost impossible to get a job. If you're up against a black person, you can't win. And I can't remember the exact amount but there's a lot of race-based laws that are against white people. So, you know, to be a white person in South Africa is a big struggle at the moment, but also being a black person in South Africa is a big struggle at the moment. Nobody ended up winning. And yet everybody looks at Mandela as if he's some kind of hero. If I'm to be pragmatic about this, I can't blame Nelson Mandela for the downfall of South Africa. It's not fair to put so much on one man, but I also can't praise him for being some kind of a savior or a hero. Because he is a communist terrorist. He was a communist terrorist and maybe a communist terrorist who mellowed a bit in his old age. I'm not trying to stoke any kind of animosity with this video. I simply want to share my experiences and let everybody out there know exactly why it is that I no longer live in the country of my birth and never plan to return. And also just to once again prove that communists suck and nothing good ever comes from communists. And that Joe Slavo guy is a piece of shit and the communist party of South Africa is a piece of shit. And in Conto he sees where as a terrorist disgusting guerrilla organization that targeted civilians and killed children and maimed and blew people up with land mines tortured and burned people to death. So when you see Nelson Mandela, you can't just see this freedom fighter. You have to see a leader of a terrorist organization that did horrendous, unforgivable things to. Anyway, that's it for today. Get the ANC which truly suck and I'm Conto his his where stay awesome.