---
video_title: "1 Hour Of Unfiltered DevOps & Kubernetes Career Mentoring (Live Q&A)"
video_id: wT562m2qLFU
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wT562m2qLFU
video_date: 2025-11-18T15:17:36+00:00
video_description: |
  🚀 Apply to join KubeCraft & land your DevOps job: https://kubecraft.click/c79c52
  
  📥 Want to land remote six-figure roles? Get my FREE step-by-step system for landing your first DevOps job: https://go.kubecraft.dev/blueprint-yt-1
  
  DevOps career advice with zero filter - Get answers to your toughest career questions. This live Q&A covers landing your first DevOps role, transitioning from other careers, certification strategy, why Kubernetes matters, and building job-ready skills. Real talk from someone who went from nurse to senior DevOps engineer making six figures remotely.
  
  Learn the exact approach to breaking into DevOps without years of experience. We discuss certification priorities (CKA vs cloud certs), home lab projects that get you hired, why Kubernetes is the future despite what LinkedIn says, international job hunting strategies, and escaping tutorial hell. Plus technical discussion on Kubernetes replacing virtualization, MinIO alternatives, and what actually makes you job-ready.
  
  📍 CHAPTERS:
  00:00 - Introduction & Tech News: MinIO Licensing Changes
  02:12 - Open Source Sustainability Discussion
  06:05 - Getting Started: Who's Here Today
  10:10 - Landing EU Jobs as International Candidate
  15:16 - Freelancing Prerequisites & Career Path
  17:10 - AWS Outages & On-Prem Future
  26:25 - Hosting on Small Devices & Unique Projects
  27:26 - Certification Strategy: Avoiding Multi-Cloud Trap
  32:53 - From Nurse to DevOps: My Career Change Story
  34:49 - Kubernetes vs Proxmox: Virtualization Future
  38:20 - Home Lab Project Ideas That Matter
  39:38 - Why Kubernetes IS the Future (Hot Take)
  46:03 - Advice for Senior Engineers
  48:43 - Does CKA Make You Job-Ready?
  53:31 - Systems-Based Learning
  56:26 - Network Admin to DevOps Transition Path
  
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischa_vdburg
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #DevOps #KubernetesCareers #TechJobs
---
Yes, I am streaming off Linux. I am streaming off Arch Linux. Uh what is what is it? Free fetch. Oh, fetch.

Fast fetch. Here we go. Of course, I have to I cannot start a stream without mentioning that I'm running Arch Linux. So, now that this is out of the way, now we can say that we um are started officially. Cool. Cool. Um before I start, yeah,

just um start pouring the questions in the chat. In the meantime, I will share some a couple of things in the news that I found interesting today while the qu questions are coming in. So, an interesting thing that happened today is that Minio is no longer providing Docker images. So if you don't know what minio is, this is a yeah basically a self-hosted uh S3 bucket provider. I mean it's used as self-hosted. It is used very much in

enterprise of course but in the home labing circles, self-hosting circles, this is often used to create your own S3 buckets and storage and this is no longer providing free Docker images. So this is an interesting development. Uh we see this more and more with open-source projects closing down for the community. Basically um they are not providing docker images but technically you can build the code yourself and then you can uh yeah create your own images and run it. So, it's not that they're closing off the software, but we were discussing this in the community today and um Silmani was actually saying, "I I use Min.io at my client and they doubled

their license prices prices and removing UI features from the community dashboard version. They force you to get a paid version." So, I thought this was an interesting bit of tech news to share. And you see this more and more with open-source projects. It's a concerning It's a concerning trend, but it's um Wait, is there a problem with the sound?

Sounds off every few seconds. Or is it me? Is that true? It falls away every few seconds. Okay, hold on. There might be an issue with my

sound here. In the meantime, just keep pouring in the the questions and I will go through the chat afterwards. So, let's see. Help me debug my stream. Why would my audio be choppy? Sound is

fine to me, says Jivvon. Okay. Um Okay. Okay. So, I'm hearing different messages about the sound. Sound is fine

here. Okay. Thank you very much for confirming that. This is the streamer's worst nightmare that the sound goes off goes wrong. So, glad you Thank you for confirming that. So, yeah, again, that

was an interesting piece of news where Min.io is basically locking down the open open-source version and force you to get a paid version. And I found this an interesting uh piece of news. you see this more and more and it it sparks an interesting debate where I mean I I firmly believe that open-source software creators should be paid for their work. I have no issues with um open-source projects charging for their for their software and also limiting certain features of their software to paying customers. I think

that's I think that's fair. However, with this, you're also losing quite a lot of trust with the community. And yeah, I I think this is an interesting development which you see more and more with these open source projects. Uh there are a few alternatives being thrown around. One of them is Garage HQ.

Garage, an open-source distributed object storage service tailored for self-hosting. So, I would personally not try Min.io anymore. I'm um I would go for garage or another one that the community has been sharing here is seaweed FS. Um I haven't looked at all at this. I'm

just literally doing this right now. So, what is this? Seaweed FS independent Apache license open-source project ongoing development. Let's see. Yes, lots of commits.

And it's a simple and highly scalable distributed file system. Two objectives. Store billions of files. Serve files fast. Start as an object store to hide small files instead of managing file metadata. Okay. Yeah.

Yeah. Okay. So, these are two alternatives for min.io. So yeah, it depends whether whether these have Kubernetes operators or not. That would

be interesting to dig into, but those are the two that are the main alternatives right now, I would say. So yeah, let me know in chat what you think about this. And also um just to note that the interesting part is that this is what we were discussing in the community today and we instantly get people saying oh I'm using this at a client or I'm we are using this and that. So it's the power of community that really uh comes to here. Cool. Cool.

Getting some questions in the chat now. So, I'm just going to before I get into the questions, I'm just going to go through a couple of the platforms, see if everything is okay because I'm using Riverside to multiream. So, I'm actually streaming on X right now. Doing this for the first time. So, streaming on X, 71 people on X.

Then we have I'm also streaming on LinkedIn. I have no idea how that's going to go. I have no idea if people actually join streams on LinkedIn. Um let's see.

Is the stream still going on LinkedIn or not? I just need to check this and then we can uh we can go live. Here we go. Live event. Yes, it's actually going on LinkedIn.

Oh, there's actually people chatting there, too. That's interesting. Cool. Cool. Well, that's working all fine. So, that's fun to see.

And finally, how many people do we have on YouTube? 61 people from YouTube. Cool. All right. Well, now we have a few people coming in. So,

first of all, um if you're looking for a tech job, type one in the chat. If you're already a DevOps engineer, type two in the chat. Let me see where we're at today. Looking for a tech job? Type one in the chat.

you're already a DevOps engineer working with Kubernetes or something like that. Type two in the chat. Let me get a sense of who we're talking to here.

One, two, two, one, two. Okay, it seems actually pretty even. one and two. Oh, that's interesting. Ja, so you're a DevOps engineer looking for a DevOps job 111.

I see a lot of twos. That's that's that's always interesting to me that people who are already DevOps engineers watch my channel that they and that they would come for um career mentoring too. I mean, I I I I love it. It's good. I I always get love to get more perspectives but it also shows that even when you are a DevOps engineer there is always room for improvement

to software transitioning to DevOps. Okay, cool. All right. Well guys, um this session is for live career mentoring. So, if you have any questions about um getting a tech job, if you want to ask me about my uh how I got my first job and or anything related to that, basically ask me anything. Um you can you can put any

chat any question in the chat and I will just pick out the ones that uh I feel like answering. But if you have any other rel any other unrelated question maybe about my history or something like that, feel free to ask. And uh let's just start. There were a few questions from before. So I will just uh start going through those.

Uh Misha, thanks to your channel. I started DevOps. Thank you. Okay. Thank you so much for saying that. That's cool

to hear. Um let's see here.

Next. Next. Next. Okay. As a 20-year-old DevOps from India. Oh,

let me see. Can I show it here? As a 23-year-old DevOps from India, I'm interested in opportunities in Europe. Are cloud DevOps security roles open to foreign candidates? And how can I improve my profile to get a job in the EU? they are generally open

to uh outside candidates from outside of the EU but generally like you can't just expect getting a job in the EU um like that I mean if you want to work in the EU you would definitely have to plan on moving to the EU as well. It is I see it more quite rare for people to land remote roles in the EU. There's there's not much of a culture for that in the EU specifically. So if you do want to move to the EU, I always recommend people to actually don't forget about learning DevOps and tech. What you actually should be learning is the language. You

need to learn the language of the country where you wish to work in. Uh, and that's not just for the work's sake, but it's also about for your happiness sake. You see, I I'll tell you a story. I I lived in Norway for 9 years. So, when I was 22 years old, I I had just finished studying at university and I packed everything I had in my car and I drove to Norway and I was going to basically start my life there. And I had

already been traveling there a lot and I had a Norwegian girlfriend for a couple of years. So I knew what it was like to be in Norway. And at that point I already spoke Norwegian fluently because I had studied the language and I had a girlfriend. But I had taken university classes in Norwegian. So I spoke the language fluently when I moved there and still I struggled to get a a job in in Norway.

The fir for the first four months I applied I applied and I it was very hard for me to get a job because they don't even I'm like I'm from a neighboring country and but they still don't like to hire foreigners, right? Even when I spoke the language. So my first job in Norway actually was um in a freeze what do you call is in in English? It was a a warehouse for frozen goods. So it was like -20 Celsius degrees all day long and I would show up and we had to put on these big suits like like they would use on the North Pole and then huge shipping containers would come and I would have to unpack frozen meat from those containers and then carry that onto pallets and stack them onto pallets and calculate the weight and stuff. That was my first job

in Norway and I had a university degree at that point and I even spoke the language. So if you want a job in a different country like don't start with tech and that kind of stuff. Start with the language and you have to be extremely humble about this too. Um like when I moved to Norway, my my attitude was uh that I would clean toilets because living in that country was more important to me than um than anything else than the work that I had to do for it. So that was my that was my attitude towards this. This

is how I approached it. And if you yeah, if you uh if you agree with that or not, I don't really care. But that is how I think you should approach it. Be humble. Make the moving to the country a priority, not the work.

Uh let me see.

What are indications that you're capable of taking on freelance work? What are prerequisites you would recommend before pursuing that? And how do you recommend finding freelance opportunities? Well, to be honest, like this this stream is is more geared towards um beginners. Um I am working as a six-figure freelancer at the moment. And if you if you want to

get if you want to learn how you how to actually do that, how to get clients, how and I'm happy to mentor you into this, but uh you'll have to join CubeCraft for that. This is not this is not teachings that I give for free on on live streams like this. You can't expect um these kinds of questions to be answered live in streams like this. Um you will have to um you have to gain access in order to get that kind of information. Let me see.

took your Kubernetes fundamentals currently taking the CKD Kubernetes Udemy course and then take the home lab course. Also, what's your advice monitoring course? Well, you're going after course after course after course and that's great, but also remember to do to build projects here and you um the best way to learn monitoring in my opinion is to basically you already said you were going to build your home lab. So build your home lab and then start with the Q Prometheus stack, install that and build projects uh with that and then there is the the what is it called? The Prometheus operator certification by the CNCF. I

haven't done that one. Not sure if you should get that one either. Uh I would definitely focus on Graphana instead of Prometheus. Anything that can be done in Grafana, you should do in Grafana.

Do you recommend prioritizing fluency in the language and polish communication skills? Yes, 100%. Fluency in the language is extremely important. If your goal is to work in a different country than your own, that is um that is a definitely uh the the way to do it. Focus on that first and the basically your attitude should be if you want to live in a different country that's the only thing that matters. The work that you do is second

to that.

With the recent AWS outage, do you think companies would prefer onrem in the future and thoughts on Oracle cloud AI into DevOps? Interesting question. So yes, I am like I am personally in my own personal interests I am leaning more and more towards open-source vendor agnostic and uh onrem kind of stuff that that is b more I'm leaning more and more towards that and I say vendor agnostic I mean you can never really get away from vendors like I love talos Linux so that is CDRO and Yes, that then you are for example um then you are using a vendor right so but it's open source so it's different from tying yourself into Microsoft Azure or AWS I would say uh because still you're using Kubernetes as the platform but the platform that you use to provision Kubernetes can be changed so that is that is one one way to approach it this is why I I I go all in on Kubernetes Because Kubernetes is the platform. If you focus on that, if you build the Kubernetes skills, then it doesn't really matter where you work. So cloud infrastructure is going to be more and more commoditized.

AKS, Azure Kubernetes Service, it works so well that you just create it once and it auto updates, it automanages itself, it autoscales, and you have the support for it. So like there isn't really much work to do there if you have that up and running and but it's freaking expensive. That is that is the the the counter of it. So I personally think that there's going to be more and more focus on onrem. One issue with this or one theme here is that here in the Netherlands we have a lot of our uh governments are using Microsoft Azure, right? And we do that

because we have a data center of Microsoft here in the Netherlands. So that is how they are basically justifying to put all of their data in the data center because the data center is at least in the Netherlands. However, that still means that the the the the company that's managing that data is still an American company, right? And like I'm not 100% clear on the laws so please don't uh quote me on the law law framework here but it is my understanding that because it's an American company then the go American government has any right to decide like if there's a if they have some sort of valid reason for it that they can access that data or that they could basically tell Microsoft nope you can't do business anymore in the Netherlands. Well, that means we are completely screwed if that happens. And this became

a theme when Trump was elected and he started throwing around all these tariffs. Well, people were getting really nervous like, oh, oh my god, what is he going to do with the cloud infrastructure? Maybe he's going to say, yeah, Microsoft, you're not allowed to do business in the Netherlands anymore because they're not paying tariffs. We would be completely screwed. So all that to say is that here in Europe there has been a lot more debate on European clouds, sovereign clouds and that means basically um on onrem it means on prem like maybe there is a like Dutch data centers if you're hosting it in Holland but I think there's going to be more and more move back towards onrem actually. Um I I

think that is that is going to be much more common. We had this big move to the cloud then they raised the prices and now it's like it depends on what you're running of course but if you're interested in data sovereignty so having no have not don't have any other companies have any control over your data then onrem is the way to go.

Cool question from Leo. In paid CubeCraft, do you offer guidance only once you're ready to make projects and looking for a job or also while completing the coursework? Thank you. Yes. Um, so the the way it works is you join I can just share my screen here.

Let me see screen. So you should be able to see my screen now. So the way it works uh this is what I was saying by the way in the beginning how yeah we were sharing some news about Mino and instantly we got 12 people commenting and people sharing what clients are doing at work. So that is an interesting uh example of the community at work. So there is community posts all the time but to your question do you provide guidance along the way? We definitely

do. So this is the current schedule. So on Mondays I provide two Q&A calls. So those are calls where you join and you can ask me questions directly just like this on a live stream but then we are actually like you you you share your video, you have your microphone on, we're actually talking. So I'm actually coaching you during that call. That

happens twice a week. Then my brother, he is doing a career guidance coaching and every Sunday we have a Linux workshop with Francisco, an expert CIS admin. So there's like three three calls a week uh at the right now that's going to be more in the future uh where you get guidance. And secondly, if you look at my school profile, this is my heat map of my school profile and I am in here every single day. So every day I my routine is that I will come in and I read all of the posts. I I

read all of the questions and then very often I will answer those questions by text or I record private videos for you if it needs more explanation. So to answer your question, yes, there is definitely guidance along the way when you um when you join the community. And it's not just me. It's also the community of other seniors and other experts that are helping you every single day.

Uh where can I find your where can I find your course syllabus? Where can I find the course membership fee? Um you go to qcraft.dev. I will share the link in the in chat.

Cubecraft.dev. That's where you can uh can find um more information about the course.

Hey, how is it how difficult is it to run a server on old Android phone? That's an interesting question. Uh I am currently uh I'm I have not run any servers on Android phones myself. So, I actually cannot really answer about this question, but we did have an interesting um we had a really interesting chat recently in the community. Maybe I should just leave my screen on actually because I'm just constantly switching back and forth, but there is um what was it? A vape. Yeah, hosting a website on a

vape. So, we had this really cool discussion in the community about um hosting things on on smaller devices. So, we found this blog from Bogdon the Geek who is hosting a website on a vape. And I found that a really interesting um challenge, a really interesting thing to do to find like the smallest devices that you can find and then turn those into servers or run Kubernetes clusters and then actually Chris here, Miridon here, M Chris here, he did a really cool experiment where he had um yeah, what are they called. They're like pocket PCs, like really small USB stick, which are actually like really small PCs. And

he managed to turn that into a Kubernetes cluster. This is really cool. He he he did the full write up on this. And I mean, this is the kind of stuff that goes on inside of the community, which is just so cool to me to see these kinds of projects going on. Uh so, uh to get back to your question, how difficult is it to run that on an Android phone?

person I honestly I don't know I I can't answer that question. Um but you should definitely go for it. I mean Android is Linux so it can be it can be rocket science.

Okay. What would you suggest for certification if one is looking to transition? I see on LinkedIn getting multiple certifications in multicloud. It's confusing where to start. Any suggestions? Thank you. Yeah. [laughter]

Well, like this is why CubeCraft exists, right? Like the pain of DevOps careers is it's just so painful in the beginning. You see all of these conflicting advice like you you actually see people getting certifications in multiple clouds and that is like the worst that you could do in the beginning. It's the worst idea. And yeah, like Cubecraft started because I was in exactly the same pain as you are now and you were asking me this question, but I didn't have anyone to to ask this to like you have me in a live stream that will that will answer your question. But this is why I created this

in order to help people with these problems because this is a real problem. Like there are thousands of people out there who who who want this job, who want a remote lifestyle, they want to be autonomous, right? Because that's what this life has given me. Five years ago, I was I was working as a nurse. I had to work I had to go to the hospital every single day. I had to show up at my um at

the hospital at a certain time. there's no no freedom because these hospitals you have to work in strict schedules, right? You can't just have people coming and going. So, you have to show up at a certain time. I had to do night shifts.

I had to work evening shifts and night shifts. So, my whole sleep rhythm was completely deregulated. And I was uh because of that I I really hated my life like nursing it was beautiful work but I had to actually it cost me so much energy to be there for the patients because I wanted to do a good job right and I'm very introverted like this live stream I need to recover 4 hours from this and it was a beautiful work to have these patients thank me for the work that I did like making their day a little bit better But it completely drained me and I was just exhausted. I I did not want to have this life anymore. And now five years later, I am a senior DevOps engineer, Microsoft MVP, and I managed to create a life for myself that I want. Like I work

completely remote now. No office. I don't have to show up at clients. I don't take up clients who who are requiring me to go into their office. I think that's complete to that you have to show up at offices three times a week. I'm much less productive

that way. So I I refuse it and I don't do it. Uh I I make much more money than I ever did and all of that was because I made this career change. But I have a very high pain tolerance. I'm able to do work when I'm not getting any results.

And to be frank like the average person is not cut out that way. Average people stay average because they cannot tolerate the pain of working at something without getting the results immediately. And when I was in this position where I hated my job but all I wanted was a remote job. All I wanted was to have control over my own life. I wanted to be autonomous to work remotely. in that

pain. I was, oh, it was so hard for me. I had no one to ask. I had nowhere to go. I didn't have anyone to to ask. And this is the

reason why I created CubeCraft and why I help people and why I do these live streams every day. Because to back to your question, when you see people on LinkedIn getting multicloud certifications and maybe they're not even a DevOps engineer yet, that can confuse you. So the the answer to that question is no. You should definitely not get multiple CL like certifications in multiple clouds. In the beginning you need to focus you need to hone down on certain skills because the the main focus for you in the beginning is to land the job the first job. Later you can expand into multiple

clouds. But I made the same mistake. I was learning AWS and Azure because I thought that would make me um that I would increase the chances of my job, right? Well, I have more skills so therefore I can do more jobs. That was my my reasoning. It doesn't work that

way because even a senior engineer who works in both AWS and Azure has less depth of knowledge and experience than a senior engineer who has been only working with Azure. Like by definition in terms of hours worked in that cloud you have more experience with it. Now there's something to say for being a cloud agnostic but that is something for a later stage. So in the beginning focus on one cloud.

The thing I admire about you Misha is your ultimate career switch from two distinct paths. Well, thank you very much. I I appreciate it. It was hard work, but I hope my story can inspire others.

The home lab is the way. It's insane how well it works for jobs. Yes, that's why we teach it in CubeCraft.

Rohan, I was learning all on Udemy but cannot use it in the real world and losing my interviews. What would you suggest? I was planning to join CubeCraft. Thanks. Yes. Well, um, cool

to hear that you're interested in in joining, but the the the answer is like this is a typical case of tutorial hell, right? Like nothing wrong with you, but most people most people they think I want a DevOps job, so the the the solution to the problem is to only watch courses on Udemy and think that's enough. But what people don't understand is that you need more than just technical knowledge to land a job. It's the tech framework that I teach te tools, experience, content, and human. And most people, they only focus on the tech skills, but they have no idea about the soft skills, how to get the experience on your CV and all of that.

This is what I why I built Cubere. It's a complete system that will help you with this. Um, so you need to do more than just tech skills. That's the answer to this.

Here's an interesting question. Do you think virtualization Proxmox is going to be replaced by Kubernetes or will they coexist and why? Very very interesting question. Let me just have a drink of water before I go for that.

How are we doing on time? 6:34. Okay, I got about 15 20 minutes uh for me left in me. Keep those questions coming in the chat, guys. So, I was at Talos Con uh when was that?

Friday last week. I was at Taloscon Talos Linux from Cedaro which is a secure out of the box enterprisegrade Kubernetes distribution and many many of the talks here revolved around enterprises moving completely to Kubernetes and using that as a virtualization platform. This is an very interesting shift in the industry. We recently had a guest session with a um senior uh cloud architect in in CubeCraft. He he is responsible for managing over $40 billion in cloud contracts and in in the in the United States and he did a uh Q&A with us in CubeCraft.

like this is the level of of experience that you get access to in CubeCraft. But he also mentioned that Kubernetes is the platform. It's becoming the platform. So VMware and and other virtualization Proxmox these things are going to be replaced by Kubernetes in the long run. Will they coexist? Yes.

I mean, not everything is going to move. There's still going to be companies that are that will be left behind, but Kubernetes is becoming the the the multifunctional platform for everything. So, with Cubevert, you can provision virtual machines on Kubernetes, right? And I re I got a Proxmox server. If you've seen my minis forum video recently, I set that up as a Proxmox server. But

actually, I'm just planning to turn that into a Talos node and use that with cube uh instead because I hardly ever need to use virtual machines anyway. And I might as well just have it as a Kubernetes cluster. And in the the once in a blue moon when I need a VM, I'm I will try to use that with a cube. That's my That's my personal strategy and um I'm going to be playing around with that. So, those are my thoughts on that.

Let me see.

Next question.

How much does it cost to join and complete your program? Just um you can go to cubecraft.dev and there will be more information there.

What should I build on my home lab? What kind of projects? Yes. So like there is a full I have a full like library of projects that you can access in um in CubeCraft. But the the kind of projects like you want to showcase you want to showcase your skills, right? But on the other hand,

you also want to have it useful for yourself. So I recommend starting with a problem that you have in your own life. Find a self-hosted application for that and then try to run that and try to run it well and secure it. That is my that is that is one of the best ways to do it because then you keep it fun.

Let's see. Why is Kubernetes the future? Interesting. That's a really cool username as well. Your soul whisperers.

Nice. Um, why is Kubernetes the future? So well I was I already I was already getting into that in the previous question where Kubernetes is quickly becoming a platform in and of itself right. So where you are um where where Kubernetes is now becoming a virtualization platform that is huge because this will mean that big enterprises who have tons of virtual machines like a lot of their complaints about moving to Kubernetes was yes we want Kubernetes but we are still running everything on VMs so we first have to containerize everything and then we can move to Kubernetes That is a big job. Now what you can do is you can actually lift and shift workloads that are running on virtual machines to Kubernetes on virtual machines on Kubernetes.

So that is a completely new dynamic that is happening like maybe this past year is more up and coming. So even companies that are not containerized, they have containerized workloads, they are now able to to run on Kubernetes. So why is Kubernetes the future? Well, XAI Grock is running on Kubernetes. Chat GPT is running on Kubernetes.

Microsoft Azure a lot of their services is running on Kubernetes. Microsoft 365 or Microsoft Office that runs on Kubernetes. And like think about what that means. like Microsoft, a multibillion dollar company, is using their own Azure Kubernetes service to run services for their own cloud. Now, this should tell you something. This

should tell you that if the cloud providers are using Kubernetes to run the clouds, then you know you're on to something. like be before it was Linux and Kubernetes is Linux of course it's a layer on top of of of Linux but Kubernetes is now used by the cloud companies to provide this infrastructure so if they can use it if the big AI companies are using it like why would Kubernetes not be the future like I get I I'm on X a lot and I'm tweeting these tweets where I say uh hard pill to swallow. Kubernetes is the future. And I get these comments like almost no company needs Kubernetes. It's just so delusional when people say that because first they don't know the data.

But the reason they say that is because they are intimidated. They they don't they find Kubernetes intimidating and they they are usually out they have outdated skill sets. They have probably been in the industry for 10, 15 years and they have a comfortable six figure salary and they're coasting along for 2 hours a day and they don't want to be bothered by learning some new technology. Especially with Kubernetes which has a false rumor that it's hard to learn. It's completely false.

Kubernetes is not hard to learn. Kubernetes is not difficult to master. People just want to make it out that way. Kubernetes is easy. C If you if you take the time, if you know Linux and if you know how to work with an API, Kubernetes is freaking easy. Seriously,

it's not hard to learn at all. But people don't put in the effort and because they feel threatened and they're lazy. So why Kubernetes is the future? Well, my question is why would it not be the future? Like anyone in the chat who disagrees, please let me know. I'm happy

to discuss this here, but like I'm I'm just going to say it. If you're ignoring Kubernetes, you're an idiot. You're you're you're really an idiot. I saw this three years ago. I went all in on it. And I'm I I make good money. I have

no I can get a job at any time I want. I get contracts. And this is why CubeCraft is called Cubecraft. Like I teach the craft of the Kubernetes engineer. And we're landing jobs left, right, and center.

Yeah. Why are a lot of influencers on X and LinkedIn talk about Kubernetes if it's an over overkill in most cases? Because they don't understand Kubernetes. Like people who say this, they don't understand Kubernetes. Like I I I built an airgapped environment for a Danish company that had it was a very interesting case. is

they had like two government um private clouds like on-prem environments and it needed to have a an application on both of those networks. It was really weird. It was completely airgapped. Very difficult. But the only way that this the the best way that this could be done is to have a git repo in each of those networks. have

the Kubernetes cluster pull in the the the the configuration with GitOps and it worked perfectly. It was just running two containers but having this pullbased configuration it worked perfectly and e like the footprint of K3S is like 500 megabytes. Like people want to make it out like it's some sort of super beast that you have to control and it's really hard to learn, but it's not. It's it's it's easy. Kubernetes is freaking easy.

I I like this new Misha Beast boat. Yeah. [laughter] Well, thank you. Yes, I I am starting to talk. I'm I'm uh yeah, I'm developing myself as a uh I don't want to call myself an influencer, but I'm I'm going to be less filtered. I I want to show

more of my my personality and my thoughts uh because I think it's more real. And I'm glad you say that you like it. I'm I'm planning to do more of this uh this kind of [laughter] this side of me. So, I'm I'm glad it's resonating.

Uh let me see. I'm already a senior engineer interested in the home lab course. Can I get access to it without joining the the career accelerate community? No, you cannot. the course is a part of the curriculum but like I've like you say you're already a senior engineer but interestingly like like 30% 40% of the people in cubecraft are already senior engineers and mo and a lot of them they are getting they want to upskill on Kubernetes right they and then that's why they come to me because they want to learn from someone who understands it but also who understands to help them get further in the in the industry. So, we don't we don't just

help beginners, we help uh seniors as well. Drew wrote a very interesting comment here. So, to the point of I'm already a senior, but I don't I just want the home lab course. Well, here's the answer to that. Drew Elliot. As a Linux user with

decades of experience starting with Reddit and even compiling Gen two and a Spark workstation, I've used countless distributions. While I've installed Arch dozens of times, your C course offered something new. What I valued most was the thoughtful philosophy behind it. You encouraged a deeper understanding of each tool, which challenged my habit of simply accepting default settings. Your course taught me the real value of tailoring my environment to my workflow rather than the other way around. It was

a crucial lesson in making my tools my truly my own. So when someone says I'm already a senior, I just want that course. Basically you you are saying that you are finished learning and you just want to learn one specific thing and that's simply not the case. like there's always more to learn and even people with 20 years two decades of Linux experience pick out something from my teaching because I have certain approaches to it like my stuff is not something not the generic stuff that you see in LinkedIn I go really deep and I teach you different mindsets and this why it's working so well because people like it so much so um if you want to get the home lab course join CubeCraft

Does passing CKA make you ready for work? What's your perspective? Um, it does not make you ready for work in that sense. However, of all of the certifications, CKA is definitely um uh a a certification that is going to raise your value a lot. So if someone comes to my if if I would be hiring someone and they would have two Azure certificates I mean those are decent that you need some skills for that but it is theoretical knowledge it doesn't mean that they have actually done the work however for a CKA that's a time pressured 2-hour exam where you are expected to solve hard questions using the command line only editing text files with Vim uh in in a pressured environment and that tells me something about your skills, your your ability to work under pressure and your ability how how you how much you can manage Kubernetes. So I wouldn't say it would

it by definition makes you ready for the job but if you have a solid foundation in Linux CKA and some programming skills then you have a very strong baseline for landing a job for sure.

You are not picking questions from LinkedIn live. Actually, that is right. I am uh I'm reading the the Riverside chat and apparently that is not syncing. Uh so let's see if if are there a couple of questions from LinkedIn? Oh, there actually not many questions there.

Well, there's one question. What resources to learn Kubernetes real time scenarios? Um, don't really know what that means. What resources to learn Kubernetes realtime scenarios? Well, you can check out Killer Koda. That's really good.

That is like live labs. You can use those for preparation for the um for the certificates. Cool. I have a couple of questions in me and then we're going to wrap it up for today.

Let's see. I've heard Kubernetes is not the future because it's it's too complex for small teams. I mean it depends what your team depends on and what you're running right and I mean I don't think having a small team is a reason not to use Kubernetes if you have like it's not hard to learn guys it's it it completely depends on what you have to do but um saying Kubernetes is not the future because it cannot be managed by small teams is a ridiculous statement because the world has more than just small teams. There are many plenty of big teams out there that are thriving on Kubernetes. So it's not a reason why Kubernetes would not be the future.

Let's see. Another question. What about X? Do I get any questions on X? I'm multistreaming here, so I have no idea what's actually happening.

Do does X even have a chat?

No, there's no chat there or at least no people in that chat. Okay. So then I can just pick from Riverside.

Erin,

does your course include any type of definite structure or is it more open-ended where the primary way you learn is by jumping into different projects and sort of growing alongside the community? No, it's very structured. It's very structured. So there is a very clear road map and it is systemsbased. So people who are actually already in the community they they don't we are rolling this out right now but um the the classroom is created in systems. So

we have DevOps OS focus OS job magnet OS and interview OS home lab OS. So all of these different systems are what are going to be landing you your DevOps job in two to 20 weeks. So first you start with the onboarding and we we show you around what to do. Then there's the full road map that you walk through and um through in that road map you are guided through all of the systems and where to start and it so it's very structured. It's not just some random couple of projects. you will know

exactly what to do at what point and the the way I have set it up like my my teaching is different it focuses on three three pillars it's standards systems support so what you've seen now are the systems but we also give you standards and this is what most courses they will they will teach you what to learn but they never tell you when to stop learning right so courses will tell you learn Linux or roadmap learn Linux. Yeah, but what does learning Linux actually mean? There's tons of books that you can do about Linux, but how do you know when you're actually done with that? Right? Same for Kubernetes. Like what does

learning Kubernetes actually mean? How do you know when to stop learning and move on to the next thing? Well, those are the standards. So, it's standard system support. So, we'll tell you what to do at what time. Very structured. And

then there's the support. So there's live mentoring from me, myself, and other coaches. So whenever you get stuck, you just jump on a call with us and we help you right away. You're never stuck for more than 24 hours.

What's your suggestion to some who have no programming experience like me, have only network assist admin experience, and wish to land a DevOps job? Well, um suggestion is um check out CubeCraft. That's first of all, but secondly, um you already have CIS admin skills. So if you widen that out from if you widen that with Kubernetes skills, um that is that is the thing to do. Uh oh, oops, that was a different one.

Where is it?

Uh what's your suggestion? Programming experience here. There we go. You already have networking and CIS admin experience and you wish to land a DV job. So you have a good foundation. Networking CIS admin

extremely important. If you widen that with Kubernetes and if you widen that with um some Python programming then you have a very solid foundation for a DevOps job.

cool. Thank you for that description and well said answer. Awesome. Well, thank you so much for the for the good questions. All right, guys. Well, that's

about it what I had in me today. Thank you so much for for joining this live stream today. Um, thank you for the questions. Again, if you want to get more of this kind of mentoring, I'm doing this three times a week in the community live on calls and answering questions every single day. So, if you got anything any value out of this, um, there's plenty of more plenty more where that came from, go to cubecraft.dev,

check it out. And I'm going to be releasing a new YouTube video tomorrow. So check that out as well. For now, thank you for joining. All the best of luck on your career change, and I'll see you around. Have a good day, guys.