---
video_title: "How I’d Pick Which Cloud to Learn First in 2026 (If I Started Over)"
video_id: uMKeVWRO7G0
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMKeVWRO7G0
video_date: 2025-12-30T18:01:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Apply to join KubeCraft & land your DevOps job: https://kubecraft.click/cgv81
  
  Ready to land your first six-figure DevOps role? Get my FREE 5-day Career Blueprint → https://go.kubecraft.dev/blueprint-yt-1
  
  AWS vs Azure - Stop overthinking which cloud provider to learn. This video reveals the 30-minute data-driven framework to choose the right cloud platform for your DevOps career and maximize your job opportunities. Perfect for career changers, self-taught engineers, and anyone confused about where to focus their learning efforts.
  
  Most aspiring DevOps engineers make the critical mistake of learning multiple cloud providers simultaneously, spreading themselves too thin to become truly employable. I made this exact mistake during my transition from nursing to CTO, wasting months learning AWS and Azure at the same time. This video shows you how to use job market data to make the smart choice, go deep on one platform for two years, then build vendor-agnostic skills that make you irreplaceable.
  
  You'll learn why cloud engineering is becoming commoditized, why Kubernetes and Linux are the future-proof skills that matter most, and how to position yourself for career longevity in a world where AI is automating managed cloud services. The truth: your cloud provider choice matters far less than mastering the underlying craft of Linux debugging, Kubernetes orchestration, and open-source tooling.
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischa_vdburg
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into successful DevOps careers.
  
  #DevOps #CloudComputing #CareerChange
---
Should I learn AWS or Azure? I get this question every single week and the truth is most people overthink it. In this video, I'm going to explain why it doesn't matter as much as you think and give you a complete decision framework that you can use to decide which one to learn. So, let's jump in. Choosing a cloud provider might feel like marrying a woman. You're making a commitment for

life. You're locking yourself into an ecosystem and attaching yourself to a specific vendor. However, in a 10 or 20-year view of your career, it matters much less. It doesn't matter if you have zero tech experience or coming from a sysadmin or software engineering background. You have to pick one in the beginning and later in this video, I'll explain what comes after that. But first, let me

show you the 30-minute method to figure out which one to pick. So, I see this happen every single week. People join Qcraft, my mentoring program where I help people land six-figure DevOps jobs, and they come in and they're completely confused and they have been trying to learn AWS and Azure and sometimes GCP all at the same time thinking that they are increasing their job chances. And I recognize this every single time when someone does this because I made the same mistake. You see, I'm a CTO now, but I did not start out that way. Five

years ago, I was actually working as a nurse. So, I have no formal tech background myself. I don't have a CS degree, nothing. And I basically bootstrapped myself into a tech career. And in that process, I made so many mistakes. It took me about 1 1/2 years

to make the full transition, but I had already been doing a lot of Linux work in my free time, right? For for several years, I was running Linux servers and automating games and running those automations on those servers. So, I did have a technical baseline in that sense, but I didn't have any formal experience myself. So, as I went through my career transition and I was recommended to to focus on DevOps by a very good friend of mine who knew what I was doing. He He liked what I was doing with my Linux servers and he was helping me. We were

doing it together. He was a software engineer and he said, "You know, the thing you should focus on is DevOps. That's That's really You will really like that. This automation, the scaling, everything." So, I started looking at roadmaps online.

Like, what do you need to do to become a DevOps engineer? And every good roadmap will tell you to learn a programming language, to learn Linux well, and then one of the next steps is to learn a cloud provider. So, I set out to learn a cloud provider. But, little did I know that Like I I wanted to increase my chances of finding a job. I wanted to be as employable as possible, right? So, in my

mind, in my inexperienced mind having no no clue about this job market at all and not having a mentor to help me in this journey, I actually started learning Azure and AWS at the same time, which was a huge mistake. It was a massive mistake. And let me explain you why that is a mistake. You think you're diversifying your skills. You think more clouds means more job opportunities, but you're wrong.

Here's what actually happens. You become mediocre at everything, expert at nothing. You know where a few buttons are in three different portals, but you can't troubleshoot anything. You can't architect anything. You're spread too thin to be useful and recruiters see through it immediately.

You're like too little butter spread over too much bread. And that's exactly how it felt being too little butter spread over too much bread because I was learning these services and yes, these services are similar. Like it's not that they're completely different, but they have different names. They have different approaches. They have different APIs, different ways of structuring things and that becomes very overwhelming at the same time.

And secondly, if you're learning a cloud provider, it's you're also well advised to keep track of the updates of the cloud provider, to follow the news, to follow the updates that they are releasing, any outages, that kind of thing. And I was doing this, learning two at the same time, reading the news of both at the same time and thinking, "Yeah, I'm If I know AWS and Azure, yeah, I can I double my chances of landing a job." And that's completely false, completely wrong. It was such a big mistake and I it really hurt my progress in the beginning. Because you're jack-of-all-trades, master at none, right? So,

what you have to do in the beginning is you have to pick one, go deep into that for a couple of years or so, and then later, you can branch out. You can change a cloud provider if you want to because then you have gained a sense of what a cloud provider does, how they approach things, and you can start translating that to a different ecosystem. But, for the first two years of your career or if you're switching from software engineering into DevOps, for the first two years, I recommend just picking one and going deep into that one. And now I'll show you how to pick that one. So, when most people try to make this decision of which cloud provider should I learn, they might go on Reddit and ask, "Hey, should I learn Azure or AWS?" Or they start scrolling on Twitter

and then based on the amount of posts that they see or search, then they would kind of make a decision based on that. No, this is not how you should make your decisions. The best truth serum is data. Always always make your decisions based on data and figure things out for yourself. This is what I teach in Qcraft. I teach

people to become autonomous, to become their own boss, to become an independent operator in this world. This is how I live. So, I I I'm not an employee anymore. I am the CTO of my own company. I work from home or from my camper van. I can work where I want,

when I want, with the people I want, on the project projects I want. And this is the the ultimate goal in life for me to have this sort of feeling of agency, to make good money while also being in charge of your own schedule and your own environment. For me, that was the goal that I set out when I was working as a nurse, and I have achieved that. And one of the ways I achieved that is to use data properly. So, how do we get the data to decide which cloud provider we should choose?

And what the method that I teach my students in Qcraft is to take a look at the job postings in your area. So, let's see how we can do that. My preferred method of finding jobs is LinkedIn. And to be honest, like I don't apply for jobs. I I haven't applied for a job in 4 years.

The jobs come to me. Also, my free freelance contracts that I used to do, I would just make a post on LinkedIn, say, "Hey, I'm available." And then I would get 20 messages and I would get my job. And so, I I don't really do this anymore because I have figured out how to make a irresistible LinkedIn profile, right? How to attract recruiters. So,

I don't do that anymore myself, but in the beginning, you might have to do this. But, if you want to If you don't want to do this and you you don't feel like applying for jobs, if you want recruiters messaging you in your inbox, this is also one of the things that I teach in Qcraft called Job Magnet OS. All of this is located in Qcraft. So, if you decide to join, then you would enter the the classroom. Here, you can find a complete fifth like over 50 hours of courses to go from zero to six-figure remote DevOps engineer. So, one of the

systems here I teach is called Job Magnet OS where I will teach you how to create an irresistible LinkedIn profile and a strategy to rank your profile much higher than other people so that you will get recruiters in your inbox every single day. You won't have to apply for jobs anymore and it's working for my students. Back to deciding on how to choose a cloud provider, one of the first things to do is just to try both of them out. You can go to aws.com and azure.com and just get

a sense of the UI. And this might be a a strange recommendation, but since we work as as a proper engineer, you work mostly on the CLI, but over my career, I I've realized that the UI you work in, the user interface, actually does play quite a big role in your overall experience of working with a with a certain tool. And I personally think that the AWS UI is horrible. I I always struggled with it. I It doesn't click for me. However,

the Microsoft Azure UI feels very intuitive and well structured to me. So, that is the first thing to just give a take a sense of which one do you like, which one resonates with you. Maybe Microsoft or or AWS resonates with you more in terms of company values, etc. So, that is the first step. Then, we take a look at the actual available jobs. So, this is where the data comes

in. Your goal is to land a six-figure remote DevOps job, right? That's why you're watching this video, right? Just go back into what is the actual goal here? Is the goal to watch hundreds of tutorials and to somehow learn something? Or is the goal here to land a

six-figure remote DevOps job? Well, I think that you're you're watching this video because you have the actual goal of landing a six-figure DevOps job. The question becomes how do you reverse engineer landing that job. And to maximize your chances of landing that job, you must look at the amount of jobs available to you in the market that you wish to work in. And this can be a different market that you are currently located in. Like

I have people in CubeCraft who migrate to different countries and I help them doing this. And then the question does not become what is available here, it has to be over there. If you're in New York and you want to move to LA, then you optimize for the market where you want to work in. So, you first have to make the choice choice where do I want to work? And then you are going to reverse engineer that. So, in terms of the

Netherlands, like the Netherlands has insane amounts of jobs available for my my work area in DevOps. So, the but this is how I would approach it for myself. So, I don't live in Breda, but uh this is a bit more south to from where I'm located. And I picked this one because it's a bit of a smaller city. And if I pick Amsterdam or Utrecht, I will get like several thousand jobs available. So, this one is a bit

smaller. And simply what you do is you just search for AWS in the area that you want to work in. And then you look at the available results. So, in this case, AWS has um 826 results. But if I search for Azure, it has 328 results. So, there are more

than double amount of AWS jobs available in Breda than Azure. So, logically, the best thing to optimize for if I want to work in Breda would be to choose AWS. It's that simple. Like it's not rocket science. You just have to decide where you want to work, look at the amount of jobs available, and base your decision on that.

Now, like when you when you search like this, you have to be a little bit more careful than just one search and that. So, here you see there's a lot of European Union remote jobs. So, let's see if I would do hybrid, that would then already make things a little bit more narrow down. So, now we have 13 results in Azure. And if I then go for AWS, I get 10 results. So,

yeah, in this particular example, maybe it's not a good example. Maybe we try Utrecht this time. So, AWS for hybrid jobs is 265 and Azure has 280. Again, like I'm saying the Netherlands isn't a really good example because there's just so many jobs available for for us here in the Netherlands um in this area. But there there are examples where there's like 10 jobs in Azure and 500 jobs in AWS. I've gone through this with

students and then the difference is very clear. And you have to figure it out for your for yourself, right? And one thing to note here is that yes, this shows you Azure and AWS jobs. And I'm some scrolling through this all looks these job titles all look very relevant. But you have to also be aware that there are a lot of um manager management jobs or you know, more of these administration kind of jobs that are that might have Azure in the job description, but that don't actually require you to build Azure platforms, right? So, you have to sort of

determine the be a bit more nuanced in your determination, but I think you get the idea. You search for the available jobs in the market you want to work in, and then you base your decision on that. So, in the beginning of your career, you pick one cloud using the method I've shown you, and then you optimize for that. You you go deep into that one. You you completely focus on the that one, and you don't don't look at anything else.

You work with that for a couple of years, and then you're golden. But for the long-term strategy, here's what matters more. Most DevOps and Kubernetes jobs will list a cloud provider as a requirement. However, cloud engineering is a commodity at this stage. They've made it so easy for us that it's not challenging anymore.

This is not a surprise because we want AWS and Azure to make our lives easier. That's what we pay them for. But it has consequences for us engineers. Learning manage cloud services only keeps your knowledge superficial and thus easier to replace by AI. My prediction is that cloud engineering will become so abstracted, templated, and AI assisted that in 5 years there's no cloud engineering specialty anymore. There will be cloud

architects, but those are the guys that have been doing it for 8 plus years, and companies only need a couple of them. If your only skill is typing out Terraform configs or peering virtual networks in the cloud, you'll be without a job in 5 years. If you want to stay relevant, you have to focus on tools, not the vendors. So, this is a lesson that I learned from my own career. So, I I went super deep into Microsoft Azure, and I kind of attached my my personal brand, my whole career to Azure, and therefore I also became a Microsoft MVP. But the thing

is, I have reached a point in my career where I have a certain level of technical expertise that I don't have to worry about finding a job anymore, like ever. Like I have the base Linux skills, the Kubernetes skills, and I don't need that Azure layer for me to be employable any longer. I don't have to worry about that anymore. I can still do it, but I I don't have to be so hyper-focused on Azure anymore. And to be completely honest with you, I almost regret being attaching my brand so much to to Microsoft.

Because where I'm at in my my current stage of my career and in my life, I place much more value on running open source software, focusing on open source. And as I went through my own home lab and on-prem journey, I personally resonate much more with running on-prem hardware and running on-prem Kubernetes specifically with Talos Linux. That is basically where where I truly feel that my my interest lies and what I enjoy doing the most. So, I've I've done Azure for for 5 years. I know it inside out. I can

easily set up entire company environments if infrastructure as code. It's not a challenge to me anymore. So, I'm I resonate much more with the open source and on-prem culture now. So, I I kind of regret attaching my brand to this so much. And yes, I'm a Microsoft MVP and that opens up a lot of doors, but I don't I don't really want to associate myself with that anymore. I am much more

interested in Linux, autonomy, and open source software. And I'm really glad that I kept doing that in my free time. Like I kept daily driving Arch Linux. I kept running self-hosting my own applications. So, I kept developing that skill as I was working with Microsoft Azure. So, that

is very important. And this is where the the next piece comes in. You have to learn one provider in the beginning to become employable. However, at some point, you don't need that vendor to be an employable anymore. What matters more is the under are the underlying skills that you build up. So,

in these skills, these are Linux and Kubernetes. Those two skills will make the cloud provider that you choose irrelevant in the future. Because again, as I said in the intro of this section, these cloud providers, they're everything is becoming commoditized. It's becoming so easy to run Kubernetes in the cloud that it's not really work anymore. You spin it up with Terraform and it auto updates. You get support

when something goes wrong, which rarely happens. It is really good, and you don't really need to do much work there anymore. However, when stuff does go wrong with your operators that you deploy on the cluster, with your configuration of the applications, or with a network issue in Cilium not syncing, like Microsoft is not going to help you with that. And this is where the true craftsmanship comes in. You need to have a deep level of Linux debugging to know whether a file system is being mounted properly or not. Or

like I had a discussion with my my latest freelance contract where we were talking about a CSI driver. And my the person I was working with, he claimed that the CSI driver was throttling the performance of the storage in the cluster. But a CSI driver is just responsible for mounting a volume into a container, right? So, the issue was not there, but I had to work very hard to convince him that no, it's not the driver, it's something else. And eventually we figured it out. It was a

formatting issue or it was a partition type issue that led to lower IOPS performance. And this is the kind of stuff that that is going to make you employable in the future. To have that the have the go one layer deeper. So Kubernetes is just a layer on top of Linux, right? And you if you learn one layer deeper, in this case Linux, then you actually understand what's going on when a pod won't start or when a pod is un- unable to schedule on a certain node. You can go into the

container runtime and check out what's going on. Maybe something is hanging or something is lacking there. This kind of stuff. What I advocate is to become a craftsman, to go deep into your craft and to learn a few layers deeper than just a managed cloud service. Because those are going to be commoditized and AI AI agentized.

The word I just invented, but you get the idea, right? Because it's an API, because it's a system, AI is going to very be in the future it's going to be able to orchestrate that much better than it is now. And that's something that you have to be very careful about. Mediocre engineers will get a few cloud certificates, get a comfortable job, and stop developing themselves. They don't care to go a few layers deeper.

They don't understand Linux and are not willing to learn Kubernetes. I teach my students to become future proof by learning the craft. Deep Linux, networking, Kubernetes, vendor agnostic tooling, and focusing on open source projects. This is the way to career longevity and true autonomy. Your company switches from AWS to Azure, you're fine. It's the same Kubernetes.

You change jobs to a company using GCP, no problem. You know Kubernetes. Your next company is moving back to on prem, Kubernetes runs there, too. It doesn't matter. And the cloud providers know this. That's why they're all

standardizing on Kubernetes. It's the orchestration layer that won. And if you control that layer, the cloud vendor above it is just implementation details. So Kubernetes is very quickly becoming the platform. Like Microsoft Azure is running many of their own services on their own Azure Kubernetes service. Some of these services include

Microsoft Teams, Xbox recommendations, Office 365, all of that runs on Kubernetes, on their own Azure Kubernetes service. Like chat GPT, Claude, uh Grok, xAI, all of them are being built and run on Kubernetes. So Kubernetes is the the layer that won. So if you know Kubernetes well, then it doesn't matter if you're working AWS or Azure or any of these platforms or on prem, if you know Kubernetes well, that is the skill that you need to learn. That is the the true skill that you need to focus on. And then all of the rest

becomes irrelevant. In order to know Kubernetes well, you have to learn Linux well. And then you are approaching this level of craftsmanship, right? Then you are approaching a level where you are not going to be easily replaced by AI in the future because you have the skills to debug things when things go wrong. And this is why I built CubeCraft. It's

Cube and craft, right? That's the name. I teach the craft of the Kubernetes engineer. I will teach you to become future proof, autonomous, and independent business owner. All of that I can help you with inside of CubeCraft.

So if you want a remote six-figure job, if you want to become an autonomous engineer, and in the future start your own business, then check the link down below and book a call with my team cuz I would love to help you achieve those goals. So recapping, trust on the data, do your own research, figure out where you want to work and reverse engineer from that. Let me know in the comments below if this video helped you, and I'll see you in the next one.