---
video_title: "How I focus 12+ hours per day without any drugs"
video_id: jK90az-5RQA
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jK90az-5RQA
video_date: 2026-08-11T15:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Want my full Focus OS and become my student? Go here: https://kubecraft.click/cgv149
  
  Get my FREE note-taking system: https://kubecraft.click/notes-cgv149
  
  How to focus without drugs or alcohol - the exact system I used to go from nurse to senior DevOps engineer. After 12 years of needing marijuana and alcohol just to sit still, I got sober and learned to focus for 12+ hours a day. This is for anyone chasing a big goal who keeps losing the thread after ten minutes.
  
  I break focus down using a lantern analogy: the lens, the hand, the direction, the capture, and the training. You'll learn why clearing intoxicants sharpens your mind long-term, why what you do outside your study hours decides what happens inside them, and how meditation trains concentration like a muscle. I also share lessons from two years as a Buddhist monk and the career change that came after.
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → My deeper story on addiction and recovery: https://youtu.be/Rvg72fX_dQg
  → Free note-taking system: https://kubecraft.click/notes-cgv149
  → KubeCraft mentorship and Focus OS training: https://kubecraft.click/cgv149
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischavdburg
  → Personal blog: https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #Focus #Productivity #CareerChange
---
For 12 years I needed to smoke marijuana or drink alcohol to be able to focus, to quiet my mind so I could actually focus on a task. If I didn't consume those substances I was unable to do anything. Now after I learned how to focus without these substances my life has changed completely. I went from working as a nurse to a successful senior DevOps engineer making multiple six figures a year. I've grown a YouTube channel to over 110,000 subscribers. I've been awarded the Microsoft MVP award twice which is quite remarkable given that I've achieved all of this in the span of five years after which I also started a very successful business. And all of that I attribute to my ability to focus. I went from needing marijuana, needing alcohol, needing these substances to be able to hold my mind still on anything for a period of time. To being able to focus for more than 12 hours a day and channeling that focus into very productive things achieving quite a lot of worldly success. Now most YouTube videos about focus will give you a list of you have to drink this caffeinated drink, you have to eat that kind of food and maybe take a cold shower. But the problem is that these videos are based on what people read in books or what scientists discover in scientific studies. But rarely will you actually get something that is based on personal experience like what I'm about to share with you. And another thing that's different is that there is no real one magic pill. There's no one hack that's suddenly going to make you focus better. Rather it's a collection of things that need to be in place for good focus to arise. And that's why I'm titling this video my focus system. I'm going to teach you a focus system rather than one hack or one thing because it's different than that. Now before we can say anything about focus we first have to define focus. And I define focus as the ability to keep your mind on one thing for as long as you want without needing anything in return. The key part there is the last sentence that most people miss but without expecting anything in return. And I'm going to expand on this in what I'm about to share with you more. But the key thing here is that you need to be able to do work that you don't want to do. You want to be able to focus on things that you don't really want to do in the moment without getting an instant gratification. Because in Western society we are raised to expect instant gratification. You can see it in children and I'm not a parent. I have no opinions about raising children but you can see it when a child does something then they will just look up to their parents and the parents says oh good job well done. And that is a way of raising people but it also conditions you to always expect a result right there in the moment. It removes the ability for you to do something without getting an instant reward. So this is why short form content for example has been rising so much because you get instant hits of satisfaction by watching something. You get stimulated instantly you do an action and you get an immediate reaction. And we are conditioned to expect that but that doesn't really help when you want to do something that needs unsatisfying work done over the long term. So one example is starting a YouTube channel. Now mine has grown beyond all my own expectations to over 110,000 subscribers. And if you are watching this and you're not subscribed yet then please just hit the subscribe button below this video. It's a free way to support the channel doesn't cost you anything but you cannot imagine how much that means to me because it really shows that what I'm doing is resonating with people in the world. If you haven't please click the subscribe button and that will really mean a lot to me. Thank you. When you create a YouTube channel you have to put yourself in the mind of someone creating a YouTube channel. You create a YouTube channel you're full of these ambitions. You spend several days on making this video you upload it and you get zero views. Zero reaction nothing happens. Okay. Now you do a second video nothing happens and it goes on like this. Like to start a YouTube channel. In order to get real momentum you have to make over a hundred videos. I had to make so many videos until my channel actually started to get some traction. And in some ways that's a good thing because by virtue of making those 100 videos you're going to get better with every video you make. But at the same time it takes a quite a special person to persist through making 100 videos without getting any result in return. Okay. So another example is get changing your career. Now I was working as a nurse in the hospital and I wanted to get a tech career. And I did not have a mentor. I had to do it all alone and I was working during the day in the evenings I would study. And I cannot describe how hard it is to not know what to do. So you do your best you do your courses you do whatever you think you is best you create a portfolio you start sending in applications. And then you get just rejected rejected rejected which does make sense in a way because hey I was a nurse. No no CS degree no experience. So it took me a long time to figure out the way to land the job without experience. Which is what I now teach to other people. That as well was a long process where I had to study. I had to send applications. I had to keep trying different approaches until I finally threw so much suffering found what worked. But that required the ability to keep focusing on that goal. That thing that I wanted to achieve to keep doing that without getting any reward without getting anything in return. So focus is more than just what you would regularly or normally associate with focus. It's more about being able to sit down for an hour and study. It's that but it's also to be able to do that for a year two years without getting any result. So that's a very important nuance that people who just read something in a book that they don't have that experience. So they won't know. Now focus OS the system I created out of my own experience to teach people how to focus is based on the following analogy. Imagine you are walking outside in the darkness with a lantern in your hand and the lantern shines out a beam of light. So you're in the dark there's nothing around you and when you hold the lantern there is like this circle of light around you. Okay. And as you're holding the lantern there are many different things that can happen. So your hand will shake if your lantern is bright. The beam of light it can grow bigger or smaller depending on how clear the lantern shines. So if the battery goes down in the lantern then the light will dim it will weaken and then the beam gets smaller etc. So keep this image in your mind as we are going to dive into my focus system. And the first element of the system is analogous to the lens in the lantern. Okay so we have the light but outside there is a lens or a piece of glass in the lantern through which the light shines. Now the clarity of this lens is what impacts how much light goes out. Okay so if the lens is dull then not much light goes out and you have a very small circle of light around you. If the lens is very clear then a lot of light will come through and the circle of light around you is bigger. Now if I have found in my own experience that becoming sober and clearing my mind from these intoxicants has greatly improved my ability to focus. As I said in the introduction I used to smoke marijuana because I needed that to focus. I was about 16 when I started smoking and during this time my family situation was very challenging. I won't go too into too much detail but an alcoholic father involved abuse involved a very tough upbringing in that sense. A very tough situation where I essentially became the head of the family and I had to take care of my father at a very young age. So when I was in school and there were all these problems going on and all of this pain inside of me I was not able to keep my mind on but I was actually supposed to be doing learning. I was not able to so I started messing around or I just started to dose off and just stare out the window and the teacher would have to like, hey Misha what come back what's going on. So when I discovered marijuana and I smoked that for the first time man I still remember but it just felt like everything fell into place and finally this constant storm in my head all these thoughts problems and things I had to do it became quiet. I finally had some peace in my mind and oh wow now I can actually do my homework now. So it started with using that to be able to do my homework because before that when I sat down to do my homework I wasn't able to do it and then when I smoked I realized oh wait now I can actually sit down and do my homework. This is great and which then evolved to yeah it's crazy but at 16 years old I was smoking joints right before I went into school at nine in the morning so that I could focus in school. So I do have some life experience there that many people don't and from going through that experience of smoking my way through school, through university, through my university degree in English language and culture I got did all of that under the influence because I needed that to focus but then at some point well certain things happened in my life which I there is a video which I will link above here that talks about the deeper story around this but there came a point in my life where I had to stop and I realized that I was completely addicted I couldn't stop and obviously when I then took away these substances and tried to do anything productive it didn't work my mind was so scattered. And now I am eight years sober and I'm able to focus on anything I want for many many many hours at the time so how is it possible that I can go from needing these substances to being able to focus for so many hours without needing anything. A big piece of this has been clearing my mind of these substances so I'm a practicing Buddhist and in my process of recovery I actually before I came sober I got very interested in Buddhism and in Buddhism there is the concept of clearing your mind and the whole goal of Buddhism is to get closer to reality to develop your mind so that you can reflect clearly on the nature of reality to get closer to the truth and one of the ways that the Buddha recommended people to live to clear their minds is to abstain from intoxicants from drugs and alcohol and this is also what intrigued me about Buddhism like I hadn't come across a religion that actually addresses substance abuse in that way so I got intrigued by that and I wanted to try it so I did it I got sober and now eight years later I can completely see the effect of what these substances have on your mind even if you just do it every once in a while like what people don't realize like most people can understand that if you take a drink then in that moment your cognitive abilities are impaired you are not able to focus or do anything most people can understand that what people don't think about is that this actually has a long term effect as well you are influencing your brain in the longer term and you are impacting your ability to focus in the longer term by taking these substances now I'm not here to judge anyone's substance use you can do whatever you want but I have found in my own journey that by taking these substances by smoking, by drinking I was doling my mind I was doling the lens and that by stopping those substances and fixing those other problems in my life I was able to clear the mind and now the light shines through perfectly clear and the circle of light around me shines so much brighter now that I stop this advice from the Buddha did not come out of clear thin air he was a you could say the specialist in training people's minds so I took that seriously and it changed my life and I can tell you from my own experience that it works so I encourage you to reflect on the effect of what drinking alcohol has on your mind I encourage you to reflect on what the effect of smoking marijuana is on your mind and try to see for yourself if you can spot whether it has any long term effect or not now the second element of the system is analogous to the hand holding the lantern okay so now we know how to clear the lens so that the light can shine through but now the problem is that when I'm holding my lantern it is just shaking all about and I'm not able to actually focus the light beam on anything and revealing what I needed to reveal so if my hand is constantly shaking I'm not able to actually direct that light beam and the main breakthrough from me here was that rather than like focusing on the thing finding like the hack that made you aware in the moment so that oh now I can sit for an hour or now I can I can do it like most people approach it like I have to do this thing or I have to do that thing right before I sit down to focus I need to take this pill or I need to adjust this thing on my desk and that is going to impact your ability to focus but rather the inside I found is that what you do outside of your focus time what you do outside of your studies is what actually impacts your ability to focus so rather than finding something that's going to improve your focus and using focus to improve your life rather you have to change your life to improve your focus it's a very important point so I'm going to repeat it like rather than wanting to improve your focus to improve your life so getting better focus to getting result xyz in your life rather you have to change your life to get better focus it's more about everything you do outside of your focus studies or whatever it is that you're doing that you're focusing on that is going to help you and the story I'll tell around this is when I left the monastery so some of you may know I spent two years in a Buddhist monastery and there was of course a life-changing experience for me but when I like when I was in the monastery we didn't use internet almost not only for monastery business no music no no games no no entertainment no stimulation and of course I was celibate no masturbation no contact with women nothing so you can imagine then when you spend two years there and then you come out of it then I'm a man there's only one thing you then think about I wanted to attract females and to get laid basically so I was focusing I was like trying to achieve all these things I wanted to get in shape I was on Tinder I was like optimizing my profile there and at the same time I also needed to fix my career quite an important detail so I was doing all of these things at the same time logically because there was I spent those two years in seclusion and then I'm back in the world there was so much that I wanted to do so I understand why that happened but I did learn from that experience and what I learned was that I was taking the Tinder example I was talking to these women on Tinder and then again instant gratification right you swipe you get like oh wow you send a message you get a message in return direct response so that really impacts you and when you're doing these activities then when it's when I was sitting down to study when I was sitting down to what I wanted to do which was to change my career when that happened was I was sitting there in the moment and because I wanted to study then I was I'm gonna focus for one hour I'm going to study on this topic for one hour sitting down working and then as I was doing this study then after about five minutes in the back of my mind was like oh send this message I wonder if I did the right thing there or wonder what she's gonna say and then this girl I say in a message like three days ago but never got a response what's going on there and before I knew I was like 10 minutes in I had my phone in my hand again and I was doing something and it wasn't until I really made landing a job my sole focus in life and eliminating all of the rest that I actually was able to get this extremely elite level of focus that I have now because what I was doing outside of my goals get my achieving my goals which was to land the job and yeah maybe I should clarify that I was already trying to land a tech job before I went into the monastery so there were periods when I was working as a nurse now I was doing I was studying applying didn't go anywhere and then I spent two years in a Buddhist monastery and after that I again tried so everything I did outside of studying was impacting what I studying was my object of focus at that time everything I did outside of it was impacting it so for you you have to realize that everything you do outside of your focus period is affecting it I wouldn't recommend combining searching for a partner with achieving other goals in life like one thing is enough already and if you do too many things at the same time you're going to distract yourself these things are gonna creep in with each other and what you do outside of those sessions is going to impact what happens in those sessions so that is the element that keeps the lantern still that your hand still now you can actually you're a I have a big beam of light I can see clearly around me I can see around me and I can hold it steady so that it's not moving around all the time now the next piece of the analogy the third piece is where am I directing this beam okay because when you're walking in the darkness you only see just what's around you and if you move the lantern a little bit you can see a little bit further but there's no way of seeing what's one kilometer beyond because your light doesn't shine that far away so the ability to point this in the right direction is an extremely important element of focus and this relates to what I was saying earlier about doing work without getting an instant result like when you set the goal of landing a job for example it's a long hard and arduous project especially if you do it without a mentor I mean with landing a job I mean changing your career like I did from nurse to dev up but what's crucial here is that you have that ability to point it that way and many people don't even have that ability they they think they know and I I struggle the same with this when I started my business I thought I had to work on this this and that and then I invested tens of thousands of dollars into business coaches mentors etc who were able to look at my business and say hey on the wrong track here you need to be focused on this the same happened in my tech career I thought I really needed to focus on that tool and that programming language but fortunately I had mentors who said no no no that's the wrong direction you need to go in that direction instead so it's extremely important that you learn how to set goals properly and yeah to teach you how to do that properly is already beyond the scope of this video because we're already getting long here but this is an extremely big part of focus OS which I teach to my private students in Q-Craft is to teach them how to set their goals properly and then I host calls and they ask they show their situation to me and I help them there to actually pinpoint the right direction for them so this is not this element of focus is not necessarily something you can always do on your own like I regularly need to ask mentors coaches etc to help me with this ability and my private students who want to land DevOps jobs they come to me because I'm an expert at this I can look at their situation and see now you should not be focusing on this you should be focusing on that or the goal that you have set for yourself is way too broad let's narrow this together and let me help you set this goal properly and now we are able to shine the beam of light in the right direction and this is the value of having a good mentor someone you pay for generally because they are providing a service to you so if you're interested in learning from me then there will be information in the description below but it's extremely important that you get the ability of focusing the the light beam on one thing and on the right thing so now we can talk about the fourth element of my focus system this is to actually capture the results of your focus all of this work is useless if you are not able to harvest this to capture this in some shape or form and one of the most popular videos on my youtube channel is about my note-taking system and the note-taking system is the capture is the harvesting of all of this and this might sound very foreign to you how can a note-taking system be a result or how can notes actually be a result I go deeper into that video but there's hinges around is to building your own repository or knowledge but also to use that knowledge itself to clarify your thinking through writing so if you can write about something clearly you can think clearly if you cannot write about something then the thoughts you have around it are not clear enough if you're not able to articulate something in writing then you don't understand the topic at all and this is where this capture is so important that you are able to put things in your own words and being able to articulate them now if you want to learn more about this I have a free note-taking system that you can get by clicking the link down below it is completely for free and this will be a good step for you to start harvesting what you have this is about as deep as I can go in the scope of this video because we're getting long it's an important element that you start harvesting what you learn and what what I share in the link in the description is going to go deeper into that and show you how to do it and it's completely for free and now the fifth and the last element of my focus system has to do with training so just like anything else in life anything else you do it is my understanding based on my own experience that focus is actually a trainable skill focus is actually something that you can consciously train and improve by putting in training so just like running or weightlifting you have to do dedicated practice sessions or compare it to like learning to play an instrument I'm very musical I can play big piano guitar drums I've learned many many different instruments over my life and I know the value of practice so when you learn to play guitar or piano in the beginning you cannot do anything but you have to put in conscious effort to learn the chords on the guitar and the longer you do it the more often you do it it gets easier over time and suddenly you can play a song now the equivalent for that for focus is meditation now obviously I'm a Buddhist and I spent two years in a monastery meditation has been a big part of my life for over a decade now and this actually started while I was addicted to drugs I got into meditation and this is also how I understood how these drugs and alcohol were fogging my mind like this I got to this point through meditation because I could actually see how this was impacting my meditation practice so if you're not familiar with meditation or what it means or what it does in the simplest sense if you want to get started with meditation what you do is you sit down you close your eyes and you focus your attention on the breath and you will find that what's going to happen is that you breathe in and out maybe once or twice and all of a sudden your your mind wanders off to whatever you were thinking about earlier oh I need to go to the shop and after 10 minutes you go back oh wait I was supposed to focus on my breath so you were coming back again and then you inhale a couple of times you are for concentrate on that and then boom you are gone again now in its simplest sense the goal of meditation is to be able to hold your mind still and to focus only on that particular object and this is why in meditation we use something boring like the breath because it's very hard to keep your focus on that but the training then is to constantly reel yourself in to constantly bring your mind back to the meditation object and yeah if you do that for over the span of many years if you do that consistently you get better at reeling your mind in and you will find that you're able to concentrate on this boring thing for longer and longer stretches of time so when I spend two years as a Buddhist monk we meditated for about four hours a day normally but there were also periods where it was more intense where we would ramp it up to eight to twelve hours a day okay you imagine what that does to your mind if you sit down focus on one thing for twelve hours a day and constantly reel it in and then before and after the monastery I still meditate one to hours a day you can imagine what that does to a mind like if you get so adept at reeling your mind in constantly then this is actually the purest way of how you can directly train your focus and concentration now when you start out like this it's going to be extremely hard and I have I've done this for over a decade now and I have a lot of experience with it I trained with a meditation teacher intensely at a monastery for over two years so like I would love to talk more about it but I have no idea if my YouTube audience has any interest in it so if this yeah if this whole focus system has been of value to you so far please let me know in the comments but also if this meditation angle if this picture interests if you want to hear more about it then let me know because I would like to share more about it like it is something I'm actually very passionate about which has had a big impact in my life so let me know in the comments so now with this system we are able to walk with the lantern we can shine the light we can directly in the right direction we have the beam of light around us which we're harvesting and then the meditation piece is actually how long you can hold the lantern upright because after while your arms start turned and that is the entire focus system that I teach to my paid students in cubecraft but it is only the high level right and many people need a lot of attention and they need to have the note-taking systems the goal-setting systems and all of that besides all of the other stuff that I teach but all of it is designed around getting outcomes and getting in in this case I'm helping people to land six-figure tech jobs so if you've watched this video until the end maybe this teaching style is resonating with you and maybe you get a sense that I think about things a little bit differently than what you would get on a utomy course on learning Kubernetes or something like that so what I teach in cubecraft goes much much deeper than this you will learn how to actually implement it how to set goals which is what I call focus OS so if you want to learn how to land a six-figure tech job if that is something that you want and if you want to learn that from someone who went through this whole journey from nurse to dev-up engineer and who learned how to focus without drugs then you can check out the link in the description below I would like to welcome you as my student I have over 800 students at this point and we are landing jobs about once a week so the fact that you are still watching this is a sign that you are resonating with my teaching style and I think that might work out really well for you but that's only if you want to actually get that outcome right if you want to land a tech job and change your life because it has certainly changed mine the details of that are in the description box below if you would like to become my student follow the link and my team will help you out with that if not then I hope this was valuable to you and I will see you in the next video