---
video_title: "here's why you can't land a tech job no matter what you do."
video_id: QGMREKBP82w
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QGMREKBP82w
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  Go here if you want to actually land a job: https://kubecraft.click/cgv134
  
  
  DevOps career change mistakes - the 5 I see most after hundreds of mentoring calls. People do course after course, send out hundreds of applications, and still never get a response. This video shows you why that happens and what to do instead.
  
  I went from nurse to senior DevOps engineer in about five years, and I have since helped over 1000 people land DevOps jobs worldwide. 
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Apply to the KubeCraft mentorship program: https://kubecraft.click/cgv134
  
  → Free DevOps Career Blueprint: https://kubecraft.click/bp-cgv134
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischavdburg
  → Personal blog: https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #DevOps #CareerChange #Kubernetes
---
Now, the first main mistake I see people making is that they are completely focused on the tech stuff. And this is logical. This is normal, right? You You'd figure that when you want to land a tech job, or in this case a tech a DevOps job, or a job with a focus on infrastructure, you would think that all you need to do is to learn the tech skills, and then somehow magically you're going to get a job. And don't get me wrong, it's important to learn the tech skills. You

need to have technical skills in order to be able to perform on the job. So, I'm not saying that tech skills are useless. But what people don't realize is that tech skills are maybe 30% of landing the job. As I said, I'm a professional DevOps career mentor, career coach, teacher, whatever you want to call it. But over 2 years ago, I started my company Cube Craft, and since then I've helped over a thousand people land DevOps jobs all over the world.

And I can do that because I went from nurse to DevOps engineer myself. So, I have a very deep understanding of what it takes to take your life, change it completely, and go from an unrelated background to DevOps engineer. And then after a few years in the field, I I I I also started making YouTube videos, and then people started asking me, "Hey, can't you teach us how us how to do it?" And since then I've helped over a thousand people land jobs all over the world, including America. So, arguably I'm probably one of the most skilled people in the world in the actual process of landing people DevOps jobs. It's a very specific skill

set that I have. And in that process, I've developed my own methodology in landing this job. And in that methodology, there are multiple elements. And tech skills are one element of that, but they're only about 30%. What you also need in DevOps is soft skills. You need to

have problem-solving. You need because many people make the mistake of thinking that DevOps is all about writing code, right? Uh no, it's not like that. You have to talk to stakeholders. You have to convince them to adopt certain technologies. That that kind of thing.

But another very important element is networking and personal branding. Because if your strategy is to do a few Udemy courses, get a few certs, and then start sending out job applications, you are not going to make it, my friend. I'm sorry, but the hiring game has changed completely. And I saw this coming years ago already. And I managed to leverage the techniques that I teach to my students, um while I was making my own career change.

And that is why it worked and it's still working well. But since then, it has really gone downhill with with tech hiring. Because what you have now is you have millions of people all over the world from India, from Africa, from yeah, countries where you have to take it from their perspective, but their only hope to move to the United States or to move to a different country is to land a job somewhere. So, what these people do is they will generate automatically generated applications. And as soon as a company puts out a job posting, they are being bombarded by hundreds of job applications from all over the world. And they can't handle

it. I've talked to many hiring managers, recruiters all several different companies in the past few years, and they all state the same problem. So, if you're going to rely on sending a job application and standing out from the big CV stack somehow, it's not going to work. And this is the main thing that people that I see in these conversations where people say, "Ah, I send all of these applications, but I never get a response." Yeah, well, no right?

So, that's why you need to learn other skills besides tech skills in order to stand out from the crowd. And I will get back to what those skills are in a second. But the main point here, the main mistake that I see is that people completely focus on the tech skills. Oh, if I just learn Kubernetes, then everything else is going to sort itself out. But that's the biggest mistake that you're not going to make it if only you're only focusing on that. You see,

to land a job, a certain sequence of events have to happen, right? Yes, you need to acquire tech skills, but in order to actually land a job, you need to, first of all, find a place that is that is asking for DevOps engineers to apply. You have to send in a an application or make yourself known to this company. You need to be convincing enough to land an interview. And then, when you get the interview, you need to be convincing enough for them to hire you.

Now, notice that the all of those steps don't involve any tech skills at all. But actually, your success depends on how skilled you are at that process, at making yourself known to someone, landing getting an interview, and then converting an interview. And that is why Kubecraft has been so successful because I work together with several experts in this domain and our curriculum is fit maybe 50% tech skills that we teach you the tech skills, but over half of the curriculum is completely focused on the other side of the equation, right? And that is what what people don't realize that you have to learn so much more than just Kubernetes in order to land a DevOps job. Now, the second mistake I see people make is to try to do everything for free.

And I learned this the hard way myself, too. When I was coming up as a DevOps engineer, frankly, I didn't have any money. So, it was really hard for me to to make investments. But I would like agonize for weeks on whether I should buy a $20 course somewhere or whether I should invest in a mentor or something like that. And since then, I have learned that it is so important to invest in yourself and to take the shortcuts that are available to you.

Because frankly, buying a course is a huge hack. It is a huge um shortcut that you can take. And yeah, back in the day, I thought I used to think that time wasn't really valuable, you know? And that I had enough time. I I I I didn't need I could spend time on things.

But honestly, man, time is the most valuable resource you have in life. If you don't value your own time, life is just going to pass by you. And we only get a certain amount of weeks on this Earth. Like consider that. I think it's like 4,000 weeks that we have in this life. So,

you have to be very careful with how you are spending those weeks. And when I look back uh to my own journey, and not even when landing a job, but also after I landed a job, like I used to spend whole weekends trying to get a language server to work in Vim or rising my desktop in Arch Linux. And when I look back to those days, I I think, "Damn, I wish I could go back and tell this person that you're doing it wrong, man. You're you're wasting your time, and you're wasting your life." Like if you have a if you waste away a whole weekend trying to figure out something from a YouTube video or a blog post, and by the end you haven't learned anything, you've wasted a part of your life.

And if you can mitigate that by simply paying $20 to buy a course on something or investing a few thousand in a mentor, then you're basically buying back your own life, your own time, you know? And I learned this the hard way, uh especially when I started a business, and when I started creating content. Uh one example is that uh earlier this year, we had an upgrade to my studio. We bought a new camera. And the first thing we did was to buy a course about the camera, and to buy a course on how to set up a good um view and a good shot. That's why my

YouTube videos have gained so much quality in the recent months, because we didn't like spend time to figure all of this out ourselves. No, we have better these things to do now. So, we buy a course. We pay someone to to short to get their knowledge in a compressed format so that we save time. Like most knowledge, not not all, mind you. Like there there is knowledge that

you can only learn from certain teachers and from certain courses. But mo- a lot of knowledge you can get for free on the internet. But it takes you a lot of time to determine whether it's right or wrong. Uh whether it's actually correct. Whether you're learning the right thing or focusing on the right thing, you know? And these

days with AI, there's a even bigger problem where people think they can learn everything with AI. But in my own experience, AI rarely actually gives you the right answer or um the right area to focus on. It is trained on free knowledge. So, if you are like it's only trained on the knowledge that's available for free to you to the AI model training, right? So, the actual stuff that is gated, that is usually reserved for paying clients or something like that, the actual good stuff, that is not available publicly on the internet. So, all you get

is the stuff that's available for free. So, yeah, for example, when you um when you ask AI about um YouTube videos or title strategies or something like that, all it has is like publicly available blog posts and YouTube posts uh uh about this topic. Well, I have since invested tens of thousands of dollars in business mentorship, and I can tell you that the content that is on these free blog posts is very different from what you would get from uh actually investing in someone, buying a course, buying a program. Because when you do that, what what what what you get is someone has had to go through a long and painful process to acquire this knowledge, right? Someone has to Someone needs to figure it out.

And that can take weeks, months to do that. Like for my own example, it took me multiple years to figure out how I could actually land a DevOps job without any previous experience. But after years of struggle, I finally figured out a system that worked. And now I teach that to students. And like it just works like a charm. Every single

week we are landing jobs, and we've been doing a summer sprint recently. I mean, I have about 30 people joining it, and every every week we are landing 10, 20 interviews cumulatively. Like the people who do the work, it actually truly works. But this is not available for free on the internet. You won't see how all of this works in a free blog post, you know?

So, if you buy a course or a program, you buy in You You simply buy all of those hours that that person has put into solving this problem, and you get in access to that instantly. So, whenever you have a problem or a goal, then find an expert in that area and pay that person to help you. Because this way you can get weeks, hours, months back to back your life. And that is the most time is the most valuable resource we have. You know?

I don't want to spend my time anymore figuring out things by myself. I don't have time for that anymore. Like I would much rather be out here taking a swim or going for a nice hike up in up in those mountains you see there. I'd rather spend my time doing that rather than asking chat GPT and being led around in circles and uh scrounging the internet for free blog posts and maybe this one is going to get me closer to my goal. Not me, man. Not me. So,

for me in in in business, in um content creation, I spent or or other personal goals like health and weight loss, I spent tens of thousands of dollars on coaching because time is invaluable and I'm simply buying back my own time and my time is more worth more to me than any amount of money. And the third issue I see with people is the inability to set correct goals. It's It's quite striking to me that I talk to these people and they will tell me that they want to land a job, but then when I then ask them what are you actually working on and what what are your daily actions? It Yeah, it is vaguely aligned with that goal, but in in reality, it's not the most optimal path and they're not doing the right things. And this problem has two elements.

The first one is being inappropriate goal setting itself, but the second thing is um putting that goal in the right direction. So, let me explain that. These two elements, they're they're they're they're related, but they're very different. Like the direction that you need to go in, it's very important that you know exactly um like if you're if you have a destination, there are always multiple paths toward that destination, right? And you have many choices there. You have many paths

you can choose. And figuring out what the right path is, the straightest path towards that goal, is actually a very important skill, but it's also something that you cannot necessarily figure out on your own. And I'll I'll I'll share more on that later. It depends on the person's background, the person's previous experience, the person's suitability, and and and ability to learn certain technologies faster than others. It really is important to take all of these things into account when selecting the thing to focus on right now.

Likewise, like one unconventional thing that I do with my private DevOps students is that before any tech stuff, before any any before we even touch Linux, the first thing we do is to actually learn how to study, right? And it surprises me that I I I personally went through life, I went through university, but no one ever actually really taught me how to study. So, when I was working as a nurse, and I set myself the goal of becoming a DevOps engineer, I realized that I had a an extreme amount of knowledge to acquire. And I had I had an extreme amount of no things to learn. So, the first thing I did, and this kind of shows that I have an engineering mind to begin with, but I I went back and I thought, well, maybe I should make that process as efficient and optimal as possible before I even start this learning journey.

So, this is what I do with my students as well. I say, before we even touch the command line, let's first get you set up with a note-taking system. Let's get you uh let's teach you how to set goals properly, and let's make sure that you're actually heading in the right direction. Yes, it might be tempting to think, oh, I want a DevOps job, so what I need to learn is Linux, and I'm going to start with that. Well, in many cases, the first assignment that I give to my students is actually, let's take a step back and actually learn how to learn.

That's how how to how to actually process all of this information that you are learning, and how can we utilize that to our benefit. So, that's an example of even though the goal might be obvious, to reach that goal, the path towards that goal is not always obvious. And the other side of all of this is the actual formation or formulation of the goal. So, when you when you specify the goal, what is it that you are actually writing down? Are you even writing it down, right?

So, when someone comes to me and says and I ask them, what is your goal? I say, they say, oh, to land a DevOps job. I say, okay, well, that is a very big thing. What what needs to happen for you to land that DevOps job? Well, then they will say, well, I need to learn Kubernetes.

Well, learn Kubernetes is not a a good goal statement, either, because what does learning Kubernetes even mean? How do you know that you are finished with this, right? So, if you, for example, then have a goal stated like, "I want to learn how to run a web application on Kubernetes following the best practices of the industry." Now, this is already a much more specific goal. And then there are more elements to this of how are you then going to track progress to this?

And yeah, I I This is what I teach in Kubecraft. I have a I think it's about 4 hours of just goal setting alone, making sure that you are actually able to formulate these goals properly and how to keep yourself accountable to these. And people tell me every day that this has changed their life. So, that is a very important skill that I see lacking in so many people because you need to be able to formulate the goal and identify the right path, but also the yeah, the right path or the right direction, right? So, in the example, do you in order to learn DevOps, let's first begin with how do you process that information?

And in order to identify these, you need to have someone with you with more experience that is able to guide you on that path. And the fourth element, the fourth mistake I see is not having a mentor. Not having someone who is ahead of you on the path. And there's only one reason why I was able to go from nurse to seen to senior DevOps engineer in a span of about 5 years. Like, it went really fast.

But that only happened because I had good mentors on the path who were willing to teach me in the beginning of my career and later by investments that I made in myself in both time and money to get me ahead further, quicker. Now, I cannot overstate the value of having someone in your life who is able to look at your situation who is aware of your goals and who is then able to point the right direction out to you. Because there are many different ways to roam. There are always multiple alternatives and multiple routes you can take. But, you need someone who is more experienced than you to point that out. Because very often

you simply don't have the capability and clarity of mind of identifying that. Another car passing by.

So, mentorship can come in many different forms. Very often you you can maybe find someone around you who is willing to help you for free. Sometimes you will have to find someone and pay them for their expertise. That is often what I do when I want to learn something. But, to be completely honest to you, it took me almost my whole life to actually learn this because I always saw it as a sign of weakness to to ask for help.

I was always very independent. I moved to Norway when I was 21 years old. I completely established myself here without any money. I never asked my parents or anyone for money. They didn't have any money money I could ask for either, so there's that. But,

I was always very self-reliant and independent. And for me, the breakthrough was when I uh like I'm an ex- I'm an I'm a drug addict. I'm still an addict, but I've been sober for 8 years now. And I had been trying to quit drugs for years, years and years, and I would make it like 1 month, 3 months, and then always I would just return to the drugs. There was a moment in in my life where I just was so fed up with it, and I needed to get out of it.

And then instead of trying to fix it all on my own, finally in that moment while I was lying in bed, my whole body just in excruciating pain with all of these um effects that you get like the withdrawal symptoms symptoms. And I was just in bed, and my whole being was consumed with I just want to have another shot. I want to have something else. And in that moment something somehow arose in me saying that Misha, you need to ask for help. So, I did. I

took up the phone. I reached out. And 8 years later, I am now a successful engineer, business owner with 8 years of sobriety. But that only happened because I asked for help. And that took me almost 30 years to realize that it's okay to ask for help, and it is good to ask for help.

You'll realize that when you have maybe you have an a family member or a friend who is already working in the industry, you realize that people actually enjoy mentoring people. It's a very enjoyable experience to share knowledge. If the mentee, the person who's receiving the mentorship, is respectful of the person's time, and is actually listening to what the person says. So, don't try to figure all of this out on your own. Find someone to help you. Now, if you don't have anyone

around you or you don't know where to find a mentor or anything like that, there are some details below this video where you can find out how you can maybe become one of my students. And just want to mention that like I'm out here in Norway. I've been touring around with this van for over 40 days now. And for this week I rented this little cabin. And I'm just working on the road remotely, living the dream life, you know?

And I know that so many of you who are watching this also want this life. So, the last thing I will say to you is that if this if you see me out here and you think, "Oh, that would be nice if I could live like that and work remotely, then it's only going to happen if you really take action towards this, right? And I'm not saying this because I want you to buy my stuff or to become my student. Like, that is not what it's about. It's about make actually making that switch in your mind because so many people will watch this and think, "Oh, I want that."

But they don't actually really want it because they're not taking the action towards it. I don't I don't care if you become if you join Cube Craft or not. It's not from It's not about that to me. In fact, we are getting too many customers and I'm going to have to limit the sign-ups again very soon and we're going to be raising the prices. So, like I'm good. I'm I'm I'm we're doing really

good. We're landing jobs every single week. So, I don't really care if you join me or not. If you do want to do that, then the the links are down below. But if you go somewhere else, like there I don't know. I'm I'm not aware of anyone

who has such a large um track record of actual landed jobs and interviews with those people. But if you find someone else, if you find someone who is presenting themselves as a DevOps mentor, just be very careful and see what their results are. Do they actually have verified people who land a job? That's the most important. Like there's plenty of people who will who can sell you some sort of AI generated course curriculum, but do they actually have a proven system that works when it's repeated?

That is what I build in Qubecraft. It's an end-to-end system that has everything in it. It has 30% tech skills, as I mentioned in the beginning video of the video, but we cover all of the other stuff that you actually need to know as well. So, if you're interested, check it out below. I don't really care if you do or not.

I'm doing good. My students are doing good. But if you really want to take land that DevOps job, I don't care which action you take, but you have to start taking action. Don't trick yourself into thinking, "Oh, I really want it." And then you just go back to doing whatever it was that you're doing.

You have to take action in order to do it. Now, I'm going to go inside, make myself some lunch. Thank you so much for watching, and see you in the next video.