---
video_title: "Ralph Wiggum is Killing Programming"
video_id: szxQhYjEUfU
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=szxQhYjEUfU
video_date: 2026-01-22T16:01:30+00:00
video_description: |
  🚀 Learn these skills to keep your job: https://kubecraft.click/cgv93
  
  📥 Learn why Kubernetes skills are AI-proof and how to pivot before it's too late: https://go.kubecraft.dev/blueprint-yt-1
  
  The Ralph Wiggum technique just changed software engineering forever: AI agents now write code for $10.24 per hour while you sleep. This isn't another market correction or hiring freeze. It's a fundamental shift where junior engineers using AI tools outperform seniors who refuse to adapt, and companies are already choosing the AI-first engineer every time.
  
  Geoffrey Huntley reverse-engineered HashiCorp Nomad's entire enterprise offering using autonomous AI loops. Founders now face a simple choice: hire traditional developers or hire AI-first engineers producing 5-10X output. The craft has changed—software development is being commoditized, but software engineers who expand into infrastructure and operations remain highly valuable. 
  
  In this video you'll learn what to focus on to avoid being replaced.
  
  📍 CHAPTERS:
  00:00 - AI Agents Are Replacing Software Developers
  00:45 - The Ralph Wiggum Technique Explained
  02:30 - Building SaaS While You Sleep
  04:15 - Software Now Costs $10 Per Hour
  06:00 - HashiCorp Nomad Reverse Engineered by AI
  07:30 - Gas Town and Auto Cloud Agent Orchestration
  09:00 - Who's Getting Hired in 2026
  11:15 - Software Development vs Software Engineering
  12:45 - Infrastructure as Your AI-Proof Escape Route
  14:30 - These Jobs Pay $171K on Average with Low Competition
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Ralph Wiggum Technique https://x.com/ryancarson/status/2008548371712135632
  → Huntley's Original Ralph Post: https://ghuntley.com/ralph/
  → Gas Town AI Orchestration by Steve Yegge: https://github.com/steveyegge/gastown
  →  Auto Claude https://github.com/AndyMik90/Auto-Claude
  → Kube Careers Q3 Report: https://kube.careers/state-of-kubernetes-jobs-2025-q3
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischa_vdburg
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into successful DevOps careers.
  
  #DevOps #Kubernetes #AIEngineering #ai #aiagents #ralph #ralphwiggum
---
For the past 2 weeks, things have been happening in the software engineering market that has made me very, very concerned for the future of many software engineers. This is not just another hiring cycle dip. This is not 2022 with the market overcorrecting. There is a fundamental shift happening right now. And I'm concerned. I'm not

here to scare you. I'm not This is not a fear-mongering video. I'm just sharing with you what I've been seeing on tech Twitter over the past two weeks and sharing my concerns with you. I'm going to show you exactly what's going on right now, what the latest trends are, and what you need to be aware of so you can avoid being replaced or being negatively affected by what's going on. So, let's jump in. So, you may not have

heard this, but something is going on on X right now that is absolutely insane. It's called the Ralph Wigum technique and this is a technique of running AI agents in a for loop and it's extremely simple but extremely effective too. So I wrote a post to my CubeCraft community here where I shared how I discovered this technique and here is the viral thread that where I discovered it. This is a thread by Ryan Carlson who is the CEO of AMP which is also a code editor but he wrote this article that went completely viral got 1.8 8 million views on on X where he explains the Ralph technique. And this was originally

created by a man called Jeffrey Huntley. And Jeffrey Huntley made an original post in July 14th of July 2025 where he says Ralph Wigum as a software engineer. And it's it's a really funny story. You can check it out yourself. But fundamentally what Ralph is is a while loop where you give Claude code a prompt and then you let Claude code just iterate on itself in the background. And

people are using this right now to build software while they sleep. So I've been using this myself. I built something that I've been wanting to build for several years and I did that in a matter of one week while I was sleeping. specifically only let the AI agent run while I was sleeping and I built something that I'm going to be releasing very soon but which I can't share with you yet but it is extremely extremely powerful this technique and people are using this to clone SAS companies now who is this Jeffrey character okay he he created this technique but who is this guy well he he is a I believe he's a tech lead at Canva and then he went to do went on to do his own thing and he goes around speaking on conferences about the AI software engineering market and like he he dresses like this. So anyone who comes to a d tech conference dressed like this to give a talk already is a massive winner in my book. But I I

strongly recommend that you check out his channel. He has his own own style, but he makes videos where he talks about the fundamental skills and knowledge you need as a software engineer in 2026. I strongly strongly suggest you check out this video where he will explain to you exactly what he means. But the key point that Jeffrey makes is that software engineering because of these while loop techniques fundamentally now has a cost of $1024 an hour. If you run cloud code constantly in a while loop for 24 hours, then the the hourly cost of that is $10.24.

So right now writing software is actually cheaper than a burger flipper at McDonald's. And that is what's happening right now. Software development, the actual writing of code is now almost completely automated. And people who only whose only skill is to write the code, they are in trouble. If you're at a corporate job right now and you get paid to work 40 hours a week, but as many software engineers do, you just cruise by on two hours and you just do the bare minimum. Your job is in

jeopardy. And I want to warn you that you have to wake up right now because things are changing. Using this Ralph technique, Jeffrey Huntley took Hashi Corp Nomad. He pulled down the source code, ignored the license, and then ran Ralph in a loop to generate the specifications. So he's not he's he he's reverse engineering the software into specifications. So first you have the

specifications and then when you have the specifications, he then lets claude code run in a loop to generate the software out of these specifications. And by using this, he was able to completely reverse engineer Hashi Corp Nomad, including the enterprise offering. Okay, he got about 80% of the way with the open- source stuff, but then they have the paid stuff and then he just took the enterprise documentation, gave that to the agent, and it was able to reverse engineer it. I mean, times have changed, people. And it's not just Ralph. Ralph has been

going viral on X because it's so simple and so easy to use. But there are other projects. Let me pull it up here. There is Gas Town by Steve Yaggi. This is a uh AI orchestration framework where you can basically run 10 clawed codes or comfortably scale to 30 agents in the background in the terminal. So gas town

is coming. Next there is auto clawed. This is also something that you should be aware of. AutoCloud is this very polished guey app where you can basically orchestrate five to 10 cloud code instances who are autonomously pulling tasks from a canban board and all you need to do is just give it the tasks and this software handles it for you. Guys, if your skill is to write code and if that is your only skill, you are in trouble. AI is coming for your

job. But before we continue, about 73% of my viewers aren't subscribed. So, please subscribe. It helps me put out more honest content like this every single week. And it's a completely free way to support my channel. It's time to

wake up. You can't be asleep at the wheel anymore. Because here's the thing. This has strong strong impact on hiring in general. Okay?

Put yourself in the mind of a founder, someone who is running a SAS company. He has the choice of hiring maybe someone like you with maybe 10 years of experience who maybe tried AI for two hours and who said yeah it doesn't work I will just do it by hand. He has the choice of hiring that person or someone with maybe one year two years of software engineering experience who knows the fundamentals but for the past year has been learning these AI tools. this person is able to generate five to 10x the output than the person on the left. That's just the reality right now.

If you're able to use AI to reverse engineer specifications from code and then having the AI execute on that code, then the the junior is going to be more effective than the senior. That is the fact right now. And now is not the time to be asleep for people. You have to wake up. If you don't start adopting these tools right now, you're going to be behind the curve and you're going to be in trouble. Huntley himself as a tech

lead, he says, "I no longer hire people on the left side of the equation unless they are damn exceptional. I'm looking for AI first engineers who have six months to a year's worth of knowledge with the AI tools." So people are not are not going to be interested in hiring people who have no knowledge of AI anymore. There's now a cohort of people who have been using these tools for six months plus and they are going to be the ones who are going to be taking the jobs. So these three people are in danger right now. Okay, it's the people

who are framework only specialists who only work in frameworks. You are in you're in grave danger. is the engineers who are waiting for the market to recover. Those if you're the the the the ship has sailed, you can't the the market is not coming back. Software engineering now has a cost of $10 an hour and it's cheaper than flipping burgers at McDonald's.

And lastly, the people who avoid infrastructure because Huntley says there are people out here out there who think that AI is fascism. They will say, "I I I I refuse to use AI because it's fascism." Well, according to Jeff to Jeffrey Huntley, those people are not going to make it. And I agree. I agree.

I as a software engineer, you have to keep current with the times. Um the craft has changed unfortunately. But let me highlight an important distinction here. Okay. Software development that is the thing that is now being replaced by AI agents. Software development is the

problem. Software engineering is still very much alive. So it's not all doom and gloom. There are definitely escape routes here. There are definitely ways to be ahead of the curve. Again I said

to be as a senior adopting the AI tools and accepting that the craft has changed. Another way out in my opinion is infrastructure and operations. So people who only focus on software and building applications they are more at risk. But if you expand your skill set with infrastructure and operation skills suddenly you are a person who can do many different things inside of a company. You are becoming a a very very useful person to any startup or even bigger companies as well. If you

understand the building of the software and able to orchestrate that with agents while at the same time run that software that you are building with these agents, if you understand that side as well, then I think this is an very very interesting way to adjust yourself and to adapt to these changes. So if that maybe piques your interest and you're thinking well maybe I should go into infrastructure, let me tell you how you can approach this. First of all, it's extremely important that you start learning Linux. Linux is the foundation of everything in infrastructure. The second thing is containers because modern software is deployed by incontainers. And then the third one is

container orchestration. In other words, Kubernetes. And you might be thinking, well, okay, but isn't infrastructure also being replaced by AI? Well, I wrote a very I I I'm doing I'm thinking about this 247 and I wrote this pretty deep article on X and then Jeffrey actually responded to it himself and he said here there's systems level thinking with infrastructure. I've been doing it since sunos so it's all natural but I'm not sure about juniors however there's so many concepts that need to be known about it before you can even prompt for it. Okay, so infrastructure is a bit of

a longer road to learn and therefore it is also harder to replace by AI. It's a different skill set and it's a deeper deeper skill set. Learning Linux, containers and Kubernetes is not something that you can just do in two weeks. Okay, it is it it is a longer road but therefore I think it is also a more viable way of futureproofing your career because frankly there is a lot more competition of from people who know how to code and who know how to use AI tools. There's a more competition in that area but I think there's less competition in the area of software engineers who expand their skill set with infrastructure. And just to show

you, if if you search for Kubernetes jobs worldwide right now, you will see that there's 121,000 jobs available right now. So, the market is growing and is very much alive. But also, it pays really well. If you check out the latest Cube Careers report of Q3, and here you will see that the average minimum salary for a Kubernetes role is $140,000 globally. And the mean global salary for Kubernetes jobs is $171,000.

But what's more interesting and be I'm saying this to you because you are a software engineer is that many people don't know this but the most sought after Kubernetes positions are software engineers. Okay. 43% of the open jobs for Kubernetes are software engineering jobs. So software engineers who pivot to Kubernetes who learn Kubernetes. They have a smaller competition. There's less

competition. you have a broader and more futurep proof skill set and you are going to be yeah you're going to be more futurep proof. So the way I suggest you approach this again Linux containers and Kubernetes and the great thing is you can learn Linux containers and Kubernetes completely for free. There's tons of free stuff out there on the internet. You can search my YouTube channel. I've created plenty of

Kubernetes tutorials as well. But the thing is if you're doing it with free resources, you are paying with your time. Learning Kubernetes from like free documentation on the internet in general will take you about a year to two years to have the level of infrastructure skills so that you can actually prompt these AIs. Okay, if you're trying to piece this together. So I strongly strongly recommend that you seek out a mentor who can help you on this path. I strongly recommend that you

invest in a few courses, do your research, and find some paid resources that can shorten this time frame for you because you don't have two years. I'm here to tell you so much has changed on a twoeek time frame. You don't have the time. One option you can consider is CubeCraft. This is where I teach people to become DevOps engineers. I've been doing this

for several years now and I'm extremely good at it. People land jobs every single week in my community and I teach people even from without any tech skills to land DevOps jobs. So you can consider CubeCraft as an alternative. I hope this helped you. Now is not the time to be asleep at the steering wheel. Make sure

you do look at these techniques. You need to be able to understand what an agent is, what an agentic loop is, and check out the Ralph technique because the thing market is moving fast. But there are ways out and there are ways to prevent being replaced. Future proof yourself. You can do it. This is your

wakeup call. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next