---
video_title: "🐧  Is Omarchy safe to use?"
video_id: nejsxsTrWBM
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nejsxsTrWBM
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  https://kubecraft.dev/linux
---
All right, looks like we're live. Hello everyone. I am just setting everything up here as we go along. See,

it's been a while since I've been live, so I'm just going to take a moment to set everything up.

I have to get better at this. I have to get a bit faster at this. But let's see. Setting up YouTube.

Okay.

Are we even? Let's see. Do we have some people in the chat already? Yes, we do. Oh, great.

There's some people in the chat. Hello everyone. Welcome. I am going to be reflecting on Omari as it is top of mind and getting very popular which is great. I will share some reflections and at the end I will um we'll do some Q&A as well.

So I think we are almost up and running here.

Good day from Australia. Hello there from Australia. What time is it now in Australia? It's 11:00 in the morning here. So, I was just having some coffee and thinking, yeah, maybe it is time to share some share some thoughts on a marching 2 a.m. from California. Wow, that's

dedication watching this at 2 am. Welcome. Welcome. Okay, it seems that I am online on X and that I am online on YouTube. People are chatting. Okay, that means I think

I can uh checking YouTube here. How do I save?

Yeah. Okay. It seems that we are good. Cool. And then we will do live chat.

700 PM in Australia. Interesting.

uh Q&A will be about more than um Omari we can you can ask anything and we will see if I in in the moment if it is um suitable or not. Okay, then I can um 39 people right now. Okay. So, I will share my screen. Shall I share it right now? Yeah. Well,

no. Maybe maybe I I start with just um introducing a little bit here. So, welcome everyone. We got 39 43 people watching right now, which is good. It's been a while since I've been live. So really cool to see some people

turning up. And um the title of this is going to attract a lot of people who think that I hate Omari and that I hate Mr. Dhh. Nothing could be further from the truth. So let me just start this stream by saying that I do not hate Omari. In

fact, I am really happy with what I'm seeing with Omari. I what I'm seeing is a person DHH with a lot of resources who could spend his time on anything in the world yet somehow he chooses to spend it on building a Linux distribution which I think is super admirable. I think that's fantastic because um I I wasn't aware of Mr. DHH um ever like I only he only came on my radar when Omari came up and he is a legend in the tech industry actually. I've read several of his books um and I did never made the connection that he was actually DHH. So I I have nothing

against him and and I only I I think it's amazing what he is doing especially because he has so much resources and chooses to use it on Linux and I think that's an amazing thing that's happening because with his energy if you have seen any of his um of his podcast recently and his videos the man has so much energy and positivity around Linux and he wants wants to make some changes. He has some spicy takes and I think with his, you know, reach like he has 900,000 people following him on on X alone. I think his his fire, his fire and his passion for anything he puts his mind to is only going to be a positive thing for Linux. So, anyone here who comes in the chat and says, "Why do you hate Omari or DHH?" You're wrong. I don't hate him. I

don't hate Omari and I think it's an ex it's a really positive thing that's that's happening here with him. Now that being said, I let I think now I can um start sharing my screen.

With that being said, I have been um tweeting a lot recently um around this topic and DHH has also uh replied to some of these tweets. So, that was actually really cool to see him. Oh, wait. Maybe I should I see that my layout is a little bit off. One second.

How do I do that again? Uh scenes. No. Oh, here. Layout here. Now it's like a nice corner cam

like like we used to. Okay. Um so now that the layout is done, like I've been tweeting quite a a bit recently and two things. I I um wrote this tweet. Unpopular opinion. Linux beginners

should not start with Omari but just use Ubuntu instead. Much safer. And a window manager is not going to work for most people. But if you insist use uh use Fedora Sway Atomic got 30,000 views, 600 likes. But then um was it this one?

He actually replied to one of my tweets. Hold on. Maybe it is a

Where is the tweet that he replied? He actually replied to some of my tweets, namely um is it in my notifications? Maybe priority here.

What do we have to fix before you can recommend starting with Omari? Here's the tweet. This is the This is the tweet that I wrote that 17 almost 100,000 views, almost 700 likes, and he replied to me. And actually, he is uh he's following me too, which I which I actually consider an honor having a legend like that following me on X, that's actually really cool. Um, so he replied, "What do we need to fix before you can recommend starting with Omari?"

And I replied to a tweet. This tweet was sparked by a tweet he wrote, "There's no problems blocking Linux desktop adoption that we can fix with agents and $10 million." So, if you don't know, he raised a fund um of $10 million now because of course he's a powerful person with lots of contacts. He knows these founders that have hundreds of millions of dollars and then he got them to invest or or to donate to a fund for for Omari, which is amazing. So from this tweet I gather that his mission like if you base it on this tweet his mission seems to be that we are now um that Omari is is to be a vehicle for Linux desktop adoption desktop Linux adoption right he is a u he he directly equates his $10 million to Linux desktop adoption so as I gather Omari started out as a more of a dev operating system and now it's turning into something that um is going to help people adopt Linux and it's supposed to be become it's becoming a very popular thing. Also recently

network Chuck made a video about it. Well, he has millions of subscribers and of course this has given him Omari a lot of exposure. I also made a video about Omari with my 120,000 subscribers on YouTube. So what he is um um he he is going to he's aiming for broad Linux adoption now and this is where I am getting um my concerns because I also this week uh on my ex timeline I've seen multiple very concerning exploits uh you March. So here's a exploit that has a live key logger tested on a local server for safety purposes and another one one that came yesterday.

So with the rise of pop popularity for March, there'll be a huge influx of new Linux users who don't understand the implications of using the Arch user repository and that they're pulling in software that can do anything. Okay. So there's the po there is the issue that for example one recent one here. So malicious package on the arch user party is handing attackers root access to developer machines over tail skill. So they set up a package called hyperland fixes and then this package exposes a port and over the tail skill network uh people can then enter your um your your your machine and get root access to it. Well, anyone who has done

a little bit of Linux knows that this is a problem. Okay. So the issue then is that on the one hand we have a very enthusiastic movement where people are going to be adopting Arch Linux and thinking that they're doing something cool and novel and great at the same time they then get access to something very powerful namely the Arch user repository without necessarily understanding the implications of that. Someone who switches from Windows directly to Arch Linux cannot be expected to know the implications of using the Arch user repository. And that is one of my biggest concerns with Omari is that it um at this point it pulls in packages from the Arch user repository and it's using Hyperland. So I can

totally see a um new person going on Arch Linux for and after a week they encounter a a package called Hyperland fixes on the Arch user report repository and I can totally see how some would then think well let's try it out like let's let's see if it makes it even more beautiful for example that's one of Um, one of the issues that I have, okay, you have to understand what the arch us repository is and what it does in order to use it responsibly. And that is one of my biggest concerns with this that we have this big influx of people who are going to be randomly pulling in packages without actually knowing what they're doing. So for those who do who don't know like the arch wiki um is very explicit about this is a communitydriven repository for Arch Linux users. Okay. It it it um contains package builds and it basically com bas it it it is a recipe for you to compile packages from source code.

Now the arch user Oh, it says here literally the AUR packages are user prodduced content. They're completely unofficial and have not been thoroughly vetted. Any use of the provided files is at your own risk. Okay, so hackers can submit packages to the arch user repository like hyperland fixes like this and without anyone looking at it, it is available in the repository. And because hackers know that there's this big influx of incompetent people who are now suddenly using Arch Linux, of course, they're going to um exploit this as much as as they can.

The Arch user repository has multiple incidents of malware being discovered in there because they don't um because nobody is actually vetting the code. There's no process around that. Now comparing that with something like Ubuntu where you would have the apt package manager and the Ubuntu pack repository. Ubuntu is built by something by a company called Canonicle who also provides Linux to enterprise customers. Therefore as part of their service what they do is they review packages in the repository. They will make sure that the

stuff that gets into the repository is actually safe. There is a process of verification in place to varying degrees of depth and intensity. I think that is much more suited for a newer user because then at least like it's never safe. It's never completely safe, but at least you have some expectation that what you're pulling in it can be considered moderately safe at least. Okay, so with that's the AUR point.

I see a lot of comments here. Oh, 95 people. Okay, so they're working on replacing the AUR with a custom package manager. Yeah, that's really good. So

there are alternatives to this like what what what like you you can use Arch Linux and also have a um more secure um approach. And by no means am I going to pretend that I am a Linux security expert. I am just a guy who has used Linux for over a decade and who has worked with it professionally. So I do have um like a security mindset. But there are people out there who are much smarter than I am who have much more skills with this than I than I have. So everything I say to

you is not meant as dogma or the truth. I'm just uh encouraging you to do your own research and to reflect. Okay? I just encourage you to when you use Omari, educate yourself on the risks of using Arch Linux and the Arch user repository because the risk is high. Now I am a exarchch Linux user. I was on

Arch Linux for many years and I built my own Arch um system. I didn't use a prepackaged one like like Omari because all Omari is is a you take the Arch Linux distribution with the package manager and then you add layers of configuration to it so that it works out of the box and it becomes beautiful and he has done a lot of amazing work on Omari itself and how to get it to install it as fast as possible to make it accessible. All of that is great, but I I just did that myself. It's just Arch with a window manager and configuration files, which is a lot of work. Like, he spent 3,000 hours on building that. However, he also

said during a recent interview on the Lex Friedman podcast, Lex Friedman, DHH. In this podcast, this was um released five hours. It's a fivehour podcast that was released three days ago, and I listened to um the first piece of it. I'm I'm listening to it on my walks and in there in the podcast he mentions that he has been working on Omari for I think over 3,000 hours already and he's now using a lot of AI to build this. And in the podcast he says literally says that he's not even looking at the code anymore. the he

prompts the agents to build the code to build what he wants to build and then he asks agents to review the pull requests and at the same time when someone submits a pull request he's not looking at them anymore he is um using agents to review them so he's not looking at the code now I'm not here to judge if that is right or wrong uh I just want to mention that fact to you so you can make your own decision like do you want to use a distribution where there are no there's well not much human um review involved at least based on what he says in the podcast I personally I I I personally don't like that I would rather have a for example if you use Fedora then you get Redhead which is a billion dollar company Redhead is actually vetting the packages and building it and they have teams of people who are actually reviewing pull requests etc. So I personally because I value security would lean towards that. Now with the $10 million that they have now they're going to be doing amazing things. I'm just mentioning this fact to you so you can make your own decision. All of this is just meant I'm just trying to raise some awareness around Omari security.

Another thing with which I have my thoughts about is the Omari plug-in system. Let's see. Is that on the website? Where is that? Omari

plugins. There we go. Discover Omari plugins. Browse plugins. Does it say uh yeah, there are 1765 community plugins.

and a while ago he um he said that I think there about a thousand of these came in um in one week. This is code that you can easily copy install command. So if I see a cool wallpaper engine for Omari oh copy install command. So I copy that I paste it and what do I get? github.com.

So I'm just pulling in a git repo and add that. So anything I put in that git repo is going to be added and run to my Omari system. I seriously doubt that someone who comes from Microsoft Windows and sees a cool hype video and who is not necessarily a developer but who is just interested in you know getting started on Linux. I seriously doubt that this person is going to then um check out this. And let's see, do we do we see the code here?

We don't see the code here. We can click here. Okay. So we can read the code, but I don't think that a person of the street who switches from Windows to Linux is actually going to check the source code here. They're just going to see a wallpaper engine for Omari. That's

really cool. Let's install it. Like they it see that says that verified here. So there are automated checks. This is not a security audit, but Like there's no warnings here, right?

It's just okay. Here, copy the install command. Okay, it says um it's not bound to marketplace verified um snapshot. Automated checks are not a security audit or guarantee. Okay, so they're not guaranteeing any security here, but basically anyone can commit any code here, publish it as a plug-in and run off the mill street run off the street people can copy this, install it to their system and expecting they get a wallpaper engine, but but it's it's a key logger or something like that. Like

I have Syrians concerns around this because they make it because it makes it very easy for a hacker to deploy some malicious code to this. And the reason I'm saying all of this is not because I want to bash Omari because I think Omari is doing a really good thing by making people enthusiastic about Linux. I just would I would hate to see something happen to the Omari project where someone exploits this and all of a sudden it gets a bad rep and it gets lots of people who get compromised and then the momentum of the project is lost. Okay, I think that is a I I would I would be very sad if that happens. Like I I wouldn't like that to happen.

But if I were a hacker and I'm thinking, well, all of these hundreds of thousands, tens of thousands of people are now installing Omari. What will I do to get their credentials? This is the first place I would go. I I don't know. I I have my concerns around this. Again, I'm not telling you

what to do. I I just encourage you to reflect on this yourself. And if you do this, then by God, trudit any code that you pull in with a plugin like this. Okay? I have nothing against a plug-in system like this, but you have to know what you're doing and know exactly what you're pulling onto your computer.

But like the holy grail of of hacking is remote code execution. Okay? Every hacker in the world tries to be able to execute code on a server. Well, you're basically doing that and you're allowing it. You're just saying, "Hey, please execute some code on my on my machine." Okay,

that's the plug-in system. Now, finally, I I want to then we'll go to some Q&A. Um, finally, I just wanted I did write a tweet this morning about um making a suggestion to consider boot C for Omari. Let's see where did it go here. A proposal for DHH to consider boot C for Omari.

I think security could be greatly improved by building signed Omari images and ship them as an immutable operating system to the users. Everything can be configured as layers in the OCI image and the system can easily be rolled back to the previous version if problems arise. I've seen some suggestions to use Nyx, but I don't think that makes sense at all if the goal is to get people to switch from Windows and Mac to Linux. The learning curve is too steep and the community drama over at Nixxos is concerning. Disable the AUR and use flatback instead. It will be a lot more secure.

Makes less sense to do this with a rolling release dro like Arch. But since packages are already held one month, you might as well ship it like a fully baked image. And some work has already been done with this uh on Arch actually with bland OS. Okay. So let's unpack this one a little bit. boot like I use Fedora

atomic sway. This is an atomic desktop and an atomic desktop is an immutable OS. This is built by something called boot C. Your OS but containers. Bootc builds operating systems using containerization principles. Okay. So people when when

you say build a um declarative operating system when if you want to declare your operating system in code people automatically will grab Nyx or Nyx OS but that's not the only way to to um declare your operating system as code. Boot C uses uh OCI or doc or container images docker container images. Okay, so you have your layers and you install packages or or make changes to your layers and you then publish that as a bootable image. So when you boot your machine, it boots a it it boots from a container image. It's not running as a container like the container image you includes the kernel which used in boot but the base user space is not itself running in a container by default. So

it's just systemd as p1 and from there everything um spawns like you can see that if I do ps3 on my system the I'm I'm running an immutable OS right now. System D is P1 and all the rest spawns from that. Okay, that's how that works. So what you achieve with this is that you can build a signed container image that DHH could build with Omari. You could you I don't recommend using Arch Linux for this, but it could be done. And then

what you get is a container image that you can actually audit. You can have a software bill of materials. You can scan each and every package that is included in this container image and have an audit trail of this. Instead of giving people like a complete access to the AUR and everything, you can make some better choices here in my opinion. So first of all you prepackage a working system as an immutable OS. You

make the f you make the root file system read only which already makes everything much more secure. And secondly I would then suggest that he uses that that you would include flatpack instead of the arch user repository. So flatpack or rather flat hub. So flatpack is a system of packaging Linux applications and flat hub is a repository for that. Now how is flat hub? Okay, so let's

let's go let's take a step back. If you install something from the arch user repository, you get a package build and you build something from source code. Generally you end up with a binary that runs directly on your machine. Flatpack is um different in the sense that it runs the application inside of a sandbox and these sandboxes they get certain permissions and as you see it is it is um compatible with Arch Linux but Flatpack has a instead of just running the binary under your own user directly on Arch Linux flat pack requires you to approve of certain permissions and it will only give those those permissions to the application. So I don't know you you won't get access to the docker demon running as root from a flatp pack if it's configured correctly. So flatpack

is a way of running applications in a sandbox. Now flat hub is the repository for this. So you have all of this all of these applications that are there. Now, what's good about FlatHub is that you have a an audit. So, let's see. I was looking at this yesterday.

Um, where was it? Did I share that here?

No. Oh, wait. I shared it in u in my private DevOps community. Let me see here here are the docs. FlatHub a layered approach from uh source to user. So flat pack

security and sandboxing you have to give it permissions and here is a key section submission and human review. So this is the documentation of flat hub. Once an app is developed it must be submitted to flat hub for consideration to be hosted and distributed. At this stage human flatub reviewers will review the app to ensure it follows the requirements. Of note, apps must be sandboxed with as narrow permissions as possible, must not be misleading or malicious, and app IDs must reflect the developer domain name. So consider this how

different this is from the Arch user repository. When you want to submit a package to FlatHub, a human looks at it, verifies that it has that it is sandboxed and runs with minimal permissions. It verifies like if the app is like something malicious or not. And it must reflect the identity of the developer. That in itself is already a huge security measure because if it can always be traced to your domain naming or co-hosting location, something like that. It's tied to like an organization

or a person, but it's less anonymous than just uploading a random package to the AUR. Okay, so this is not a guarantee for security. Neither are they using are they actually reviewing the source code. They don't do that. It's still your responsibility to to uh verify that. That's just how it is

with open- source software. But this is miles ahead of using the Arch user repository. And again, I have been an Arch Linux user for many years. I have now switched to Fedora well over six months ago. Been great.

And I there's not a single pack package or application that I have missed from the AUR. Anything I need to do my work to create my content is available from flatub for guey applications. CLI applications are typically included in the package managers or I can just download the binary from GitHub from sources that I trust. So this is miles miles ahead of in terms of security um in terms of the arch user repository. So if you then have as I'm suggesting here if we build um let me see where is it if we build or if if Omari would be released as a um bootc image an immutable OS combined with flatp pack as a package manager. I think that would be a huge

improvement and I think that would be a really good way of making this more accessible in a secure way for Omari. So I I um proposed this someone mentioned that someone um that he that this was already proposed a while ago uh but DHH um closed it but this is one year ago. However, since then, like here, DHH is saying, "This DRO is designed for developers." And if we go back to that tweet I was sharing earlier, that I get the sense that it's a very different energy now, like we're now like fighting for Linux desktop adoption and making as many people uh use it as possible, right? So I think if that is the goal and that is an assumption of mine like I am not him I am not involved with the with the organization or anything like that but if that is the goal to get people to use it as many as people as possible then I would say reconsider an immutable Omari like some of the most accessible Linux distributions like basite use this and I get a lot of people agreeing with this proposal here on my tweet and I think that would be a big step forward because yeah again I don't think it really makes sense to use Arch Linux and boot C um together because the whole point of using Arch Linux is doing is being bleeding edge but as far as I know our Omari is already one month behind like they're not actually um they're You're not downloading the packages as they come out. It's not the bleeding

edge. I think they have their own repository. So, it's not the bleeding edge that you get. You're already one month behind. So, well, if you're already one month behind, you might as well just bake it into an image that is auditable.

Uh, and yeah, I don't think that Arch Linux makes sense in that sense at all, but it can be done. it is actually already being done with bland OS. So those were my reflections on Arch or Omari security. um do with those reflections what you want, but I strongly strongly encourage you to educate yourself on the dangers of using the Arch user repository, the dangers of using the plug-in system and how easy it is for someone to submit malicious code to that and pull it onto your system. And thirdly, strongly consider using flatp pack as a uh package um a way to install your packages and to run them with secured permissions and use flat hub as the repository. In my experience, anything

you want from the AUR is available in flatub. So that was my my reflection on Omari security. Now we can go to some Q&A.

Cool.

147 people watching. That's cool. I DHS is online, so maybe he even swung by here.

All right, guys. That was my my my reflections. Drop some questions in the chat if you have them. I'll be around for uh you know 15 minutes, 20 minutes more.

Yeah, I I stopped sharing my screen, but you can see my face, right? Or not.

Is the camera frozen? Oh, damn.

How about now? Do you see my face now?

The pleasure of doing live streaming.

Yep. You see my face? Okay, that's good. All right, guys. Well, do you have any questions?

Let me scroll through the chat. Oh, wow. You've been discussing a lot.

Not frozen, but gone. Okay, so you can't see me at all. Oh, damn. Let me see. Well, when I look at YouTube, I see myself on YouTube. So, yeah. I

don't know.

just want to thank you for making me switch from Ubuntu to Fedora. Hey, that's good. Yeah, I I really I I've been on Fedora for um yeah, over six months now. I I can't remember. I think it was January or something like that when I switched.

So that's yeah almost nine months ago now and I have not had any problems with Fedora and I've been on the road for like two months in my van daily driving it on my framework laptop and yeah I've hadn't had any issues at all. It has just been so so stable. So yeah, I never really had problems with Arch being unstable. I think it it worked really well for me, but I um um like I kind of want to go back to Arch Linux at some point, but at this stage it doesn't it feels like oh why why should I? Like my stuff works. I don't

have like I'm I'm busy running a business. I have don't have time to be tinkering with it too much. If I can have a secure operating system right out of the box that works, why would I do something else at this point?

Any new metal music discoveries? Uh um new I don't know. There's not much good new Well, not that I'm aware of. I don't I don't see any really good new metal coming out. If they do, it kind of feels like a um repeat of the old pattern, right?

But there are bands releasing some cool uh new stuff. Dream Theater made a really cool album. Devourment made a three song single was really good.

The magic power hidden in that beard. Yes, it is. All of my success is due to the beard. The longer it gets, like you know the meme, right, about Linux.

Is it frozen?

Oh, it is frozen.

Damn it. All right. Well, we're having some tech issues.

Why is this camera freezing though? Let me see. Full blackout blank screen. Okay. Well, I'm using Riverside as my software and apparently it is complete trash.

So if I refresh.

Okay. So now you should see my screen at least. Now we have to fix my camera.

Okay.

It's weird. I see my camera and I see my camera and I see my screen now.

Yes, you can see my screen. But now we need to see the camera.

Yeah. Okay.

Cool. Okay. So, it's always fun to have um I have these tech issues. Okay, thanks for the tips. I've been following for a while. I'm no expert. I like

experimenting. Just installed Omari. Practical advice on managing downloads maybe with some AI help. Well, that's what I've been been saying, right? Managing downloads like what you're saying is managing packages.

And what I want to um I would recommend to you is to not use the arch user repository but use flat hub instead. That is what I recommend. Okay. So we are back. It works. That's

good to know. That means that we um are back in action. It works. That's good. Thank you. Thank

you for confirming that. So if I then turn off screen sharing, hopefully that will Yeah, the thing is I cannot like share my chat alone. I would have to do the YouTube chat only. Maybe I can do that. So if you have questions guys, let me know. I'll be around for 10 more minutes

or so.

Let me know if you have any questions, concerns. Happy to answer them. FlatHub for all distros or just for Omari? Yeah, I I I would say um I like all distros is a u is is quite a sweeping statement but I am using Omari. I'm using flat hub on on um Fedora right now and I would definitely use it if I would were to switch back to Arch Linux.

I would install Arch Linux and then install anything I could from FlatHub using flat packs. That's what I would do. Use Debian or Fedora. No more arts. Yeah, right.

See live chat.

As I know Omari is using just a few AUR packages until they are compiled from Omari. Yes, that's true. But if I um as far as I know they are when you download Omari and install it then the Arch user repository is enabled and I don't think that's a good idea like it's enabled because they are using just a few packages from the AUR but that means giving people who are new to to This direct access to the AUR like look 9-year-old first personal experience Omari non-school at DH like this is my case po case in point you know Omari makes for a great first computer kids don't have preconceived notions about operating systems they can learn everything because they don't have to unlearn anything they also like things that are cool and fun So again, I don't hate DHH. I don't hate Omari, but I would never like have a kid get access to the AUR. You don't want that. You don't want

beginners using Arch Linux or these plug-in systems that execute code on your computer without reading that code. Like this kid cannot know what that means, what it means to get a install a package from the AUR. This is actually a perfect um example of what I'm trying to argue here. Omari is being presented as like a beginner friendly solution with huge security implications. So yeah, the title of this stream is Omari is Omari safe to use. I think it's

not not in this situation.

What's the reason people love art so much? Well, I can tell you the reason why I loved it so much and that is because I loved the the experience of building my own operating system and the responsibility that came with that. Every package that was on that system was there because I put it there, because I installed it. And that was a very powerful feeling. At the same time, I it required me to learn a lot of skills to do that and to do that securely.

I still remember that I I forgot to encrypt my system, right? I did I well I didn't forget it. I didn't know how to do that. Okay. So, here's someone saying Omari is not presented as beginner to use. DHH

mentioned many times it's for developers and those willing to move from Mac or Windows. Okay, but look at what you're saying and what he is saying in this tweet. Omari makes for a great first computer. Kids don't have blah blah blah. 9year-old first personal computer experience is Omari. Wow, this is great. Like rather

be what you're saying is false. Omari is presented as a for beginner usage. Okay. If a nine-year-old kid isn't a beginner, then I don't know what to say.

Uh Yousef, what is AUR? Yeah, you can rewind to the beginning of the stream. I explain that. It is all explained in the beginning of this stream. So going back to why I like Arch Linux, I really like that experience of building my own thing, the responsibility that came with it etc.

And that is why Arch is so appealing. Now there is a new wave of people who have picked up that Arch is somehow cool to run but they don't necessarily want to put in the effort to do that. They just want to say, "I run Arch by the way." And then Omari is a very convenient way to to to flex that. Even though you didn't install anything yourself, you're now saying, "Oh, I run Arch by the way." And

somehow you're a cool kid now.

I always have some kind of problems to access files and permissions using FlatHub. I will try again as you recommended. Yeah, exactly, Yugo. because you have problems because it's done securely and or at least more secure and that means you're going to run into problems because the default is oh let's just give everything access to anything as the root user and then let's see and let's and let's just cross our fingers that nothing goes wrong. This is why flat pack is a much better way of doing it. It's not a foolproof

way. It's not a bulletproof way, but it's a good way. All right, guys. Couple more questions and then I'm uh continuing my Sunday here. I have a lot of work to do.

So, if you have any questions, drop them and then um

why not create your own opinionated arch if you think that Omari is really bad? Well, I don't necessarily think Omari is really bad. I'm just voicing some concerns around um Arch around Omari and the security. Okay, I just voice some concerns there and I encourage everyone who uses Omari to educate themselves on the security implications. That's all I'm saying. And in fact, I did create my

own uh opinionated Arch. I was running Arch Linux for many years and I built it from scratch. I see no reason to avoid Fedora immutable. Yeah, exactly. That's a much better

need video tutorial. How you set up Fedora Sway? Okay, I'll give you a video tutorial. Fedora Atomic Sway. Click download now. That's the tutorial.

That's all you need to do. Like the distribution that you see me running here with the window manager and sway and everything. It's already ready packaged for you. And this contrary to Omari is I'm not going to claim it's secure out of the box, but it's much more secure because this is a vetted container image built by Red Hat, sponsored by Red Hat, which is a billiondoll company with lots of resources and actual humans building this. It is an immutable OS. So you have

a read only root file system and applications are used as flatp packs and you're encouraged to run all your applications in containers like this to me is what a um more secure distribution and approach looks like.

Um why aren't you using Nyx? Well, because like I did a whole video on that, but I don't do it because it's a high learning curve and also like even um Nick's package team disbanded like like I I don't know much about this but um someone described to me that being involved with the NYX community is almost like going to a furry convention. This is just someone telling me this is not my own experience because I don't have that experience. But I get the I get the sense that the Nyx OS team or the the the project has a lot of drama and and and lots of weird things going on. Now, one example of this is that 23 days ago, the Nyx packages core team has disbanded.

Uh, our experience is that the steering committee as an institution lacks a native instinct for the delegation envisioned by the constitution while also not being sufficiently a cohesive to handle individual decisions at those levels itself. This manifests as unnecessary micromanagement of teams below them and chronically poor communication including lack of clarity from steering committee members about when they're speaking for themselves etc. There is a lot of drama happening here and people like one like there's a tendency for people to have like anime profile pictures here like these are not real like these are not people that you're interacting with these are avatars and I don't know like I don't want to spend hours many hours of my life learning something that is this fraught with like politics and wokeness and instability again I'm just basing this on hearsay I am not part of this team but where there is smoke there is fire so if I hear 100 people saying this then I do um I do um yeah attach some value to that that's why I don't use nyx

Uh, I did not use cubes OS.

Which Fedora would you install on an old MacBook? It depends. If it's an uh silicon MacBook, if it's really old, it's probably Intel. Um, you can you can try the normal Fedora workstation. I think that's a good start. and then move

on to an atomic desktop later.

Omari can be a good entry point to Linux for people using Mac or Windows. I don't agree with that. Omari uses a window manager. Windows is a graphical UI. It is literally Windows with a mouse. So, I

don't think that going straight from Windows to Omari is a good way to enter Linux. It's going to be extremely disorienting.

I think you're being a snob because you've had the pain of setting up Arch. Arch is one of the most secure. Yes, there's a bit of bloat, but what is Ubuntu without Debbian? Don't see you raging them. No, I'm not raging on them because they are more secure. And I'm

not raging on Omari. Just go back to the beginning of this video and you will hear my actual opinion on it instead of the opinion that you assume I have. And um I don't rage on Debian or Abuntu because they have a better package vetting system in place. And I don't I don't think it's being snobby to have the pain of setting up Arch. Like there's nothing snobbish about gaining actual technical experience by going through a process like that and not taking shortcuts. Like it's the same

as going to the gym. If someone trains super hard for eight years and gets to his genetic maximum potential or you have a kid who comes in and starts injecting steroids after six months. Yeah. I mean, I have more respect for the person who does it for over eight years and who actually went through the the pain to do that. Is that snobby? I

don't think so.

Okay. Well, I think we're going to end it for today then. Um, thank you so much for um watching. I hope this at least inspired at least one person to think a little bit deeper about the software they um deploy to their computer and what code you are pulling and executing on your computer. Be extremely careful with this because the hackers are out there, right? They are the hackers know

the hackers know that there are lots of new people coming to Linux through Omari and they are targeting the Arch user repository. We're going to see more incidents. Mark my words and I encourage everyone to educate yourself on the implications of using that. Review your code. Review what you put on your system. And if you don't have the skills

to do that, then I recommend using something that has more strict control, maybe like Ubuntu, maybe Fedora. But uh I think you will have a more secure experience than using Omari at this stage.