---
video_title: "My Entire Neovim + Tmux + AI Workflow (2026 Update)"
video_id: fjoGZ90bOzw
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjoGZ90bOzw
video_date: 2026-01-09T19:07:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Apply to join KubeCraft & land your DevOps job: https://kubecraft.click/cgv89
  
  Join my FREE Live Event next week! https://kubecraft.click/live-yt-01
  
  Neovim tmux Linux workflow 2026 - Build a distraction-free, keyboard-centered development environment that runs on minimal resources. Learn exactly how I configure my stateless workstation to be productive anywhere in under 10 minutes. Perfect for DevOps engineers and developers who want maximum efficiency with complete control over their tools.
  
  This deep-dive covers my complete command line workflow including Fedora Atomic Sway, dev containers for isolated development environments, AI integration with Claude Code and Fabric, and why I browse email and the web from the terminal. You'll see practical demonstrations of Unix filters piping AI responses directly into Neovim, dotfile management with Chezmoi, and the philosophy behind choosing stable, enterprise-adopted tools over niche alternatives.
  
  📍 CHAPTERS:
  00:00 - Introduction and Workflow Philosophy
  02:05 - Git-Centered Stateless Workstation Setup
  06:24 - Fedora Atomic Sway and Immutable OS Benefits
  11:49 - Window Manager Choice: Why Sway Over Hyprland
  18:40 - Terminal Setup: Alacritty, Zsh, and Tmux
  27:27 - Command Line Browsing and Email with Aerc
  37:02 - AI Integration: Claude Code and Fabric Patterns
  43:30 - Dev Containers vs NixOS for Career Development
  57:00 - Neovim Configuration with LazyVim
  01:05:30 - Browser Choice and Privacy Considerations
  01:08:00 - Zettelkasten Note-Taking System Update
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Sway Window Manager: https://github.com/swaywm/sway
  → Dev Containers Specification: https://containers.dev
  → Fabric AI CLI Tool: https://github.com/danielmiessler/fabric
  → Forgejo Self-Hosted Git: https://forgejo.org
  → Alacritty Terminal: https://alacritty.org
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischa_vdburg
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #Linux #DevOps #Neovim
---
Hey, what's up? I do almost 95% of my work on the command line and my T-Max Neovim workflow video that I created two years ago is one of my best performing videos with 100K views. So, in this video, I'll give you my 2026 updated version of this video going through my complete mind map with a few updates, a few changes, and how my workflow has changed and how everything is tied together. So, let's jump in. I always start this video by giving you the overview of what we're going to talk about today. So, I'm going to talk about

my OS, how I configured my terminal, uh which editor I use, and all of the elements that are comprised with that. And I'd like to start reading out this um piece that I wrote here about the actual foundation of the workflow, being that my workflow is completely based on the command line. I therefore have very little programs or tools running on the graphical side of the OS, whether it be Mac OS or Linux. All I need is a terminal and a web browser, but a window manager is a big bonus to my productivity. My main philosophy is to have a minimalist minimalistic workflow which uses very little resources. It

should be a distraction-free, keyboard centered and efficient environment to do my best work. And that is that is the goal that I'm always striving for. And this workflow is a work of art. I should say it has accumulated over many years of tinkering and constantly optimizing. And I also had a lot of help from my mentors. And I actually want to dedicate

this video to one of my mentors who recently passed away uh in a very tragic way. I won't go into details and I won't mention his name because he was a very private person. But um you know who you are if you're watching somehow from up there or wherever from wherever. Thank you for everything that you've given me. I dedicate this video and my work this year to you. May you be happy, safe, and

well wherever you are. So let's jump into the workflow. So as I said, it is designed to be minimal and to use little resources. So if I do free-h we are currently using 12 GB of RAM of my 62 GB available. And if I open up Btop then we will see that most of this is coming from actually OBS because I am actually recording in 4K as I um as I'm creating this video. Obviously, those

things are taking the most memory. But if I actually turn off Obsidian and my browser and everything, then I don't know, it's it's less than a gigabyte that I'm actually using on the OS side of things and for my the core of my workflow. Yeah, basically the everything is centered around GitHub or I should actually the the map is changing from year to year, right? So, actually I should change this to Git because I am not necessarily using GitHub for everything anymore. Uh but the way I do things is I store I store my workflow in git obviously with a dot files repo and my dot files repo used to be public but it has become such an advanced setup that I was getting tons of questions every single day and it was just becoming a large chore to actually answer those and yeah to to serve those people. So I decided to make it private

because the the workflow is too advanced for people to just go in and to look at. But basically what I use is Shemmoa to manage my dot files. That is the tool that I use and all of my workflow in terms of editor configuration, my GPG configuration, SSH, my scripts collection, all of this is gathered in my dot files repo. And when I then spin up a new machine, all I have to do is I pull in that repo and set it up. And then my my everything is configured right out of the box. And I can also do

this in containerized or ephemeral environments which we're going to get into a little bit later. All of that is stored in in git as code. And yes, it says GitHub here. So some of these things, yes, they are stored in GitHub. But actually, I am I'm now self-hosting my own git server as well. For that I

use for Jio. That is apparently the right pronunciation of it. For Jio, this is a fork of gy. So gy was a very very compelling alternative for self-hosting your git server. But for JO was a fork of that because Gy got bought by a company and some things happened and for Jio is a real the real deal in terms of like free open-source software guaranteed 100% free software. I'm a

supporter of this project but I'm not affiliated but I do donate money to them because I think it's a great piece of software and I love using it. So, I'm self-hosting this in my Kubernetes home lab, and I'll be making a video about that a little bit later. So, if you're interested like in that, let me know down in the comments. But that's where most of my my actual applications and everything that I that I build is actually hosted on my own Git servers because I don't want Microsoft scanning all of that code anymore. That is basically where everything lives. And

this means that I can have what's what I call a stateless workstation. And I've talked about this in previous videos where I have actually have been on a bit of a journey where I switch to a framework laptop and a framework desktop and switching computers a lot rebooting or restarting. I'm now actually running this on a different OS as well, which I'm going to get into in a second. But I basically crafted my workflow in such a way that I can literally be up and running in 5 to 10 minutes on a new machine. And I've actually done that live on videos as well which will be linked somewhere if you're interested.

That is all made possible by git. And it's not only my dot files, it's also like configuration of everything that's configured. Like for example, I'm running sway now and then you have kunchi to manage the window. So if I go to my home directory and I check out my country configuration here for example I can configure my monitors here and all all this is also in version control and everything is stored as code. So yeah I absolutely love this this type of workflow and that is where everything is based around. So going to the OS section

uh if you've been following my videos lately then you know that a few things have happened here. Uh, I am now actually completely away from Mac OS and I like the on the previous iteration of this video I completely banned Windows from my life. Well, that has been so like that for a few years now. I was able to for time for work and such. I was able to um fall back on Mac OS for most of the time, but now I don't even use that anymore. I am actually now

fully on Linux fortunately. And this video, all all of the videos that I've recorded and created over the past year and a half, everything is done and created on Linux. So, even as a creator, it is completely possible to daily drive Linux. So, if you're watching this on a Windows PC, shame on you. Check out this video where I talk about exactly why you should not be running Windows 10 or 11 and you should actually move to Linux today. In terms of Linux, I I have been

running Arch Linux, by the way, for well over a year. And at that point, I I discovered something called an immutable OS. So, I'm actually currently running Fedora Atomic Sway. So, I'm using this particular flavor of the Fedora atomic desktops. So, Fedora atomic or is something called an immutable OS, which means that it is an readonly root file system. I cannot actually install

packages and or I can I cannot actually modify my root file system. All of these everything is sort of baked into an image and my in the background when a new update comes out then Fedora releases a new image. So my entire machine is updated in one go. It's one image and when I then reboot this new image is loaded but the old image is also kept around. So this means that you will always have a working computer because if the new image somehow doesn't work, I can just very easily roll back.

And I was first exposed to this concept through my work in Talos Linux, which is a Kubernetesonly Linux distribution. And when I discovered that this was also available for my workstation, I got very excited about that because it's fully aligned with my container containerbased workflows which I'm going to get into in a second. Yeah, I'm really liking it so far. Uh I I do miss Arch Linux and I am going to return to Arch Linux at some point, but as an engineer, you also have to keep growing, right? And I figured I realized that I was actually getting into a bit of a bubble by running Arch Linux. I s I've sort of mastered

administering my own system like that. So I wasn't gaining much more from it either. So I am now doing Fedora atomic sway and I'm going to get into the actual Sway choice in a second here as well. That is the one that I'm using currently. But that is also because I'm running this on a framework laptop and there's going to be a video released about that very soon where I talk about this laptop in particular and how it's working. Hint, it's working really well

for me and I love it. But on my laptop, I'm going to be taking this with me when I'm, you know, going on my travels with my camper van while I work remotely. So I need to have one Linux system that is always going to work and my Arch Linux system always works. There was it's not that it's unstable or anything like that, but what I liked about this particular distribution is that it has this roll back capability in terms of images and that feels like a very nice and stable way for a portable workstation that I would be 100% dependent on while I'm traveling, but it's still Linux. And also it's good to expose yourself to a few different things every now and then. So in this

little journey I I did try out several distros because I was I got this laptop. I was thinking h I was actually going to build an Arch Linux system for that laptop. But I was thinking ah maybe I should try something else. And this has been these immutable oss had been on my radar for a while anyway. So I figured I'm going to do this. And actually what

I think is I'm going to be having Arch Linux on my home machine which is currently a framework desktop and then I have my Arch Linux system there and then I keep this one on Fedora atomic sway and then I also keep myself relevant in several Linux distributions which is important as an engineer as well. good to hone zone in on one thing and specialize, but it's also good to also broaden your mindset when you re when you reach senior level and start exposing yourself to other types of workflows and tools as well. In terms of window manager, I actually tried a few different things. I initially went for the Fedora atomic cosmic flavor of this. So if you watched my previous version of this video, the 2025 version, you will know that I was running Hyperland at the time on Arch Linux. So before I switched

to Arch Linux, I was actually running several different distros, but I was using X11, right? So I wasn't using Wayand yet. And when I fully committed to Wayand, then my obvious choice was going to be Sway because I was already using i3. But again then I was like ah maybe I'll try something else and I ended up with using Hyperland which worked fine I would say for my my Arch Linux system but in the previous video I also mentioned my worries about Hyperland mainly it being developed by one guy a student actually and I I follow him on Twitter and he's actually right now talking about how busy he is with his exams and there's so much that he wants to do with hyperland but he can't and that is just dangerous right because he he built it alone and there's a community there and I support him but it is a risky thing I I I think I think it is much better to commit to something that is more stable and because he wrote it in C++ so he already eliminates a very large part of the open source community that way and yeah those were the thoughts I shared in that video and and Nvidia is not officially supported as well. I was running it on Nvidia card for well over a year and frankly I didn't have much problems but now that I went this route I I was actually I had hyperland and I was using cosmicde as the back background. So, if you don't

know what Cosmic is, CosmicDe is developed by system 76, which is a company that creates Linux computers and because they have their own hardware line that they will deliver with this software on it, they are also very much invested in keeping this running properly. Right? So, in other words, they're they're going to be supporting this. It's a professionally developed system with also a very large open-source community. So, it is a good DE. I would say I was using this as my

fallback when Hyperland didn't work or also when I had some issues with gaming, I would fall back to Cosmic and then then I it would work fine. So, initially I went for Cosmic DE. But yeah, so the the nice thing with these SW with these atomic desktops is that you can easily switch between them, right? So there is the Fedora atomic cosmic I you can rebase you can just rebase your whole OS to a different one and then you're suddenly running that and not much has changed. So it actually works really well that in that sense. So, I was

running this for a while and eventually I I ran into a couple of things that annoyed me and the main thing that really annoys me that is still not supported in Cosmic is pinning things to workspaces on startup. So, I have a very particular workflow where on in the bottom of the left of the on the bottom left of my screen here, you'll see one, two, three, four. These are my workspaces. Right now when my computer starts up my browser is on workspace one my note takingaking system in this case Obsidian is on workspace 2 on three is my terminal and and etc. I have a few more apps that I run in in certain workspaces. This way I can in code I can

define what starts where and what happens when and so that I can have a predictable and repeatable workflow and I could not do that in cosmic. You have I would start up my PC. I had to manually start all of these. Yes, you can auto start these but then they would appear all in one workspace. And I tried with finding workarounds but it it didn't work for me. And also I was

running into a couple of issues where you still see that Cosmic is ba in beta. I'm not sure if it's if it's is it still in beta? I don't know. But at least developments are still being made. But there were a few of these little things that yeah annoyed me basically. And then

I went I just thought I haven't actually really run Sway because I went straight into Hyperland. And so I tried out Sway and yeah, I'm never going back. like sway is is is where it's at because if you've seen my previous workflow video about my Arch Linux workstation in there, I proudly said how I actually minimized Hyperland to just the bare minimum, right? I have the most boring configuration you will see in the entire world because my entire workflow is optimized to be as fast as possible so I can switch between things as possible and I don't want any of these animations. I I don't want things to appear. I don't want to wait for

something to appear. I want to be able to move things around quickly. And all of this beautiful animations and all of the colors is completely useless. it it's a total distraction especially if you spend hours and hours completely you know making it perfect and making it beautiful and I'm very much guilty of this when I was a junior I spent weeks like in terms of hours like literal 40 plus hour work weeks I spent on ricing and making beautiful workflows and I thought it it taught me important concepts like coding etc but it didn't like there's it almost didn't transfer to my my daily work and my knowledge of Linux. I mean it's f fine if you want to do that as a creative hobby. For me a

computer is something where I am productive, where I build, where I create, where I work in order to work as efficiently and as optimally as possible. Uh I need things to be fast, responsive and boring. And that is why Sway um is the best for me. way. It's like I have my way bar which is has a few nice little colors in my brand color scheme which I like but that's it. It's

all very minimal. It's very small. No distractions and it just does the job. And Sway, of course, Sway GitHub is super stable. It has a large uh community, you know, 16K stars and it's still being developed, right? But also

you see two weeks ago. So you do see that a lot of these components are super stable, right? But when things break or when things need to be changed, then it is being changed by the community. So it has a massive community and it works super well. It's written in C, so there's much m much more people that are actually able to contribute to this. So I landed on Sway and I don't

think I'm going to go anywhere else. We'll see in the next year's workflow video, but this feels like home and it's good. It's nice and stable and I love it. So, in terms of my terminal then, because I mentioned that I do most of my work in the terminal, so having a proper terminal emulator and work and having a proper setup for the terminal is of course extremely important. Well, I'm still using elacrity. I like elacrity

because it's super minimal. It's small. It's fast. It runs on any operating system. And what I also like about it is again it's it's minimal. It and I'm not

sure if it's supported now, but in the beginning when I was exploring emulators, I saw these GitHub issues where they would talk about why are tabs not supported in electrity. They would say, well, T-Max already does that, so why would we build that into our our termal emulator? And I absolutely love this like this Unix philosophy. Use one create a tool to do one thing and to do it well. And in this case, it's emulating a terminal. And you don't need

to have tabs in your terminal if you just learn T-Max, which has been around for decades, right? So yeah, that is the one that I still use. Very happy with it. And yeah, I'm not considering any switch there. Uh I am still using Zshell after I did my time on using just bash on for several years which you should be doing if you are watching this as a junior or someone who is interested in becoming a CIS admin Linux engineer, DevOps engineer or working with Kubernetes or containers. I strongly

strongly suggest actually I I'm going to no you you should not use Zshell at all for your first years. Just use bash. learn it well because bash is the default shell on any Linux system that you're going to run into in the field. Zshell does a few things differently and if you're going to be um joining a team and they have several VMs for example or container images and then you're going to be demanding that they install Zshell because that's the shell you use, you're going to be laughed at. So use bash, learn it well, learn the default shell that has been running on Linux system for decades because if you do like podman run ubuntu it Ubuntu. If I just

spin up a quick Ubuntu container here, if I then do echo shell, then it is bin bash. It's not zshell which z it's not even installed in here. So meaning that any container you're going to be working in or any Linux environment you're going to be working in has bash and not zshell. And that is why you should actually use this for a few years, learn it well and then you can move to zshell. For me I move to zshell mainly because the completion is nicer and better. So

if I for example want to run sway message and tab tab then this shows me the the help as I'm tabbing which is much nicer than what you would get in bash there. You would just get the output and you can choose but it doesn't even show these messages here. That is actually the main reason why I switched to zshell because the completion is a little bit better and it makes me a little bit faster on the on the command line in that sense. But uh that is the reason main reason why I use it. So in this window manager section I mentioned that I use sway for the graphical side of things. But there it also says T-Max

and that is frankly because T-Max is actually my window manager. Like I do most of my work on the command line which I'm going to be getting into in a second. But I I do I I run T-Max as my window manager. Most of my work happens in this screen that you see over here. So, I'm constantly splitting windows and and creating sessions, etc. And here's

I'm going to have another little bit of a controversial opinion here. Uh, but it's actually advice that I give to all of my students, which is to always always stick to the default key bindings when running T-Max because B CRB D etc. Yes, it does. It does feel a little bit weird to do the CtrlB, but if you get this in your fingers properly, then no matter which Linux system you're on anywhere in the world, T-Max is it's not certainly going to be there, but it's very likely that a Linux system that is managed, it is designed for people to use, T-Max is going to be there. But if you then have your your precious set of key bindings that you have created yourself, you are completely useless on that system if you don't know the default key bindings. So even though you

can have this wonderful setup on your local machine, maybe using some like zeal or whatever it's called with the with a different menu with different key bindings and yeah, it's such a big mistake to do that. So, if you just stick to the default key bindings, just just do it for two weeks and then you don't even think about it anymore in any system in the world, you're going to be able to split windows. You're you're going to be able to be productive without without having to look at the man pages. If you have your own precious little config, you're going to be on a system and it's like, "Oh, how was it again?" Yeah, I do. CtrlB pipe like pipe

like this. That's an alias that people will use because yeah that you have a vertical split. It's I I I can see the point. But if that doesn't work on the system, you're like, "Oh, how was it again?" Well, it's controlB um control B percent. Right? That is how how you do

it. So just use the default key bindings. It I promise you the muscle memory kicks in and you don't even think about it anymore. So as you see my T-Max has been modified a fair bit. If I just run another podman run it ubuntu another container here and I do apt update and apt install t-m if I now run t-mox inside of the container you will see that it is looks very different right it has the green status bar it has the it does when I create new windows I they start from zero for example they are down in the bottom and yeah so I've modified this in some ways. So, what I

like is to have first of all to have that thing in the top. I don't want it to have this ugly green color. And also, I want this to start at um one instead of zero because if I do CtrlB2, I'm now switching to workspace 2, CtrlB3, or actually window three, Ctrl B1, then CtrlB0 does not make sense because my my my finger needs to move to the right side. If I do Ctrl B1, then it is on the one. So, it's on the left side. And like in my optimization flow,

it feels like I was spending a nancond thinking about having to go to the right side of my keyboard instead of one. So even though like programmatically it is more correct to start at zero and to use that I want it to have at one because then I my my fingers go from left to right when I'm switching. Likewise with the tabs or the the workspaces in sway I want that same finger to work in my T-Max workspace as well because remember I spend most of my time here. So every every time I have to spend a nancond thinking about this then that is a waste some some wasted time. So that's how I like to have it and this is how I've configured it. I yeah that is basic

T-Max is basically my main window manager. I I've recently created a complete set of courses for my students in cubecraft where I teach them the foundations of Linux and bash scripting. how to use bash properly as an engineer and that has has been a lovely refresh for myself to the the fundamentals too because I I use these without thinking very much about them and it's so ingrained into my workflow that I don't even think about it it just happens naturally right but to teach something means that you also have to deeply understand it and you'll be surprised if you do things yourself like almost naturally or not by not thinking about if you then have to go and explain that to someone else. You'd be surprised how hard it actually is to accurately convey very important topics because I have a large responsibility, right? Like people come to me to become DevOps engineers very often from scratch completely. They

have no technical experience. I teach them I teach them to go from zero to DevOps engineers and we land jobs every single week in CubeCraft. What I'm teaching them is working but it's a large responsibility and I take that very seriously. When I was going through this, I also realized that there were a few things that I was not doing in the command line very much myself anymore. I was defaulting back to the browser for things like email and browsing and querying. And in that process of going

yeah going really deep into the foundations again, going really deep into teaching mode and teaching people how to use a computer, how to actually use a Linux computer properly. In creating that, I also had a bit of an awakening inside of myself where ah there is still 5% that I still have to bring into the command line because it is much faster and it is much um like the interface to your computer. Studies have shown that the most efficient and effective way of interacting with your computer is the command line. Like until we neural link actually works and you can interact with your computer through thought or whether it is through a wire or telepathically until we have that the command line is is going to be the fastest most efficient way to interact with your computer. So I always want to optimize my workflow with the command line. So one of the additions here is

that I'm using Arc for managing emails on the command line. So I can view my inboxes. I have multiple accounts in here and if I open one of these emails then you see that it is rendered in plain text which is really nice. So I can very easily very quickly navigate my emails and then from here I can uh very very quickly archive them like this with capital A and I can like very often many of these emails you don't even need to read them right so for these I know okay I can archive this I can archive this etc. So it works really well. So I'm

doing most of my email management from the command line now using arc. So that is a nice one. Another one is browsing. So when I'm coding, when I'm working on things, then very often the the default is to well first of all I always always go to the man pages first, right? So man, bash this is all you need to learn bash really like any engineer should at least read this from top to bottom at least once in their lifetime because here you have everything even about par parameter expansion like it's so you you just have the full topic here about parameter expansion and you will it is ex it's so good that you can just be coding in bash and then oh how was that what was that parameter again to set a default value just mam bash parameter expansion and then you have it right here and then it will show show you here parameter word use default values right it's amazing that is the first default but I noticed that when something was not in bash in the man pages so man k claude for example oops man k claude then you will see I can't type claude then you will see there's not no obviously there's no man page about claude code. Right? So the

default then is to go to the browser. Now this is already quite efficient for me because I'm now in my in my terminal. I would do the command one to switch to my browser. I do c control ctrlt to create a new tab and then I would do clawed code and then here I have my vim extension enabled. So I do escape and then I can actually scroll with this.

And if I do F and then AJ, then I would open the page like this. So I don't even use my mouse when browsing on the in the in the browser like this. This is still not as efficient as doing it in the co in the command line very often. Right? So let's if I if I for example want to grab something from my own blog, I would do w3mishavvenenberg.com.

So now I have my own blog open here. I can tab through the links here and let's just open the sovereign craftsman blog article here. Let's say I want to grab something from this article. I would just do Ctrl +B uh bracket shift V. Select this. Press enter. And now I can

quit this. And if I paste this, I have this in my clipboard. Right? So when I need a piece of code, for example, when I'm wondering about something, I will run this. How do I increase context in clawed code? This is then

opening duck.go with my uh with w3 and I can then open this and I can read about it and if there is a piece of code here for example or if there's something that I want ctrlb bracket select enter escape and paste I have it right here. I don't didn't even have to leave the terminal. When you get good at this, when you get really fast at this, I'm I'm still I'm still learning this, but you can you can see here that I am actually defaulting to doing to uh to to searching and browsing from the command line first because then I'm much I I can grab the text, I can pipe it, I can I can do so much and in this environment I have complete control. If I then again do my open my own website. If I want to read a

blog for example, if I want to open my own blog and read it, then I prefer to read it in plain text where I have control over the font size, the font, where I can have control over what I how it's rendered, etc. Like I think plain text is actually the the best way to to to consume things if you have the like like I work on the terminal 10 hours a day. So this is a very familiar and comfortable environment for me completely optimized for my preferences. you know the web when you open the web this is rendered uh because this is rendered text right and it's shown as as the creator has configured it but when the the internet was originally designed when the web was originally designed the idea was actually to have it more like a Kindle you know when you have a Kindle u device for e-reading on there you can actually put in your own font you can do your font size you can you Can you choose how everything is rendered? You control how things are rendered. And the

web was originally designed that way too that people could on their end modify how things were were rendered. Obviously, that's not the case anymore. And what I mean to say by that is that when you get used to scrolling on the command line and consuming on the command line, you have control over how you consume things. and and it it becomes much much much um uh more efficient in my opinion for me. So the there are a few alternatives. There's

links and there's W3M. Lynx is the OG one to use and W3M is a little bit more modern. It's still being actively developed uh somewhat. So I chose W3M and that is the one that I'm using. And this command here that I then uh use this is just a custom command that I wrote uh where I will pipe something like for example what is the difference between links and w3 and then this is piping that to duck.co where I can then

open one of these pages and start reading about it. Right now you'll find when you do this you'll find that some of the web pages that you uh are used to consuming are actually not compatible with this type of rendering right so not all web pages you can actually visit this way for example can I do w3mubstack.com does this even work subscriptions no like here here we go this site requires JavaScript to run correctly please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts you see here you need JavaScript but this is also O a very private way of browsing, right? You don't get all of this tracking cookies, all of this You have complete control over that. So, this is actually in terms of browsers, if you want to do a proper private browsing experience, you should probably use something like this, but you do um it's like that meme of the stages of privacy, right? I don't know if you've

seen that one. Yeah, here I pulled it up. I posted it in CubeCraft, but there's the I love this is one of my favorite memes where you have the tech normie tech conservative where you then start using brave. It's like yeah big tech is cool but we uh there should be a healthy balance. Newborn paranoid like I've I am basically in that stage I would say but I'm moving towards the tech paranoid where it says um actually I'm getting closer towards the FSF member where it's saying hasn't rendered a full web page since 2012 because of the JavaScript. Well, [laughter]

I think that's such a fun one. So yeah, no that I'm definitely not there, but you see here that links and W3M is actually mentioned in the in the meme itself. So yeah, in some ways I'm getting closer and closer to that to that stage. So in CubeCraft, we also have fun, right? It's not just about landing jobs. We also it's just a great

community of engineers who come together and work on the same goal of landing DevOps jobs. So yes, that is the terms of browsing. Then finally, I've shown you my the way how I search on the on the internet, but there's also obviously um we are using AI for everything. So what I also do is um I have my question mark question mark command. I say is it safe to drink water from plastic bottles? I don't know. And now it's

going to be uh now it's asking Claude right from the command line. So here it's going to talk about key points. Food grade plastics are approved by health agencies, potential concerns. Yeah, avoid leaving bottles in hot cars as heat may increase chemical leeching. And yeah, I don't know if you have been exposed to the microplastics rabbit hole yet. I'm sorry if I am exposing you

right now, but um we live in concerning times. Do not drink water from plastic bottles, but that was just the first thing that came up. But as I'm coding, as I'm working on the command line, maybe I'm working on a bash script or I'm just working. Yeah, let's say I'm working on a bash script and I'm thinking, oh, how what was it again? How do I set a default value in bash using parameter expansion can type? But then I

can just query that from the command line like this. I'm going to get my my answer right this right here. I can now go here. I can take this line of code for example, take this and open my bash script and then I can start editing right here. And I never had to leave the command line. I didn't have to use the

mouse. I didn't have to do anything uh to to get this. And what's even better is that I could even call this from the command line. So let's say I'm I'm working here in Vim. And how do I set a default value in bash using parameter expansion? If I then pipe this to my

fabric query command, then this is going to replace the current line with the output of that command. So here we go. I actually have the output of chatgpt right here in my editor without any plugins, without any type of without any sort of extra things. This is just using Unix filters, bash and vim exactly as things were intended. So let's do this again if if if this went a little bit fast for you. So let's say I'm writing a

blog post about microplastics. Let's say I'm doing the dangers of microlastics something like that. If I now then have a question for claude or chat GPT or whatever you use. If I then are microlastics dangerous. If I then pipe this to my fabric query command here, it's my custom command. Then it's going to

replace this line with the output of that command. So I'm sending this to my fabric query. And then in a second, it's going to replace that line with the output of that command. So here it's in my editor. I didn't leave my my editor.

I didn't leave my T-max window. I didn't do anything. I have it right here in my editor. And now I can start working with this. I can write it and this will work with code as well. Right? So if I do

something super silly like write a Python function to add two values. Pipe that to fabric query like this. Then it's going to ask claude in my case it's going to give me the output of it and then I have it right here in my editor. Now this is no no plugins no magic. This is just bash Unix filters and knowing how to use Vim properly. So if you're

thinking, "Wow, I want to learn that level of mastery." And if you're interested in landing a tech job as a DevOps engineer, system admin or platform engineer, then CubeCraft is the place to be. This is where I teach the craft of becoming a Kubernetes engineer work with a command line centric workflow. Everything is captured in DevOps OS, HomeLab OS, where I'm going to be teaching you from the ground up how to run Linux, how to use it properly, how to install Arch Linux, how to work with containers, how to set up Kubernetes clusters and run them, all with the main goal of landing you a six-f figureure tech job within 6 months, six to 12 months, depending on the starting point where you're at. Check out the link in description below, and I'm happy to teach you there. So

that's the th those are some really those are some new additions to my workflow. I was using these Linux these Unix filters these custom Unix filters already but now with the with AI and the possibility of of querying AI from the command line possibilities are becoming even bigger. So yeah I'm absolutely loving this. I'm having a great time with constantly creating and updating my workflow in this way and making it more and more efficient every single day. So next we should move to dev containers.

You've seen this in other videos as well, but if I do defod ls, you will see that I have a home lab defod here. Then there's also an aura scraper actually. Yeah, let's do the defpot delete aura scraper. Let's delete that one. And if I then go to my file system and I do URA scraper, let me pull the latest updates here. So this UA scraper is some

software that I built to scrape the data of my UA ring. I'm not wearing it right now actually, but I'm wearing it all day. And this tracks my my sleep and my my my movements. I'm you doing the same with my Whoop. And I love data. I love

tracking it. I'm a bit of a nerd about that. So I use multiple devices. I also have a Whoop scraper but my UA scraper then scrapes the data all the time so that I can access it in my graphana instance that's running on my Kubernetes home lab. Of course the scraper puts everything scrapes the data puts it in my self-hosted Postgress database clusters running on my Kubernetes clusters. And this way I

can actually create things, cool stuff like this Whoop versus URA comparison dashboard in Grafana where I can actually compare the readiness scores with the URA scores, what my HRV is in these different applications and also for example the sleep efficiency and uh yeah this stuff is interesting to me to see the the differences between them etc. So I I'm strongly strongly advocate like taking control over your own data like this data lives with these vendors like there's you have to use the when you use these devices the data is there obviously but that doesn't mean that I can actually not that I can have my own instance of this data and I can have my own version and my own my own copy of the data running in my own databases that I manage myself backed up all everything that you see here is running in Kubernetes and and yeah so it's it's all on my personal infrastructure and I can actually I actually own this data forever forever I have this data I can do whatever I want with it and this is where AI also becomes very interesting right and again this is all and all of this like spinning up Kubernetes clusters and running databases on them managing them with GitOps using production grade patterns all of that is taught in my latest course about Kubernetes in the cloud which you can find in the CubeCraft Career Accelerator. So if you want to build this kind of stuff for yourself, running your own databases on your own infrastructure on Kubernetes, then I strongly recommend you check this out. This many people are landing jobs because of this course alone. It's it's yeah, it's one of my masterpieces to be honest. So going back to the Aura

Scraper, I now have my um this is my my repo, right? This is just my my repo with code. But if I want to develop in this for example I I I'm running this on Kubernetes well if I run which cubectl then we see well cubectl is not found here right cubectl is not installed on my local system my fedora system so if I want to develop on this project what I do is I do devpod up dot so now it has installed all of the packages that are defined in the repo and now it's going to clone my dot files and and install everything that I need to have in every single system that I work. So any environment where I am going to be serious developing is going to take all of these packages and then it's going to install lazy vim neovim lazy vim and configure it just as I like it. And now if I do defod ls then we see that my ura scraper container is ready. So if I then

def ssh into my ura scraper then now I have everything I need to develop on this project. So for example in the the mitoml you see that this c this project for example requires sqlite and the github cli. So if I do which gh and we see that gh is installed which cubectl this is installed and this was not installed on my local system. So inside of my container I keep everything separated from my host system and everything that I need to develop and work with this project is now here. If I then open up my lacy vim, it is now seeing, okay, you're on a new system, so I have to install all of the packages.

So, it automatically sets up everything with my color scheme, my my language servers, all of that configuration is completely portable in just in one line. I can spin up my my complete environment wherever I am. So, this is extremely powerful. And also this is taught completely in a 8-hour course that I created for my cubecraft students. So if you go if you join and you go here there is the dev containers neoim and config management course that teaches you exactly how to get this workflow from scratch. So you can al you can build

yourself. You get my template of my dot files. You get everything you can just copy and paste it. But I don't just want to give you the workflow and and that's it. I actually teach you how to use it, right? How everything works from from

scratch. You're going to be learning all of that. So if you're interested in actually becoming at this level of command line usage, then you can you can check that out. So all of the main work, my development work, my home lab work, all of that always happens in dev containers. And I like that because again it it is completely separate from my host system. I can install all the

packages that I need there without interacting with my host system. Everything is nice and cleanly separated. And when I'm done developing with this project, I just delete the dev container and all everything is gone. And that is one of the main advantages of this. On one of my recent videos, I'm quitting Arch Linux. Here's why. One of

the comments that I got most on this on this um video is you might like Nyxos. You should use Nyxos. Nyxos obviously is the thing here. What are you talking about? It's called Nyxos. So people are

saying you should be using Nyxos. And yeah, I've talked about this in in other videos, but Nixos is not the way to do this. It is a completely wrong way to approach it. You are approaching this from the perspective as someone who wants to work as a DevOps engineer, platform engineer and also stay relevant in that industry. And actually let's talk a little bit about this because dev containers is a standard established by Microsoft.

So containers.dev dev this is a specification and uh and it is maintained by by Microsoft and it's also incorporated in the visual studio code editor for example so first of all you have a clear specification you have a uh you have dev container features you have clear development container specification that the devcontainerjson schema is defined everything is cleanly defined in a specification. This means that companies and teams etc when they adopt this specification they will always be talking the same language. Right? And this language in this case is how are we going to create reproducible environments where developers can come in and be up and running within seconds.

Right? That is the main goal of a proper mature development experience if that's something that you're focused on in a company. So if you've ever read the the the unicorn project that book if you haven't like if you're interested in DevOps then shame on you. You should read the Phoenix project and the unicorn project books. But in there the I I think it's the unicorn project one where they she takes the perspective of a developer in an old-fashioned company coming in and like spending almost a month submitting tickets trying just to get the the programs to build on her machine and that is actually actually what what has been solved here with DevOps right and the way to do that is in my opinion and the industry's opinion by the way is dev dev containers nyx OS is completely irrelevant in terms of widespread enterprise adoption. So if you're watching this,

like a large portion of my audience is people who want to become DevOps engineers. If I'm now going to tell them to learn Nyx OS, I'm going to do so much damage to so many people because Nyxos is notoriously hard to learn. It has horrible documentation and it is way too complicated for h for accomplishing what it needs to accomplish. So actually and I'm not alone about this. I mean we can literally just ask AI. So if I want to

become a DevOps engineer or platform engineer, should I learn Nyx OS or dev container? Let's just ask Claude and see what this what it says. Short answer, learn traditional DevOps tools first, then consider Nyx as specialization. Why traditional DevOps first? Most jobs require these core skills skills.

Containers, Docker, Kubernetes, infrastructure as code. Get hired first. Learn Docker, Kubernetes, one cloud. Use Nyx on the side maybe and then specialize later. NixoS for infra if it fits your niche. Nyx is is niche. So,

how widespread is Nyxos in mature organizations, enterprises? Uh, I want to uh be as employable as possible and I wonder if I should use Nyx, Nyx OS or dev containers. Nyx OS is a primos is very niche in enterprises. It's rare outside of specific tech forward companies and yes there are notable users like replet Spotify some fintech startups but nyx as a tool is growing but still uncommon and for maximum employability prioritize containers docker dev containers that this is why I don't use nyxos first of all because of my own u preferences in terms of everything I do in my free time always has to contribute ute to my career as well. So if I spend so much time like how much time does it cost? So how much

time does it take for a beginner who knows Linux fundamentals to learn Nix and Nixos so they can configure their whole system. So look at this. Look what this is what Claude is saying here. So a realistic timeline basic understanding one to two weeks functional system one to two months comfort comfortable proficient 3 to 6 months advanced 6 to 12 months so [laughter] to be comfortable and proficient with Nixos is going to take you 3 to 6 months according to Claude. Okay. So you're

telling me on this on this YouTube video instead of using something like dev containers which has an enterprisegrade maintained specification and widespread adoption across many different industries, many different enterprises is completely compatible with Virtual Studio Code, Visual Studio Code, GitHub code spaces like GitHub code spaces are dev containers. You're telling me that I need to spend three to six months learning a niche technology that is only used in for forward fintech companies just so I can manage my dot files. I mean, you're you're you're freaking crazy. You're you're absolutely crazy. people who are commenting this on this on on my um video here, you are so far removed from the reality of having to land a six-figure de job that I I I'm I'm not even going to listen to you. I

actually should do a separate video on this, but I need to calm down. So you're telling me I need to spend 3 to 6 months learning something that I that is extremely niche that is not used anywhere where instead I could use I can learn dev containers which is enterprise adoption and also contributes to my development as an engineer because now I'm working with containers inside of containers. I'm learning about container runtimes and I'm doing stuff that is reproducible anywhere. I mean I rest my case. Screw Nixos. Screw Nyx, don't use

it, don't touch it. Focus on dev containers, especially if you're in the beginning in your career. And then yes, much to the same effect like I talked about with Hyperland. If you then as a creative hobby for fun, you want to u start building these beautiful animated desktop environments, hey, go for it. If you know containers, Kubernetes, any everything well and you're just working in one company and all you're considered with is just your main local machine, hey, go ahead and learn Nixos. Spend

those six months, deepen your craft as an engineer. And the very fact that these comments exist tells me that Nixos is probably a a good tool for a job. Hell, I might even do it myself like when I'm financially independent eventually. And if I don't need to worry about landing jobs and I don't have um that kind of pressure anymore, then maybe one day I will learn Nexos because it is very compelling. I I like the idea of it. I like the I I I think I would

very much like to do it. But that timeline that the investment of six months is not something that I can do for a technology that is virtually irrelevant for my professional career. So all of that being said, um this is why I don't use Nixos and I use dev containers instead. And also because I have a responsibility for my students and for the content that I produce on this YouTube channel that I I have a I like I have across platforms I have over 100,000 followers now. So I'm taking this very seriously with the things that I'm saying. If I'm now going to say Nyx

OS is the best thing ever, I'm going to do a lot of damage with people doing this stuff for six months and not getting anywhere. Okay, enough about that. Let's move to Neovim. Not much has changed here. I am still just using uh Lazy Vim. I after I've tried so many

things like Kickstart, blah blah blah. I use plain old school Vim for several years and then I moved to Neoim. I always say to my students, use Vim for the first few years at least. And when you find yourself needing to write Vimcript, that is the time when you move to Neovim. And I just use Lazy Vim.

That's what I've landed on. Works super well, super happy with it. And yeah, I have my complete configuration. It is completely customized to my own needs. But um yeah, not much has changed there.

So let's talk about uh there's a few things left. There's um one big change in my workflow is of course AI. Then we'll talk about the browser and give you an update on my note-taking systems. So moving to AI, there's been a quite big a lot of changes in my uh workflow as you've seen already, right? Like we I was editing stuff and I'm like talking to AI on the command line. So that is a

big change here. But also uh another one here is of course uh like actually working with with with the AI. So I I was around like I was in the beginning of my tech career actually that's when chat GPT came around. So I I spent two years in my career not having chat GPT. So I actually I'm still somewhat old school in the sense that I had to use Stack Overflow man pages and Google to solve the problems I was getting when I was learning Kubernetes for example. I

couldn't just ask what does this mean in Kubernetes? I would get a perfect answer. Nowadays, that's very different. And things have become much more advanced than just a chatbot in the the browser, which has been the default way of interacting with these LLMs so far, right? And even with cloud code, like this is just in 10 years from now, we're going to look back and think, oh my god, we were like using this in the terminal and we were writing. Oh my god. And it

was just one it was just back and forth. For now, what we have is claude code. Uh, I use cloud code. That is my default way of interacting with AIS. Well, LLMs, I should say, large language models. I have it in my home lab repo. I

have it with my customers. So, one important thing here is yes, I use cloud code everywhere, but I don't use it on my host system. So, I laugh so much. Like, I see it almost every day on X where people share horror stories where Clawed Code deleted their entire home directory and their shiny little MacBook is now completely useless. And this is yeah I don't want to this is not this is not to come across as elitist or something like that but here you really see the the difference between people who actually understand a Unix system and who know how to work on the command line and people who have no idea who download cloud code and then just let it loose on everything right and I think everybody should learn the command line if you're a serious computer user then learn Linux and learn the command line but I think that you need to master the command line fundamentals first before you start using tools like claw code because you have no idea what's going on and you get stuff like for example claude code deleting your home directory so again how I do it is I run it in dev containers obviously so I have claude installed in my dev container I can just configure it like this you I it and because I'm not in a I don't have a browser in my in my thing in my dev container it will just prompt me like this and then I can authorize. I can

authorize here and now I'm logged in successfully and here we go. Now I can start working on cloud code. So give me a summary of this this project and now I can easily just give it all the permissions it want it needs like I can use this in privilege mode etc. It doesn't matter because it is in a container. It is it's it cannot do any damage because it is completely f contained uh in this container. So cloud

when I would run claude code on my host system. I have my complete settle cast in here. I have all of my notes located on my host system. I'm not going to send all of that to anthropic. And yes, you can sort of prompt it and allow things.

you have to sort of give it permission for it to read certain directories etc. But still I don't want that risk at all. So in in here claw does not see anything like that. It if I go to my home directory it does not have anything. It just has all only the code and the install install files that it needs to develop on this project and nothing more. So none of my host file system is

ever exposed um to anthropic. So that is the proper way to do it in my opinion. So my advice is use cla code. That's the tool to focus on. Stop using like cursor or windsurf or all these kinds of things. Just use claude code. Be a grow

up be a man and use the command line. Uh for me I only use uh claude. I cancelled my chat GPT subscription a few months ago because I mean claude opus 4.5 there's just no nothing beats that. and chatbt is just horrible in my opinion compared to this. So I use claude um 4.5

and for for smaller stuff I will use haiku. So I have like huge extremely advanced um personal AI systems that I built myself but which I'm not sharing publicly but um for there I I I use parallel agents and for like smaller stuff using Haiku is much much faster and also it limits your token usage even though I am on the super max plan on on anthropic I frequently hit my limits with all of the stuff that I'm building and that I'm doing. Um but uh so that is I I generally use Opus and then Haiku for like small one-off tasks. Now another tool that is extremely useful u in the AI toolkit is fabric. So I'm a huge fan of Mis Daniel Mesler's work.

Yeah, huge fan of what he does. And one of these tools is fabric. You have probably seen this so far already. But what what is great about fabric is that it follows the Unix philosophy, right? So you have a CLI tool to interact with AI. And I think if you're even remotely

interested in becoming better at the command line, you have to stop using these browser applications in general, but also with AI because let me show you what you can do. So fabric and make sure that you configure the command the command line completion. It has for example this it has all of these patterns, right? So you can do suggest pattern and then you say I want to write an essay about Nixos. Okay. So

it's going to suggest a pattern. So this the pattern to use. So it's suggesting the write essay pattern. So I know for a fact that this one needs an author name as a variable. So here I I did one like write an essay about microplastics. But

let's do something like um write an essay about whether one should learn Nyx OS if one is interested in landing a DevOps job or a job as a platform engineer and whether it is better to learn dev containers. So this is now from the command line going to query the the LLM and it's going to actually perform the job. So here's the essay that it wrote uh Nexos dev containers and getting hired. The question of whether to learn Nexos for DevOps as a simple answer probably not at least not first. It's not because Nixos is bad. It's actually quite good.

Uh the problem is one of prevalence. Most companies don't use Nixos. Most job postings don't me mention it. Most hiring managers have never touched it. Dev containers, on the other hand, show up everywhere. They're a layer on top of

Docker blah blah blah. So, you know, this is how we then write an essay. But what's cool is that we can take the output of that command. And again, this is Unix philosophy and command line basics, right? But I can pipe that. Let

me make this a little bit smaller. And let's do that to fabric uh p summarize for example. So I'm now going to create an essay and I'm also going to summarize that for example. But you can also take the output of some command from the command line for example logs or anything like that and if you have a pattern to analyze logs then you can string these kinds of commands together and then get the output that you want right so in this case I'm generating an essay and then I am summarizing it but this is just a weird example but I hope you can start seeing how just like how you would you know take log commands pipe them to grab etc do all all these kinds of things you can now also start stringing together AI commands using fabric I really like this 110 send summary dev containers offer more career value than xiz for devops roles because they solve common problems companies actually have so again I'm going to rest my case now but the AI is constantly consistently telling you do not learn Nixos if if you're land interested in landing these jobs. So, but that is how fabric is becoming extremely useful for me because they have like these extract wisdom patterns and I can take essays or articles, extract the wisdom, create a summary out of it and then I can start using this in my own work you know. So the those are

the two main tools that I use um day-to-day which have started to take a huge place in my my workflow. Now let's wrap things up with the browser. Uh the previous video I was using cute browser and Firefox. Unfortunately I had to leave cube browser because it was not playing well with my UB key and in the meantime Firefox changed their terms as well. So they are now basically allowed to um that I I don't know the details but when it came out they changed their terms and basically they're allowed to read what you do in the browser and you um you have no control. You don't own

the data that you enter in the browser anymore. I think that was it. Don't quote me on it please. But something changed in their terms making it less privacy friendly. So I um I eventually landed on Vivaldi. That's the browser

that I'm currently using. Vivaldi browser. And is this the most private uh alternative one? Probably not. Uh but I did like this one because it is developed by an individual company and it yeah it is sponsor. They have this

thing where you when you create the browser they're going to prompt you for VPN here. So they have like a deal with Proton and that's how they make money probably. But here they claim that privacy isn't just a feature in Vivaldi. It's a philosophy. No profiling, data mining, no nonsense. Built-in ad tracker

blockers plus end to end encryption for sync data. So I I I really like the browser so far. It's fast. It works well. And it has end to end syncing of my bookmarks. like I don't have any

passwords or uh credit card data in my browser. You should never store that stuff in a browser. God forbid. But um yeah, this is the one that I ended up with because I I I am I have a few browser extensions that I wish to use which are almost only available in the Chrome web browser store, the extension store. So I'm basically limited to Chromebased browsers at this point. So yeah, I

that's that's like the compromise, right? But as I mentioned, I'm doing more and more of my browsing on the command line actually. And then finally, as the part of my workflow is the settle casten and note takingaking. Well, not much has changed there actually. It is still I still take notes using the tetlecast method. If I look here, my

system has over 5,000 notes. You can see it in the bottom of the screen here. I think maybe one thing that did change was that I have a Z cello casting command now. So if I open if I run the CK day, then it's going to open my daily note. Yeah. And one thing that has

changed here is that I am using my um Neoim much more to interact with my cell casten. And I also created a um my own custom cellcast and I'm I'm using this. It's very bespoke. It's created for myself. Like this is not a good open source project or anything. But if you're interested in

it, then you feel free to take a look. But I basically only use my um my tetle casten from the command line using this CLI tool that I wrote myself. It is in many ways similar to obsidian envim, but I just wanted to have something that I control completely myself. And this seemed to be a lot more bloated than what I needed. So I just built my own CLI. So that is basically the only

update I have to share on this. So yeah, this is my complete Neoim T-max and Linux workflow for 2026. summarizing still on dev containers now only on Linux and incorporating much more AI CLI tools here and always striving to go more and more into the CLI and this year like adding my email browsing everything these custom commands um I'm uh now using those in in the command line as much as possible so all of the stuff you've seen if you want to get access to any of this if you want to learn directly from me. If you want to know, if you want to become the person that does this kind of stuff, then check out the link below. CubeCraft is probably the thing that you want and I'm very happy to mentor and teach you there personally. This is what I do. Check it

out if you're interested in it. If not, no problem at all. And then I hope you had some value from this video and I will see you in the next