---
video_title: "Why Is Everyone Buying This $150 Linux Laptop?"
video_id: Eor_qf5KCHI
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eor_qf5KCHI
video_date: 2026-08-04T15:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Want to land a DevOps job & work remotely? Go here: https://kubecraft.click/cgv144
  
  Get my FREE 8-hour Linux course → https://kubecraft.click/linux-cgv144
  
  This is the best budget Linux laptop you can buy in 2026. This $150 machine runs Linux smoothly, handles daily work with ease, and can serve as your daily driver for a decade. Perfect for anyone who wants a cheap, reliable Linux laptop without paying MacBook prices.
  
  Watch the full build from unboxing to first boot. You'll see how to find refurbished ThinkPads on eBay, disable secure boot in the BIOS, boot from USB, and install Linux Mint step by step. We also cover disk encryption and threat models, installing apps through the Software Manager, and how to turn an old laptop into a Kubernetes home lab server.
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Linux Mint download: https://linuxmint.com/download.php
  → Free 8-hour Linux course + community: https://kubecraft.click/linux-cgv144
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischavdburg
  → Personal blog: https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into successful DevOps careers.
  
  #Linux #ThinkPad #Homelab
---
This machine costs $150 and it's the perfect Linux laptop if you're on a budget. The ThinkPad T480 is a real workhorse and it can serve as your daily driver for years to come. In this video, I'm going to set this up with Linux from start to finish but stick around till the end because I'm going to share some more advanced use cases that you didn't think of. Let's go! In this box, I have my new T480 but before I unbox this, I want to show you how I got it and how you can find these machines yourself. So when I say that these machines are only $150, I'm not lying, let me prove it to you. If you go on eBay and you search for this ThinkPad T480, then yes, there are going to be a few more expensive ones but the main ones here are around 99, 175, 150, 150, 200. The price is range based on the condition and of course the specs of the thing. But it is absolutely possible to get one of these machines for $150. Now the one that I got is I paid 367 euros for that. So currently that is $423. So I paid about $400 for this one and the reason for that is because I bought a refurbished one. So here in the Netherlands, you have companies that specialize in buying up enterprise hardware and then cleaning it up, making sure everything works and freshen everything up and then resell it again to the consumers. And the one that I got then is this ThinkPad T480 that they're offering. It is actually on sale and the reason why it's more expensive is because I upgraded the SSD and I went for 16 gigabytes of RAM. So I nudged it up a little bit because this is going to be used by my friend and I think you can get by with 8 gigabytes of RAM on Linux easily but for only 40 bucks for 40 euros, I could give him 16 and he's only going to be doing word processing on this thing. He's not doing any other things on it but for the 40 euros it's better to just have a little bit of more RAM. So that is why this one is a bit more expensive. I didn't want to bother with I just needed this thing to be delivered to my house and I already bought from them in the past so I know they have good service and good quality. So that is basically how I got this one. So with that out of the way, let's do some unboxing and as I'm opening this, let me tell you the story of why I am suddenly installing a ThinkPad. If you don't know, I spent two years in a Buddhist monastery and I'm in contact with the people that I got to know in that period and many of the monks that I live with I'm still in contact with. And the tradition of those monks is that they cannot use money. They depend entirely on other people to support them. So my friend, he asked me if I had an old laptop that he could borrow because he is a monk and in this tradition, you're not really supposed to be walking around with like super fancy technology. My first instinct was to buy a MacBook or something because it's so stable but it is actually not the right thing to do. These monks, it's much more fitting for them to have something older, something that is reused and like ideologically this fits much better. So that is the perfect use case for a refurbished laptop. That is the reason why I am buying this and here we go. Here we see this is how it's packaged and the box simply includes the laptop and a charger and that's it. So I really like how they package this so it's not just flopping around. Next I will just open this up and of course me being Mifha Van Lundberg. I'm not going to give my friend a Windows laptop that is slow. Now we are going to get him on Linux. So this is the laptop and as I'm unpacking this I'm just looking at the shape of it but it looks super nice. It is very cleaned up and I'm also noticing it has probably has a bigger, yeah it has a bit of a bigger battery pack. So that's going to be useful for him that it can last a longer time. So that's nice. It looks very clean. Now the reason why I love the T480 so much is because it's an older machine but it still has an HD screen 1080p. It just is a solid machine. Like this is built for business people carrying it around in their bags all the time. Like it's a solid piece of hardware and let me see can I see the serial number? No I can't see it but this thing is maybe eight years old already five to ten years probably but it's still because I bought it refurbished. It is super clean. It's nice but just the feeling of this thing like it is so solid. The keyboard is nice. I mean I love these machines. I've been I daily drove this for years and this is just going to be such a good machine for my friend. So let's hook up the power and let's get Linux on there. So I have my USB stick with Linux on it and I set up a little camera here so you can see what I'm doing and I haven't even powered this machine on before. Like you're literally seeing me power it up for the first time. Adding the USB now let's power it up and see what happens and let's see if we can even get Linux on there before ever booting Windows. Cool so it's starting right away and here we go. If I just press enter I could just enter the BIOS like this by pressing enter and then F1. Here we are. We are in the BIOS now. I don't see any information about when this one was created but what we can do is we can first of all secure boot. We have to disable secure boot. Next we're going to boot and then we are going to boot from this one. So move this one all the way to the top. So now the USB is going to be the next thing that is going to boot over the Windows boot manager. Okay then I press F10 save and escape. So now when it boots again it should start booting from the USB. Here we go. Start Linux Mint because yeah now I can reveal the distro that I chose. I chose Linux Mint because my friend he is used to using Windows PCs but also Mac but he is not a computer power user. He's doing Buddhist translations so he's mainly going to be processing text and working from the browser. So Google docs is basically what he's going to be working on. And since Linux Mint has this very familiar feel with the start menu in the bottom left and your time in the bottom right it's just a very familiar interface for people who are not like very well versed with computers. So my priority here is to get him a system that he can easily work with that is stable and that can also be easily updated because he lives in Sweden. I live in the Netherlands so I'm not able to just easily go to him and help him. I can help him remotely but it's best if his system is as stable as possible and that is why we are going for something like Linux Mint. Real quick if you enjoyed watching this video so far please click the subscribe button down below. It's a completely free way to support the channel and it really really helps me out. Thank you so much. Now back to the video. There we go. It is already started now and this is basically the live environment where I can test it out and you can see already everything is functioning nicely but here it says install Linux Mint in the top left so I will just start that and we will follow the wizard here. So this will be a bit hard to read. I apologize but I will do my best to just share what I'm doing. So it just says English so I'm just choosing the language here, English US and here it is now going to ask me to connect to a Wi-Fi network. I'm actually just going to do that right away because that means I can download the updates as I'm installing this already. Continue. It is now asking if I want to install multimedia codecs and I'm going to say yes to that because I want just to have maximum compatibility and if he ever wants to watch a YouTube video or something it just needs to work and then here it's asking me if I want to install it alongside windows. So I detected this so this is why this is such a good installer and we are actually going to erase everything advanced. We don't need to use LVM I think. So if you've watched any of my earlier Linux videos you know that I'm really really strict on encryption and that you should always encrypt your drives. Now this is the use case for this machine is for a monk that has no professional career or anything like that and he's not storing any company data or anything you know and it would actually be bothersome for him to have to enter his encryption password every time and he basically doesn't have any data that needs to be encrypted. So you always have to think about your threat model but if you are going to be using your machine in any professional capacity always encrypt your machine but because I am preparing this for a ultra casual user who doesn't need any advanced features no advanced security or privacy concerns. I'm okay with not encrypting this so I'm just going to say no advanced features and just erase the disk and install now. That's good it's going to create two partitions one ESP boot partition and an EXT for partition for arrest. Nice and easy and clean and simple. So his name is Titanyano, it's his monk name. The computer's name is going to be TN the user name will be TN or now let's just do Titanyano. It's password, we will require his password to log in. Alright so now Linux Mint is going to install. Okay so the installation wizard has now finished and it's asking me do I want to continue testing here or do I want to just restart? So I'll just tick the restart now button and that is going to reboot. When it does I will remove the USB stick. Here we go remove installation and press enter. So now it should boot up cleanly with Linux for the first time. And here we go look how clean that is. Log in. Welcome to Linux Mint. Super nice. Yep this looks really good. Welcome to your new operating system. This is very good and I'm going to keep showing this at startup so my friend will see this too. So the first thing I'm going to do is to install OBS on this so that I can record the screen and I can actually show you what's going on. So it doesn't have it installed yet and actually this is one of my my first time of installing anything on Linux Mint. So I'm just going to the software manager here and this is now generating the cache and just getting all of the updates etc. Alright so here's the software manager and if I just simply search for OBS then here we go here's OBS studio that's what I want and it's actually loaded from flat hub. So let's see how easy this is going to be to install. Clicked on OBS studio, click install and I accept this. So this is now installing. Okay so the installation has now completed and let's see if this is just going to work in one go. I click launch and boom it's already working. I mean this is why I choose Linux Mint for something like this because the person I'm giving this to is not skilled at computers you want something that just works. So if I would have chosen something like Fedora Atomic then there is a chance that I would have had to set up flat back first or something like that. But now all of this it just works out of the box like this is truly made to just work without having to tinker and for this particular use case it's perfect and you can see it how smooth everything is already. So I'm just setting this up to record in 24 apply settings it has already detected my camera too. So if I then go to settings here here we go and then as a source I'm just going to add the screen video capture device. So here is my camera it's already working but that's not the one that I wanted. We don't have to include all of that. So we will just add a display capture and capture the display and boom we are ready to record. So we are recording the screen on the thingpad now so you can follow along with what we're doing and basically I'm just going to quickly check out what's going on here but everything should already work. So the nice thing about Linux Mint is that it has this familiar start menu for people to follow around. You just have everything neatly organized here it already includes all of the implications that we want. So for example, Libri Office writer he is going to be mainly working with documents well everything is already start installed in an hello world it just works like super easily and just as I'm moving through this like this is an old laptop but everything is working super quickly everything is super snappy and this is just a word processor of course so this is not like very heavy usage but you can see as I'm moving around that this is just super clean and fast and snappy it is no issues at all. So even when I just go on the internet let's check out Firefox and let's just check out if the internet is working. So this is YouTube and let's see if we can find Misha Van then Berg here that strange guy that some people like to watch sometimes what is this channel all about oh it's about Linux really cool and it seems that everything is working well. So yeah everything is working smoothly I can watch YouTube videos, Firefox is browsing smoothly and it's just such a good experience for a normal user right and let's see what do we have here. So here's OBS we have Bluetooth enabled system reports what is that about system information interesting it's doing some system checks. You can actually launch time shift for automatic backups that's already set up for you this is the update manager so here it will see if there are updates available actually it's already showing some updates here already so let's just update that right away so that was the update of the actual update manager and here it's showing all of these packages that can already be updated so let me just do install updates and boom look how easy that is like this is so perfect for someone who is not very well versed on a computer and who just needs something that works so this is why I chose Linux Mint everything works right out of the box you can just go on the internet and go to Google Docs or you can use LibreOffice everything he needs is on this computer and he can install anything that he may want so Linux Mint is definitely one of the best solutions if you just want something that works and as you see on a hundred and fifty dollar machine like this can be a proper daily driver if you just be working on the command line if you're just doing text work like nor but 90% of people don't need more than this for like administrative computer use like if you are stretching this to gaming like you can play games on this like you can play older games like for normal day to day use this is perfectly fine and you can use this machine as a daily driver for a decade to come easily as I'm using this again like the keyboard it is just so solid the whole machine the trackpad everything works everything works so smoothly and solid that this is by far the favorite laptop that I would recommend if you're looking for a Linux daily driver now in the beginning of this video I mentioned I would go beyond a workstation and that's going to be the next thing we're going to talk about which is to use this thing as a server you see you can run applications on this 24 seven and you can start your home lab with a machine like this like my personal home lab started with a t for 20 here it is this is the thinkpad t for 20 this was my first Linux machine I got this machine from my brother it was an old machine from his job and they didn't need it anymore so I used this to install my first Linux installation in my home lab and to this day this machine is now serving as a Kubernetes node in my cluster and it's now hosting multiple postgres clusters and still going rock solid that's 8 gigabytes of RAM and an i5 CPU that's just running smoothly 24 seven so that's a proper server and in fact the other thing pad t for 80 that I mentioned that I used that as a Linux machine for several years like I was actually working on that when I was a freelance Kubernetes consultant that was my daily driver and now it is serving as a another node in my Kubernetes cluster so people have this misconception about home labs and self hosting that you need all these expensive servers with blinking lights etc but the truth is you don't you can start with something like this so if you want to learn Linux like you do in the free Linux course that you can find linked in the description then buying a cheap machine like this is a really good step because you can install on it you can run it for a while and when you are when you're maybe upgrading your pc and maybe when you're upgrading to a newer machine then you can just easily use this as a server so you can build a complete home lab with based on these laptops alone and that is where Kubernetes comes in this is what I use to teach my students to land six finger tech jobs if you're interested in that you can check out the link in the description around that but what we do there is we build a Kubernetes home lab where we cluster together all these machines for example these thinkpads and then we build a portfolio of projects around that fully centered around Kubernetes and my students are landing tech jobs with this every single week so if you're interested in that check out the link in the description so the thinkpati for 80 is probably the best Linux machine that you can get if you're on a budget and you can use this as a daily driver and then later use that as a server in your home lab and this is basically the best budget option there is out there and if you want to learn Linux beyond Linux Mint if you really want to learn how to work on the command line and start working towards a tech job and check out the link in the description below where you can find my eight hour Linux course it's completely for free but I'm giving it away because I want as many people as possible to experience the joys of Linux if you fill out your details you will get an invite and what you will get is over eight hours of premium video course material plus over eight hours of bonus material and I'm hosting workshops here every single week where you can ask me questions this is the best place to learn Linux on the internet it also comes with a community of nearly 6000 people at this point and it's all completely for free check out the link in the description below I'm sure you'll love it because thousands of people are already working in it and loving it find friends to learn Linux together check out the link in the description below and I'll see you in the community