---
video_title: "Great DevOps engineers didn't learn Kubernetes from cartoons."
video_id: 7EpY-GD5uRk
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EpY-GD5uRk
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Apply to join KubeCraft and get mentorship: https://kubecraft.click/cgv151
  
  Still stuck after years of courses? Get my FREE DevOps Career Blueprint → the step-by-step path to a 6-figure DevOps job: https://kubecraft.click/bp-cgv151
  
  Tutorial daycare is why you still do not have a DevOps job. You bought the courses, watched the cartoon characters bounce around the screen, and it felt like learning. Then you sat down at the keyboard and nothing was there.
  
  I watched a tech video full of animations and mascots and it made me angry. Grown men do not need a children's TV show to learn Linux and Kubernetes. In this video I show you how education has worked for 800 years, why the format got soft because the audience got soft, and what two weeks of Instagram did to my own focus. Then I give you the four laws of tech studies I use to teach: hands on the keyboard, go to the primary source, break it on purpose, and write it down in your own words. These are the same habits that took me from nurse to senior DevOps engineer in under five years.
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Apply to the KubeCraft mentorship program: https://kubecraft.click/cgv151
  → Free DevOps Career Blueprint: https://kubecraft.click/bp-cgv151
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  → Website: https://kubecraft.click/yt-apply-2
  → X / Twitter: https://x.com/mischavdburg
  → Personal blog: https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  → LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mischavandenburg/
  → Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mischavandenburg/
  → TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@mischavandenburg
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #DevOps #TutorialHell #CareerChange
---
I was watching a YouTube video yesterday and it made me angry. It was grinding my gears, if you will. And the YouTube video was about a technical concept. It was explaining a technical concept to an audience that want to become DevOps engineers and cloud engineers. And what I saw in the video was like colorful images and cartoon characters that were jumping around and making things fun and accessible. And I was thinking to

myself, is this what tech education has come to? We have grown men watching cartoon characters thinking that they're learning something and this is somehow going to get them into sixf figureure tech careers. And what's happening here is infantilization of tech education which means that the tech educators are treating you like a child like you are much younger than you really are. [music] And I think this is a symptom of modern society and it has to stop. And in this video, I'm going to go deeper into this. Fun is not the same as

interesting. Consider traditional education. I have a university degree in English language and culture, and I spend three years in the following format. First, I show up to the lecture hall. Then, I watch a man or a woman speak about a topic that they are an expert in for two, one or two hours while they are writing on a blackboard. They are not using

PowerPoint slides. There are no animations and cute music and whatever. It's just them talking to a group of people while writing on the blackboard. Then I would sit down. I would take notes as I'm listening to this expert speak. After that, when the lecture

ends, I would ask that person questions if anything needed clarification. Then I would go home and I would process what I have learned. I would take my notes. I would study it further and then eventually you were to write an essay about it or to take a test on it. This format has been the predominant educational format for over 800 years in the west. Every medicine you take, every

technological device you use and basically everything you know has been produced by this format of education. So, please tell me, if this has been working for eight centuries, why are grown men now sitting there watching cartoon characters explain stuff on the screen? Like, I don't get it. I don't understand it. And to be clear, I don't mean to say that education has to be boring. Like,

education can be interesting and sometimes even entertaining. One some of the best lectures that I've attended was when a professor inserted a few jokes and had everyone laughing. Sometimes the professor is a bit charismatic or has these odd mannerisms that just make it entertaining like the person is entertaining just watching him. So I have nothing against that. But there is this notion these days that education somehow has to be fun. It has to be

colorful and playful. And I disagree with it. But personally, I draw the line where educators start using high production value and animated characters and fleshy things in courses and educational material because then they're relying on production value to make it fun, which it's just distracting. And the problem with this is that it makes you feel productive while you're not actually productive. This content is engineered to produce the feeling of learning and the illusion of understanding. When you watch this

content, your mind will trick you into believing that you actually learned something. I call this tutorial daycare. Somebody is being paid to keep you occupied safely, pleasantly for as long as possible, and you leave with nothing you can use. Now, I've been there myself. I have been through this experience. We've all been there where

we bought multiple Udemy courses and we all we watch them. Oh, it's so nice and fun and time flies by so quickly. But then afterwards when you actually sit down at the keyboard you realize that you haven't learned anything. You don't remember anything and nothing has stuck. Even though all those hours you felt you were actually learning something. And I

know that so many of you are watching this channel you're maybe working as a software engineer or you're working IT support and two years ago you decided hey maybe DevOps is the thing for me. You bought a couple of courses, you've done them, but you're still stuck in your same job. Or maybe if you're a software engineer, you're being fired and replaced by AI and still you have nothing to show for all of those Udemy courses you bought. You've been working in IT for multiple years and you know what it's about. You you maybe you even know Linux, but you have nothing to show for it. You've nothing that you've

actually built, nothing you've shipped, and you don't have a public portfolio that you can showcase on the internet. Now, this is caused by multiple factors, but I claim that one of these factors is because you're watching content that is engineered to teach a child. But where did this come from? Why did we decide at some point that education needs to be fun and accessible and cute and have cartoon characters? When did grown men decide that this is the stuff that they want to watch and to pay for? Now, I

claim that this is a symptom of deeper things that are playing out in society. So let's talk about it. The format got soft because the audience got soft. Now I personally had a very vivid experience of becoming soft recently. Now as you know I mainly write newsletters and make YouTube videos but my team informed me that I have a Tik Tok and an Instagram account now. And we're going to try to

push some more content to that area as well. But I never really used Instagram. In order to understand a platform, you have to actually use the platform. As a research project over the past few months, I downloaded Instagram and I installed it on my phone and for 15 minutes a day, I would start using it to get a sense of what's working on the platform and how we should approach it. Now, a very interesting thing happened.

These 15 minutes in two sessions, the algorithm completely figured out exactly what I like. And I was planning to use it for 15 minutes a day. Those very quickly turned into 30 minutes, 45 minutes, sometimes 2 hours a day. I was scrolling and I was doing this like I thought I was doing this very consciously and I've been meditating for over a decade. So I have this high level of mindfulness and all of a sudden these 15 minutes have had that slipped into two hours of scrolling on Instagram. I

was like, whoa, what's going on here? And after a couple of weeks of this, I realized that I was I would be going about my day. And as usual, there's also some some open space in my day. And then as soon as I had some time left, I found myself automatically picking up my phone. And I had the irresistible urge to open the Instagram app. And this is

in two weeks or something like that. And I'm a grown man who has grown up with dialup connection, who has witnessed the in the rise of the internet, the rise of social media. I grew up when Facebook still didn't exist. Like I was one of the first people in my friend group to use Facebook for example. And even with all of that life experience, I just got reeled in so quickly. And I was

just amazed at the speed of this habit formation. Now, I'm not going to lecture you on what you should do in your free time, but I could like very clearly see what was happening. And those 60 minutes a day I was spending on Instagram, they were very quickly eroding what my job and my work actually hinges on. And this phenomenon where you watch short form dopamine infused content that decided to entertain you that is also being transferred to educational content. Right now these content producers did not just suddenly out of the blue decide to do this. It is done for a reason and

the reason is that they are competing for the men who have lost the ability to focus on high quality educational content where we actually talk about the subject matter whose minds have been lobbomized by watching short form content and who who cannot focus on actual tech education anymore. So they have to reel them in with all of these happy jumpy characters. The format got soft because the audience got soft. And this is happening across society. I recently read an article in a Dutch newspaper saying that over the last 13 quarters, the number of young people that are receiving welfare has risen.

Last quarter it rose with 3.4% to 42 and a half thousand people receiving welfare in the Netherlands who are under 27 years old. And in that article, they were talking to these youth workers who work with unemployed young people and they're saying that like the all of these youngsters, they're all they do like when they wake up in the morning, the first thing they do is open up Instagram and start scrolling. They do it all day. And when they ask these people to focus for on a task for five minutes, they simply cannot do it. And

then it obviously becomes very hard to hold down a job. Now these are young men who have gotten into this from the age of 11. But it does not just affect young men. Like society is trying to get us men to behave like children. There's an infantilization happening on many many different levels. And I am just sick and

tired of it. And it manifests in people buying course after course, watching video after video, thinking they're learning, but they're not actually learning. Like if you're watching this, you don't have a DevOps job yet. Why is that? You have done that for six months, 12 months, 24 months. You've been

watching my content for multiple years and still you don't have the job. So why is that? Well, I think this is one of the reasons. And it's not because you for a lack of effort. Here you are, you're like trying to do the right thing. You are buying these courses. You

are doing you're trying to learn from them. But as a grown man, you're just sitting there watching cartoon characters explaining your craft to you. And yeah, it it doesn't work. If you get treated like a child, then you start thinking like a child. Now, I do things very differently. I started teaching

over four years ago on my YouTube channel. And in every single tech video, you will see me sitting there on the command line with a corner cam in my sort of monotone voice speaking and showing my expertise. I have developed a very distinct teaching style that uh that really works. I've taught Kubernetes to tens of thousands of people all over the world. I've coached over a thousand people into DevOps careers successfully. And not a single

second of my technical education content has a cartoon character jumping around on the screen. It's just as if you would like we were on a team. You would start on a job and on the first day with a new engineer, we are sitting there and I'm showing you how to set up the Kubernetes cluster or whatever it is that I'm teaching you. And even when I teach theory, you won't see me using PowerPoint slides. like I would have the terminal open with my text editor, Vim of course, and write it in there and just teach from there. There's no need

for flashy animations and everything because that's not what it's about. It's about the content. It's about what I'm trying to convey to you and it's about the information and it's about getting you to put your hands on the keyboard and do it with me, not sit there and drink Coke and watch flashy characters. It's about getting you to learn to actually do what is required so that you can lodge this information in your brain so that after you watch the module you are able to sit down and reproduce what you have learned. That is my goal as an educator not to entertain you but to actually teach you. So after teaching

tens of thousands of people, grown men, multiple skills, I've I teach Linux, containers, Kubernetes, CI/CD pipelines, I I teach everything. I show them how to do it and then they land a job with it. And doing that for multiple years now full-time has given me a sense of what works and what doesn't. And in the next section, I'm going to share with you the four laws of tech education that are going to skyrocket your learning. How grown men learn. The four laws of text

studies. Select high quality source material that relies on the expertise of the teacher instead of the quality of the animations and editing. When you have your source material, follow these laws and your text studies will skyrocket. Law number one, hands on the keyboard always. If you're watching a tech tutorial without a terminal open, you've already up. Type the commands yourself without

copy pasting. Make errors and fix them. Watching someone else type is watching someone else learn. It is fake productivity. If you finish a video and your terminal has no history in it, you did not study. You attended. This is a

law that I arrived at from my own painful experience when I was coming up as a DevOps engineer. I am a very theoretical person. I love reading books. I love holding multiple difficult philosophies in my mind and and looking at them from all angles. I'm very theoretical in my mind. And when I

started out, I was reading book after book, watching all these videos without actually applying what I was learning. And I was doing this for months and I it felt like I was learning and like I was doing the right thing. But when I sat down to do something, it I didn't know anything. So I learned the hard way that the only way to actually learn is to keep your hands on the keyboard and do it as you are learning it. So in my courses in CubeCraft I like I I tell people in the videos like come uh put your hands on the keyboard type it don't sit there and watch I need you to do this with me as we go along.

So I I constantly remind people to do this and that has I've seen has worked really well so far. So you can only learn if you actually put it into practice and you start building something with it. Law number two, go to the primary source and stay in the confusion. One of my most controversial teachings is to always use the man pages in Linux and avoid using AI in your first year. So many people are going to be writing angry in the comments like, "Oh, you can use chat GPT and why why are you still using man pages in in 2026?"

But I mean, how many people have you landed into DevOps careers? Okay, let's just start there. How how much authority do you have in actually taking someone from zero to landing him a DevOps career? How many people have you done that with? I've been doing that full-time for multiple years now. I've

helped hundreds of people get this success. I know what I'm doing and I know what what I'm recommending. The reason why I say this is that to this day, like yesterday, I was having a Q&A call inside of CubeCraft where people come and ask me for mentorship and I give them mentorship like personally. I help them with their personal situation. And one of these guys we he asked me for some pointers for preparing for his interview and he specifically mentioned that there was no chat GBT allowed during that interview. So if you are in

a technical interview on the command line where you have to fix some problem or they're they're like testing your troubleshooting skills and when I'm interviewing someone I want to see someone who opens up the man pages hit slash and is able to find the the right keyword. Like I want someone who is able to get the information he needs right on the command line instead of just after 4 seconds oh what should I do chat GPT like that you're not going to pass any interviews with this. So, it's not necessarily about the man pages. It's about like do you have the ability to break down a problem in smaller sections and do you know where to look for this information? And instead of just going straight to Chad GBT or even Google for that matter, I want to see people to go to the the source material like read the material that the people who built the thing wrote for your uses usage. And

this also comes down to certificates. Like if you want to do Kubernetes certificates, all you have is the official documentation. So learn to navigate the documentation. Like it's it's simple, but most people don't think about this. Law number three, break it on purpose. Delete the node, kill the

pod, revoke the certificate, and mess up the config file and then get the system back. Build it, break it, fix it, upgrade it. That is the whole job. So you're only going to learn if you have the hands on the keyboard and then you're not just like swallowing everything the teacher says like when you learn a new CLI tool and then you think oh well let's check out the help and let's see if there are some other interesting flags here or if you're you know deploying an application to a Kubernetes cluster if the teacher deploys it with one replica well why not just deploy it with three replicas like what what what will happen or maybe I am going to change this environment variable or try that setting out like you have to you have to get this curious mindset and this is what the home lab is for right this is why I always always stress the the importance of building a home lab so that you have an a place where you can do this kind of experimentation where you can break stuff where you can try like if I take this wire and pull it out what happens like does it does everything go down? You need to get into that kind of mindset because then you're going to get into situations where something is broken and you have to learn how to fix it. This is how you learn how to debug,

how to solve problems and how to expose yourself to challenging situations and intentionally trying to do this as a learning experience. And if you have that mindset, if you are like conditioning yourself to be in these tough situations all the time, even at home, you're going to become a very strong engineer and you're going to learn very quickly, like very very quickly. Like people very often look at my CV and they think, "Wow, how how did this guy go from junior engineer from nurse to junior engineer to senior DevOps engineer in less than five years? Like how did that happen?" Well, because I was always at home doing this, experimenting, learning, taking things apart, you know, as a kid, I was always had like my desk was always full of radios and and and cars and and play cars and that kind of thing. And I would

take them apart and like figure out like what what is this about? Like how does it work? And that's the kind of mindset that you want to have because if you do that constantly as a default, you're going to train yourself to get this problem solving mindset to understand how things work from the bottom up. And you can only do that if you break things on purpose. Law number four, write it down in your own words. When I was

studying containers three years ago, I wrote a note that said, "Virtual machines are like books. Containers are like newspapers. A book is written with great care. It has a thick cover. It is durable and it's meant to last. A

newspaper is written once, printed on thin paper, and when it gets wet, it is finished. That is a container. Now, I can still explain this metaphor four years later. Ever since I wrote this, I still use that when I'm teaching other people about containers. Now I came to this metaphor because I needed to figure out a way to remember the difference between a virtual machine and a container and I was just thinking like how can I explain this to someone else?

How can I ensure that I really understand this? And then I came up with this metaphor like it might not be a particularly good metaphor but it definitely gave me the hook to remember what the difference is between a virtual machine which has its own full operating system. It's very durable. It's a self-containing unit and a container which is like might might just be restarted like almost every day when a new version comes out. It's fleeting. It

is lightweight and lightweight. A newspaper compared to a book is lightweight, right? So that's how I remembered it. But I I got there because I was sitting there and writing things in my own words in my notes. Um, this is how you can actually test if you actually understand something. Writing

is thinking and if you can't write about a subject, you don't understand it. Like so many people, they will say, "Oh, I understand this topic." You and it's very it's very tempting, right? It's it and it's it's it's how your mind tricks you. And like to this day I will have things in my m mind co concepts that I've been teaching for for years but when I sit down to write a tutorial a newsletter about it still it really forces me to get absolutely clear on on the writing on on how am I going to phrase this? How does it actually work?

And it's the best test to verify your own understanding about something. So like in in CubeCraft, the first thing I teach people is how to build a note-taking system, how to actually put this into practice in terms of technical knowledge. But it comes down to getting a proper note-taking system going. And whenever you do something, whenever you learn something, you write it down in your own words as if you're going to publish it to a a newspaper or something like that and someone else is going to read it. So someone else who maybe has a baseline understanding of technology should be able to understand the words that you write. If you can do that then

you understand a topic. So law number four write it down in your own words and if you can do that then you know you understand it and if you cannot do that you know that you need to put some more work into this topic. So guys it's time to start behaving like a man and stop behaving like a child. If you take a child and you put it on the couch with a tren's TV program on it, then they will sit there for hours and be hypnotized and they won't they won't give a peep. It's time to grow up, man, and to stop getting yourself being dragged into watching cartoon characters explaining your work to you. Like, this is not what

grown men are supposed to do in 2026. As soon as I became aware of that poisonous app on my phone drawing me away from the concentration on my work, I deleted it from my phone. And now I'm I'm blissfully Instagram free again. and and watching that cartoon video that I opened this video with, it really reinforced my commitment to bring quality, highquality, high expertise educational content for people who want to land DevOps jobs and to put that to present that in a mature way that grown men can appreciate. And yes, it's it's boring. The four laws of

tech education, none of those are easy. None of those will none of those you can do while lying down. But that's why I formulated these laws. You are not a child. So many of you are already working in the IT industry. You have

maybe some of you have held a job for over 20 years. You do not need some sort of cartoon character telling you what to do and to keep you entertained. So close the tab and open the terminal and start building stuff and breaking stuff. That's how grown men learn in 2026 while listening to someone with expertise, explaining to it to them in a calm manner while while writing on a blackboard or working on the command line. Grown men should not be scrolling Instagram or watching cartoon characters dance on a screen. Now, if you are into

this kind of education, if you actually want to learn and if you want to land a tech job, I teach this kind of stuff in CubeCraft. It is invite only. you can apply and it does require a significant financial investment. Thank you so much for watching the video. See you in the next one.