---
video_title: "From Addict To Six-Figure Engineer (My 2026 Message To You)"
video_id: Rvg72fX_dQg
channel_name: "Mischa van den Burg"
channel_id: UCDAck-gFPTrgTx_qp59-bQA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rvg72fX_dQg
video_date: 2026-01-03T15:55:14+00:00
video_description: |
  If you want to read more about my life beyond tech, go here: https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  
  
  Change your life in one year - this is not theory, this is what I've done five times. From 13 years of addiction to seven years sober. From project manager to nurse to Buddhist monk to senior DevOps engineer to business owner. Every major transformation happened within 12 months of committed action.
  
  This raw, unscripted video shares the personal stories behind my career transitions and what it actually takes to reinvent yourself. You'll hear about overcoming addiction through Buddhism and 12-step programs, the humbling experience of starting over as a nurse, two years as a Buddhist monk, and how I landed my first DevOps job with zero CS degree and a fragmented CV. These experiences shaped the coaching methodology that now helps KubeCraft members land jobs every week.
  
  🔗 RESOURCES MENTIONED:
  → Alcoholics Anonymous: https://www.aa.org
  → Narcotics Anonymous: https://www.na.org
  → Forest Tradition Buddhism (Ajahn Chah): https://forestsangha.org
  
  📱 CONNECT WITH ME:
  
  https://mischavandenburg.substack.com/
  
  
  ℹ️ ABOUT KUBECRAFT: I help you land six figure tech jobs through Kubernetes, Linux, home labs, self hosting and production-ready skills. Over 1000 people mentored into succesful DevOps careers.
  
  #CareerChange #DevOps #PersonalGrowth
---
This video is going to be different. I have more to share with the world than just how to land six figure DevOps jobs. That is what I am good at. That's what I do and where I make videos about with love. But many people have been asking about other things as well. So, I

mentioned in a previous video how I struggled with addiction and how I went from going from a nurse in a dead-end job to becoming a very successful engineer and now a businessman as well. And people were curious about this. So, in this video, I'm going to be sharing a few stories about my personal life. This is going to get personal, but the theme is that you can change your life in a year. And I'm going to show you instances of my own life where my life changed completely in the span of one year. I'm going to share a few stories

and hopefully they are they can help you, they can inspire you because when I look around me with friends that I have, people I know, I see them and they're doing the same job, the same work with the same people. they're at like 5% of their potential and something in me wants to help them and tell them there's more to life than what you're doing here. There's more that you can do. Uh because I personally believe that it's very important to constantly reinvent yourself and to keep pushing keep pushing your own boundaries and looking for the next thing and keep challenging yourself. and I see them, I want to tell them, but you can't because you cannot help a patient who cannot who doesn't want help. Right? So, in this

video, I'm going to be sharing those things and maybe you have some some value out of this. So, there are three moments or three years in my life that I I'm going to talk about today. Um, the first of them is when I got sober. So I'll tell I'll talk a bit about my history with addiction and how I changed my life in one year about in in that sense. I'm going to tell I'm going to share a bit about starting my business and becoming a business owner and how that has changed my life in one year. And the

third one is going to be also about my DevOps career transition. How my life completely changed in one year. You can change your life completely in one year. And this of course is a topic that is on people's minds now because it's the beginning of the year and somehow society decided that this is when you make New Year's resolutions. We pick a moment in the calendar and this is somehow when we start to become serious and make goals for ourselves.

Like I live my life independent from these cycles. I don't do new year resolutions. I basically make resolutions every single day because I'm always optimizing. I'm always striving for excellence in everything I do. I always want to be the best version of myself in any activity or any goal that I set for myself. And New Year's resolutions are

but this is when people are thinking about it. So, this is why I'm making this video right now because most of my audience is going to be more receptive to this kind of content. I think so. The first time that I completely changed my life in one year was when I got sober. And yeah, this is going to be personal and it's not easy for me to talk about this on the public internet, but I'm doing this because I want to help people. So, get a sip of I'm going

to take a sip of coffee. If you don't have any coffee yet, I invite you to pause the video and grab a coffee because we're going to be here for a while. This is all just raw, unedit, unedited, unscripted, but um here we go.

I've been addicted to drugs since I was 12 years old. That was the first time when I first smoked my first joint of marijuana. And as a kid, I was always always interested in exciting stuff like alcohol, cigarettes. I think I was nine when I stole my first pack of cigarettes from my dad and I was already smoking behind the house. I always was naturally attracted to this kind of stuff for some reason. But my

father is an alcoholic. Both of my parents smoked and there was kind of a lot of that kind of stuff going on in my family. So I also was exposed to this very in in in my childhood right like there I see many people growing up who don't even see like there's no beer in the house right and that is completely alien to me that kind of environment and that's what the environment that I live in now like to for the record I've been sober for seven years now so I would never expose my child to something like that if I ever were to become a father So I always was naturally attracted to this and living in the Netherlands, marijuana and drugs and all these kinds of things are much more easily accessible than in other parts of the world I imagine. And I had a few cousins who were older than me and I spent a lot of time with and this is how I got exposed to this kind of stuff early. Also, when I was young, you could buy tobacco and alcohol when you were 16 years old legally. So, in our

neighborhood, we had a supermarket and back then you still had like independent supermarkets of independent supermarket owners, not a big chain, but an actual grosser, right? And I figured out as a kid that these people are a little bit more lenient towards age limitations because they needed the money, right? So they would sell tobacco and alcohol to 13year-old kids because they in the normal supermarkets were would be a little bit more strict with that. But from a very young age, I was able to get access to these kinds of things. and then also um by extension marijuana and other types of drugs. I'm

not saying that I was like smoking marijuana every day since I was 12 years old. Far from it, but that was my first ex first exposure to it. And that's also yeah I I I knew instantly like wow this is it. This is this is this is what I want to live my life like. And sounds strange, but it was so exciting to me this kind of stuff. And yeah, fast forward to when I

was 16 years old. At this point, I had a few drug dealers that I knew and I was able to consistently source marijuana and um addiction is always rooted in pain. People who are addicted to substances, they use them because they have pain inside. There is a pain that they're trying to get away from. And that's where these substances come in.

If you look at heroin addicts, all the the majority of them have been sexually abused as a kid, right? That stat is I share that stat because people who end up using these kinds of drugs they get there for a reason and that reason is pain. So during my youth certain things happened where I developed a lot of pain and when I was 16 years old um like I'm not going to go into the details but I already mentioned that my father is an alcoholic and then that led to problems in the family and um my parents divorced and I basically became became homeless in the sense that I had places to sleep. I was I could of course live with my dad and my mom, but I was sort of just li roaming around and living from from a backpack living with friends because being at home was very painful and because my father being in the state that he was was not a father figure to me anymore, but he was someone who needed care. He was weak. And if you know anything about

Freudian psychology, then you know that having a weak father figure in the beginning of your life can have massive implications as well. So that time was psychologically looking back to it, it's amazing that I got through it the way I did, but I was in a lot of pain. And in order to cope with that pain, I smoked marijuana mainly. That was my main thing when I was sitting at school. I I was doing high school at the time. And

the only way I noticed that I could actually sit still in school and and focus and to turn off this constant stream of emotions and thoughts and yeah, just agonizing thoughts. The only way I could turn it off was to smoke marijuana. So I I did. I smoked marijuana. And that way I actually managed to get through high school and later by extension university.

I was using these drugs as a way to calm down my mind to be able to sleep at night if I didn't have access to these substances. I was unable to sleep. I I could not fall asleep at least not at human times. Like I would go to bed and lie there and the mind would start streaming and Yeah. Eventually, by pure exhaustion, you fall asleep at 4:00 a.m. or so, but yeah, then I have

to get up at 6:00 a.m. to go to school on the bicycle. So I actually functioned better in the sense that when I was using drugs because I was able to concentrate, I got relatively good grades and um I was basically able to pacify myself because I didn't when I didn't do that like I'm you can see I'm a metal head. I used I I played metal guitar.

I have this like you may not think this but I have this very boisterous aggressive side to me that you won't you won't see when when you know me but for when I later graduated from smoking marijuana to abusing alcohol. But in Dutch we have the saying um drunk. So, a a person who gets drunk but then gets very angry. I don't know if they have a phrase for that in your in your um language, but some people when they consume a lot of alcohol, they become very unpleasant. They become very aggressive and angry and they start attacking even your best friends.

I can't tell you how many times I've woken up with a complete blackout. not having no recollection of what happened the night before and then you would get phone calls and it's like oh yeah you were very you know I I I would tell people things I would like cursed at them and and I love these people there's no no um seed in me that would cause me to attack them for some reason but there's certain aggression inside probably because of all of this pain and anger that then somehow comes out when you get blind drunk. Right? So this phenomenon of becoming angry when you're very drunk, we say that in Dutch, acquire drunk. Yeah, that's just how we say it.

And I eventually developed into consuming more and more alcohol also at home. And at some point, I can't believe I'm saying this online, but at some point I was at a stage where I would u I I was working as a project manager at the time in a machining company in Norway. So I at this time I was living in Norway and I was working at a machining company. I was at the project manager. I was in charge of a complete product line. And

so I did I did well for myself in that sense. I was successful. But on Friday I would come home and I would buy multiple bottles of vodka and then I would start drinking and then I would wake up on Monday morning having no memories of what I did the entire weekend and then going back to work. And that started to become a pattern. And that is a place in life where I never ever want to get back to.

Yeah, it's obviously not easy to talk about this. So, I'm um I don't think I'm going to dig much deeper into that right now. Maybe I if you like if if this somehow helps you in the end of this video, if you somehow resonate with this or you appreciate me sharing this these stories, then please comment down below and I will I will I will share I will tell more if it helps other people maybe recognize their own problems, right? So, let me know down below in the comments because if it helps people, I am more than happy to continue and dig deeper. But I was at a point where like at at at to a certain point I I was a functional addict, you could say. Yes, I was

smoking marijuana every day. Yes, I was drinking myself blind drunk on the weekends, but I wasn't doing anything during those weekends. I was just in front of the TV watching stuff, right? It's not that I was um I I wasn't going out very much in that sense. Um, and I was basically just tranquilizing myself and and hiding my own feelings. And the

reason why I was drinking so much was I had a few relationships. I mean that's not the reason but apart from my own pain that I experienced from my youth and like the inherent the the baseline pain certain things happened in my life also with uh relationships and women that basically just dragged me down and down and down and I became very depressed. And at that point then I realized this is not going in the right direction. So I I I took a step back and as a true addict right then you start bargaining like oh maybe the drinking is not not so good maybe I will just go back to just smoking marijuana. So I you know you do go through these phases. So I was a

functional addict. I I was uh making good money. I was a functional human being in the sense that I showed up to work. I did my responsibilities. Like at work, I was always very uh alert. I was

working a lot of overtime. I was working 60our weeks standard. And I I was doing well in that sense. But as soon as I got home, then things went wrong. So then I went into more smoking and um yeah, as a kind of a reaction, I went chasing women a lot more instead of relationships. I was um yeah, the

stories. Oh my god. But I was um more promiscuous, let's say like that. and and having fun uh meeting and dating several or multiple women and um yeah exploring that kind of uh side of life too and I came to a point that also that became an addiction right I have a very addictive I'm very sensitive to addiction so I came to a point where again I was drunk the I don't know How many the like the 10th date that month, the 10th adventure and I remember sitting on the porch. It was in the middle of the winter in I think it was like February in Norway. So this is like

dark dark it gets it gets light at maybe 10:00 a.m. and it's dark again at 100 p.m. like dark times.

And I was on the porch drunk. I remember looking up at the sky and like I'm a very philosophical theoretical mind, right? So I'm always reflecting on and that's also may one of the reasons why I I got so drunk and depressed because I didn't see any meaning to life, right? I was just working and I was very much I I do a lot of reading, philosophy. Um I explored religion and never found the answers right and very much aware of the scale of the universe and how small we are. And here

I am on a small grain of sand in the galaxy and all I'm doing is chasing women, drinking and taking drugs and making money. Is this really all there is to life? Is this really what what there is? And I remember staring up in the sky and feeling such complete lack of meaning and anything that I thought this is not the way. This cannot be the way. This cannot be my purpose in

life. This cannot be why I am here. This cannot be the purpose of life to just waste it away on hedonism and smoking and drinking and chasing women. I and I decided that if that is the purpose of life, then I might as well quit. I I don't want to live my life that way.

I probably shouldn't go as far as saying that I was suicidal but suffice to say that I completely lacked uh any form of meaning in my life at that point. So at that point I decided that you know what I I need to find some sort of system in life where I get more meaning and I was I think I'm not can't remember where the exact book I got this from but I always read book after book. I'm a big reader, very intellectual and I read this book and it had a study of certain elements that happy people have right the I think it's like three or five elements it it was like physical labor so always having until old age so the example was that Japanese people very often have vegetable gardens and when still in their 90s they're still like picking roots and that kind of thing which is very different from here in western society where people in their 70s they tend to just sit down and watch TV all day and just atrophy. So it was physical labor uh it uh it was community so having a very active community life so participating in society even as an older person and third of them was some sort of spiritual practice which I was lacking. I was a diehard atheist for most of my life. I

was raised in a somewhat Christian uh family. not very serious practitioners, but I I was exposed to church when I was younger and at Christmas we went to church. My mom is a I would say a Christian. Um but I never really um it never really clicked for me. But I tried I I tried I studied it. I read I read text Christian

texts in university. I studied Islam for a semester. So I have an academic grounding in Islamic studies for one semester because I I wanted to see well like a massive percentage of the of the world population believes in this religion. Why not study it for a while and see maybe it's even something for me? Well, it didn't resonate of course. So I did not go into

that direction either. But I realized that night looking up at the sky that I needed some sort of spiritual practice in my life. And of all the options available to me then Buddhism became the one that I wanted to try. I had to make this choice. So if there is one spiritual practice that I should do or that I want to at least give a shot, which one of them is it going to be? And I chose Buddhism in that moment.

So I committed to it. I I said, you know what? I'm going to try it out. I'm going to see what it's like to be a practicing Buddhist and see if this is going to give me meaning in life. So I started practicing. I started

meditating and now we are going to get to the point of changing your life in one year. This was in February and I I I decided I'm just going to try. If if having a spiritual element in your life is required for long-term happiness into old age, then obviously I will have to try something. So I did started meditating every day and studying Buddhism, reading the texts and going deeper into it. Eventually I landed with the forest tradition of Ajancha. That is

my where my my tradition. I consider Ajancha my teacher although he has been dead for a long time. And I um I found my spiritual practice in that Buddhism is the solution. my spir the spiritual solution to me because the Buddha has this beautiful metaphor of the goldsmith, right? He the goldsmith he he the goldsmith takes like raw ore and then by smelting it and smelting it he purifies the ore. So the

ore at first is dirty and has all sorts of elements that are not um are not supposed to be in the gold. But eventually the goldsmith eventually has beautiful pure gold. And what the Buddha says is take my words and become that goldsmith and filter it. Become go to the purity. See for yourself and go deep as deep as you can. Don't just

take my word, but see for yourself and refine it and refine it and eventually you decide. And that whole idea resonated with me so much that the the spiritual leader of a tradition that way is not saying I'm right. It's not saying the Bible is the word of God and Christianity is the one true religion, which is what true Christians will tell you. There's none of that. It's saying here's a solution to your problem which is suffering.

This is the solution I propose. Go and see for yourself whether it works. And I'm not going to go deeper into Buddhism. But basically there are the four noble truths. And the first noble truth of Buddhism is there is suffering.

Life on as a human on this planet is always going to be bound up with suffering. And Buddhism offers a way to out of that suffering to release from suffering. So here I was as a drug addict having intense amount of suffering and here suddenly I'm discovering a it's not a a religion a philosophy that is the first thing that the philosophy says is there is suffering. It's like oh wow life is actually always bound up with suffering. It's not weird that I'm having this pain. I always

thought that I should not be feeling this pain but guess what? It's part of human experience to have pain, to go get sick, old and die. Nobody escapes that. So there is going to be suffering at in your life at some point. So and then the Buddha shows you a way to escape that suffering. So already I was thinking,

okay, well this is interesting. I'm gonna go deeper into this. So I I did and I started practicing and then I discovered the the five noble precepts. So which is basically five they're not rules but they are recommendations that the Buddha gives for lay people. So people who are not [clears throat] excuse me so people who aren't monastics but people living normal lives and he gives them five recommendations of living a good life um the first one being not killing so you should not take life not even from not even living creatures so I don't even kill mosquitoes it is not lying so right speech right so not not lying, not gossiping, being careful and and and honest with your speech. The third one

is sexual um no sexual abuse. So, no cheating, that kind of thing. No sexual abuse. Actually, I got the order wrong here, but the fourth one being not stealing, so not taking what is not given. And the fifth one is not consuming intoxicating substances. In

other words, being sober. And that was something that was very refreshing to me that here's a philosophy that is actually recommending to me that I do not consume these substances. But because remember I am a addict here functioning as an addict. thinking that this is the life, the way to go. This is how I should live my life because it had already enabled me to gain relative success in my life by stopping these thoughts in my head and allowing me to sleep. So, I saw

consuming these substances as a positive thing, right? Because you self-justify. But here is I'm already getting so much um value out of Buddhism. And here is the Buddha recommending to me that I not take these substances. So I said that I was going to try this and go for it. And that's also when I

decided well if this is what the Buddha recommends then I should also try. And to be honest with you like I'm saying now I was an addict but at that point I didn't see myself as an addict. I didn't see it as a problem that I was using these substances. I I did not see it as a negative thing that I was doing this. So I did never really realized that I was so addicted until I tried stopping it, until I tried not doing it. So at

this point I was about 25 years old and I started when I was 12. So that's like 12 13 years of almost daily drug and alcohol use without ever considering that maybe I should maybe I should not be doing the this every day. Maybe this is wrecking my body. Yeah. looking back with I I don't understand how I could think that way.

But yeah, that's how the mind works. So here I am and I decide, okay, I'm going to try not taking these substances and get sober. And that's when I realized that I actually had a problem that I couldn't couldn't do it. So I would do it for a week. I would go absolutely insane and go back to using. And yeah, this

basically triggered a cycle of trying and failing of about a year where I I I realized I was addicted and I would like make it to about 3 months and then I would stop. I would fall back. I would relapse and I would start taking these substances again. So it was Buddhism changed my life in the sense that it made me aware of my problems and it gave me a solution in terms of meaning because now I I had meaning. I was more concerned with my my karma. So I was not living for myself

anymore. I was now starting to live for the benefit of others. Right? In at in some sense I was ready to basically like I'm I wasn't Yeah, I was basically ready to commit suicide. And then instead of doing that, I decided, well, I might as well just dedicate my life to the service of others. I'm not living for myself

anymore. I'm just going to dedicate my life to helping others. And in this process, um while I was trying to get sober, I lost my job. I was working in the oil industry in Norway and in 2016, OPEC, which is this council of oil countries, they decided not to regulate the oil price anymore for a while. And overnight about 120,000 people lost their jobs in Norway because Norway has a huge oil industry. And when the oil

price goes down, they will actually stop billion dollars worth of projects and and wait until the the oil price is back up again. So it's a very volatile industry in that sense. So I lost my job and this was in my in the middle of my Buddhism exploration. I was practicing maybe for about a year at that point. And this is when my uh I was in Norway. I was unemployed.

and through the unemployment sort of uh trajectory that you get into because Norway is a very socialist country, right? So, you get um you get welfare benefits, but I'm not someone who can just sit around at home and do nothing, right? So, I decided that I um I I was I was in this unemployment. So, you go to this office and then you have to report in and you have to talk what are you going to do and they're then you have to start applying for other jobs, right? And they said, "What do you want to do?" And then I said,

"Well, I want to help other people." And then they said, "Well, we have this program where we take people and educate them to become nurses. Would you be interested in that?" And I was I was again in the stage of dedicating my life in ser in service to others. And I realized yes this is this is what I want to do. I wanted to do

something for other people every day. I wanted to make a difference in the world. I want and in that office I I actually said maybe I can teach English to like or Norwegian to people who uh move to Norway or something like that because I I speak Norwegian fluently. I'm I'm sort of a genius with languages so I I I can learn them very quickly and I um I really like I I I really wanted to help people. So I they offered me this and I said yes. So then I started

working as a nurse and I went from being a project manager and being in charge of a group of people like I was 26 years old but I was boss of people who were like three times as old as I was and telling them what to do. But I I quickly ascended in leadership in that sense. And I here I was going from that kind of position to helping old ladies on the toilet in in in the hospital. And I was working with dead people, people who died. And then I would clean the corpse and I would uh help the family and arrange, you know, things around that and having rooms of crying people, that kind of thing. I was

helping people with open wounds and you won't believe what I've seen. But I was I went from that to an extremely humbling position. And again I also I went from being in in control over something to a complete noob again, right? Like I'm now here I'm working with 40 year old women who have been nurses for 20 years in their whole life and uh now I am like the the junior on the job even though I'm like a two meter tall guy with a deep voice and uh now I'm the junior like usually it's like kids that have these positions in these situations right so it was a very humbling experience and through that my life completely changed. I was living now in service of others and I decided I was still struggling with becoming sober. But

my life completely changed when I decided to practice Buddhism and to humble myself and to stop living for my own gain and my own pleasure. only thinking about my own pleasure but rather thinking like how can I make the world better around me? What is the what is the way that I could contribute to the world? And that became my goal. And this also, believe it or not, but when you start thinking this way, when you start helping people and making them happy, you will be very surprised that you also become very happy. And this is a very

strange thing for a western mind that most people don't understand that you first have to help other people in order to gain that happiness yourself. But this is why I now also help people land DevOps jobs. Right? It is such a joy to me. I get so much satisfaction out of people coming to me asking me for my mentorship and then helping them and seeing them succeed the way I did.

So it's be it's a beautiful thing. So Buddhism changed my life completely in a year. And here I was I was struggling with the addiction and then at that point I I realized okay here I am working as a nurse on the job trying to make other people healthy but how can I take care of other people when I cannot even take care of myself right? So I decided that I in order to take care of other people I need to learn how to take care of myself and I need to learn how to get sober. So again I tried and 3 months in I was this close of um relapsing again and uh I was now at the point where I was like getting physical things and I all I could do was just lie in bed and just feel my whole body screaming to take something to to escape from the pain that I always constantly experience all the time.

my whole body just convulsing in the craving for for taking something. I'll never forget the moment and I was like this close and thinking I need I need to take something again because this is this is not this is too much. But in that moment instead of doing that I did something that I was not used to doing and that is I I asked for help. I had always try I've always done things on my own very independent very self-sufficient I had been living in Norway for seven years alone at that time I left my family in the Netherlands and I was going to make my own fortune in the in a different country living there completely alone and yes I made friends for life there but essentially I was living alone there and at that point I realized I needed to ask for help. So I did I called one of these numbers that they have um every co many countries have this where you can ask for help and then there's someone at the line and you can say yeah I I'm addicted and I need to go somewhere and that's when this person recommended um Alcoholics Anonymous to me and by extension Narcotics Anonymous.

So I called those hotlines and then I asked for help there and then I attended one of these meetings and for the next five years or so I I was attending these meetings and doing voluntary work there and that's how I got sober. I went into these meetings several times a week and sharing my experiences, what I was struggling with. And up until this point, I had never really met someone who was actually sober. And I because everyone I knew, all of my friends, they would either drink every every single weekend when we were got together. There was always alcohol going on.

I actually didn't know anyone who actually was completely sober. And here I was, I finally found a group of people who were living sober, who were doing the same things, who were struggling with what I was struggling with. And it was a complete new eye opening experience to me. I was sitting next to someone and wow, this guy hasn't done anything for two years. He hasn't used any drugs for two years. How is this

possible? And just seeing that it's possible made me realize it is possible. This is the place that I need to be. And now I am that person, right? I I still go to these meetings not because I need them anymore because I I like you're never cured from addiction. I am an

addict. I will always be an addict and I always have to be extremely careful with everything I do that I do not get that relapse. But what I can say is that I am completely free from the craving of drugs and alcohol at this point in time. I never sit around at home anymore and think, "Oh, I would like to have a drink or uh wouldn't it be nice to smoke a joint now?" I I have not had that thought in several years now. So

it is possible like if you are watching this and I know that many people in my audience smoke weed every day because it's very common among software engineers and DevOps engineers who like to sit inside and play video games. Like if you are if you are doing that then first of all I strongly recommend you reflect on whether you're doing that because you want to or because you're actually addicted and secondly I want to impress upon you that there is hope there is a way out of this it is possible to gain freedom from addiction using tools like narcotics anonymous alcoholics anonymous completely for free. You don't need to go into uh rehab spending tens of thousands of dollars. I didn't do that either. And yes, it was freaking hard. Like the

first two years getting sober was honestly the hardest thing I've done in my entire life. And the first two years were hell. It was living hell. I was in so much pain every single day. There wasn't a moment in time where I didn't think about taking drugs or alcohol, but it was just one day at a time. One day at a time,

five minutes at a time. And going through this experience made me a very strong human being. And that is also why I I think I ended up coaching other people because people recognize that, right? People see me as someone who has to say and someone who done a few things in life. And to be honest, like for someone who is 35 years old, I do have a lot of life experience, having overcome these kinds of problems already, which is why I'm so good at coaching people as well and why people come to me and get the results they want. So that is um that is how the

first story I wanted to share about how you can absolutely change your life completely in one year. I did it after 13 years of daily use. I turned my life around. I got sober. I didn't do it alone. I asked for help. I became

humble. I changed my career to a nurse. And here I was going from being pe someone's boss to helping old ladies on the toilet and u working with corpses and that kind of thing. But I I was so happy during that time. I was I was really happy. I

felt meaning in life. And um in the span of one year, I got I went from blind drunk every weekend to a practicing Buddhist working as a nurse helping old ladies in the hospital and and feeling great about it. And I was sober finally

So that's the first story I wanted to tell about changing your life in one year. The second story is about CubeCraft and how I went from being a simple wage worker to a successful business owner now. So the order of these stories are a little bit different because I I'm also going to talk about how I became a DevOps engineer in the end. But um this one I I choose to tell first because it it's so interesting to me how this went. You see I was I've always liked making videos like when I was s I think I was 16 at that time. Uh YouTube was

new then. So that's like 20 years ago. YouTube was still new then. Is it 20 years? Yeah, it's 20 years. And

at that point, I was a I was I'm very good at playing guitar. I don't play guitar these days, but I I I could play like Cannibal Corpse, Slayer, Metallica, Death. I I could play entire albums from memory with the solos and everything. And I would make videos of me playing. And I got I was actually quite big on YouTube. I had thousands of views on my

videos in in the early days even with with I don't know it's maybe not even 720p webcams and I was recording the guitar with the webcam microphone. So the quality was horrible but people loved it. So yeah. Anyway, I've always been I've always made videos. But when I changed my career to DevOps, I also started documenting that process in videos. And when my channel started

picking up and my videos started to um gain a lot of views, I realized, well, people are now actually commenting and asking, "Hey, you're making videos about Vim and Neovim. don't you have a course about this? Don't can't you teach us some more? And this is when I realized, okay, maybe I need to start a business like I I always had the the dream of having some sort of side hustle beside my work, right? Up until that point, I had tried so many things, one of them being Runescape bot farming, but I had websites, affiliate marketing.

I was always trying to have something on the side. And now my YouTube channel was going well and I realized people are asking for something here. There is demand here. Let me just start. And this is when I started the school community.

And this is how we started. It was at it's now January. It's actually we started at the end of February. So that's almost two years ago now. Wow. Oh

my god. Two years ago. Time goes so fast. But that is when we started me and my brother and uh I asked my brother to help me because I am such a nerd right I'm I'm tech I know the command line I know the tech stuff but business I don't know anything I didn't know anything about that at that point marketing sales blah blah blah I I just want to code right that is the thing so I I asked my brother to help me with this and he wanted something too. So we did it together. So it started with just

me um creating the school community and I I created like one course about my my configuration because that's what people wanted to know. They wanted to learn Vim from me. So I created that and people started coming and I still remember like to host a school community is it costs $100 a month, right? So at that point in my life, I was working as a DevOps engineer, but a $100 a month subscription was actually something that I had to think a lot about because I had financial obligations. But I I decided for myself that, you know what, this is probably maybe a pivotal moment in my life. and again changing your life

um in one year. I'm going to set aside $1,200. I'm going to try to make it as a as a businessman or I'm at least make it profitable for one year and I'm going to invest the $1,200. So, one year's worth of school subscription and I'm going to see if I can at least make that money back. Right?

So that is the risk that I took in that sense and I committed to to trying it. Well, I think it was not even a week and then we were profitable already. So it was like okay this is amazing. Clearly we are doing something that people want and I the school community grew. It was u it was it was nowhere near what it is right now. It was mainly about getting direct

access to me and and my uh my my my my c my um configurations etc. and helping people with that. But then people started coming and they were asking hey you are a DevOps engineer why why can't you help me with that? I I I love your stuff on YouTube but I have no clue. Uh can't you make a course about Kubernetes for example?

So I I did I and then what started happening was that the members were so positive about the stuff that I was creating like I was people were actually calling me and saying you really have a talent for teaching Misha you you have to do more of this because I'm learning so much people were saying that they had done over 10 Udemy courses about certain topics and they didn't get anything out of it and as soon as they saw high stuff. Then it finally clicked to them. For them, it said the depth of teaching that you have and the approach that the hands-on approach that you have, this is what people want. This is how finally I found a teacher that that that actually makes things clear to me in a practical actionable way. People were saying this to me and this is how I randomly stumbled upon the fact that I apparently have certain gifts in terms of teaching that I am actually a pretty good teacher and so I I did more of that and at I mind you I was working full-time as a DevOps engineer at this point. So here

in this stage I was waking up at 4:00 a.m. and I would work from 4 to 9 in the morning. So I had uh five hours of work in the morning then I would work my 9-to-5 and after my 9 to5 I would work from 5 to 9 u to you know create more courses and and everything. So for months well over a year I was doing this. I was

working 4 to 9 in the morning and then from 5:00 to 9:00 in the evening and then in the weekends I would work from 4:00 a.m. until 9 in the evening creating courses, doing coaching, supporting people, building up the YouTube channel, everything like I've for I've been working as a like a beast for for multiple years now, ever since I started in my DevOps career. And I'm going to get more into that, but like 70 hour work weeks are the standard and seven I work every single day. And the results are there because now CubeCraft has grown from a niche sort of private fan club to the CubeCraft Career Accelerator where people come, they join, and within 90 days they have a extra they have a state-of-the-art portfolio including a website with several enterprisegrade Kubernetes these projects on there and people are landing jobs every single week in CubeCraft.

Like last year we've we have over 200 documented cases of landing jobs but that is only the people that tell us like it happens so often that I I'm having a message with someone and they will say oh by the way I landed a job. So we don't even see we don't even see 10% of actually of the jobs that are being landed because of us and not to mention of the stuff that we do for free on YouTube. So from starting taking a risk and not knowing where to go just trying to start a business to going to the number one place to become a DevOps engineer on the internet. It happened it because of two things of coincidence. I did not know I was a gifted teacher at that point, but because I exposed myself to this risk and I just decided to go for it. And secondly, because of the

extreme amounts of work that it took to to take to build it and to work hard on something without knowing that you are going to get the result. Those three things combined have changed my life completely in the span of one year because I was doing cubecraft. Then during that year I also decided I wanted to go freelance because I could see that working as a full-time employee that was not going to be working out that well if my if my cubecraft work was going to scale if I if this was going to go well which it did. So I went freelance. I started working contracts and I I I did not have a buffer saved up. So I

I actually did not have much money. And it forced me to to seek out things and I was doing to doing contracts and it went really well in that sense that CubeCraft started growing. I could focus on my own things and I was working as an independent business owner and now in the second year we have absolutely mastercrafted the whole CubeCraft curriculum to be the system endtoend system to land a DevOps job and it's working so well like we I yesterday I talked to a guy he hasn't been a member of CubeCraft for a month yet and already He has landed a new job with a 50k raise. $50,000. And I told you I'm a Buddhist. I I don't

lie. I'm I I cannot lie. This stuff is actually happening. I can't show you the DM because of privacy reasons. But I mean, if it if you just go to CubeCraft and check out the win section, then you see that we are landing job jobs all the all the time. So, Florian,

he went from um he went from internship to freelancer. Now, he had no experience in the industry. Alex landed a new job three days ago. Kristoff landed a DevOps contract. Charlene like it is such a good system and it's something that me and my brother built together. But this

has also again changed my life completely in one year. But again, it didn't go by itself. It took a lot of work in order to get to this point. And continuing on that theme, the third time that I changed my life completely in the span of a year was when I decided to become a DevOps engineer. So I told you that I became a nurse, right?

I was working as a nurse and I um after a few years I I was happy but I understood that I was not going to be able to do this for the rest of my life. That is because I am very introverted. And this video here recording this and talking for so long like I'm going to need to recover from this for like two days now, right? This is not a normal or a a healthy thing for me to do over a long period of time because I I need to be alone. I need to have that rest and I need to be calm and I'm very introverted.

So, and I discovered this that it during my work as a nurse, at first it energized me and helping the people, but over time I could notice that my energy was draining and draining and draining and physically I was in good shape and I was taking good care of myself and I was sober, but I was getting more and more exhausted and that's because I with everything I do, I want to be the best at it and I was at this work and always being there with the patients and and so socially being there engaging with them and trying to make their day a little bit better and that was just a big drain on me and I realized I I couldn't do this work for the rest of my life. Now combined to with this was also that I was getting deeper and deeper in my Buddhist practice. My meditation practice started to reach stages where I was experiencing things that I did not understand and that I needed help with. I was reaching stages in meditation that I um I could not um I could not understand and I needed help with. So I any good meditation book or teacher will tell you you need to find a teacher. So I started seeking out

a teacher and that is how I got um introduced to Buddhist monasteries and uh I started visiting a Buddhist monastery in Norway and I did that for several years and yeah I'm not going to tell that whole story but as I was working as a nurse and getting deeper and deeper into my spiritual practice an opportunity came up for me to become a Buddhist monk uh at the monastery. that I was visiting and spending a lot of time at and I decided to do that. So I for two years I served as a Buddhist monk in a Buddhist monastery and I canceled all of my bank accounts. I got rid of all of my earthly possessions. I shaved my hair. I shaved

my beard and I was practicing completely celibate. I was completely celibate for two years. no internet, no TV and I I I went deep and I grew a lot from that. Actually, that is maybe the fourth story. I'm not going to tell it now, but maybe you're going to see a pattern, but in so many times, I've completely reinvented myself and changed my life in the span of one year.

And I'm only 35 years old at this point. So what I'm trying to say here is that if I can do this, you can do this too. So I I spent two years in the Buddhist monastery and also there I realized that this was not going to be the the thing that I could do for the rest of my life for reasons that I am not going to get into in this video. If you're interested in hearing more about that story, I'm happy to tell you. Drop me a comment, give me a like, and um tell me what you want to hear. I'm happy to to to help to

share more about it if it helps you. And so I decided, yes, I'm going to um leave the monastery. And then it was like, well, what the heck am I going to do now? Right here I was. I had a fragmented CV.

I went from project manager to nurse to monk. And I had no idea what I wanted to do. I did know that I loved working with computers. I did know that I wanted to uh like in my free time I mentioned I was doing like Runescape bot farming and I've done stories about this as well, but if you want the full story, let me know. But to keep it short, I was always working with computers in my free time. I was

coding Linux. I was tinkering with this stuff when I wasn't drunk. That was basically my hobby. And I I always thought that damn, why didn't I study computer science? What a what a mistake. If I hadn't been

that drunk and if I had made something of myself, I should have studied computer science and I could have worked as a software engineer or something like that because that's the stuff that I loved. And then I realized that, you know what, I've already gotten sober. If I can do that, then I can I can I can land a tech job. I can do it. It is possible.

I tried a few times before that actually when I got got unemployed as and when the nurse thing came up I actually in that point also tried landing a tech job already but I constantly kept get got rejected because I didn't have any experience and I didn't have a CS degree and especially in Norway it was hard because I lived remotely in the countryside and like remote work wasn't really a thing so yeah it was hard many rejections there. But I realized that if I make this my life's mission to land a tech job, then I can do it. I can do it. And I did. So I I um it was a long process and it was very very hard with lots of rejections.

But eventually I figured out some ways where I could leverage the things that I was doing in my free time to actually document that I had production experience as an in IT. And I I figured out ways in terms of personal branding and how you can get your CV on the top of the stack uh at the desk of the hiring manager um instead of being just one inund pile. And this is the secret sauce that I teach my students in CubeCraft. And this is why it works so well. This is why people who come to me actually land jobs from from scratch, right? And this is

not you you won't learn this at any of the other places. These big course platforms, I'm not going to teach you any name say any names or boot camps. like they maybe they teach you some outdated tech and they will teach you a few projects but they won't actually teach you how to land a job and that is something completely different from learning the tech. You don't get stuck in tutorial hell. Landing a tech job 25% of that is actually the the tools and the techniques. The rest of it is

very different. It all has to do with soft skills, marketing, how and how you present yourself and negotiation as well. Getting hired is one thing, but getting hired for a 200k annual salary is something completely different. Completely dependent on what you bring to the table and whether you have the balls to negotiate. That's that that's the stuff that we also teach in CubeCraft.

So I figured out a way and again I went from having no experience with a fragmented CV coming out of the monastery. So I was in the absolute worst position ever to land a tech job. But through sheer force of will and working extremely hard and figuring out a few uh techniques, I managed to land my first position. And I started as a junior DevOps engineer with the city council of Amsterdam. So in the city of Amsterdam. So this is a government

agency and government government agencies usually have like junior or traineeship programs that kind of thing. And I fi with through extreme amounts of work and persuasion I managed to land my first job. And when I got it that I didn't stop there, right? I got I I went at it with so much zeal and so much passion because this was my my dream. Like I've been thinking like wanting this for years and now finally I was like I was working with Linux on my job. I was so freaking happy that

I I reached I reached my life's goal at that point, right? and and I kept at it. I did not stop there. I did not go there and think, well, I'm here now. This is my nice little job and I'm going just going to stay here and get complacent now. No, I

kept studying. Like even while I was on the job, I was still studying two hours every single day because we we were working with Kubri with um Anible manually. deploying Docker containers on Linux servers and basically building our own homegrown Kubernetes in Ansible and then one day I discovered Kubernetes and we were not using it. The team was not thinking about it at all. So I had to learn that on my own in and in six months during my weekends and evening studies I managed to secure my CKA even though my bosses my mentors they were all saying you should not be doing this it's too hard this is not for juniors you cannot do this and whenever someone says you can't do it or it's too hard for you that's actually when I will prove you wrong and maybe In some ways, maybe that was good mentorship saying it wasn't it was too hard for me because I react in that way. But in any case, I

managed to learn skills, learn the Kubernetes skills that I needed. And again, so there's two pivots here. One of them is that I managed to in the span of one year go from ex to junior DevOps engineer. Basically securing a career for the rest of my life. But then even when I was in that career, I didn't stop. I went and

decided my team is not using Kubernetes, but I know that this is I I I fell completely in love with it the first time I used it. And I realized this is the way this is the future. And this is like three years ago. So Kubernetes now is like has 80% adoption. It has 171k average salary. It was not

that way when when I was doing it and it was not sure that this was going to be the thing but here we are. It is the thing. If you're not learning Kubernetes today, you're you're falling behind and that's why CubeCraft is completely based around Kubernetes and that's why we land jobs because that is where the demand actually is. It's not the market, it's you actually. So the the the I in my evening studies in my weekend studies I I I wasn't I wasn't doing anything else again like I for the past ever since I came out of the monastery I've been working 10 to 12 hours a day seven days a week on my goals my first my career then in when I got my career I I went for Kubernetes and when I got Kubernetes and I got my CKA I went from my first job where I was at for about one and a half years. And I because I had the

Kubernetes skills, I managed to secure a position as a Kubernetes consultant and I doubled my salary overnight. Doubled. And this happened because again I changed my life in a year. I went for it. I worked hard and I I went my own way. And here I am five years later. I

am now a senior DevOps engineer specialized in Kubernetes now spending my time uh as CTO of my own company dedicating my time towards teaching others to walk the same path. So I was going to tell three stories but here you see there are actually five or six moments where I changed my career my my entire life in one year and I'm here to tell you you can do the same. If you're thinking like, "Oh, I cannot do that or I don't have the energy or this guy is smart or he's some sort of genius." I'm not. I'm I'm actually not pretty smart. Like I I smoke drugs for

the first 13 years of my adult life. A true truly smart person doesn't really do that, right? So, I'm not a genius. I'm not extremely smart. What I do have though is a strong work ethic. And I think this comes from

the work that I had to do uh when I got sober. I I accumulated a very high pain tolerance and I learned to do work without seeing the results immediately. So those are the three main key factors here that um if you cultivate these next three skills then you are going to get very far in life. The first of them being consistency and for me this came from getting sober because you have to work on becoming sober every single day. When you do the 12step program it's not just going to meetings. You

also have to do actual work in writing and it is a whole process that you go through doing volunteer work but being consistent at it. And the main thing when getting sober is that you cannot do you cannot have that first drink. You cannot have that first joint. So you have to be consistent in the sense that you have to show up to do the work without getting anything back for it and remaining consistent with that and consistently not taking any drugs. Then for me it was getting consistent studies in when I decided to change my career to tech. I had to consistently study eight

hours a day and crafting my portfolio of projects in order to land that first job. When I was working as a DevOps engineer, I had to consistently study every single evening, every single weekend instead of playing video games, going out with friends, or having fun or chasing women. like reflect on that. Like for two years while I was already on the job, I already had the job. I was studying every single night for two plus hours and every single weekend for 10 to 12 hours a day.

Like sometimes people look at my LinkedIn and my CV and say, "Oh, he he he's only been working in the industry for five years." But there are senior engineers who have 10% of my knowledge and skills because they do the same things over and over again, right? So maybe on paper you see that I don't have many years of experience but each of those years is equivalent to two to three times of the experience that someone usually gets because just by virtue of hours spent I have done more work than than other seniors of my level. So number one consistently consistency. The second one is being able to do work without seeing immediate results. So

when getting sober for two years, I had to I didn't you're told that so at some day you will be free from suffering from the craving to to use drugs and alcohol, but it takes a lot of faith in order to keep working at that without seeing the result, right? without knowing that what you're doing is actually the right thing. So the it takes an extreme amount of pain and uh it it takes an extreme pain tolerance and ability to work on something without seeing the results in order to actually do this. Um if you can learn this to work on something that without seeing the results immediately you will get very far in life. This is also why I I am a successful business owner now because I was able to take the leap, work hard, and work several months from 4:00 a.m.

in the morning to 9:00 a.m. in the morning and then from 5 in the evening until 9:00 in the evening without seeing direct results. And frankly, there I was a bit lucky that I did see the direct results and I got so many good responses. But still, there's no no guarantee that I would be able to have do to do this full-time at some point, right? I mean,

that took a whole year of doing that, working 4 to 9 and then from 5 to 9 and off the weekends until I actually knew that I could do this full-time. So having a high pain tolerance and knowing that you can do and and being able to do work without um seeing the results immediately is one of the meta skills here as well.

And the third one here is not to get complacent. So I whenever I start to get comfortable whether that is with technology or with my own like sports or health, anytime you feel you are sort of settled and you have things down then you know that you are that you stop growing and you have to start finding the next thing. And this is not about restlessness. This is not about being unhappy with where you are. It's fine to have have a little bit of rest here and there too, but you should always be striving to improve yourself. And this is what I call the

craftsman's mindset that when you choose a craft, you should always continue honing that craft. You don't become a DevOps engineer and then you learn the tools and then you sit back and then cruise. you're going to get outworked by other people like me who have actually have ambition and you're going to get you're going to be obsolete in 10 years with AI on the horizon. Right? So, you always have to keep striving. Strive relentlessly

to achieve your goals. And if you don't have any goals, start there. You should always have a goal to strive for. If you're the smartest person in the room, you are in the wrong room. And with that being said, I hope this was valuable to you. And I

um now that I've shared this whole video, I I'm going to publish it, but I'm not sure if I'm going to keep it online. So if this has had any positive effect or inspiration on you then please drop me a comment to get a sense of whether this was actually useful to the world whether this was time spent and whether I should do more of this because I'm very like as I'm talking to this you could say that I did not have a normal life like I'm not saying this to say that I'm better than others or anything like that, but normal people don't go from project manager to nurse to Buddhist monk to successful tech career to business owner in the span of what is it 10 years, right? That is not a normal life. Normal people go to college, get a job, get married, and that's it. And because I haven't had a normal life, I um like Kelsey High Totower says this thing like you can have senior engineers with junior humans. Well, because of the

life I've had, I'm I'm pretty certain I'm not a junior human. Far from it. Getting sober after so many years of addiction does something to you. It g it shapes character. And I have a lot more to share about this, about Buddhism, about how I how I mean, how do I do that, right? How do I keep working so

hard without burning out? How do I how can I keep push pushing forth all of this effort without burning out? Well, there is a lot more to share about this. So, if you want to hear more about this, if if this was valuable to you, let me know in the comments and um I will uh I'm I'm very happy to share more about this. For now, I'm going to end it here and thank you for watching this video.

I'll see you in the next one.