---
video_title: "Full Length Faceless Stories From 1 Image With Grok AI (100% FREE)"
video_id: Fixqubgh4Pg
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fixqubgh4Pg
video_date: 2025-11-29T11:50:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn how to use Grok Imagine to create HD AI videos from a single image — completely free. This step-by-step guide is perfect for beginner creators, faceless YouTube channels, and anyone who wants to try AI filmmaking without paying for credits or subscriptions.
  
  In this tutorial, I show you the exact workflow to build a short AI film using Meta AI image generation, Grok Imagine video chaining, consistent characters, and free HD upscaling. You’ll learn how to fix random background music, avoid quality drops, handle the daily video limit, and create clean cinematic clips for your faceless YouTube videos.
  
  📌 What You’ll Learn
  
  How to use Grok Imagine to make videos for free
  
  How to turn one image into an entire AI movie
  
  How to build a faceless YouTube workflow
  
  How to create consistent characters across all AI images
  
  How to chain clips in Grok Imagine without losing quality
  
  How to upscale Grok videos to HD with no watermark
  
  How beginner creators can use free tools to make cinematic AI shorts
  
  📘 Tools Used
  
  ChatGPT → Story + prompts
  Meta AI Images → Ultra-realistic character images
  Grok Imagine → Free AI video generator
  Free HD Upscaler inside Grok
  Video editor → Any editor works
  
  📎 Story Prompt Used in This Video
  
  I’ve added the full prompt below so you can copy, paste, or customize it.
  
  I want to create a short AI movie using 4 main images. I need clear character faces for lip-sync videos.
  For each of the 4 images, do the following:
  Generate 1 main image prompt (cinematic, detailed, consistent character).
  Generate 4 animation prompts based on that image:
  Clip 1 generated from the base image
  Clip 2 generated by continuing clip 1
  Clip 3 continuing clip 2
  Clip 4 continuing clip 3
  Each animation prompt must include character actions, camera motion, mood, and clear dialogue for 6 seconds.
  Keep the character design consistent across all scenes.
  Make sure each set of 4 clips forms a mini-scene, and all 4 mini-scenes connect into one short story.
  Deliver the output like this for ALL 4 main images:
  MAIN IMAGE #1 — Image Prompt
  [text]
  Clip 1 Animation Prompt (with dialogue)
  [text]
  Clip 2 Animation Prompt (with dialogue)
  [text]
  Clip 3 Animation Prompt (with dialogue)
  [text]
  Clip 4 Animation Prompt (with dialogue)
  [text]
  Repeat the full structure for MAIN IMAGE #2, #3, and #4.
  Keep story cinematic but simple, and maintain continuity from image to image.
  
  
  #GrokImagine #AIVideo #FacelessYouTube #FreeAI #AIFilmmaking
---
Watch this.

Wait, is this how it's supposed to taste?

Yep, Monday morning fuel.

Woo, that's better. Can you believe the whole video you just watched was made from one single image? And it's completely free. No credits. No one-time free tier. No

monthly plan waiting to ambush your wallet. You can generate HD videos like this over and over every single day. And today I'm going to show you exactly how I did it. So let's start from the very beginning because the first step is the one that makes or breaks your entire animation. But before you think this is some magical one-click method, let me tell you. There are tricks, limitations, and

a few why is this happening moments you need to know.

I needed a story first, so I went to Chat GPT and asked for ideas. It gave me a bunch and I chose the first one, the door that follows you. A mysterious door that appears wherever the character goes. Creepy. But perfect.

To turn that idea into a proper story, I used a detailed prompt. I'll put it in the description so you can copy-paste it without wrestling your keyboard. [music] With that single prompt, Chat GPT gives you four main images and four video clips for each image. That's exactly what we need. Different scenes, different environments, but the same character.

If you skip the next part, your character's face will change in every shot. So let's get this right. First, we create the four main images. Search for Meta AI on Google and sign in. This tool can generate ultra-realistic images with no limits.

Open the side menu. Click create and choose image under the image or video option. Set the aspect ratio to 16:9, adjust the aesthetics if you want, and paste the first image prompt from Chat GPT. [music]

In a few seconds, >> [music] >> you get cinematic portraits. But we need consistency across all four images. So download the face you want, upload it again, then paste your second prompt.

Now the tool keeps the same face. Do this for all four images and download them. The next tool looks powerful, but it comes with a limitation that confuses a lot of beginners. Just search for Grok AI and sign in. This tool is completely free, but here are the limitations you need to know.

The daily video limit resets roughly every 24 hours. It's not officially confirmed. Most users see the reset happen around midnight. Free users get anywhere from 5 to 15 and sometimes even 30 video generations per day. The number fluctuates and is not fixed. Once you're

signed in, click create image. Upload your first Meta AI image. Grok will instantly create a random video based on it. Ignore that. Paste the first animation prompt from Chat GPT. Now you'll get a 6-second clip that

matches your story. However, Grok Imagine often adds random background music. To prevent this, use the negative prompt. No background music. Okay, that door definitely wasn't here yesterday.

Grok Imagine lets you chain videos together. Pause your generated clip, drag the timeline to the end, right-click and choose copy video frame. Go back to the Imagine tab. Paste the frame.

Add your second animation prompt. Click make video.

Now your second clip continues directly from the first one. Why is it warm? Repeat this process to generate the third and fourth clips. But here's another important limitation. Reusing the last frame repeatedly causes quality to degrade.

You may face moderation blocks, some generations fail randomly, and [music] even failed attempts count against your daily limit. Use chaining wisely. These clips look good, but they're short and low quality. Here's how to fix that. There's a hidden [music] HD upgrade button. Click the icon showing your

generated videos. Select the clip, open the three-dot menu, choose upscale. This gives you HD quality with no watermark. Do this for all your clips. I repeated the entire process for all four main images. In total, I ended up

with 16 video clips adding up to around 1 minute and 16 seconds of animation. Now everything starts coming together. I imported all the clips into my video editor, placed them in order, and exported [music] the final video. And that's how the story, The Door That Follows You, came to life. [music] Okay, that door definitely wasn't here yesterday.

Why is it warm? All right, don't freak out. Just open it. What the This isn't even my floor?

Okay. Am I dreaming? Definitely not a dream. Are the trees moving?

Are you showing me where to go? Fine. But if something jumps out, I'm gone. No way. You are me?

Listen. Time is collapsing. You opened the door too late. What do you mean collapsing?

You have one chance. Fix the watch or we both disappear. Come on. Stay together. If I fix you, maybe we both get out.

Almost. Got it.

Did I just save myself? If you want more tutorials like this, AI workflows, faceless video tools, beginner-friendly YouTube shortcuts, just let me know what you want me to break down next. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one.