---
video_title: "I Tried Making AI Animal Shorts With Zero Dollars!"
video_id: MlSD3fd28v0
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlSD3fd28v0
video_date: 2025-07-23
video_description: |
  00:00 - 01:29 -Intro
  01:30 - 01:59 -Story
  02:00 - 02:59 -Consistent Characters
  03:00 - 04:09 -Animating Images
  04:10 - 05:23 -Final Video
  05:24 - 06:37 -Outro
  
  I made viral-style cute animal Shorts — without using my face, voice, or spending a single dollar! In this video, I’ll show you the exact AI tools I used to generate adorable animal animations, write short stories, and edit a complete YouTube Short using only free tools like Piclumen, ChatGPT, and Digen AI.
  
  💡 You'll learn:
  – How popular Shorts channels earn thousands with animal content
  – How to create consistent characters using Piclumen
  – How to animate images using Digen AI (with free credits)
  – How to generate stories and prompts with ChatGPT
  – And how to edit your final video with music and sound effects
  
  No expensive tools. No voiceovers. No filming. Just free AI magic.
  
  🔔 Don’t forget to like and subscribe for more human-style AI tutorials!
  #aishorts  #freeaitools  #animalshorts  #youtubeshorts2025  #chatgpt  #digenai  #piclumen  #novoicevideo  #viralshorts  #aicontentcreation
---
I found these YouTube channels posting nothing but AI generated animal shorts and they're pulling in millions of views. I had one thought. If they can do it, why can't I? So, I started an experiment and could I make one of these viral shorts using 100% free tools, no drawing, no voice, and absolutely zero dollars? The short answer is yes. But the

process, it was a roller coaster of cuteness, frustration, and more unfunny jokes than I'd like to admit. Let's start with the reality. These animal shorts are exploding right now. And I don't mean just one or two videos going viral. I'm talking full-on cute apocalypse.

I looked up a few channels using SocialBlade. One was earning over $5,000 a month. another over 30 million views in the last 30 days. All from videos that look like bedtime stories for your goldfish and most of them no voiceovers, just sound effects, background music, and images. That's it.

So, I decided to try my mission. Make one of these cute animal shorts, but without spending any money. No subscriptions, no pro plans, no free trial traps that steal your soul and your credit card info. Just free tools and a little bit of stubbornness, assistance. Meet my first tool, Chat GPT. Of course, I needed a story, so I

turned to the world's most helpful robot, ChatGpt. I asked it, "Give me a simple, funny story about a squirrel who opens a bakery." Boom. It gave me a plot. Squirrel bakes muffins. Muffins

explode. Raccoon starts a rival cupcake stand. Conflict drama a dessert. Oscar worthy, honestly. >> And the Oscar goes to >> Let's generate some characters. Now that

I had a story, I needed visuals. And here's where the real fun began. Picklemen. It's a free AI image generator that's surprisingly good at creating consistent characters, meaning your squirrel still looks like your squirrel even after 10 different prompts. I opened the site, typed something like a cute cartoon squirrel in a bakery wearing a chef's hat. Boom. It gave me four variations. I

picked one I liked and saved it. Then I kept going. Squirrel mixing batter. Squirrel dropping muffins. Squirrel panicking. You get the idea. Each time,

Picleman kept the same squirrel look. No surprise zebras, no cursed mutant animals, just solid, usable frames. Okay, maybe one squirrel had six arms, but hey, free tool. But images don't move. We need animation. Now, I had a

bunch of cute images, but still images don't go viral. So, it was time to bring in Digen AI. This tool animates your static images. You upload a picture and it adds smooth movement like zooms, pans, or even small gestures. And yes, it's free. Sort of. It gives you 300

credits, which covers about 10 animations. Not bad for a first project, but there's a catch. You have to sign in and verify your email. And you guessed it, I had already used my email, so I became that person. I used temp mail to get a brand new temporary email. Copy,

paste, verify. Boom. New dungeon. AI account back in business. Free credits again. I animated all my squirrel images

one by one. Took about an hour. And honestly, they looked amazing. Smooth, cinematic, and surprisingly emotional for a rodent with muffins. But something was missing. The

animations were great, but the video felt empty. No voice, no talking. And while I'm a huge fan of silence, YouTube shorts are not. So I open my editor. I use Shotcut, by the way. It's totally free. Like you can

use Cap Cut, Canva, or whatever you want. And I started layering background music, cartoons, sound effects, tiny boeing noises every time the raccoon blinked. [Music] Suddenly, the whole thing came to life. It felt like a mini Pixar short made by someone with no budget and no time, but way too much determination. >> This is Nibbles, a squirrel with one dream, to open the best bakery in the entire forest. He had no experience, no

oven, and absolutely no clue what gluten was. But he did have it. The final short was done and it worked. The video felt complete, cohesive, funny, cute, and most importantly, human. Even though it was made entirely with AI, it didn't feel like it. Because I was there making

creative decisions, telling the story, and slipping in terrible jokes like this one. Why don't squirrels make good bakers? because they crack under pressure. >> Are you crazy? Are you >> If you're trying to grow on YouTube and you feel stuck, this is your cheat code.

You don't need a mic. You don't need drawing skills. You don't need to spend a single dollar. You just need a story. Some free AI tools and a little creativity. Cute animal shorts are not

just a trend. They're a format, a formula, and yes, they work. I'm still uploading. I'm making more shorts like this, experimenting, learning, figuring out how to make them better, faster, funnier, and yes, sometimes dumber. You can do this, too.

So, if you've been waiting for a sign to start creating, >> okay, this is it. >> Your first video won't be perfect. Neither was mine, but it will be yours. And trust me, that's enough to start. Final tip. Before you go, here's a tiny

tip that changed everything for me. If your AI squirrel looks creepy, try the prompt. Cute cartoon style, friendly face, Pixar-like. It works like magic. And if the muffins explode again, well, that's just part of the