---
video_title: "10+ YouTube Shorts in 1 Hour Using FlexClip AI (Faceless YouTube)"
video_id: b6zkwBCx0cE
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b6zkwBCx0cE
video_date: 2025-12-20T11:50:01+00:00
video_description: |
  FlexClip - https://www.flexclip.com/
  
  AI video editing tools don’t have to be complicated. In this video, I use FlexClip AI to show how beginners can create high-quality YouTube Shorts fast, without editing skills.
  
  If you’re new to content creation and feel overwhelmed by traditional video editing, this video is for you. I showcase real results created using FlexClip AI, a beginner-friendly AI video maker that helps you turn ideas into finished videos in minutes.
  
  You’ll see:
  
  How FlexClip AI video editor works for beginners
  
  How to create AI short videos quickly using text-to-video
  
  Why this is one of the best AI tools for video editing if you’re just starting
  
  Two workflows: fast one-click creation vs more control with simple steps
  
  FlexClip combines AI video generator, automated video editing, AI subtitles, text-to-speech, and AI content creation tools in one simple platform. No complex timeline. No pro-level skills required.
  
  This is perfect if you want to make:
  
  YouTube Shorts
  
  Instagram Reels
  
  TikTok videos
  
  Faceless AI videos
  
  Social media content fast
  
  If you’re looking for an easy video editor for beginners that saves time and removes the learning curve, FlexClip is worth checking out.
  
  00:00 Intro
  00:40 Why This Video Is Different
  01:11 What We’re Creating
  01:26 AI Script Creation (Beginner Friendly)
  02:00 Path 1: One-Click AI Video (Fastest Way)
  03:33 Path 2: Full Control
  04:05 Ai Images
  04:51 Ai Videos
  05:21 Ai Editing 
  06:55 Final Verdict
  
  The Prompt -
  
  I already have a scene-by-scene script for a short video.
  Your task is to convert the script into AI-ready image prompts and video/animation prompts [number of scenes enter here].
  Include narrations.
  
  Rules (important):
  – Keep the same main character in every scene
  – Maintain one consistent visual style across all scenes
  – Style:[Enter your style here]
  – No text, no logos
  
  For EACH scene in the script, generate:
  
  One image generation prompt (describes a single frame)
  One video / animation prompt (describes motion and camera)
  
  Animation rules:
  Smooth, simple camera motion
  Avoid dramatic or unrealistic motion
  
  Output format (strict):
  – Scene 1
  • Image Prompt:
  • Video Prompt:
  • Narration:
  – Scene 2
  • Image Prompt:
  • Video Prompt:
  • Narration:
  – Continue for all scenes
  
  Keep prompts detailed, clear, and ready to paste into AI image and video tools.
  
  Here is the script to convert:
  [PASTE SCRIPT HERE]
  
  - End of the prompt -
  
  👍 Like the video if it helped
  📌 Subscribe for more AI video editing tutorials and beginner workflows
  
  #AIVideoTools #FlexClipAI #FacelessContent #VideoEditingForBeginners #AIVideoEditing #BeginnerCreators #AIVideoMaker #YouTubeShorts
---
Everything you're watching right now created in under five minutes. >> What if I told you one army conquered [music] realms with sheer speed and terror? They were the Mongols. Fast, ruthless, and unstoppable. Fighting on horseback, they struck with lightning speed.

Arrows flew, enemies [music] fell before anyone knew they were there. Their most terrifying trick, the fake retreat. In just a few decades, [music] they built the largest land empire in history and redefined warfare forever.

For a normal person, videos like this take around 1 hour. Writing a script, finding visuals, adding voice, subtitles, it's a lot. I'm not a pro editor, and I didn't use one. I used one beginner-friendly AI tool to turn an idea into a finished video in minutes. In this video, I'll show you two ways to do it in the fastest way and the better looking way. Both beginner

friendly.

All right, let's get started. In this video, I'm creating the same 30-cond short in two different ways using Flex Clip AI. One is the fastest possible way and the other gives more control but still stays beginner friendly. I'm starting completely from scratch. First I click on AI video script here.

I just describe my idea. You don't need to be creative. You can even use example ideas if you want. I'll type [music] something like I want a 30-se secondond short about a historical story. [music] And done.

In [music] seconds, Flex Clip generates a perfectly timed script that actually fits a 30-se secondond video. This alone saves a lot of time. Now, for making the video, you have two paths. Let's start with path one, the fastest. I click on AI to video. Here I can see the full

script. If I want, I can quickly edit or tweak it. Then I move to the settings. I choose media source, AI images, visual style, aspect ratio, language, AI voice for narration, voice style, speed, pitch, subtitle, style. Once everything looks good, I hit generate and that's it. Flex Clip now takes care of

everything. Images, voice narration, subtitles, background music. A few seconds later, I'm inside the editor and the full video is already done. At this point, I could simply export and download. The entire process takes about 1 minute.

>> What if I told you one army conquered realms with sheer speed and terror? They were the Mongols. Fast, ruthless, and unstoppable. [music] Fighting on horseback, they struck with lightning speed. Arrows flew, [music] enemies fell. Before anyone knew they

were there, their most [music] terrifying trick, the fake retreat. In just a few decades, they built the largest land empire [music] in history. They didn't just win wars, they redefined warfare. The Mongols [music] changed the face of battle forever. Now, let's be honest, this method is fast, but it has limits. Images are more

generic. Transitions are basic. There's less control over movement. It doesn't feel cinematic. For some people, this is totally fine. But if you want better

visuals, keep watching. This is the method I personally recommend. It takes a [music] little longer, around 5 minutes, but the results look much better. First, I copy the script. Then I go to chat GPT. I use a simple prompt.

I'll put it in the description and paste my script at the end. Chat GPT now gives me image generation prompts, video motion prompts, voice narration broken by scene. This removes 90% of creative confusion. Now back in Flex Clip, I go to AI image. Flex Clip gives access to tople image models like Nano Banana, Flux, Seedream, and more. I'll use Google Nano Banana

Pro. I paste my first image prompt, select a style, photo, anime, digital, whatever I want. I can even upload reference images to keep characters or styles consistent. Images generate in seconds, up to 4K resolution, and everything is saved automatically in history. No downloading, no file mess.

There's also image to image. This lets me turn any image into another style. Anime, 3D, painting, Giblly style, and [music] more. Very useful for creative shorts. Now, let's create video clips.

Flex Clip supports powerful video models like Sora, VO, Cling, Alre, and also Flex Clips own three models. I select AI image, choose one of my generated images, enter a motion prompt, and choose the clip length. There's also an AI SFX option if I want matching background sounds. If I use Flex Clips Pro model, I can even control start frame and end frame. Again, clips generate in seconds and are saved automatically. Now I click edit.

This opens Flex Clips video editor. Under the media tab, all my AI clips are already there. I add them to the timeline one by one. Just click the plus button. No complex tasks. Very beginner

friendly. For voiceovers, I go to text to speech. I paste my narration. Choose language voice style. Then hit generate.

I save it to media and add it to the timeline. This is one of my favorite features. Normally, you export a video, upload it again, and then generate subtitles. Here, you don't. I play the voice over, split it into parts, then align each part with the matching video clip. Once

I select a voice segment, a link button appears. I click it. After linking all the voice over parts with scenes, go to subtitle tab and select auto subtitle. Now, choose subtitle style and hit generate. Now subtitles automatically sync to the scenes. This makes subtitle control

insanely easy. Now I can add transitions, background music, sound effects, or even generate AI sound effects. When everything is ready, I export. Flex Clip supports exports up to 4K and I can even share directly to social media. With a stable internet connection, the full process takes around 5 minutes. So here's the real

comparison. One-click AI method about one minute full control method about five minutes. Traditional editing easily 1 hour or more. Flex Clip doesn't try to replace professional editors. Instead, it removes complexity, especially for beginners who just want to create and publish. If you want fast, faceless AI

videos without learning pro editing skills, this tool is definitely worth checking out. If this helped you, leave a like. Subscribe for more AI tools and workflows, and I'll see you in the next