---
video_title: "How to Make AI Cartoons for FREE with Grok"
video_id: sCgbQ_tzjDI
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCgbQ_tzjDI
video_date: 2025-10-25T11:50:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Want to make viral faceless AI cartoons for your YouTube channel — completely free?
  In this Grok Imagine tutorial, I’ll show you step-by-step how to create consistent AI cartoons and short videos using free AI tools only.
  
  Even if you’re a beginner faceless YouTube creator, this guide will help you turn your ideas into animated stories — without showing your face, voice, or spending a dollar.
  
  💡 What You’ll Learn in This Video:
  
  How to use Grok Imagine AI to create free AI cartoons for YouTube Shorts
  
  The secret to keeping your AI characters consistent across scenes
  
  How to combine ChatGPT + Whisk AI + Grok Imagine for smooth cartoon creation
  
  Free AI tools to grow a faceless YouTube channel in 2025
  
  How to make viral AI Shorts that actually get views
  
  🔥 Whether you’re just starting your faceless channel or looking for trending free AI tools for YouTube creators, this video gives you everything you need to start automating your content today.
  
  🎯 Best For:
  
  Beginners learning how to use Grok AI for cartoons (no face)
  
  Creators searching for free AI tools for faceless YouTube Shorts
  
  Anyone wanting to build a faceless AI channel that grows fast
  
  Punch Deck - Neon Underworld is under a Creative Commons BY 3.0 license.
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3M9CX5HWSw25k5QL3FkDEA
  https://www.youtube.com/redirect?event=video_description&redir_token=QUFFLUhqbWVyeVE0dXlhYnZDR0V0SUlmRkJadkdqTlNYd3xBQ3Jtc0tsSXFJUVBqQWszU1VLMlBfVzBmcnZBVUowSzRkMUNZWjZWZUtJQ0lxTF9KTG9YM0Y0cXNsa0h1Rnp0bE5MeEYwX0xnM2diNkp1Z1RfdGhRUkYyTjg5bmxJTExrNTctaTJGaDh5R0QtQ0ZsNG04VkVvZw&q=https%3A%2F%2Fcreativecommons.org%2Flicenses%2Fby%2F3.0%2F&v=kbx2guA73N8
  
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbx2guA73N8
  
  Find more music here:https://www.youtube.com/redirect?event=video_description&redir_token=QUFFLUhqbHRyNFZXcUNfUHEzcjBJdk9EdVhORW5mc05vZ3xBQ3Jtc0tsVjVKWmt6YjFpVUw4WFppeXlIVmJnSVFtY2ZBdGtraEZXYXNncUlQOFVhaUhETWZQRXlpU0wtSkZyVEpSb1dBdmU4bzVCNGRsRW5lMzZOTWhTMGtSNWFfNXA4ZHZRcFBNdHdoNGktVGhvT0NIZm1uRQ&q=https%3A%2F%2Fbreakingcopyright.com%2F&v=kbx2guA73N8
  
  #FacelessAI #GrokImagine #FreeAITools #ViralShorts #AICartoons #grokai 
  #AIvideogenerator #WhiskAI #FacelessYouTubeChannel #FacelessChannel #BeginnerTutorial #FacelessYouTube
---
What if I told you you could make your own fantasy cartoon with zero drawing skills, no animation software, and completely free AI tools? Sounds impossible, right? Because even the best AI tools still mess up one thing: character consistency. But today, I'm going to show you how to beat the system. Let's get started.

All right. Today, we're going to use Grock AI to create our own cartoon. Now, if you already know this tool, you probably also know one frustrating fact. It can't generate consistent characters. But stay with me till the end because I'm about to show you exactly how to bypass that and make a full cartoon anyway.

First, just search for Grock AI on Google and click the first link. You'll land right here. This is Grock's main dashboard. Now, a quick note before we dive in. This tool is completely free.

It's created by XAI, which is the company behind Elon Musk's AI projects. It's basically an AI assistant that can search the web, create images, analyze trends, and this is our favorite part, generate videos. All right. Now look down here. See that little arrow icon in the bottom left corner? Click it and

this menu will slide open. On this menu, go ahead and click on imagine. That's Gro's image generation tool. And boom, here we are. Thousands of images that other users have created right here on the platform. You can

scroll through these forever. Now, here's the part that honestly surprised me. You can generate unlimited images and videos here. Yeah, unlimited. No credits, no monthly cap. No, you've

reached your limit pop up. It's free forever. If you click on any image, you'll see multiple variations of that same idea. Kind of like seeing alternate realities of your concept. And right below that, you'll notice a make video button. This is where things start

getting fun. If you click the little arrow icon next to it, you'll see three options: normal, fun, and spicy. And no, spicy doesn't mean what you think. So, basically, Grock takes your still image and turns it into a 6-second animated clip, totally automatic. You can let Grock generate a random video based on your image, or for more control, you can type your own prompt before hitting that button. That way, the video matches your

idea instead of just guessing. Also, quick note, all Grock videos are vertical by default and last only 6 seconds, but honestly, that's perfect for shorts, reals, or Tik Toks. Now, let's test it out. Here's the prompt I'm using. It's simple, but you'll see why this tool is actually more powerful than it looks. Watch how

fast this goes. Grock doesn't waste time thinking. And there it is. This is crazy. Look at that. Grock doesn't just give you two or

three outputs like most free tools. It generates a whole bunch of results for every prompt. Different angles, poses, colors, basically a mini gallery in one click. And the speed, honestly, faster than some paid image generators I've used. But here's the real challenge and the reason you're watching this video.

While the results look amazing, you can't get consistent characters. That means if you try to make a video with the same character across multiple scenes, the face changes, the clothes change, sometimes even the gender changes. So, your cartoon ends up looking like six different people taking turns being the hero. Not great, right? But here's the twist. Now, I'm going to

show you exactly how to do that step by step. And if you're new here, make sure to subscribe because I bring you free AI tools like this every single week. Trust me, you won't want to miss what's coming next. All right, friends. Now, it's time to bring everything together. I'm using

a short cartoon story created right here with chat GPT. It's a simple fantasy story. Six main scenes, one hero, one journey. But the real trick here isn't the story itself. It's how we'll keep our hero consistent across every single frame. So, here's how I started. I asked

Chat GPT for two things. First, the six prompts, one for each scene of my cartoon. And second, cow art. This is the most important part, a main character design prompt. You have to include this one. It

describes exactly what your main character looks like, what clothes they wear, and what visual style your story should follow. cartoon, watercolor, 3D, anime, whatever you want. This single prompt is the key to consistency because every image you make later will refer back to it. And if you're feeling creative, you can even write this prompt yourself. But remember, never skip it. Now, let's move

over to Whisk AI. If you've never used this tool before, check the tutorial linked in the card. I've already explained exactly how it works. We'll use WIS to generate all our cartoon images for free and with no limits. Start by pasting your main character design prompt right here. Set

the aspect ratio to 9x6. That's the perfect vertical size for shorts. Then hit enter. After a few seconds, your first images appear. If you like them, great. Download the one you want. If

not, tweak your prompt and try again. Once you get your perfect hero, upload that image into the subject box. This is crucial because now every image you generate will follow the same character design and same art style. If your story has multiple characters, just upload each one here before continuing. Next, bring in the first scene prompt chat GPT gave you. Paste it into the box. Select

your aspect ratio and very important, lock the seed. This ensures that every image you make after this uses the same visual DNA, same lighting, same look, same vibe. Hit enter again and wait a few seconds.

Boom, your first scene appears. Pick your favorite out of the two variations and download it. Then simply repeat this process for all six prompts until you have your complete story in images. [Music]

Now we move on to animation. Go back to chat GPT and ask it to create imagetovideo prompts for each of your six scenes. These will tell the AI how to move the camera, what kind of motion to add, and the mood for each clip. Got them. Perfect. And now head back to

Grock AI where we started. Upload your first image from Whisk AI. You'll notice that the Grock immediately starts generating a video on its own. But we want control. So instead of letting it decide, paste your image to video prompt into the box below and click the play button. Now one quick warning. If you

pick normal, fun, or spicy, your prompt gets ignored. So don't select any of them. Just hit the play button directly. That way, Grock follows your instructions, not its own. And here's a little secret. If you're not happy with

the video you get, just hit the play button again. Each time, Grock creates a new variation, different movement, different rhythm until you get the one that feels just right.

Once you're happy, download your clip. Then repeat the exact same process for your second image, third, and so on until all six scenes are animated.

Now, one last thing, Grock automatically adds background audio to your clips. [Music]

But let's be honest, sometimes that audio sounds like elevator music stuck inside a sci-fi dream. So when you're editing, remove that track and replace it with your own background music. You can even layer ambient sounds or subtle effects to make each scene more alive. Finally, bring all your video clips into your video editor. Add transitions, lighting effects, and your favorite soundtrack. And if you want, add a voice

narration or subtitles to complete the story. And that's it. You've just created a full fantasy cartoon, all done with zero cost. So, if you found this helpful, drop a like and make sure you're subscribed because next time I'm testing a brand new AI that can animate full scenes automatically. You won't want to miss that