---
video_title: "How I Create a FREE AI Movie From Scratch (Faceless YouTube Tutorial)"
video_id: XiaZVB8vIPQ
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiaZVB8vIPQ
video_date: 2025-11-15T11:50:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Want to make a cinematic AI movie scene completely free? In this video, I’ll show you step-by-step how I created Echoes of Earth using Meta AI for image generation, Gaga AI for lip-sync animation, and a simple editing workflow perfect for beginner YouTubers. If you want to start filmmaking with AI or run a faceless YouTube channel, this covers everything you need.
  
  We’ll build consistent characters using Meta AI, turn them into realistic talking scenes with Gaga AI, add clean AI voiceovers with Luvvoice, and then blend everything into a short cinematic sequence. You’ll learn how to create AI movie shots, extend your videos, add emotion, and design thumbnails that actually get clicks.
  
  This guide is packed with practical tips on image prompts, facial consistency, lighting, animating still images, and editing your final clips inside Shotcut. Every tool used here is completely free — ideal for anyone starting out with AI filmmaking.
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 Intro
  01:59 AI images
  03:01 Character consistency
  06:06 Animations
  07:14 Voices 
  08:26 Lip-sync 
  10:00 Editing workflow
  
  
  TOOLS USED
  • Meta AI (image generation)
  • Gaga AI (lip-sync animation)
  • Luvvoice (AI voices)
  • Shotcut (editing, free)
  
  
  AI movie, Meta AI, Gaga AI, free AI tools, AI filmmaking, create cinematic scenes with AI, lip sync AI, Luvvoice tutorial, faceless YouTube, image to video AI, make a movie with AI free, how to make AI movie scenes, text to movie AI workflow
  
  Night Drive by Alex-Productions https://soundcloud.com/alexproductionsmusic
  Creative Commons — Attribution 3.0 Unported — CC BY 3.0
  Free Download / Stream: https://www.audiolibrary.com.co/alex-productions/night-drive
  Music promoted by Audio Library https://youtu.be/Dh2F8LHPSqQ
  
  #FreeAIVideo #FacelessYouTube #AIMovieMaker #MetaAI
  #GagaAI #AIFilmmaking #AIContentCreation #AIVideo #AIAnimation #FreeAITools #AICreators
---
They said space was endless, but no one warned me about the silence. It's been 27 years since I left Earth or what's left of it. The mission was simple. Find a new home. But after the signal blackout, I realized I might be the last one still searching.

Until tonight, a transmission appeared from Earth. A voice I thought I'd never hear again. If you can hear this, Eli, I'm still waiting. Time moves differently here. I don't know if you're alive, but I need to believe you are.

The skies are red now. The oceans are gone. But I still look up, hoping you'll come back. >> It felt [music] like she was right here with me. But this message was sent 60 years ago.

>> I hear you, Mera. I made it past the wormhole. The world you remember. It's gone. But if anyone ever finds these words, tell her I tried.

>> Her voice faded like a memory trying to escape time [music] itself. Some say time bends. Others say it breaks. Maybe it just remembers. [music] I'll send this one last echo into the stars. Maybe someday somewhere [music]

someone will hear her voice and mine. Because even [music] light can fade, but love still travels.

Pause for a second. Everything you just saw was made entirely with free AI tools. Let me show you how I how they built it from scratch.

Let's start with the first tool, Meta AI. Just type Meta AI on Google, click the first link, and sign in. It's completely free. No credit card, no nonsense. And this tool is wild. Scroll

down and you'll see what other users are creating. Looks insane, right? You could start typing prompts right here, but that's not what pros do. Instead, click this create button. It opens a new studio panel with full control, aspect ratio, image or video style, everything.

You can create cinematic, ultrarealistic images, and even full motion clips, the kind of visuals that look like a Netflix trailer. But before you rush off to try it, wait, because there's a little trick that makes or breaks your results. If you skip it, your characters will look different in every scene and your video will fall apart. So, don't leave yet. I'll show you exactly how to fix that in a second. All

right, time to create our main character. All right, it's because every great movie starts with them. My story has two. Eli, a male astronaut, calm, determined, carries the weight of humanity on his shoulders. And Meera, a female scientist, brilliant, hopeful, the voice of reason.

You can write your prompts using chat GPT Gemini or any AI you like. I entered my first prompt, set aspect ratio to 16 to9, hit generate and just look at that. Four variations of Eli. I downloaded the one that matched my story best. Then did the same for Merror, picked my favorite, saved it, and moved on. Now, here's the

secret sauce. This is what keeps your movie looking professional instead of random. I have 10 main scenes and for each one I've already written an image prompt and a video prompt. Planning like this means your story flows smoothly and you don't waste time fixing broken continuity later. Now, you'll notice in my video I use two kinds of audio.

Voice narration, that's the storyteller explaining what's happening or how it [music] feels. And dialogues where the characters themselves actually speak. If you mess this up, your video feels robotic. So, but I'll show how to balance both. All right. Now, the part

most people get wrong. Um, consistent characters. Look at my third scene. Our astronaut, Eli, appears again. If I generate him from scratch, Meta AI will give me a completely different guy.

Different face, different lighting, sometimes even different race. So, here's the trick that you upload the Eli image you already made and then enter the new scenes prompt. When you upload an image, the aspect ratio automatically locks. That's totally fine. And if it looks off, just hit regenerate.

It's free. Seriously, don't settle for the first one. That's how you keep your characters consistent from start to finish. Now, here's where it gets really interesting and where most beginners mess up without realizing it. Scenes four and six are different. These are

dialogue scenes where our characters actually talk. So, we're not just making images here. We're preparing them for lip-sync animations. And if you don't prepare the images right now, you'll have to redo everything later. So, here's what you do. Make sure the

character faces forward, eyes open, and lighting is clean. No weird side angles, no dramatic shadows. That's how you make perfect lip-s sync shots later. I did that for Meera in scene four and Eli in scene six. Just two clean portraits that look cinematic and alive. Now I've

generated all 10 images, one for each scene. Each one tells a part of the story and together they look like real movie frames. And in the next part I'm going to show you how I turn them into animated movie scenes. The part where everything comes alive. Now that we've got all our scenes ready, it's time to bring them alive. And

here's where things get fun. We're turning static images into actual animated movie clips. You can directly animate an image by clicking animate, but the AI moves things randomly. That's why I always click custom animate. It opens a new tab where I can type exactly how I want the movement to look.

Simple example, slow cinematic pan across a small spacecraft drifting through deep space. Then I hit animate, wait a few seconds, and boom, my 5-second clip is ready. Now 5 seconds isn't enough. So I click the video, hit extend, and after a few seconds, I get a smooth 9-second version. Pretty amazing, right? A completely free

tool giving me footage that looks straight out of a movie trailer. I repeated that for all my scenes except the fourth and sixth. Those are dialogue scenes and we're saving them for lip-s sync later. For now, I just downloaded them as still images. So now we've got eight short video clips, all around 9 seconds long.

And together, they already look like the skeleton of a short film. Next step, we need voices. For that, I'm using a free AI voiceover tool called Love Voice. No login needed, no credit card. Just open it and start generating. It supports

more than 70 languages, and if you do sign in, you unlock even more voices. Free users can still generate over 10,000 characters per month. So, that's plenty to work with. Now, listen carefully here. We're not generating the full dialogues yet. We're just creating

reference voices, small clips that we will use later for lip sync. So, I start with Mera. I test a few voices using this simple line until one sounds right. >> Hi, my name is Meera. I'm young woman in my early 30s. Nice to meet you.

>> Calm, thoughtful, maybe a little nostalgic. Downloaded it. Then I do the same for Eli. Strong, grounded, confident. Once both voices are ready, I move on to narration. And that's the

storytelling part. Between the dialogues, I paste all my narration text into Lou Voice and generate it in one go. It's faster. And when editing later, I'll split it scene by scene. After a few minutes, I have all my audio files. Two character voices and the main

narration. Now, we can finally move to the star of the show, Gaga AI. This is where our images start talking. Go to Gaga AI, sign in, and you'll automatically get 200 free coins. But here's the good news, and you don't even need them if you're using the Gaga 1 model. It's

completely free, though not unlimited. There's a daily generation cap for free users. Usually a few clips per day depending on server load. So don't waste a generation on a bad setup. I'll show exactly how to do it right. Upload your

image. Then upload the reference voice we just made. Next, type in your dialogue and animation prompt. You can generate up to 10-second videos in 1080p completely free. My dialogues were a little long, so I split them into two clips. Here's

how I did it. I entered the first few lines, hit generate, and waited a minute or two.

>> If you can hear this, Eli, I'm still waiting. Time moves differently here. I don't know if you're alive. >> Downloaded the result and you looked great. Then I deleted that project, entered the next lines, and generated the rest. That's how you can handle

longer scenes without breaking the limit. I followed the same steps for both the fourth and [music] sixth scenes. Yes, there's a small watermark at the bottom, but don't worry, you can crop it easily while editing. And that's it. I imported everything into my video editor. All clips, all

narrations. Then I lined them up on the timeline, trimmed the voiceovers to match each scene, added gentle background music, a few transitions, and light cinematic effects. And just like that, we've built a complete sci-fi movie scene for $0 using only free AI tools. From idea to full scene, all powered by free AI. If you're new to my channel, subscribe now because every week I uncover more tools like this, and you won't want to miss them. See you in

the next one.