---
video_title: "Automate Full Stories From 1 Image 100% FREE(Auto Whisk + Grok Imagine)"
video_id: UmnrsbtrWTk
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmnrsbtrWTk
video_date: 2026-01-20T11:50:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Automate full AI animation from 1 image for $0. Create consistent faceless stories using free tools (Whisk + Grok) in this step-by-step workflow.
  
  If you are trying to start a faceless YouTube channel or create animated stories, the biggest hurdle is consistency and cost. Most creators waste hours generating AI images one by one or spend hundreds of dollars on subscriptions like Midjourney or Runway. In this video, I reveal a hidden "Factory Workflow" that automates the entire process for free.
  
  I will show you how to take a single character reference (Anchor Image) and generate dozens of consistent scenes automatically, then animate them with perfect lip-sync using the latest free AI video tools.
  
  📂 THE 100% FREE AI TOOL STACK:
  
  The Architect: ChatGPT (Free Version)
  We use a specific "Director Mode" prompt to generate full scripts, scene descriptions, and image prompts in one click.
  The Automation: Auto Whisk Extension
  A hidden Chrome extension that connects your text prompts to the image generator, allowing for bulk batch creation while you sleep.
  The Engine: Whisk AI
  An unlimited free AI image generator that rivals paid tools. We use this to create high-quality, consistent characters without daily credit limits.
  The Animator: Grok Imagine AI
  The secret weapon for turning static images into video. I show you how to maximize the daily free credits to get professional motion and lip-syncing.
  ✅ WHAT YOU WILL LEARN IN THIS TUTORIAL:
  
  How to maintain character consistency across different scenes (the "Anchor Image" technique).
  How to batch generate 50+ images in minutes using browser automation.
  How to stop wasting video credits on Grok by changing one hidden setting.
  How to add dialogue and lip-sync to your characters without complex software.
  The "No Background Music" prompt hack for cleaner audio editing.
  📜 THE MASTER PROMPT:
  I have pinned the exact ChatGPT prompt used in this video in the PINNED COMMENT below. This prompt formats your story specifically for the Auto Whisk extension, saving you hours of manual typing.
  
  💡 WHY USE THIS WORKFLOW?
  Consistency is the key to retention on YouTube. If your character looks different in every scene, viewers click off. This workflow solves that problem by locking in your character's identity before you even start generating. Plus, by utilizing free tools with generous daily limits, you can produce full-length faceless stories every single day with zero overhead costs.
  
  🔔 SUBSCRIBE FOR MORE WORKFLOWS:
  I test AI tools so you don't have to. Subscribe for dense, no-fluff tutorials on building automated content systems.
  
  #aianimation #freeaitools #grokimagine #autowhisk #chatgptworkflow #aivideo #contentautomation
---
Wait for me, stars. I'm almost there.

Don't fade yet.

Just a little more.

I can see you now. Hello. I missed you. >> I made this animated scene using a specific stack of AI tools. It cost me $0. In this video, I will show you the

exact settings, the hidden extensions, [music] and the specific prompts so you can copy this workflow step by step. Most creators waste hours generating images one by one or they waste their free daily credits on video tools because they don't know how to change one default [music] setting. Today we are building a factory. We will use chat GPT to write the blueprint, a browser extension to automate the image generation and a specific video tool to handle the animation and lip syncing. Everything I show you today is free or has a generous free tier that refreshes daily. Let's build the blueprint. We

cannot start generating until we have structured data. If you ask chat GPT for a story, it gives you paragraphs. We need codelike instructions for the image generators. I am pasting a specific master prompt. You don't need to write this from scratch. Here's the logic.

This prompt tells ChatGpt to act as a director. It asks for four [music] specific things. the full story, the specific visual prompts for image generation, the motion prompts for video generation, and the character dialogue. Notice the output. It separates the main character description from the individual scene prompts. This is

critical for consistency later. In the project details section, simply describe your idea. For this example, [music] I am making a story about a cute robot who talked to the stars and enter the desired video length. Chat GPT handles the rest. [music] Now we have our data.

Do not close this tab. We will come back to copy these in bulk. Now let's automate the image creation. Generating 20 images manually takes 20 minutes. We are going to do it in 2 minutes. Go to the Chrome web store and

search for AutoWisk. Add it to your browser. This extension is the bridge between our text prompts and the image generator. Next, navigate to Whisk AI. This tool is currently free and allows unlimited generations. This is rare, so

take advantage of it while it lasts. Before we automate the batch, we must create our anchor image. This is the main character reference that ensures our robot looks the same in scene 1 as it does in scene 10. Copy your main character description from chat GPT. Paste it here.

Select your aspect ratio. I use 16x9 for YouTube. Generate a few times until you get the perfect look. I generated this cute robot few times to get the lighting right. Once you have the winner, download it to your computer.

Now we automate. Open the auto whisk extension. First, change the language to English. Second, ensure you have selected version 7.6. 6 or the latest

stable build available. Go back to chat GPT, highlight every single image prompt in the list. Copy them all at once. Open the extension and paste the list into the input field. You do not need to separate them manually.

The extension recognizes the line breaks and counts the prompts automatically. Set your aspect ratio to 16x9. Next, look at image count. This determines how many variations it generates per prompt. I set this to two or four, giving me options to choose from later. This is the most important

step. Do not skip this. Upload your anchor image of the robot into the extensions [music] reference slot. This locks the character consistency across all the prompts we just pasted. Click start.

You can now walk away. The extension will generate every scene. apply the character reference and download the images to your drive automatically. You don't need to stay on the tab. Just keep the browser open.

If you need to fix a specific image, go to the library tab and refine it manually. But for the bulk of the work, the machine has [music] done it for us. Images are static. To get retention, we need motion. We will use Grock imagine AI. It creates video from images and

handles lip syncing. It is free, but you have a daily limit. For me, it is roughly 20 videos per day. You must spend these carefully. Now, listen carefully. By default, this tool starts

generating a video the moment you upload an image, often before you have typed your prompt. This waste a credit on a random generation. Go to your settings, find the behavior tab, and disable automatic video generation. Now, the tool will wait for your instructions. This simple change effectively doubles your useful output. Let's animate. I

have filtered my downloaded images and deleted the bad ones. Upload your scene image. Copy the video prompt from chat GPT. But we aren't done. We need the character to speak. Paste

the matching dialogue from your script at the end of the prompt. This tells the AI to analyze the face and sync [music] the lips to the text. Here's another tip. If you plan to edit this later, type no background music in the prompt. This gives you clean vocal audio without generic AI music interfering with your sound design later.

Hit generate. >> Wait for me, stars. >> Look at the physics. The metallic texture shifts correctly. The lip sync is surprisingly accurate. For a free

tool, this is production ready. If the resolution looks soft, use the upscale button here before downloading. It costs extra time, but for your final export, it is worth it. Repeat this process for your 20 daily clips. Once downloaded, drag them into any video editor. Since

we generated clean dialogue, you can now layer in your own high-quality sound effects and background music to glue the scenes together. This workflow turns a complex animation studio into a simple checklist. You have the blueprint from chat GPT, the automation from AutoWisk, and the motion from Grock. I have pasted the full master prompt for ChatGpt in the pinned comment below, so you can copy paste it immediately. I test these tools daily so you don't have to. If you

want more efficient free workflows like this, subscribe to the channel.