---
video_title: "NotebookLM: Make AI Writing Sound Human (100% Free)"
video_id: M6XXKf6zhRc
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6XXKf6zhRc
video_date: 2026-08-16T11:50:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Make AI writing sound human using two free Google tools — build a reusable Voice Profile in NotebookLM and a Writer Gem in Gemini.
  
  Get vidIQ to grow your channel faster! 🚀
  https://vidiq.com/tooldrop
  
  Most tools charge a monthly fee to humanize AI writing free of that robotic tone. This build shows why AI writing sounds like AI — predictability (perplexity) and burstiness, the two patterns detectors measure — and how a notebooklm gemini gems writing system fixes both on purpose.
  
  📋 WHAT YOU'LL LEARN
  
  Build a Voice Profile in NotebookLM that matches how you actually write
  Set up a niche and audience profile using NotebookLM Deep Research
  Customize a Writer Gem in Gemini that drafts in your voice
  Generate a second Auditor Gem that scores drafts and names the exact failed lines
  Run the write-check-fix loop so your AI writing sounds human every time
  
  0:00 The problem with AI humanizers
  1:17 Building your Voice Profile (NotebookLM)
  3:35 Building the Writer Gem (Gemini)
  4:50 Why AI can't grade its own homework
  6:07 Testing the system: write, check, fix
  
  #AI #AIWriting #NotebookLM #GeminiGems #AIforSmallBusiness #HumanizeAI
---
Right now, there is an entire industry built around one problem. Companies charge a monthly fee for software that does one job. Make AI writing sound less like AI. Search it yourself. Dozens of tools all promising the same thing. Here is what nobody tells you. The thing they are selling isn't magic. It's two measurable patterns in how a model writes. And once you know what those patterns are, you can build the fix yourself for free using two tools sitting in your Google account right now. First, predictability. A language model always reaches for the most likely next word. Detectors measure exactly that. How predictable your word choices are. Low predictability, high suspicion. Second, and this one matters more. Burstiness. Read a few paragraphs of AI writing out loud. Every sentence lands in roughly the same length. Human writing doesn't do that. We write three words, then we write 40. We interrupt ourselves. So the fix isn't a secret algorithm. It's teaching a system to target those two things on purpose. Here's how that system gets built. Start in notebook LM. Create a new notebook. What goes in are style sources. Writing that already sounds like you. Your own blog posts, an old script, an email you were proud of. If you don't have any of that yet, a short story you love works just as well. As long as it's public domain or something you hold the rights to. For this build, I'm using five ohenery stories. Clean prose and a very distinct rhythm, which makes the next step easy to see working. Now the first prompt. Copy prompt one and paste it in. Every prompt and every file in this build is in the pinned comment, free to download. What comes back is not a summary of what the writing says. It's a breakdown of how it's written. Sentence rhythm, favorite transitions, vocabulary, punctuation habits. That's your voice profile. And it's good. But right now it's sitting inside a chat window. So copy that output, paste it into a document, and save it as a PDF. That file becomes the specification your system matches against every time from now on. But a voice profile on its own has a gap in it. It knows how you sound. It has no idea who you're talking to. Stay in notebook LM and open deep research. Paste prompt two. Then fill in the two blanks, your niche and your target audience. This is the part that answers who you're writing for, what they already know, and what words they actually use. Give it a few minutes. When the research finishes, you'll see an import option. Do not click it. Instead, click top sources. Unselect all of them. Import the research report only. Open it. Copy it. Paste it into a document, save it as a PDF. Built once, used forever. Now over to Gemini. Click the settings icon, then Gems, then under the Gems Manager, create a new gem. Call this one writer. Paste the description into the description box, and the instructions into the instructions box. Then the knowledge files. 5 PDFs. The human versus AI explainer. Why AI writing sounds the way it does, and what human writing does differently. For bitten patterns. This one matters more than people expect, because it's about statistical patterns, not banned words. Negative examples. Bad, robotic AI writing. Each one followed by exactly what's wrong with it. The gem reads these only to recognize those patterns and avoid them. Then your niche and audience profile, and your voice profile. Save the gem. You now have a writer. If this just saved you an afternoon of work, hit subscribe. I drop one of these workflows every week. Give it an idea, or paste in a rough AI draft you want repaired, and it returns a full piece. Matched to your voice, grounded in your niche. Sounds finished, doesn't it? Here's where I have to be honest with you. I tested this for days, and every single time, the model that wrote the draft, would also tell me the draft was excellent. It graded its own homework. It found loopholes in its own rules without even trying. Hiding a banned pattern behind a few extra words, then telling me with complete confidence that the pattern was gone. That's not a flaw in this tool. That's what happens anytime you ask a system to check its own work. So the fix isn't a stricter rule. It's a second reviewer, with no reason to defend the first draft. Create a new gem, call it auditor. Give it the description and the exact instructions from the PDF. For knowledge, your voice profile, negative examples, forbidden patterns, and the self-audit rubric. The rubric in the pinned comment looks for reasons to fail, checks every rule against evidence, and stops the moment a hard gate breaks. Save it. Now the test. I open the writer and hand it a full story that was originally written by AI. Use the pro model here if you have it. The difference in output is visible. The story comes back, I copy it, and I paste it into the auditor. Most people get the next part wrong, and it quietly ruins the whole system. A finished draft goes into a brand new chat. Never the conversation that wrote it. Two hard gates run first. No invented facts. No repeated three-part patterns, including the dressed up ones. Fail either gate, and the draft goes straight back. No score needed. Clear both, and six weighted checks run. Sentence rhythm. Specific detail over generic filler. How often it leans on flowery language. Word choice, tone, and whether it still sounds like you One number out of a hundred. First pass, 70% needs revision. Hmm, let me look at why. And this is the part that makes it usable. It doesn't just score the draft. It names the exact lines that failed. I copy that evaluation and paste it back into the writer. Into the same conversation that wrote the story. It repairs only those lines and hands me a new version. Back to the auditor. Fresh chat. Second pass. 80% minor revision. That verdict means publishable with small fixes left. Right? Check. Fix. Check again. That loop is the entire system. Now the harder test. No source story this time. Just an idea. A watch repairman. A customer who keeps returning the same watch. Already repaired several times with a different excuse at every visit. Nothing else. No plot. No ending. The system built the whole story from scratch, including a twist I never wrote. And the auditor still sent it back for revision. Same loop. Right? Check. Fix. Check again. One story built from a source. One built from nothing but a sentence. Both came out sounding like a person wrote them. Because at every step, something was actually checking. Build your voice profile once. And reuse it for every script. Every post. Every idea you'll ever write. And when the auditor tells you something failed, trust it. That's not the tool being difficult. That's the only part of this build that keeps it honest. Both gem instruction sets. All five knowledge files. And both notebook LM prompts are in the pinned comment. Free. No email required. See you in the next one.