---
video_title: "I Canceled Midjourney. This \"Developer Stack\" is Free (Faceless YouTube)"
video_id: z1-DbMqj0fs
channel_name: "Tool Drop"
channel_id: UCReBnbhIyvummwBRMbRKLtQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1-DbMqj0fs
video_date: 2026-01-24T11:50:01+00:00
video_description: |
  In this thrilling video, you'll discover how to craft a stunning cinematic anime video workflow using only FREE tools! We dive into LMArena (Gemini 3 Pro) for automated script and prompt generation, Google AI Studio’s Nano Banana image model for seamless anime-style scenes, and xAI’s Grok Imagine (v0.9) for dynamic video animation. Get ready to maintain character consistency throughout your short without spending a dime! We kick things off by generating a detailed scene blueprint in LMArena (Direct Chat with Gemini 3 Pro). 
  
  Then, in Google AI Studio, we switch to the Nano Banana model (Gemini 2.5 Flash) at 16:9, pasting each character prompt along with a fixed style string to ensure all images share the same artistic flair. For narration, we harness Google’s Gemini 2.5 Pro text-to-speech in single-speaker mode for a natural storytelling vibe. 
  
  We wrap it up by animating the frames: Grok Imagine (free v0.9 model) and Meta AI transform images into captivating video clips. Grok shines for those high-impact “hero” shots (no background music), while Meta AI takes care of the rest with unlimited free video generation! We then sync the AI voiceover with the clips in the editor, adding smooth transitions and SFX. 
  
  Learning Outcomes: 
  Master complex prompts and video scripts with LMArena’s Gemini 3 Pro AI. 
  Create consistent, cinematic anime imagery using Google AI Studio Nano Banana (Gemini 2.5) and style strings. 
  Produce and synchronize free animated video clips with Grok Imagine and Meta AI (text-to-video generators) alongside Gemini TTS voiceovers. 
  
  Comment below with the technical tip or question you’re eager to explore! What “style string” will you use to level up your character designs? Let us know and I’ll tackle it in the next video!
  
  #FreeAIVideo #NanoBanana #grokimagine #GoogleAIStudio #youtubeautomation #MetaAI #facelessyoutube
---
I just canceled my monthly subscriptions [music] to MidJourney and Runway. Why? Because I found a developer stack that produces better anime video for exactly $0. This isn't the usual hype. I am going to show you how to exploit the high-powered free tiers of three specific enterprise tools. This stack

solves the number one problem with paid AI character consistency. This [music] is a technical deep dive, not a highlight reel. I will be sharing complex prompt strings and hidden settings. You won't remember them all in one pass. So save this video to your reference playlist now and let's build the workflow.

Step one is the blueprint. We need a script that doesn't just tell a story, but generates the technical prompts for the AI. We are using LM Marina. Navigate to LM Marina and switch the mode from battle to direct chat. If you stay in battle mode, you are testing models blindly. Direct chat gives us control.

Select the model Gemini 3 Pro. [music] This is currently one of the smartest large language models on the market. Usually you have to pay a subscription to access Logic this advanced. Here we are using it completely free. I am pasting a master prompt. I have linked

this text in the pinned comment below. This prompt acts as a filter. It tells the AI to ignore conversational filler and act as a video director. All you need to do is enter your story concept and the duration. I am typing endless battle of two legendary warriors and asking for a 60-second video. The A I

will now calculate exactly how many scenes [music] fit into that time frame to maintain good pacing. Look at the output. It gives us [music] everything. We have character profiles, narration lines, and most importantly, specific image prompts optimized for the generator we are about to use. Step two [music] is image generation. We

are not using midjourney or deli. We are using nano banana hosted inside Google AI studio. There are several ways to access this model, but Google AI studio is the most reliable free method. Under the image tab, select nano banana. Set your aspect ratio to 16 to9 immediately so we get cinematic widescreen frames.

I am pasting the first character prompt from our script. But here is the insider tip. At the end of the prompt, I am pasting a specific style string. This is a block of text that forces the AI to stick to a specific art style, ensuring every image looks like it belongs in the same movie. After a few seconds, we have our hero. Notice the highfidelity line

[music] work. Look at the realistic micro textures on the battle Warren armor. The primary light source is the glowing cyan blade creating dynamic blue highlights. This is a level of detail usually reserved for paid tools. Now let's make the villain. Look at the

environmental lighting. This matches the depth of our previous shot perfectly. Now for the problem everyone faces, [music] consistency. How do we put these specific characters into a new scene? Unlike other generators where you have to download and re-upload, [music] Google AI Studio allows for direct context injection.

Simply rightclick your reference image, copy and paste it directly into the chat box or drag and drop. For the first fight scene, I need both warriors. So, I am pasting both reference images into the input. I hit generate. Look at the result. It has retained the

specific armor design of the hero and the villain in the correct environment. You will see a token counter at the top of the dashboard. Don't worry, in this tier, those are free. I repeat this process for every scene in our script. In just a few minutes, I have generated every single panel for the story.

Step three is audio. We are staying inside Google AI Studio. Go to the playground tab and select audio. We have two models available. Select Gemini 2.5

Pro. Ensure [music] you select single speaker audio mode. If you don't, the AI might try to simulate a conversation between two voices, [music] which ruins the narration. >> Ready to build something awesome? >> Got a project in mind?

>> What do you want to explore? >> Ready to make something amazing? >> What do you want [music] to explore? Here is where we elevate the quality. We can enter style instructions. Instead of

just converting text to flat speech, we tell the AI how to act. I am entering storytelling tone. Paste your narration lines from step one and hit generate. The [music] earth shattered long ago, yet the steel still sings. This runs completely free and gives you a performance that matches the weight of our story. No robotic monotone.

Step four is animating these images into video. I'm going to compare two tools. One focuses on quality, the other on quantity. First is Grock. Imagine AI.

This tool produces incredible motion, but it has a daily limit, usually around 20 to 25 generations, depending on your region. We must not waste these credits. Open the settings menu. Go to the behavior tab [music] and turn off automatic video generation. If you leave this on, the tool will [music] burn your credits, generating random videos every time you upload an image. Only generate

when you are ready. Upload your scene. Enter the video prompt from our script. Crucially, add the phrase no background music at the end. If you don't, Grock will add generic audio that is hard to remove later.

You can also upscale the video within the tool before downloading. This is your choice for hero shots at the most important moments in your video. The second tool is Meta AI. Unlike Grock, this currently has no hard daily limits. You can generate unlimited videos. I'm

using the exact same prompts [music] and images. Here's the comparison. My technical verdict, Grock understands complex character physics better. However, Meta is faster and unlimited. My workflow is to use Meta for the bulk of the shots and save my Grock credits for the high impact action scenes. The final step

[music] is assembly. Bring your clips and narration into your editor. Because we generated the script with pacing in mind, the 60-second audio track should align perfectly with the number of clips we generated. Drag the narration to the timeline and drop the video clips on top. Match the start of the clip to the start of the sentence. Add your

transitions, sound effects, and a royalty-free [music] soundtrack. Export, and you have a studio quality anime trailer without spending a dime. The earth shattered long ago, yet the steel still sings day after day, year after year. They have been fighting for 100 years. Muscles [music] torn, minds eroding.

The terrifying truth is neither of them remembers why they started. Or so the hero believes. One of them [music] is lying. He knows exactly why they fight and he will burn the [music] world to keep the secret. If you want the master prompt I used in Alam Marina to automate the script writing, I have pasted it in the pinned comment below. I test new

workflows every week.