---
video_title: "50x Cheaper Than Claude - But Can It Actually Code?"
video_id: w-X3HV2OTfM
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w-X3HV2OTfM
video_date: 2026-04-07T16:09:33+00:00
video_description: |
  MiniMax Token Plan 12% OFF: https://platform.minimax.io/subscribe/coding-plan?code=7kk2uAhnPa&source=link
  
  MiniMax 2.7 is an AI model writing code, testing it, figuring out what went wrong, and fixing it with zero human involvement. The reason I'm covering this is not just because it's a good coding model, it's because this model helped build itself. I'm going to break down what this actually means, how well the model performs, and then I'm going to use it to build a bunch of real projects.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/techwithtim
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  MiniMax Platform:https://platform.minimax.io
  
  API Documentation:https://platform.minimax.io/docs/guides/text-generation
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | MiniMax M2.7 
  00:44 | Self Evolution and Benchmarks
  03:22 | API Platform & Cost
  05:20 | Setup in Claude Code
  06:58 | Setup in Cursor 
  08:18 | One Shot Prompting
  09:30 | Full App Build
  14:35 | Final Thoughts
  
  Hashtags
  #MiniMax #Claude #AIAgents
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
What you're watching right now is an AI model writing code, testing it, figuring out what went wrong, and fixing it with zero human involvement. No one's prompting it between steps. It's just going. Now, if this is MiniMax M 2.7, you may have heard of it already.

And the reason I'm covering this is not just because it's a good coding model. It's because this model helped build itself. Minimax literally had the model construct the system used to train the next version of itself. And I think that's a pretty big deal and something that not enough people are talking about right now. So in this video, I'm going to break down what this actually means, how well the model performs.

And then I'm going to use it to build a bunch of real projects. So you can see exactly the performance of this model and kind of the new self-improvement era that we've moved into. Okay. So the model helped build itself. Now what does that actually mean?

Well, simply put, when you train an AI model, there's a ton of infrastructure around it. You have data pipelines, experiment tracking, evaluation systems, and normally humans build all of that. But minimax said, what if the model can build it itself? So they gave em 2.7 the job of constructing their entire research agent harness, and it doesn't mean it wrote some random scripts.

A single person with zero manual coding had Em 2.7 autonomously. Architect a full agent harness complete with CI testing and code review in four days. They then let it continuously improve that system based on the results and the model runs. An experiment sees what failed, modifies its own tooling, and then run to get so over 100 rounds of this with no humans touching anything.

And by the end of this, there was a 30% improvement on the internal benchmarks, and the model found optimizations that the human team just hadn't found yet. And this isn't just an internal claim for minimax. You can see here I have the sweep row and the ML bench results that I just put into a nice diagram here. And this ML bench 22 Kaggle competition, this is what you're seeing right here was released by OpenAI to measure autonomous AI research. Now M2 .719 gold medals in this with a 66% average score,

which is right behind the current frontier models like GPT 5.4 and opus 4.6. Similar results. When we go and look at the sweep row benchmark, where we're right behind the two best models as of now.

Now with these results, minimax is clearly one of the current best models that is out there right now. And the thing that excites me the most is that they just announced that they're going to be releasing the open weights for this model in just a few weeks. When I post, this video may already be open, at least when I'm recording it. They said it's going to be about two weeks from now that they're releasing the model. At least that's what I currently know.

Now with this minimax model, the one thing that does stand out, as opposed to just running it on coding tasks, is how well it complies with tool calls. So especially if you want to run this instead of something like open claw, this is a pretty big deal. Now what they did is they ran an experiment where they had 50 plus skills and 100 plus features, and minimax had a 97% compliance rate in terms of calling those tools and working with those different features. Now, the average model struggles a lot. When you give it a ton of different tools, you can see it usually has a 74% compliance rate, where it's minimax up to that significantly so in complex environments with a lot of different tools set, this is something that's really shining, not just purely for coding.

So the bottom line here is that there's a frontier level model competing with the best models out there, but with a real edge and agent reliability like we just saw with the tool calling here. And what I want to do now is get into a bunch of demos. We can actually test this out and see how it performs in the real world. So what I want to do now is show you how you can actually use this agent, go over the pricing, all of that kind of stuff, and then I'm going to walk through a bunch of demos. You can see the real world performance before you go test it out for yourself.

Now first thing to note is that minimax M 2.7 here is available via an API, a token subscription plan, or directly from their website. They actually have a lot of different options. The easiest way to use it if you just want to test its basic ability to call tools or use it in some kind of claw board or something, is directly from the agent platform. So agent on minimax audio.

But I know most of you are developers and you're more interested in using it in like cursor or Claude code or something along those lines. So the way that you can do that is you can go to their API platform. I'll leave a link to in the description platform dot minimax, dot io. And then you can either purchase a token plan, or you can just pay for your usage using an API key. So they have this new token plan concept, which is kind of unique to minimax.

And what you can do is you can pay a monthly fee or you can subscribe to it annually if you want to save and get two months free. And this token plan will give you access to different rate limits and speed when using the plan. So you can see like the highest one here is 30,000 novel requests every five hours. And the interesting thing about these token plans is they actually give you access to multimodal capabilities in terms of text generation, video generation, text to speech. It's all in one subscription, so you don't need to pay extra.

No big shout out to mini Max for partnering with me on this video and giving me access to the plus plan. Here you can see just 20 bucks per month, 4500 model requests every five hours, and then just normal speed, right? And then you can use an open claw, all of this kind of stuff, as well as generating the images and the speech. So what I'm going to do now is go to my account from here. What I'm looking for is my token plan key.

So if I go to token plan you can see that I have the key right here. And then you're able to see all of your usage. So what I'm going to do is copy this key. And then I'm going to quickly refer over to the documentation and show you how we can set it up inside of cursor as well as Claude code, but you can effectively use it anywhere. All right. So it get set up.

It's pretty basic, but I would recommend that you refer to this documentation. Again I'll link it in the description. You can see you can use it cursor open claw kilo Clyne root code. Some of these I've never even heard of Codex or Droid Z. All of this kind of stuff and it shows you the exact setup.

For now, I'll set it up in Claude code because I know a lot of you're using that, and then I'll quickly show you the cursor config as well. Now to use this inside of Claude code, what we need to do is we need to find our dot clod slash settings dot Json file. And we need to update the configuration to change these environment variables. So what we're going to do is we're going to just set the and throughout the base URL to be the minimax API. And then we're going to set the anthropic auth token to be our mini max subscription token.

Now you also I'll just quickly show you if you don't want to buy this subscription, you just want to use it on a per cost basis. You can create an API key from this API platform, and then you can go and just add some balance here, and then you can just directly run it through the API. You don't need to have the token plan, but the token plan is obviously going to be significantly better value. Okay. So with that in mind, let's go to Claude.

Let's find that file and let's set it up. So there are some different ways that you can set this up. In my case, because my Mac I can just run this command now I already configured it earlier, but you can see that I just paste it in that env block directly inside of my settings. Notice it's outside of the enabled plugins, and we have the base URL and the token. So then I can just get out of that.

I can rerun Claude and then you can see it's now using minimax. And if I say something like hello, we just wait a second here and then we should get a response, noticing that it's using the minimax M 2.7 model. Okay. And you can see that it gives us the reply. And then we can continue.

And we can use this in the next quick setup that I want to show you is inside of cursor. So let's do that and let's do a bunch of demos. So same thing here. Just referencing the docs. What it says is of course you need to download, install and sign into cursor, click on models, expand the API keys and then override the API base URL as well as the API token.

So it says just change the API key and the base URL. So let's see if we can do that. So from cursor we're just going to go to the settings here we're going to go and find models. From models we can go to the API key section. And then what we can do is we can just override this.

So we can change the base URL. And by toggling that switch that over to mini Max. So let's grab the URL that it's telling us right here, which is going to be this one right here. Okay. So let's go and paste that in okay.

And then we need the API key. So same thing. We just go to our account copy the key. Obviously don't share with anyone and paste it here okay. Now we also need to enable this.

So I'm just going to enable the toggle right there okay. So now that we enabled that which we just did we need to go to models V1 models and then add a custom model with it which is mini Max M 2.7. So let's go here to models. We're going to go view all models.

And then I think if we scroll down it says add custom model. From here we can just paste mini Max M2 point seven and then just simply add that one in. And then we should be able to start using it from cursor okay. So now it's on. So let's just open up a new project and let's start running some demos okay.

So from cursor let's make sure we select the mini Max model. So mini Max M2 point seven. And what I'm going to do is just see how well this can one shot a few different applications. Let's start with that for a coding task. So I have a prompt that I wrote before I said build a real time system monitoring dashboard.

I want you to use Next.js app, router, TypeScript, etc. I want you to monitor the CPU. I want you to have a process list. So essentially just monitor what's going on in my computer.

This is a relatively complicated task that I would be impressed if it was able to one shot with really any model. But let's run it and let's see the result that we get. All right. So it just finished up here. You can see this is the prompt that I gave it.

It had six to do's went through completed everything. If we quickly have a look at the application you can see the things are nicely separated. We have type styles, components, the app, the source. Overall everything looks pretty good. We also have an API for pulling the metrics.

Let's quickly look at those and we can see that we're correctly pulling from system information, which is what I was hoping it was going to do. You can see we get details about our Mac. This is a local IP address by the way, so don't try to, you know, hack me. Here we have our current network usage inbound and outbound in a nice kind of live chart. We have all of our processes.

You can see OBS is using a lot of CPU because I'm recording the screen. We have. Yeah, pretty much everything that I was asking for. So what I want to do now is I want to ask some follow up prompts, get some improvements to the user interface, and let's see how it handles that. Okay.

So what I'm going to do here is ask you for three changes. First I want to add an alerts panel. So if the CPU goes above 90% as it is right now I want to be alerted. I also want the processed list to stop rerendering because I believe how it's written. If I quickly checked it's Rerendering and it's not Memoized, then I want to add a time range selector to the network chart so that I can choose.

You know what range I actually want to view the network at. Now I'm asking three changes at once, because I want to test to see if it's able to actually handle all of them at once, rather than just one by one, because usually the weaker models will fall apart when you try to ask them, you know, multiple changes at one time. So anyways, let's submit this and let's see what we get. Okay, so it looks like it was able to handle that pretty quickly. We can see that we have the alerts now saying the memories above the threshold.

We can also go and check the network activity. And we can change the range here. And you can see that it's slightly adjusting so we can see a little bit better. Of course, because we haven't been monitoring for 5 or 15 minutes. It's not really doing much for us when we change that, but later than we would, you know, obviously be able to filter it a little bit better.

Cool. And then we have the processes and all of that is good. Now, one thing that I am noticing is that I don't really love the style of the page, especially like this scroll bar and stuff. So what I'm going to do is I'm just gonna take a screenshot of this and I'm going to hand this over to the model, and I'm just going to say review this and improve the style. And design of the page.

So it's let's just go with sexy here and see what I can do there. So we're just in the middle of the UI improvement here already looking a lot better in terms of the enhancements that it's made. I mean, it just looks like much more professional now. So let's see what happens once it finishes up. So it looks like it's just wrapping up here.

Overall this looks significantly better. I'm pretty impressed from a single prompt. We were able to get that. But obviously I want to keep going. And now I want to test something that a lot of models struggle with, which is a full refactor.

So at this point, it's built everything out. But a lot of times when you ask these models to refactor the code, because there are so many changes and so much context going on, it will break something or it'll mess something up. So I'm essentially going to say, now go back and refactor the entire data fetching layer. And then right now each component is pulling its own API route independently. I want a single WebSocket connection that pushes all the system data in one payload every two seconds, and each component subscribes to just the fields that it needs via a react context provider.

So a more advanced architecture here. Let's see if we'll do that without breaking something. I'll be surprised, but let's run it. And let's also just quickly check the usage while we're at it. So right now you can see we're running 139 out of 4500 tasks.

Now I've been running this a fair amount. We have what, four prompts with a lot of different tasks going. I ran a few other prompts. We're kind of in between. And I was recording, you know, messing around with the model.

And generally we're nowhere near close to hitting the usage window, and we could be running like multiple sub agents right now and be completely fine. So very, very cheap. And remember, I'm paying $20 per month for this while I got it for free, but I would be paying $20 per month, so it's not like I'm forking out $200 per month with the thing like clawed and hardly being able to stay within my usage limit. All right, so it looks like the refactor just finished up here created this system data context for us. And actually it looks like this is pretty good.

It's pulling everything out of this kind of context window that we had exactly as I asked for. And then it made all the different file changes. Here you can see it's mentioned all of the things that we can delete now. It just left them there as reference. And if I go back to the monitor, let's just refresh here and we can see that everything is working.

We have the memory usage alert, we have the network tab, we have CPU memory. And it didn't break anything, which is honestly pretty impressive. Considering again, you know, the relative cost of this compared to some of the frontier model. So now let's get a few more last things to do and really stress this. Okay, so I have a much more complex prompt now where I'm going to say I want to deploy this as a lightweight, self-hosted tool that people can install on any Linux server with one command, walk me through the trade offs, should I packages a Docker container, a single binary, etc.

think through this and then give me a recommendation and then we'll have it build it out. So let's see how we can reason on something like this a little bit more complicated with kind of DevOps related stuff. And I probably should have put that into the ask mode. But anyways, let's see the result that we get. Okay, so that was surprisingly fast.

It's giving me a few options here. Docker being number one, which is what I probably would have gone with single binary npm install script. And then let's see what it's suggesting. Okay, cool. So let's tell it go with Docker okay.

Go with Docker and build it out. And let's see if we can make that. All right. So that just wrapped up. Looks like we now have a full Docker file as well as a docker compose dot Yaml.

And then read me instructions on how to set all of this up. Overall, I'm pretty impressed. I know it is a relatively small demo, but generally speaking, I mean, it didn't really make any mistakes. There's hardly anything that I need to go back and forth with it on. I literally just did four prompts.

So we built out this entire application. And again, if we go back to the usage here, we can refresh. We've really hardly used anything. What do we have maybe. Yeah 4% in like I've been recording for a while now.

Maybe, I don't know, 30 40 minutes. So if we just spun up a bunch of sub agents kept using this, we're going to be nowhere near our usage. And again, at just 20 bucks a month, I think is a really good deal. Now, look, I think that this model is really important, not just because of the performance, but because of the way that it was trained. It's super interesting that now AI models are training AI models, and we're kind of getting into this like matrix situation where AI is building AI.

That builds AI, that builds better AI and showed it to minimax for discussing all of this and promising to open source these model weights very soon. I can't wait to start running this through something like a llama running into my open client instances. And I just think the cost to performance here is really, really good and you guys should definitely consider checking it out. So anyway, so that's it. I'm going to wrap up the video here.

If you guys enjoyed it make sure they like let me know what you think in the comments down below and I will see you in another video.