---
video_title: "Do THIS instead of watching endless tutorials — how to learn Python for AI"
video_id: DZIymFrEXik
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZIymFrEXik
video_date: 2026-04-26T14:00:18+00:00
video_description: |
  🎓 These are two of the best beginner-friendly resources I recommend to learn Python for AI:
  🔹 Python Programming Fundamentals (Datacamp) - https://datacamp.pxf.io/oNX3PO
  🔹 AI Engineer for Developers Track (Datacamp) - https://datacamp.pxf.io/B5zJey
  
  Get 25% off any DataCamp track: https://datacamp.pxf.io/DWbo9n
  
  If you've ever tried to learn Python so you can get into AI. You probably know the feeling. You watch one tutorial, then another, then another. You tell yourself you're learning, and then you sit down to actually build something and your brain just goes blank. I'm going to give you the exact steps that I'd follow if I was starting from zero today and wanted to learn Python, specifically to build AI applications.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/techwithtim
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  01:58 | Step 1
  03:04 | Step 2
  05:23 | Step 3
  06:50 | Step 4
  09:13 | Step 5
  
  Hashtags
  #Python #AI #SoftwareEngineer
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
If you've ever tried to learn Python so you can get into AI. You probably know the feeling. You watch one tutorial, then another, then another. You take notes. You not a long.

You tell yourself you're learning, and then you sit down to actually build something and your brain just goes blank. Now that's tutorial hell. And it hits extra hard in AI right now because there's a new framework, a new model, a new must learn topic every single week. so people just keep watching. Months go by and they still haven't built anything.

And the wild part is the python is basically the language of AI. Pretty much every major AI library, every model SDK, every agent framework, it's all Python first. It's also consistently one of the top three most in-demand programing skills year after year. and if you pair it with AI, the pay is honestly kind of ridiculous. AI engineering roles in the United States are averaging somewhere around 175 to 200 K per year, and senior ones are well into the 300 K plus range.

So getting this right actually matters. Now in this video I'm going to give you the exact steps that I'd follow if I was starting from zero today and wanted to learn Python specifically to build AI applications. No fluff, just the stuff that actually gets you building. Let's get into it. Now first I want to quickly explain why this happens.

When you watch a tutorial, your brain is in consumption mode. Someone else is making all the decisions or choosing the variable names they're handling, the errors. They're debugging when stuff breaks and you're just watching the finished version of a fully thought out process. Now it feels like learning because you can understand every line as it goes by, but you're not actually building the muscle of figuring things out yourself. And for AI specifically, this is even worse because people try to learn all of Python before they're allowed to touch an AI project.

They grind through OOP decorators, design patterns, data structures. They two weeks of this, and they never actually get to the part that they wanted to learn in the first place. Now, you don't need to know all of Python to build AI apps. You need a pretty small slice of it, and then you need to start shipping. Okay. So let's begin with step one here.

And let's be really specific about what Python you actually need to know. Now you need variables data types F strings. You need lists dictionaries loops and conditionals. And you need functions basic error handling. Try and accept.

You also need to know how to work with Json, because pretty much every AI API is going to send and receive Json data that you need to know how to read and write files, and how to use the environment and environment variables for example. So you're not just hardcoding API keys and you need the basics of Pip. So the package manager in Python, or maybe something like you've understanding virtual environments and how you can run scripts. There might seem like a lot, but actually that's a pretty small amount of Python. And that's really all you need to know.

That's the foundation. And if you can do all of that, you're ready to start building AI apps. And from there you can learn a lot more. Now, what you don't need right now is deep object oriented programing, meta classes, async intervals, decorators, or some of the standard library. Right.

You're going to pick those things up when you actually need them. And it's way easier than trying to learn them from scratch without actually applying them to a real problem. so here's your action step for step one here. Go learn that specific list of topics and nothing else. Don't touch a Python course that spends three hours on classes before you've written a single for them.

stick to the list I just gave you. And then second, you can read a Python script end to end and mostly follow what it's doing. Move on and don't wait until you feel like an expert, because that feeling of mastery doesn't come from watching another tutorial. It comes from building something, but you need to do as fast as possible. Now, before I start getting into projects, which is super important here, and I want to discuss the exact projects you need to build, I want to talk about how you should actually be learning this stuff and going through the list that I just discussed.

Now here's the thing. Studies have shown that when you're just watching tutorials or reading blog posts, you're only absorbing about 20% of the material. But when you learn actively by writing real code and building things, that retention jumps to as high as 75 to 90%. Now that's a massive difference. And it's exactly why so many people feel like they're learning, but can't actually build anything when the tutorial ends.

Now the action step here is simple. Whatever resource you use for step one or all of the steps in this video, it needs to make you write code, not just watch it. If you're not typing, you're honestly not learning in the way to get better. To spend tons of hours actually writing code on the keyboard. now this is personally why I recommend Data Camp.

Now, I actually used it myself when I was getting into AI development, and the way that it structures hands on exercises makes things click in a way that passive tutorials just never did. now there's two tracks specifically that I like. If you're starting from zero, beginning with the Python Programing Fundamentals track, which covers variables, functions, lists, dictionaries, which is all hands on with no passive videos. Then you can jump into there associate AI engineer for developers track. and this is the practical bridge from Python into real AI work.

You build actual applications like chat bots, semantic search engines and recommendation systems using the OpenAI API, Huggingface, Lang train and pinecone. It also covers LM ops, so how you can deploy maintain AI systems in production, which is the stuff that most tutorials skip. Now both tracks come with statements of accomplishment and you can work towards data camps AI engineering certification to prove your skills to import. You can get 25% off with my link in the description. massive shout out to Datacamp for sponsoring this video.

Let's move on to step number three. Okay, so step number three is to build your first AI project. Once you understand what you need to learn and you pick the correct resources for learning, you need to start building. So in step three, the fastest way to make Python stick is to make an API call to an LLM. In your first week of learning.

now here's exactly what you need to do. First, go to OpenAI where anthropic and grab an API key. Pick one doesn't really matter. Step two you want to pip install their SDK. Step three you want to write a ten line script that sends a prompt and then prints the response from one of these AI models.

Step four you want to wrap that into a function. Take some user input, put it in a loop, and build a really simple CLI chatbot. That's it. That's your first AI application. And this already allows you to call an AI model and get a response.

And here's why. This is super powerful. And you want to start with mini projects like this. Now every python that you learn from this point forward is going to have somewhere to live in your brain. So dictionaries, right?

That's the message format that you send to the API list. That's your chat history function. That's how you actually start organizing your code and calling different functions or operations. error handling right. This is something that's going to pop up if you get rate limited or you run out of API usage, you need to know how to handle that.

Now this single project alone is going to teach you more Python than 20 hours of tutorials because every concept has context, right? You're working with something that you're actually building at the same time, so that retention is going to be a lot higher and you're working towards a real application. Now from there, we want to move on to step four, where we start stacking projects and compounding our knowledge. And once your first chatbot is working here, you want to stack a few more projects. Now, personally, I'd recommend that you will be following projects in these orders.

First, a clear chat bot with memory. Okay, so what it does is you type messages in your terminal. The bot remembers the whole conversation and then responds in context. this way, when you're having a back and forth conversation, the bot will actually reference something you said in the past, and then you can store that in something like a basic database or a dictionary, or even an in-memory database in your code. And this one forces you to get comfortable with dictionaries, lists, functions, loops, and then that request response cycle of an API.

now project number two is an AI file Summarizer or doc Q&A tool. Now what it does is that you point it to a PDF or a folder or some kind of markdown file, and you can ask a question about the content. Now, what you should be able to do here is kind of like upload some files or pointed to a specific location, and then you can go and ask the AI model and it can reference material that was inside of that document. Now in order to do this you're going to need to learn about file IO reading and chunking tags and the basics of Rag, which is retrieval augmented generation, which is a super popular pattern. Sorry, something that's commonly over complicated, but it will allow you to build really practical, real AI applications.

Rag powder some of the best AI apps out there right now, and if you can learn that immediately, it's going to give you a head start. Now project three is an AI agent with tools. Okay. Now what this does is it gives a model a few different functions that it can call. So it could search the web, read a file, do math, call an external API based on the question or the prompt that you give Now you'll know you're done here.

When you can ask a question that requires 2 or 3 different steps or external tools, and the agent can actually chain those actions together and complete them. Now this one is going to force you to learn about Json schemas, structured outputs, and more complex control flow to call these actual tools. And this is a project that makes you feel more like an AI engineer, because by the end of this you have multiple different things combined together. You have a larger script, and you have something that's actually meaningfully useful. Now look, each of these projects should take no more than a weekend of work.

And by the time you're done, you will have written real Python in three completely different shapes. And actually understand what you're doing. and this isn't going to be a finished portfolio, but it's going to give you a really strong start. And then you can start leveling up and do some things that are a little bit more complex. So now we move to step five.

And this is where most people are going to relapse. Now they finish a project or two and immediately go back to watching a ton of videos because it feels safer than just trying to figure out things on their own. Now don't do this. Tutorials are fine, but you don't want to overdose on them. Now, once the basics are clicking, you're really going to learn more by reading and building more code, not just by watching something.

So your action step here number five is really simple. You want to get better. You want to improve. You want to learn more without relying purely on videos. So first you want to read the actual documentation of the libraries that you're using.

So the OpenAI SDK docs, the anthropic docs, fast API, pedantic, you know, long chain, whatever it is that you're using for your projects. Dig in there, start reading through some things and figure out features that you haven't seen before. Now, number two, you want to rebuild one of your existing projects with something new. So swap the raw API for OpenAI for example, to link chain or land. Grab something a little bit more complex, add a persistent database, add a front end, deploy it so other people can actually use it.

And three only when you hit a specific wall, like you can't figure out how to deploy something to vercel or you don't understand async, then you go watch a focused tutorial on that. One thing. For me personally, I only watch tutorials when I need to learn something and I couldn't figure it out quickly on my own. You want to be persistent. Tutorials are great, but you shouldn't be relying on them.

It should be a resource to go to so you can figure out one specific piece of information, or one topic that you couldn't have easily found otherwise. Now, quickly, before we go further, I just want to give you a bit of a warning. The biggest trap, once you start making progress here is the one more course loop. Now you finish one track and you immediately start another. Instead of building something.

So you feel productive because you're always learning when you're going through all of these modules, but your portfolio is still empty. now my rule of thumb. And the one thing that I want you to remember from this whole video is that for every hour you spend on learning content, right, like watching a video, you should be spending at least an hour of that writing your own cut. You honestly want to have probably a much greater ratio than that. But if you spend an hour watching a tutorial, you should spend at least an hour writing your own code so that you're at least matching that amount of effort and you get that stronger retention.

And look at these structured tracks and courses are fantastic. I've used them myself, but they're really just scaffolding, right? You need to go out on your own. You need to challenge yourself. You need to dig into the docs, and you need to search for things to solve a specific problem, not just a consumer watch content.

So here's the entire plan. I'm going to lay it out one more time just so that it sticks. One, you want to learn the specific slice of Python that I listed. So you have the foundations down. Two you want to use a resource that makes you write code, not just watch it.

Three you want to build a chat bot in your first week? Four you want to stack three projects on top of that. So chat bot with memory document Q&A and an agent with tools. And then five. You want to level up by reading docs and shipping, not by just watching more tutorials.

if you want a structured version of the steps that I just laid out here, then make sure you check out Data camps, Python Fundamentals, and the associate AI engineering track that I've linked in the description. Again, they've been a long term part of the channel. I've used them personally and you can get 25% off using my link below. Let me know if this video was helpful and I look forward to seeing you in another one.