---
video_title: "I Replaced OpenClaw With Perplexity Computer…"
video_id: fgr6Sm-dmmM
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fgr6Sm-dmmM
video_date: 2026-04-19T12:36:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Get started with Perplexity computer: https://www.perplexity.ai/try-computer?utm_source=Influencer&utm_medium=influencer&utm_campaign=Tech_Tim&utm_adset=Computer&utm_content=Youtube&wpsrc=Influencer&wpcn=Tech_Tim
  
  Perplexity just released their new Computer feature. And honestly, this is the best AI tool that I've used in 2026 this far. I want to break down what it is, explain how it compares to something like OpenClaw, and why I'm personally switching to it right now for certain tasks.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Perplexity Computer
  01:20 | Comparison to OpenClaw
  02:38 | What is Perplexity Computer
  04:01 | Demo 1 - Competitor Analysis
  07:24 | Demo 2 - Financial Dashboard
  10:21 | Demo 3 - Slack Based Email Triage
  14:28 | Why I'm Switching from OpenClaw
  
  Hashtags
  #OpenClaw #Perplexity #SoftwareEngineer
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Perplexity just released their new computer feature. And honestly, this is the best AI tool that I've used in 2026 this far. Now, in this video, I want to break down what it is, explain how it compares to something like OpenClaw and why I'm personally switching to it right now for certain tasks compared to OpenClaw. Let's get into it. Okay, so you can see the computer is running on my machine right now.

All I did is just go to the website. And then I just gave it a prompt. Now the important thing here is that this computer from perplexity can effectively do everything that Open Claw can do, except it doesn't require any configuration on your end. You just make sure you have the max plan, which I guess is $200 per month. But I do believe that they're bringing it to the Pro plan soon and you can start using it.

It has skills, it can go to the web, it can write code. It can do all of the things that you would want an AI agent to do, except you don't have to manually configure it or worry about the security. So I'll go through a bunch of demos here so you can see what this is capable of. But I really do want to explain what it is and how it compares to open Claw, because I know a lot of you watching this channel have watched my Open Claw videos, and you've seen that even me as an experienced developer can take hours to configure the instance properly and while it's super powerful, it's definitely not beginner friendly and it eats a massive amount of time and can also be configured incorrectly and lead to a bunch of security issues. So this effectively fixes all of that.

But there are some pros and cons. Let's get into it. Okay, so there's kind of two approaches that I want to talk about in this video. First is open claw. Second is the perplexity computer.

Now you can see that with open claw you effectively have full local control, which means you configure everything. You set it up exactly how you want, and it makes it extremely powerful because you can effectively do anything right. It's infinitely configurable. That also means you own everything and you own the complexity and the responsibility of setting up an instance like that. Whereas with Perplexity computer, it's cloud native, so it just runs on perplexity infrastructure.

There is actually zero set up. You literally just sign up, you pay the 200 bucks per month and then you can start using it. And then it has model agnostic orchestration, which means that it automatically routes two different models based on what needs to be used. You don't pay for API keys, you just pay for credits for the computer. And this means that you don't need to fine tune your cost.

I know some people are literally spending $200 per day using open cloud, right? And then in general, you just describe what you want and you get the result. You might need to connect your Google Drive or something, but that's about it. And just to give you kind of an analogy here, the computer is like hiring a general contractor. You just describe what you want the finished product to be, in this case the kitchen.

And then they pick the plumber, the electrician, you know, the tile guy or whatever, and spin up a bunch of sub agents to accomplish the task that you really need to do anything. So let's talk about what the computer actually is. Now, if you remember perplexity a few years ago, they were really just doing search with AI. They then released the comet browser, the Comet assistant, and now they have the computer feature, which is really the most capable one that they've had to date. Now, effectively, what this allows you to do is have model agnostic orchestration.

Like I said, parallel sub agents just like you would have inside of something like cloud Code if you were triggering them yourself, self-healing, problem solving and then isolated compute environment, which I think is the important part here, where when you use this computer, it's essentially using a virtual private server that's already configured, where you can't configure it incorrectly because you don't have the ability to configure it. And perplexity has set it up for you. Now, the model orchestration is super interesting, because that means that you're able to access all of the frontier models, and even the new ones when they come out, without you having to actually select them and set all of them up. So if you want to use grok, if you want to use Gemini, in fact, you don't even have to pick it will just automatically related to all of the different models based on what the task requires, rather than you having to configure that yourself. And you may have seen that recently, I had an hour long video explaining to you how to configure this to save money.

In this case, it's already done. So what I want to do now is show you exactly how this works. You can see what I mean. And by the way, this presentation that I'm going through here was actually generated with perplexity computer. And the entire script that you're hearing was also generated with perplexity computer.

Anyways, let me go over and show you what's possible. All right. So I'm in the app now, and I do want to remind you that in order to use this feature, you do need the Max plan. And I believe it's going to be available for the enterprise plans if it's not already, as well as the Pro plans later. But for now, you do need that $200 per month subscription, which will give you 10,000 credits by default for the computer.

And then I believe that you can get some bonus credits when you sign up. In my case, I was able to actually partner with perplexity for this video, and they gave me a bunch of additional credits, so I haven't had any issues running into limits. And to be honest, it hasn't used as many credits as I would have expected it to. Regardless, I'm going to start running you through a few demos. So what I'm going to do is just switch over to the computer tab here, where you can see a bunch of different tasks.

I had another account where I was messing around with this. I just made a fresh one for this video, and what I'm going to do is just give it a prompt and let's see what it does. Okay. So I'm just going to go here. I'm going to paste in a prompt where I'm asking this to research the top five AI agent tools right now.

So open claw man is clod co-work perplexity etc.. And then give me one of your choice. Give me the pricing, positioning, key strengths, weaknesses, and then I want it to put it into an interactive report as a web application. So we could actually send this to, for example, like an executive team.

So let's go ahead and press enter here and see the result that we get. All right. So this is the resulting web page that it created. You can see it gave us a bunch of information. It created a full comparison report.

And we can actually see all of the files that were generated up here in this kind of little window here, as well as the usage of the computer during this particular task and how long it worked for. In this case, it was eight minutes, 25 seconds. And if we scroll down, let's have a look at this by just making it full screen okay. So you can see this actually deployed like a full website I guess. And from here let's start scrolling through and see what we got.

So we get a comparison for developers knowledge workers power users. Make sense. Engineering teams all okay. Head to head analysis where we can kind of click through and, you know, toggle these various things and see this cool kind of like skill graph of what each is good at, overall pricing breakdown in terms of how much it costs. And kind of nice tables.

And overall this is quite good. I mean, I'm pretty impressed that's able to whip this up in literally eight minutes without me having to do anything. And it's even given me this kind of light and dark mode, which I didn't even ask for. Now, just to draw a comparison here to open claw. Obviously I could do this as well with Open Claw and create a website like this, but when I've done that in the past, it requires, first of all, that I'm going to set up all of the different routing for the models so we could use like Gemini for research, you know, opus for planning, all of that kind of stuff.

It also requires that I have everything pre-configured and that I have a coding task. I have a git task I have or sorry skill. I have all these other skills already added. And then in terms of actually running and viewing the site, it's a lot more difficult to have open automatically deploy this and put it in a format where I could actually instantly share it with someone, because if you, configure the instance properly, usually you're shutting down all external traffic, meaning you can only run it through something like tail scale, right? Or you're going to expose the site publicly, which you probably don't want to do directly on the virtual private server that's hosting your open.

For instance. So at minimum, just being able to have the site deployed instantly so I can actually start using it right away is a massive benefit. And again, like I said, I can do this in open claw, but it's just going to take me a lot longer to set up. And for any beginners, I don't know if it's actually even going to be possible for you to get a result like this, unless you really know what you're doing in terms of the config set up, deployment, all of that kind of stuff. Okay, so I've got another prompt here.

Research Nvidia, Microsoft and anthropic pull the latest news, do the analyst sentiment and then give me any financial developments and build a comprehensive dashboard that I can actually use. Let's see what this can do. All right. So we've got the finished result here. Let's pop it open.

And then we can go through and see how it built this all right. So we've got AI Titans comparison dashboard. We have Nvidia Microsoft and Anthropic and their stock price okay. We can see kind of a financial comparison here of the latest reported quarter. We have quarterly revenue trends showing us Nvidia versus Microsoft and then anthropic.

It's giving us a trajectory because this is a private company. So it actually separate those two out where we have the publicly traded ones and the privately traded keep going forward estimates okay. Analyst sentiment bull case bear case. We can have a look at this here and see. And then it gives us the latest news from all of them.

And we can see Microsoft okay. Frontier Suite March 9th GTC 2026 March 14th. Pretty cool. All right. So again single prompt I don't know why it always gives us light and dark mode, but we've got that here.

And if we go back to the task let's have a look at some of the things that actually did here. Because again I'm trying to make the comparison of like if I was going to do this in open floor, what would be required to have this work? So first of all, you can see we had four sub agents running in parallel, or three I guess, when we're loading the skills here. So research assistant, finance markets, website building which are already made for us. We also can add our own skills.

In fact, if I go here like I don't have any right now, but I can make my own skill if I want. It actually has the create skill skill. And then you can view the markdown file and actually just copy this or use it how you want. Anyways, we'll go back here. So point is it ran a bunch of these tasks in parallel.

It's going to start setting up the research. So it's researching this doing the financial data collection. And then we can see it's running all of these in parallel fetching the tool details. Same thing. Running all of these in parallel running the tasks in parallel.

You can see here this used opus 4.6 was telling us the specific model. And then again it goes and completes everything else. So if we were just to look at all of the things that were ran here again, we can emulate this in open clone, but most people are probably never going to get to a point where they're open, closed, configured with all of these things and have it functioning properly. In this case, I just used it and it worked right away.

And I think that's the massive benefit of this tool, is that if you just want something done instantly, right away without any config, you open it up and it works. If I was to try to build this an open clock again, like I mentioned, I would have to have some way of previewing the site, which is not easy. I'd probably ssh into the instance I'm going to have to set up all of the model config. I'm going to have to be a little bit more explicit in terms of what I want it to do. I'm going to have to configure all of the skills, and even me, probably one of the top 1% users of open cloud right now in terms of tokens is going to spend, you know, 45 minutes, 60 minutes getting this site up. We're here.

Let's check this ran in 12 minutes, right. And spun everything up. And to be honest is probably cheaper if I do the math on the token usage pro-rata than it would be if I just used, you know, my own API key with anthropic or something from Open Claw. Okay, now the next thing that I want to run here and this is the one that I was thinking about the most when I heard perplexity computer coming out is something that's going to run on some kind of schedule or respond to some kind of events. So what I like about open Claw is that because it's so configurable, it can actually be proactive.

It can like send you a daily report, it can run cron jobs. It can react to like a message coming in or something. Right. So what I want to try to do, first of all, is make it so that I can message this in slack, which I believe is possible. And then I want to see, okay, if I'm not actually telling it to do something directly, can it go ahead and do that proactively based on some instruction I gave it previously.

So like send me a daily report or something, analyze my business. You know, complete something. Right. And the advantage of the computer is that it's always on and just running in the background. So unlike even OpenCL, if you're running it on like a mac mini or something, if the power goes out or you turn your Mac mini off each, it stops working, right?

It can also very easily crash, as I'm sure many of you have probably seen even on a VP's. Okay, yeah, it's always running as long as the VP's is running. Kind of same thing here, right? It's just always on in the background, which I think is a massive benefit. So let's try.

Let's go back here to the computer and let's give this like a business automation task okay. So the next task I'm going to give it is to monitor my inbox every morning, summarize what's important flag anything urgent draft responses for my approval, and then format the whole briefing to look like a clean notion. Dashboard. Run this daily. And just because I think it's going to be funny, speak like Mario and let's see if we can do that now.

By the way, I did have a few connectors on before I'm running this, so I just want to show you for the connectors. I did connect Google Drive, Gmail and Slack and with slack it was actually very simple. All I had to do was just authenticate my slack and add the bot. And now if I go here, I was just testing this earlier, you can see that I have computer and I can actually just tell it to do something directly from slack. So if we take that same prompt, I can just put it here.

I'm going to say speak like Mario and I'm just going to send it to the computer from slack. And you can see now the computer is working replying to my message. And hopefully that will be done in a second and then we can see it give us kind of these daily briefs by reading through my email. Okay, so we just gave me a reply here. It says our daily Mario inbox briefing is set up and ready to go.

Here's what's going to happen at 9:00 Am Bangkok time. So I guess it just decided that is going to be the time. So as the first briefing drops tomorrow, Monday, March 16th. And if you want to test or right now just time or tell me are you going to take a day off, just let me know. Okay.

So I'm just going to say test it now and let's see what it's going to give me here. And if it's able to actually go to the inbox, pull the emails, etc.. And interestingly here you can actually see what was sent from slack. So you can see I just said test it now right inside of the interface for perplexity.

So you can see it says like, let me run the briefing now is a test. And it's running sonnet 4.6 and generating it. So if you want to see what it's doing, you can so see that directly in the UI as opposed to obviously in slack here we're just going to give you the response. All right.

So it just sent me the DM notice. It actually sent it to myself. So it's like me sending it to myself which is kind of weird. But anyways, that's how I got it. And you can see it's a meet your morning briefing okay.

Sunday. So it's talking like Mario. Obviously I'm going to have to blur a few things out here because it is my actual real email that I got this to go to. And obviously we need to blur out some of the names and the details, but you can see it's giving us some urgent stuff on like new sponsorship deals or opportunities in my inbox. 51 new emails.

Okay, sponsorship and coins going over like different deals, whatever that we've been signing, videos being live, all of this kind of stuff. Collaboration and crew. Now again, most of this I'm going to blur because I can't, yet show it all to you, but it looks like it is working and it is pretty accurate. And if we go here, it's also giving us another, kind of what is it message here with replies that we could send to people. So let me read one of them here.

Like sorry for the slow reply. I watched the trial edit. Really appreciate the effort, blah blah blah. Hey Abby, thanks for the note etc. etc. etc.

you get the idea. And we have all of that here. Cool. All right. So it works inside of slack, giving me the daily briefing and hopefully it will trigger again at 9 a.m.

tomorrow because that's actually going to be pretty useful and I will just leave that on. All right. So at this point guys let me talk about who this is actually for and when I would use this over using open OpenCL. Because the truth is I'm not just completely ditching open class. I've been using it since it came out.

I have a bunch of instances configured, they work extremely well, and while they were very time consuming to get up and running because of how flexible it is, it's open source. It is really up to you to configure it and make it better. You can do a lot more with it, in my opinion, than you can with something purely like this because of that infinite customization. So I think for those of you that are you know, the top 5% of open core users, you're probably not getting rid of that tomorrow and switching over to a tool like this. You're probably going to keep using that because you're okay with the complexity, the set up, and you're you're confident in what you're doing.

Like I am, right? However, what I have noticed is that when you just want to do something, when you have like a task that you wanted to get done quickly, that's not something that's like a repeatable workflow in your business, this works a lot better. So building a quick dashboard, spinning up, you know, a quick research report, whatever. In my experience, I get better results from perplexity computer than I do from my open floor because my open close is not designed to do that. But for like analyzing sales calls, data, or doing an automation or operation that I do all the time in my business.

Open cloud works better for that because I've set it up specifically to do that. So the agent is designed just for that. And it's not like a general purpose agent like we have here. So that's kind of my take for all my business automation stuff. You know, repeatable tasks, things that I'm going to do over and over and over again.

I'm going to stick with OpenClaw because I know I can configure it properly, and the time is worth it to have that just running exactly as I want with all of the config that I'm responsible for. Whereas with this, if I just want to get something done quickly, I want a relatively complex task that I need an agent for and I need computer use. I'm going to go to Perplexity Computer. And I think for those of you watching, you have to ask yourself the question, do I want to deal with the complexity? Do I want to deal with the security concerns?

Am I confident setting this up, on my own with Open Claw? If so, go ahead and you have the advantage of the open source software. And also the cost is in your control. Whereas this it is $200 per month if you're barely using AI, if you need a few tasks, this probably doesn't make sense. And having a quick open class spun up on a $10 per month MVP's where you spend $5 in tokens.

Maybe that's worth it for you over something like this. So really, you guys have to use your own judgment. In my case, like I said, I'm going to keep using Open claw. I'm going to use this more for those one off tasks and things that just don't require as much configuration. And I'm really interested to hear what you guys think about this, because genuinely, yes, I know they reach up to partner, but this is a very cool tool.

It works better than I was expecting, and I'm just going to be using it a lot now because of how effective it is. Anyways. Guys, that's my take. Let me know what you think about it in the comments down below. I'm genuinely curious to hear your opinion and I look forward to seeing you in another video.