---
video_title: "I Built the Same App With Claude Code and Codex"
video_id: E2UgYp2vh5U
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E2UgYp2vh5U
video_date: 2026-05-22T13:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Click this link https://boot.dev/?promo=TECHWITHTIM and use my code TECHWITHTIM to get 25% off your first payment for boot.dev
  
  Claude Code or Codex: Which one is the best for coding? Well, in this video I'm going to answer that question. I'm going to run both Claude and Codex on the exact same set of tasks, and give you my verdict on which one is better. I'll judge both tools across four criteria: speed, cost & usage, the finished result, and the code quality.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/techwithtim
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:57 | Prompt/Task 
  02:38 | Model Settings
  04:10 | Boot.dev 
  05:30 | Build Phase
  14:41 | Finished Product
  16:57 | Detailed Code Review
  23:04 | Final Results
  
  Hashtags
  #ClaudeCode #Codex #AIDevTools
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Claude Code or Codex. Which one is the best for coding? Well, in this video I'm going to answer that question. I'm going to run both Claude and Codex on the exact same set of tasks, and give you my verdict on which one is better. Now, by no means is this going to be scientific.

I'm just going to give them a pretty complex app to build and see what result we get. And I'm going to be judging them on the following criteria. We're going to first of all, look at the speed. How long does it actually take to run. We're going to look at the costs, the number of tokens, the usage or how quickly I run through my subscription.

We're then going to be looking at the actual finished result. Is there bugs? Does it work? Does adhere to the spec that we gave it? And then finally we're going to be looking at the code quality.

I'm actually going to get each model to review the other models code, and then I'll manually review it myself. As someone who is a software engineer, to give you any insights I might have. Anyways, with that said, let's get into it and this is going to be fun to see the actual live comparison between these two tools, which are the most hyped AI coding tools out there? So let's have a look at what will be building. Now I'm going to attempt to build collab AMD, a real time collaborative markdown editor, which is relatively complex and is going to test how well these perform under real coding situations.

Now we're going to be looking at features like split pane, markdown editor, real time collaboration. So we're going to be connecting via WebSockets and having to resolve maybe multiple conflicts or changes on the same line. Cursor presence and awareness, document management, auto save and persistence. And then if we get to it and it doesn't break before then, we might add some other features like a version history export, all of that kind of stuff. Now, to keep this fair, I've written down the core tech stack that I want both of these models to use.

I've given a really quick architecture and kind of just an overview of some flows, and then a quick layout of the different UI components and kind of how I want it to look. I'm trying to keep it relatively open ended, but I also want to make sure that they're going to use the same tech stack so we can evaluate them fairly. Now that's kind of the spec. And what I'll do is I'll pass this spec to each model before we start as context. And then I'm going to go through a series of prompts which I have right here.

So rather than just saying build the entire project at once. I'm going to go through eight different phases. The first phase is going to be scaffolding the project where we'll use this prompt. It's already written. Next we'll do the basic editor and the preview.

Then we're going to add the real time synchronization. Then we're going to do the cursor presence. And then we'll go through landing page document Crud. We're going to do connection status error handling reconnection version history and then export in dark mode again. If we get to that phase I don't know how long this is going to take.

Now I have all of these written out. What I'm going to do is open up Claude, open up Codex. Let me quickly go through a few of my settings. Then we're going to start running this and let's see what we get. So I'm pretty close to a fresh install on both of these offers here.

At least I haven't used them very much on my computer. I have Codex where I don't have any sessions because I was running it on another computer, and I have Claude code where I just had a few in the past few months, but I haven't even been on this machine in like 2 or 3 months. Now I have both of them active in a directory, which we'll have a look at in a second, and I'm going to put both of them in kind of the bypass permission or full access mode. So I don't need to manually accept all of the changes. Now in terms of models, I'm using opus 4.7

and I've just put it in the max mode, which is the highest mode it has. Then on the codex side I'm using GPT 5.5. As you can see here, I'm using it an extra high, and I'm not enabling the 1.5 speed because I don't have the ability to do that with opus 4.7.

Now, I actually think opus 4.6 is better, but we're just going to use what they're claiming is the best model. So I'm using opus 4.71 million context GP 55.5.

The context is lower when it's using Codex, but that's the best that they have and then the highest reasoning available. I don't care how much this cost me or how long it's going to run. Now quickly, if we have a look at my usage in Claude code, you can see that I'm done 11% weekly, 5% five hours. So hopefully we can get through this. And then if we go and have a look at, I guess, the usage here for, what do you call it?

Codex. You can see about 100% that I have remaining and 99% for the weekly. So we can go back to those values and see how quickly we ripped through the subscription in a second. Now, you might also be wondering, how am I actually going to evaluate these at the end? Well, I will do a code analysis, and one of the reasons I can do that is because I actually do know how to code and learn it for a long period of time.

And with that in mind, if you want to learn how to code that I need to tell you about today's sponsor, boot.dev, which is one of the best learning platforms out there, and my long term partner. And one of the biggest problems that I see with people learning how to code is boredom. They watch tutorials, copy code, feel productive for a week, and then quit. Now, bootcamp dev takes a completely different approach.

It's very hands on and honestly feels more like a game than just a course. Now you're learning back development by actually building things, not just watching videos. You work through real challenges in Python sequel and go earn XP, level up, fight bosses, and progress to a full back end curriculum. Now it sounds gimmicky, but it actually works because you're doing the same kind of problem solving that you do on the job. Now they also have an AI tutor called boot, which doesn't just dump answers on you.

It asks follow up questions and helps you reason through problems when you get stuck, which is way closer to how you actually look. Now all of the content is free to read and watch, and if you want the interactive coding progress tracking and I help, that's part of the paid plan. Now if you want to check it out, go to boot.dev and use my code tech with Tim to get 25% off your first year. Big thanks to Boot Dev for sponsoring this video.

Now let's get back to it. Okay, so I'm going to start by loading in the markdown file. We're going to give it the first prompt. Let's start running it. So prompt one is in.

Let's start running these approximately at the same time. And let's see what we get. Okay. So Claude code just finished here. We're about the six minute mark.

Said that it's working properly. Had some issue that I need to fix. Looks like this one is almost done here for Codex, but it's still running, so once it's done, I'll be right back. Okay, so finally, Codex has finished here. Funny enough, it tore down the process the Claude code was doing, so it was able to run on the same port because there was a conflict that it found.

And in this case, it ran for 14 minutes. I don't think clod says the exact amount of time it ran for. But anyways, these were six minutes in my estimations, and so this one took eight minutes longer to run. But if we quickly pop open the code, we'll see. Let's quickly look at Claude. We can see we have clients, right.

Let's zoom in a little bit. Here we have our source okay. We have our server. We have our source here. If we look again we just have a few files okay.

That's fine. And then if we look at Codex, you'll notice that if we look in the client and we look in the source, we have a lot more directories. The scaffolding is a little bit more complete. If we go to the server you can see same thing. We have like a types file dist data, all of this stuff that we don't have in the Claude version.

I know I'm going through this very quickly, but the point is that while Codex did take a lot longer to run, it just did a lot more. Now, if we open up the Codex app, this is what it looks like. And from Claude's side, even before Codex was running, I didn't see anything appearing at all in the browser when I asked it to run it. So just to be fair to Claude, can you run the application, please, so I can preview it? Let's see if it can do that.

Because again, it never gave me a preview. It didn't verify anything. It just said, hey, you can run the server, but with Codex it actually open up the browser it went through. It verified that it was working. It created a new document.

I was watching it do this in real time using the computer use task, and I gave Claude the same ability to be able to do that, but it just didn't do so. Okay, so we now ran it. However, it still didn't run it in like the preview tab that it did in Codex. But you can see this what it looks like. Of course I can't press the button yet, but at least it's kind of spun up.

Okay, okay, let's move on to the next task here. Same thing I'm going to paste in the next prompt. What I'm going to be doing here is building kind of the split screen editor. So I'm saying left pane right pane at a top bar, all of this kind of stuff. Same thing.

Let's run them relatively at the same time and let's see what the next progress is. All right. So now this time, both of them finished at the same time. The Codex application is running right now on 517 for the chat or the Claude code one. Sorry, is not running for some reason, so same thing.

Let's quickly tell it. Can you make sure this is running on port 5173 so I can access the user interface and let's see if I can get that spun up. It seems to have some issues getting a working in deployment. But while it's doing that let's have a look at collab mode here. So there's a new document.

If I click into it, we get some kind of infinite loop happening. So obviously that's a bug that we're going to have to fix. If we go back, we can delete a document, we can make a new document and then okay, there we go. If it's in another one we can say hello and okay. Yeah.

So same thing. We got some bug. Now go back here. Let's see. Do we get it running.

Nothing is listening okay. Let's see if it runs okay. So Claude code is now up and running I'm here. However, the new document button doesn't seem to be working. So instead I can go to slash doc slash test.

And there we go. So let's go maybe like Hello World and at least the editors working this time. So I mean the button didn't work, but it looks like overall the features are better than we had in Codex. And it's not giving me this, like, weird, you know, infinite loop bug. So anyways, let's continue.

Now I'm going to tell both of these the issues that I just quickly found and then give them the next prompt and let's see what the next iteration looks like. All right. So I told them both the issues. The next thing that we're going to do is add the real time collaboration here so that both people can kind of be messaging or changing it at the same time. And let's go ahead and submit these, see what we get. All right.

So interestingly, Codex wrapped up first this time around the seven minute mark Claude code is still going. Finding some problems here again is having a lot of trouble actually running the dev servers and getting the deployment up. As you saw was Codex seems to don't have any issues. So while that's running let's have a look at Codex is finished version here. Just refreshed.

Let's see if we open it up. Let's open a new one because this one's destroyed for the last time. And let's do something. So I don't know. Hello, world.

Let's try to do, like some Python code or something. Python and let's go def function. Okay. That seems to work. 123. Cool.

All right. Nice. So that looks like it's good. Now if I open up another tab here let's see if we can edit it in real time. And it looks like it's even maybe doing the cursor thing.

So if I type here we can see in the other one it's like pretty much happening instantly actually. It's really easier if I open these real time so we can see it. So if I go like Hello world, looks like that's updating. Let's close that off. Let's see if I delete someone else's and it looks like the real time collab is working.

It's actually already giving us the cursor identity thing, although that was weird that it says user 83 there. Yeah, not sure why we're getting that, but anyways, you guys get the idea. Looks like that is working and the real time stuff is functioning, which is pretty cool. Okay, now let's wait for Claude code to finish and test its version. Okay, so Claude code is done.

We'll just testing this URL. We can see. Seems like it is working. It's giving us the cursor intent as well. And even the highlights. Same thing is functioning.

The button was working. Not when I press share, but when I pressed the, new document. That seemed to work. Although it doesn't seem to be saving the documents. Maybe I need to refresh.

So that's maybe an interesting bug that we can have a look at. Anyways, point is, that's functioning. Now let's move on to our next prompt. Okay. So we're moving on.

Next one I said is just add the cursor presence even though it kind of already has that this is prompt is a little bit more specific. So we can actually see where each user is, how many users are connected, all of that kind of stuff. Obviously I'm not testing this completely at scale, but that's going to run now. While it's doing that, let's quickly just dive into the code before we go too much further. So if we go in the Claude app, we have a look at client, we have S or C, we have some components, some pages.

Just open these up. Make sure we don't have any massive components here. Overall looks fine. Looks like it's using I believe tailwind here for all of the styling. Okay we have this kind of new editor object.

If we go pages we have an editor that's created here. Again not too big. It seems fine if we go index. Not really much going on there yet. Just have the tailwind imports moving over.

We have some scripts. I'm not sure what this is doing. The sync smokejumper JS okay, interesting. If we go to the server we have the database which is stored there. And then we have C, we have db, we have index and then we have this okay.

So not too much code. Overall I'd say that's pretty good if we have a look at Codex. Let me just close all this for now. Go client. It looks a little bit more structured.

So we have types pages lib components. Things are a little bit more separate out in terms of the API calls. Now it's doing the presence awareness obviously. So we're getting that as well for the users okay distribution we have the assets. Got that node modules. What else we have. We have logs.

Looks like it's actually storing the logs which is useful. And then if we go to the server we have our data our dist node modules, our source. We have our types db and then index.tz. Nothing's too big.

Nothing's crazy unstructured. So overall looks pretty good. Let's see what this next prompt gives us. Okay so it's been about five minutes here. Claude code wrapped up about one minute ago.

Codex is still going here and it's trying to now actually test everything. So that's one thing I noticed with Codex is that it spends a long time trying to verify its work and actually go through like the browser control steps, which obviously takes a little bit longer, whereas Claude code kind of just like finishes it and it doesn't actually verify it. It's not going and doing all of the testing in the browser like Codex is, even though I'm not directly asking it. So it's kind of an interesting thing at this point. Anyways, so let's wait for them to finish and we'll see where we're at.

All right. And Codex just wrapped up here about three, four minutes later and again, it was doing a lot of the verification and said that that work. Now if we quickly just open these up, I have a bunch of browser windows. Now I got to organize. So this is the Claude conversion.

On the right side you can see that we have kind of like the user showing up the different cursor icons. On the left side we have the Codex version. Now what's kind of interesting is the cursor only appears when it's actually active in the browsers. Like when I'm moving between the browser windows, you can see the other cursor kind of disappears, which is cool to see. You can see everything showing up here shows us the icons at the top, which I think looks a little bit better, and then it seems to be saving it.

If I go back here in the correct area, okay. And overall you get the idea. It's working, it's functioning and we are good to go and now we're going to move on to the last prompt. So I actually had a few other prompts, but I'm just going to combine all of them together so we can kind of throw a larger task at these and see if we can complete just all of the other features that I wanted done for this app. So for the final prompt, I kind of just combined steps five.

So the landing page all the way to the polish, to the version history, to the export in dark mode. I just took all of them and combine them together. I pass it both to Claude and to Codex. Let's see what we get. Okay, so finally both of these are done.

Now in the case of Codex, this took, what is it, 26 minutes to run, which is a long time, and Claude code took maybe 7 or 8 minutes. Now, the one thing that I did notice here is that, Codex was doing a lot of testing, so it was actually trying to spin up the browser, go through it. It did mess something up. So I gave it one additional prompt, say, hey, you got to fix the styling it like disconnected something. But it was spending a majority of the time actually trying to test all of the features that it wrote.

Whereas what Claude Code did is just write all the features that said, hey, I'm done, go, you know, check it out yourself. So if we look at the finished apps, to be honest, they're almost identical. And I didn't really notice any major like flaws in either of them. If we have a look, this one created a bunch of tests itself. You can see it has this, like, little green thing to show you where, you know, people are active in it so we can see if we go back like, one person is here because it's open in this same window.

If I open it again, you can see now it should update and show two in a second, but I guess maybe that's a bug. I don't know, it has, like, a dark and light mode. You have the ability to export it as, like markdown or as an HTML file. And what else do we have? We have the ability to share which like copies the link.

And you can paste in other browser. And then again you can see all of the people that are in here and it works, you know, in, in real time in terms of all of the updates, as you can see now, in terms of the story, this was the Claude code one in terms of the codex. One same thing. We have the dark and the light mode. If I click into a document we can see that I can swap that over dark mode.

Here 123 we get our code block. You know pi. Hello world. Whatever. If I open the same one.

So let's open that here. We should see now that this will get updated to two in a second. Let's refresh. You could see two. We have the cursors.

The highlight. Same thing. Share. Put it in another window. Now if we go back here we get three.

And you can see we have everything kind of showing up and appearing. And we can see, all the active cursors and whatnot. Let's go back here and you can see, you know, it's kind of popping up. So overall we got pretty much the exact same result at the end of this. I mean, few very minor differences.

So now it's really a matter of having a look at the code quality and seeing which one gave us a better outcome. So if we start with the clod app here, like we showed before, if we look at the client, we have our src. We have components lib and then pages. We have a not found page editor page. This looks a little bit messy to me, a just first glance when I'm kind of reading through this.

We have a lot of nesting going on, although that's just kind of JavaScript and TypeScript code for you. We have a bunch of inline comments which I don't really love. We have direct calls to APIs directly inside of use fetches. That's usually not a best practice, and you also typically want to have some kind of function for that. So that's not great.

Again, just a lot of like very kind of complicated code at first glance. Obviously the styling we can't really avoid that if we want to use tailwind. This is a bit weird to see for exporting the HTML, but I guess that's just how it did it. We have a toast. We have a theme tag.

I'm not going to go through everything, but I'm just generally trying to get kind of a sense of what is the code kind of look like. At least it's pretty modular on the component level here. So we have a lot of different things for like, okay, we have the history panel, we have the markdown editor. Again I don't love all of this stuff. In the same file as the component.

But it's not too bad. Split pane. Yeah. Same thing. We got a lot of kind of nesting going on here, but overall it's not too bad.

So that's from the client side. Then let's have a look at the server src index. We have all our API routes. Just kind of dumped together. But it's only 200 lines. It's not horrible.

We have something for the y JS here for the database. Yeah. We're just creating everything in one file. And that's kind of all we have from the back end. There's not really too much more going on there.

So overall code is not too bad. But I think definitely, you know, would not be the most maintainable thing in the world long term. Now let's have a look at Codex. So we have our client code types pages libs components. Kind of same thing as what we have before.

Seems like let's go through here. Markdown editor is okay. Not too large. It looks like it's a little bit more modular in terms. We have some separate use effects.

We're calling individual functions. I don't see anything that's too crazy with the nesting. It looks a little bit easier to read if we go into the API. Notice that we have all the API stuff in a separate file, which I usually like to see, and it's all typed correctly. It looks like same thing for the presence that is handled in a separate file.

Again, looks pretty clean. I'm just skimming through it to get a quick sense theme. That's in a separate file. I don't think we had that before. User types.

We have a types file, which I don't believe we had before. APT TSX then. Am I missing anything? No. Overall it seems like it did.

Maybe a better job at simplifying the code because it looks like we have just a lot less code on the client side than we did in our Claude application. Now we also put everything in a data folder. That's good. We had logs, which we didn't have in the other application from the server side we have our C, we have types db okay. DB looks similar.

Yeah very similar to what we had before a bit longer, but some more functions to kind of separate things out. We have a nice index file here. Again just skimming through for the API we have our types and that's kind of it. I mean this doesn't have a ton of code to be honest for this type of application. So overall I would say both code bases are generally decent.

You know, they're definitely not the most modular following all of the best practices. I'm sure if we went through a line by line, we could find a lot of mistakes or things that we just wouldn't want to include in a production code base. Overall, if I was going to pick a code base I would want to have, I would probably lean more towards the Codex application just because it seems like the code is a little bit higher quality. It seems like it's separate out a little bit, and also seems like we have less code on the client side compared to the Claude app. But I haven't had enough time to really fully figure that out.

Whereas with Claude again, it seems fine, but it feels like it's a little bit more overly complicated in terms of what it's doing there. We have a lot of nesting, we have a lot of weird, hard to parse, you know, kind of files and comments. And even if we look, what is it at the client side here for, I don't know, something like this, we can see that we don't really have a ton of inline comments, whereas Claude tends to kind of dump a bunch of comments in the code, which I really don't like. And is not a great practice, especially as the codebase gets larger and larger. So now what I want to do is I want to take these code bases.

I want to pass them to the opposite model. I'm going to get them just to roast the code, just so I get a sense of what those models think. And then we're going to wrap it up with kind of our final evaluation. Oh, you see, I'm not using those scientific prompt in the world here. But I just said, hey, review this code base.

Give me the overall quality, what can be improved, common mistakes, whatever. So for Codex I'm giving it the Claude app. And for Claude I'm giving it the Codex app. And let's see what it says. Okay, so Codex is just wrapping up here.

Took about seven minutes. In the case of Claude, this is maybe two minutes. And that's kind of a trend I'm noticing here, is that Claude seems to be kind of right to the point a lot faster. Whereas Codex was actually running tests on the application. It was going in testing.

It's seeing does this actually work? What's going on? So let me create an artifact. Let me test the server. Whereas Claude just read the code.

So let's go to Codex first reviewing Claude's code and let's see what it says okay. So it says WebSocket writes can create documents outside of the rest life cycle. Deleted documents can be restructured by open client. No off. That's fine.

Both those have that persistence is synchronous and full document per update okay. History restore can restore stale content. Generally says the code is fine. However, the main pattern to improve is the local fetch. Like I was talking about where it's calling from inside of the component tooling and repo hygiene.

Okay client build and then recommended priority okay not bad. And then with Claude it gave me a whole host of issues of the Codex one. Not all of them are really that actionable fake save indicator okay. Disk right on every keystroke. I believe this one has it as well. Off.

That's not an issue. I think that one's done issues well. Directory mismatch. That's a small one. Patch on every keystroke.

Migration leaves orphaned tables okay. And then it gives me kind of a nice table here of what to look at and some recommendations. So I think at this point I kind of have enough information to give my overall recommendation on which one you should use. Now, first things to note, Claude seems to be a little bit more direct to the point. Just does kind of exactly what you ask.

Asking Codex, on the other hand, is a little bit more proactive. Now, that means it does take a little bit longer, but it's kind of doing things that it knows it's going to need to do. But you haven't directly asked it for, like running the server, you know, testing it. Right? Fixing a bug, whatever.

Now, Claude is definitely significantly faster now. Some tasks were getting similar, but in most situations I would say Codex is 50 to 70% longer, takes longer than running the same task in clocked. So when it comes to building something from scratch, it's something to be faster to do that in Claude. Whereas with Codex it seems like this is a little bit more set up for larger applications, things where there's a lot of testing, where it's writing smaller amounts of code, but it's a lot more complex because it's doing a lot of kind of deeper thinking and reasoning, at least from what I can gather here. Now, in terms of the overall code quality, it's very similar.

Generally, I would say, I think with Codex it's slightly better, but that's really just a preference. I didn't read every line, so it's tough to say. And then the last thing I want to look at here is the usage. Right. So if we look at our usage here, you can see that I'm now up to 23% on my five hour usage here, which is quite high in the context.

When I was actually not that large, which is interesting. Whereas with what do you call it, Codex here, it automatically compacted its context window probably 3 or 4 prompts ago, because it hit its maximum. We can have a look at it here, where it was at, what do you call it? 258,000 tokens. And then if we look at our usage, let's go to rate limits.

We can see that our five hour window, we're only down 5%. So I forget what the exact amounts were. But I believe that with Claude, we've used about 2 to 2 and a half times more usage on our subscription than we did with Codex. So even though Codex ran longer and did more thinking, we got significantly more kind of tokens per the cost compared to Claude or these anthropic models. And that's been pretty consistent with other experiments that I've done.

Now, I don't know the exact number of tokens used for these. I wasn't using the API. I don't have the exact bill. But the point is, if we're going to use anthropic, at least in my estimation here, it's going to be probably 3 to 4 times more expensive than using Codex for the same task. So overall, my kind of analysis here is that you should probably be using both of these.

If you're spitting something up completely from scratch and you want it to be done super fast, probably we're going to go with Claude, right? If we're doing something where we're debugging, testing, we really want to verify something's working. We're, you know, working in a larger application. Codex seems to work better for that. And again, I've used this in other scenarios as well where I'm kind of pulling some of this analysis from.

Both of them are ultimately very capable models. They perform very similarly, but just better in certain situations. And keep in mind that I had both of these in extra high mode using, you know, the most intense reasoning you can. Whereas if I were to drop it into just high or medium, of course both of them would be a lot faster. And even with Claude here or with Codex or I keep mixing them up, I could switch on the fast mode and it would still be cheaper at that 1.5 x, right, compared to using Claude.

And I would get a faster response, which would almost make up for that kind of speed discrepancy that we're seeing. So anyways, guys, with that said, that's going to wrap up this video. I know it's not the most scientific method in the world. I can do some stuff. This will be more scientific in the future if you guys want to see that.

So let me know. But I wanted to just try these out, give you my honest experience and show you what these things can do. Because everybody's been hyping both models, they're still limited in certain cases. It is amazing what they can do, but you got to know how to use them, obviously, how to prompt them and which one to pick for which task, which was kind of the purpose of this video. So if you guys enjoyed make sure leave a like subscribe and I'll see you in the next one.