---
video_title: "Lovable Full Course for Beginners: Build & Deploy a Real App"
video_id: pZpoACNOPAw
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZpoACNOPAw
video_date: 2026-07-21T13:00:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Create a free Supabase account to use as the backend for your Loveable app: https://supabase.link/dy3LNc4
  
  No code. No experience. Just a working, deployed web app by the end of this video. In this complete beginner course, I walk you through everything you need to know to build and ship a full production app with Lovable — including the one decision you need to make at the very beginning that you can't change later. Don't skip it.
  
  Most Lovable tutorials only show you how to build pretty landing pages. In this one, I show you how to connect a real backend with Supabase so your app can have user accounts, a database, file storage, AI features, payments, and real security — all without writing a single line of code yourself.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-jul26
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  Supabase: https://supabase.link/dy3LNc4
  Lovable: https://lovable.dev/
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Intro/Overview
  00:39 | What is Lovable?
  01:50 | Pricing
  03:12 | Frontend vs Backend
  05:00 | Supabase Backend Setup
  07:17 | Creating your First Project
  09:36 | UI Layout & Features
  12:00 | Loveable Skills
  15:00 | Database & Authentication
  17:06 | Google Sign In
  23:35 | Database Security
  25:23 | Realtime Data
  26:52 | Files & Storage
  28:35 | Edge Functions & AI
  31:56 | Developer Features
  34:37 | Stripe
  36:30 | Deployment
  
  Hashtags
  #Lovable #Supabase #AIWebApp
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know to build and deploy a full app with Lovable. Even if you've never written a single line of code. Now we're covering writing your first prompt, designing your app, setting up a real backend with Superbase for things like your database authentication, file storage, server functions, AI features, taking payments, and then securing everything and deploying it live on a custom domain. Now, this is the only video that you need to go from zero to a working app on the internet. And I'm going to show you the one decision at the very beginning that if you get wrong, you can't change later.

So make sure you stay tuned. Anyways, let's get into it and let's learn Lovable. So let's start with a quick overview of Lovable. Now, Lovable is an AI app builder, specifically an AI web app builder. What that means is that using natural language, you can talk to an AI model and it can generate a fully finished web application for you that's built with react, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, all of this kind of stuff.

So you don't need to know how to code. You don't even have to look at the code if you don't want to. You can just go to the syllabus. You can ask for something and it will generate it for you. It's really good specifically for highly visual websites and things like landing pages, whether it's not a bunch of data.

And that's what most people show you online. But in this video, I'm going to show you how we can actually add a full back end to Lovable. So we have a fully functioning web app that can have advanced logic, have users have accounts, all of the things I mentioned in the intro. So that's kind of how Lovable works. Whether you're a beginner or advanced, you can get some use out of it.

And if you are someone who does know how to code, you are able to take all of the code for this website, push it to GitHub, and just control it yourself. And typically that's what I'll do. I'll start with Lovable, build something, kind of get a solid base, and then take it into another platform that's a little bit more advanced and do all of the other tweaks. Anyways, let's quickly cover the pricing because that's important. Then we're going to go and build our first project.

And also I'll just note the Lovable recently pushed an update, which means that it actually builds server side rendered applications. If you don't know what that means, you don't need to worry about it. But if you're a developer, that's actually really good news and means the apps that you have are going to rank on Google and be more search engine optimized than they were before. Okay, so quickly from pricing Lovable works on a credit system, you can use a free account. I'll leave a link to it in the description, and when you do that, you're going to get a few credits to start.

Now you'll run through these credits pretty quickly, but it is enough to build something basic. However, if you want to build something more complex, you can upgrade your account to something like pro-business whatever, and you can choose the number of credits that you want to get per month. I believe you can also just buy additional credits. Now you're going to see on my account that I have the free account, but I have a ton of credits. The reason I have so many is about a year ago I did a partnership with Lovable and they gave me some.

Now this video is not sponsored by Lovable, but if you see me having all of these credits under the free account, that's why. So that's the pricing. Now what we're going to do is we're going to start building our first application. The way to do this is you're just going to go to the Lovable platform, make a free account, okay. You can make a new workspace if you want.

I'm just going to go in my default one here and we can go to projects for example. You can see that I have a bunch of them here and we can make a new one. So I'm going to make a new project by just pressing Create Project. It's going to bring us to a page here, and you'll see that we'll just see this kind of UI. Now from this user interface, we're just going to switch it into build mode to start.

And what we want to do right away is we want to connect to a backend database. The reason this is a super important step, and that you don't want to skip this, is that you want to connect this to a more powerful database than the built in one that Lovable has. Okay, so here's the context that's going to make this make sense. Now, whenever you're building any type of application, you have a front end and you have a back end. Now the front end is the visual component that you can see.

So it's the thing that you click around in. It's where you see a video or a photo or a header. It's what I'm looking at right now. Right. Like this is the front end of Lovable.

Now most apps that you want to build also have a back end. Now, a back end is something that's invisible to the user. It's running in kind of a cloud or on some server. We don't really need to get into how that works, but the backend is responsible for all of the data of the application. So for example, storing someone like to post or populating your feed on Instagram or letting you sign in with your username and password.

Now the back end is something that needs to be secure, and the back end is really kind of the heart of the application, right? If the back end goes down, everything is going to break. So you need to have a really strong back end. And then you connect a front end to that to kind of display the information in the data, or create or update or read or delete something. But that's the basic flow of a modern web application.

You have the front end, which is what the user sees and interacts with, and you have the back end, which is really controlling everything and dealing with all of the data. Now, loveable uses Superbase by default for the back end. This is a really great free backend that you can set up however you want to go. A little bit of a step further here and create your own Superbase account. You connect to Lovable rather than using what's called the Lovable cloud.

So let me show you what I mean. So from here, you're going to press this plus button before you do any prompts. You're going to go to databases. And what you're going to do is add a Superbase organization. Now this should be enabled by default for you.

But if you don't see it, I believe on the left hand side you can find connectors. And if you go to connectors you should see that you have cloud Superbase and all these things enabled. If you don't, you can enable them. So you can just enable Superbase, you can enable stripe, you can enable Shopify and then this should show up for you. Now the important distinction here is that if you don't do this.

So if you don't click this button that we're about to press, what it's going to do is use this Lovable cloud. Now, Lovable cloud is effectively just Superbase, but it's in a Lovable cloud environment, which means you don't have access to it. It's hosted by Lovable, and you can't move it or kind of use it for another application in the future. So what we want to do is create our own Superbase back end. This is a back end as a service from a company called Superbase.

And then what we can do is connect that to Lovable and have Lovable, control everything. But we also have our own control and we can kind of export this out and use it somewhere else if we want. Now massive shoutout to Superbase for sponsoring today's video and reaching out to me to make me aware of these different features. Lovable. But don't worry, it's free to use and it works really well inside of this tool.

So what we're going to do is press add Superbased organization. Now from here you're going to have to make a free Superbase account. Again you don't need to pay for this. You can use it for free. And then like Lovable, if you're creating a much larger production app, you can upgrade and get additional usage, more space in the database, etc.

but by default it's very good. So from here, what I'm going to do is just select an organization. If you don't have one, you're going to make a new organization. And then you can simply authorize Lovable to work here okay. So I'm going to authorize Lovable like so.

Now in Superbase you have organizations where you can store multiple projects and then you have a project. Right. So for this what we're going to do is we're going to create a new project in this organization which will have its own database. So now that we've connected this, we're going to go to the databases. We're going to go to the one that we added.

So demo YouTube and I'm going to make a new project. Now when I do that it's going to bring me over here to Superbase. We have our organization for the name. I'm just going to go with White Project or something. For the password we can just generate one and then copy it so we don't forget.

And we're going to enable automatic roles and then everything else that we have here okay. There's some advanced configuration as well if you want. But we're just going to leave all of these by default. Choose the region that's closest to you or where most of your users would be, and then just create this new Superbase project. Okay, so now that we've created these Superbase back end, what we can do is go back to Lovable.

Now this dashboard, we're going to want to keep open because this is where we can access everything like our users, our authentication, our storage. But the beauty is that Lovable can manage all of this for us. So we don't really need to touch anything here. But we do have the ability to if we want to, which is the flexibility that I'm trying to show you how to get. We also can add multiple different branches if we want to have like kind of different staging or development environments set up if we do something more advanced.

Okay, so now from Lovable we should be connected. But if we don't see that we can go to databases, demo YouTube and then the new project we created. So why project now that we've kind of selected this database is going to tell Lovable, hey, we want to work here and it's time to give our first prompt. Now when we give our first prompt here, there's a particular structure that we typically should follow. Now we want to start by describing what the application is, who's going to use it specifically what we want Lovable to build and then what we want Lovable not to build.

At this phase, we also can add our goal or objective for building the application, which will give it some important context for how it should make this. So what I'm going to do is just copy and a prompt that I have, we'll run through it and you'll see the structure. I mean okay, so this is my first prompt. I want to build Feedback Hub, a feedback board app for product teams. Now who's using it?

A team admin creates a feedback board for their product and users visit the border, post feedback and upload ideas they agree with. Okay, what's the objective, right? What do we want to build this? Well, we want to have boards, name, description, slug. We want to have feedback posts and users will come later with real authentication.

For now I just want to build the UI structure for pages. I want to have a public board view showing posts sorted by votes. You get the idea. I don't want to build things like comments, payments, or AI features right now. And for the design I want clean modern esthetic.

So you can see it's not following exactly what I mentioned, but generally speaking, we're talking about who's using it, kind of what we want to build, what the app's going to look like, and then giving it some general overall guidance. Now, if you don't want to write it out like this, you also can just voice dictate. This is typically what I would do. So I would just go to my computer and speak into it like this. And the tool that I use is something called Whisper Flow here.

Very good for AI voice dictation. If you guys want to try it out, I'll leave a link to it in the description. Okay. So for now we're going to press enter. And we're just going to wait for this to start building.

We'll get the first version and then we're going to iterate. And there's a lot of other features for me to show you okay. So the first prompt is finished. However it says build unsuccessful and it's not showing me a preview of the application. So what I can do is just press this try to fix button.

And Lovable should be able to automatically fix this for me because it will just show whatever the error was. You don't have to worry about what this is and fix it now. What we want to do quickly while it's doing that is just have a look at the user interface so we can understand the different features that we have. Now. First you'll see this kind of like full screen mode button on the right hand side.

You also can kind of just drag from the right side. And you should be able to pop open this kind of side view where you have a lot more details. Now in this side view, you should have a browser window and this will be a preview of the application. So if there's an error you can try again. You can go back to home whatever.

And it should show you the app once it's actually running. And you can directly refresh or change the pages up here based on the pages that exist. You also can pop this out and then just view it in your main browser rather than viewing it here. Okay, so you can see it just showed the UI now and it's back up now. Also from this side you'll have this preview button, you'll have files and then you'll have more.

So you'll see files. If there's any files you'll see code. If you go to this code option where you can actually go and read and edit any of the code if you want to do that. And then you'll have more options like analytics, the cloud right, agent integrations, payments, connectors, SEO, all of this kind of stuff that we don't need to look at this second. So let's go back to the preview okay.

So we've got the first version of our application. And what I want you to notice down here is that we have I'm just going to bring it up here. This kind of like widget right. That's on the screen. Now this is a widget that will allow you to make small adjustments to the site by pressing different button.

So for example, you can draw something right. And I can draw around this and annotate and say, hey, change the color of this. Right. Or I can add text and just directly modify this. So maybe I don't want it ships, I want it works or something.

I can just adjust it right on the page and then send that back to Lovable to adjust the code. I also can select an element. So if I want to select a button or a component or, you know, like a panel here on the page, I can do that. And then it will reference that selection in the chat so I can tell it to do something with that. So for smaller edits this is really good.

And then you can also change the theme right to like dark mode, light mode, whatever. All of this kind of stuff for how it actually looks, shortcuts, all of that okay. So we're going to leave it in dark mode for right now. And then just clear that. Now, to be honest with you, I don't really love the design that it's given me so far.

It looks really generic. It looks like something that everyone vibe codes. So what I'm actually going to do now is use a skill in loveable called a redesign. Now in Lovable, just like other AI tools. If you're familiar with this, they have things called skills.

Skills are effectively prompts that can be reused multiple times and that kind of teach Lovable how to do something. You can actually build your own skills, but Lovable has some built in skills that are worth knowing. So if you use a forward slash on your keyboard, you'll see that we have an SEO review video creator, skill creator. So you make your own skill redesign and then accessibility. Now I'm going to do slash redesign and I'm going to do a prompt say, I really don't like this design.

It looks super generic. It looks like it was vibe coded. Let's go with something that's a lot more modern that uses different type of different text, different colors, and I want it to feel sleek and something that's like new, modern and not something that you would see very often. Let's go with kind of abstract designs that you wouldn't commonly put on a landing page. Again, I'm just giving it kind of a vague prompt, but I want it to give me something else.

So I'm going to do that with the redesign skill and let's have this just rework everything and hopefully we'll get a better result. And again, while we do that, I'll go over a few more features in the UI. So you'll notice there's this little history button here. Now this button is going to show you all of the different things that you've done, and it will allow you to actually revert back to it in case you made a mistake. So let's say that prompt I gave gives me a really bad result.

Well, I can just go back to this first version and I can see exactly what it looks like in Revert Back. Okay. So that's history and that's super useful. And you also notice that Lovable is now asking me for a color palette. So sometimes it's going to prompt you with questions.

So let's just go with this first color palette that we have here. And for the text let's go with this one that looks good for the design. Let's go with yeah overlapping elements okay. Cool. And what do we want here.

Pick a palette okay. Submit. Cool. So sometimes it will prompt prompt you with that as well. And if you want it to prompt you you can tell it hey ask me questions or give me options.

And then that will trigger that kind of widget or UI element to appear. All right. So the redesign is done now. Looks significantly better in my opinion. I mean probably not what I would go with but you know, works whatever.

So we'll stick with that for right now. Now here's the deal. Right. So built in or I guess already it's given me some kind of feedback boards. So if I click into some of them you can see that we have like planned in progress open.

I have the ability to like upvote these. Although for some reason it's adding two votes when I vote on it. And we can go kind of into this admin mode and we can view these different boards and go back and edit them, make a new board, whatever, all of this kind of stuff. However, I want to show you that if I go to one of these boards and I add some feedback. So let's say, you know, hello world feedback, right?

And then I submit this, you can see that it gets added. But if I refresh here you'll notice that it disappears. The reason for that is that the back end of this application isn't set up yet. Okay, so we've created the project, but right now what we're viewing is just visuals. We're not actually connecting any data.

We don't have any accounts to sign in. Right. And this is just like a random website that anyone could go and mess with and nothing is going to be saved. So the next step is that we want to add authentication. This is the natural next step after you build kind of the base user interface.

But before we do that I'm going to switch over to the plan mode. Now the reason I'm going to go to the plan mode is I'm about to make a relatively major change. Whenever you're going to make a major change or add a feature that's pretty complicated, you should ask Lovable to plan the implementation first by switching into plan mode and then reviewing what it's going to do. So let's start and I'm going to give a prompt and I'm showing you how I would do it off the top of my head. So you get an idea of the ways in which you can ask this.

So first thing we want to ask for is authentication. Great. The website is looking good. Now next I would like to add user authentication. Allow people to sign in using Google by using the Superbased database that I connected already.

Okay, so that's the first thing that we're going to ask for. Now you usually don't want to do too many asks in one, but I'm going to add one more until it's also set up the database schema so that it can start saving the records that we have. Now. If you don't know all of these terms, don't worry. You can just ask in a way that makes sense to you.

I'm just a developer, so I'm using some terms that are a little bit more technical that are going to guide it a bit better. So for example, a database schema is kind of like a map of the database. Different information that we need to store, what tables we're going to have, what info is going to be stored there. So if you use that word, the model or LM is going to understand this a little bit better. I would also like you to set up the database schema for all of this stuff related to the feedback.

So like the boards up voting, the actual feedback itself and all of that okay. And then from here we should be good. So I'm going to press enter. And it should set this up for us. Okay.

Now it's asking me a few questions here. I've answered a few of them already which are straightforward. But what I'm going to do now is just go over this one because it's saying, hey, Google, sign in requires configuring the provider in your Superbase dashboard. Are you ready to handle that? So I'm going to say walk me through this.

And if you don't know how to do something, just ask Lovable and it should tell you. Okay. So we're going to submit this. And in a minute it should tell us how we can enable this in Superbase because we're in the dashboard right for our project. And if we go to authentication we should be able to enable the Google sign in here.

So let's wait for it to tell us what to do and then try it okay. So now we've got a plan. It's given me the plan here on what we need to do. And I can obviously look through this and make sure that it makes sense before I implement it and approve. Now notice the first thing it tells me to do is to set up the Google services.

So I'm just going to follow through with what it has here. It says go to console cloud. Okay. Let's go there. And let's just open this in a new window so that we can see it okay.

So we're here in Google Cloud says I need to make a new project or we use one. So to do that I can press this button and I can just make a new project. So let's go new project and call this Superbase or something okay. And then create. Now from the new project it says go to API and services okay.

So let's wait for that project to create first and then select it okay. So I'm in the project I'm going to go to the navigation bar. I'm going to go to APIs and services and then OAuth consent screen okay. And it says fill the app, name the support email and add your Superbase domain okay. So from here it says it's not configured.

So I'm just going to go get started here for the app name. You can just call this anything I mean what is it like what are we calling this app though. Feedback board or something. So let's go feedback board okay. For this support email just go with the email here okay.

For the audience we're just going to go with external for next. We're going to put in a contact email address okay. And then we're just going to agree to the services because we need an app before we can do the steps that it shares right here okay. So let's wait for that to finish. And then let's go to the oath consent screen okay.

So the instructions are a little bit off. But fortunately I know how to do this. So what we're going to do is go to branding from branding. It has some information like authorized domains. And it says we need to add this domain here under authorized domains.

So we're going to do that. We're going to go to authorized domains. And we're just going to add that like so. And we should be good to go. And then just save that okay.

Then we're going to go back to APIs and services. Like it says. We're going to go to the credentials. And then we're going to create a new credential okay. So from here on the credentials page we're going to create an OAuth client ID.

So we're going to go oath client ID from up here. And then we are going to make this a web application okay. For the name we can just call this Lovable or something. Doesn't matter okay. And then we're going to add the things that it says.

So it says add the authorized Java JavaScript origin. So we're going to add this okay. Like so. And just say anything else. And eventually you're published URL that's later okay.

And then authorize redirect URL. Paste the callback URL shown in the next step. Okay. So we're going to get that in a second. And then copy the client ID and the client secret that says in the Superbase dashboard we're going to go authentication providers Google okay.

So from authentication sign in providers we're going to go here to where we see Google. From Google it shows us a callback URL. So we're going to copy that. And then what does it say. We need to paste that in the authorized redirect URL.

So let's paste that right here okay. And then what's the next step. It says okay. And then next step. All right let's go through this.

So first let's create this so that we have these values here. And okay. And now gives us client ID and client secret which we'll grab in a second. From here we're going to enable sign in with Google. We're then going to copy our client ID and paste this here and copy our client secret which you don't want to share with anyone.

And then paste right here okay. From there we can go ahead and press on save okay. Let's get rid of that. And we should have configured Google and it looks like Google sign in is now enabled okay. And then it's giving me some other stuff here.

But I don't think we actually need to complete that right now. If we do we can do it later. But for now we've done that. So we're just going to approve the plan and then let this kind of build it out. And we're going to test and see if the Google sign it works.

Okay. Now you'll notice that when it tries to modify the database, we can make this full screen for now that it's going to ask us for permission. I'm just going to put all these allow. So I don't need to keep accepting this and just press allow because what it will actually be able to do now is go into Superbase and actually make direct changes in our database, which is the reason why we've connected it. So we'll be able to see any of the calls and things that it's doing, storage, whatever, and go look at, for example, the table editor when it starts actually making those adjustments.

So you can see that it's writing the schema right now. And if I go you can see now we have boards, posts, profiles, user roles, votes. Right. Some of it's not filled in because we don't have a bunch of data. But the point is you can see that it's created the full database for us.

And we can have view it directly in Superbase. And because we've done it this way, if we wanted to then make another app in the future, use this database for something else we can. It's not completely reliant on being connected to this Lovable project. Okay, so it looks like it's completed here. Let's try it.

Now just refresh and I'm going to go sign in because it's added this button. And let's try with Google okay. Now the sign in button doesn't work in the preview here. That might happen when you're doing Google because it needs to do a pop up. So what I did is just press this button to pop it out.

And then you can see that I was able to sign in. So I signed in with my Google account here. So I can actually open the Google Pop in because sometimes it won't show it, you know, based on because you're in that view. So anyways, now that we're here, what I can do is I can go view a board. So let's click into one.

However we're getting some errors I'm going to copy that so I can make it aware of that. Let's try to add something okay. Hello world submit for publication okay. And then you can see that it pops up. And if I refresh let's see if this is saved.

And you can see that it's saved. And we have this new thing. So at least the database is working and it's not perfect. We'd have to look through this and make sure. And if I try to go to admin it says I can't go here okay.

So if we go back let's tell it to make us an admin because it says, hey, what we want to do is tell it our Google email and then it will make us an admin. And I'm also going to say we have this error. So we'll say this is an error that popped up when I was voting. It's also kind of slow to vote. Okay.

And then I'm going to say my email account with Google is and I'll put my email okay. So I've submitted that I'm just hiding my email. And then if we come back here and we refresh, let's see what we have. Just want to make sure that the data is updating here so we can kind of view it. Let's go to post for example, and see if we can find our new post.

Okay. So you can see our Hello World post is right here with our author which was us. Okay, so it made me an admin. So if I go back to the admin page here, we can see when I refresh that it shows me the boards and then I can view them and I believe I can edit them. Yes I can change the state planned in progress, planned whatever.

I don't see a delete button, so maybe we can ask it to do that. But point is that I have that ability now, and if I go to the admin desk, you can see that I have the boards popping up. Okay. Cool. Okay.

So next thing I want to talk to you about security on these tables. So we're now at a point right where we have users. We have different data. Users will be able to create data, update whatever. And there's something in Superbase or in most databases called row level security.

Okay. If you go to any of the different database tables, let's zoom in a little bit here that have been created. You'll be able to see this RL's policies thing. Now this will be automatically created for you by Lovable and Superbase. And that's why we toggled it at the beginning.

But it's something that you want to be aware of because this is how you safeguard your data. Okay. So if we look at the policies here, you can see that we have a name. So profiles are viewable everyone. And then another one users can update their own profile.

It then shows the command and what this is applied to. Now if you don't understand SQL don't worry too much about this. But this is effectively guarding the data. So what this is saying is that hey, any user is able to select this data, that effectively means view okay. So they can view.

What board are we on here? I don't know what board it was like okay. So this is sort of the profiles board. And you'll see that if you click into one of these it kind of shows you how this policy works. So this is just like a name that we can write.

You can see that the command is select. And we say okay. We want to make sure that any user is able to view any data of a user's profile. Nice. And if we go to update you can see that it says, hey, on public profiles we're going to check if the current sign and user is the owner of this profile.

If it is, we're going to allow them to update it. Again, you don't need to worry too much about this, but if you go to any of the database tables, you'll see that these things exist and actually can view this kind of nice graphical interface as well. And you can see the row level security, which is effectively how you secure the data and control who can modify, delete, add whatever. And you can make this more advanced and ask, what do you call it Lovable to handle that for you. So just wanted to make you aware of that because that's a very important feature.

Okay. So the next feature I want to look at here is real time data. Now this is something that Superbase has built in, which allows you to have a live updating information across multiple pages. So for example, if someone's voting on something, you can see that vote appear in another window or you can see it in real time. Now in order to enable this, it's very easy.

You can just ask Lovable and say, can you enable the real time feature for voting on posts so that in real time, we're able to see this update using some kind of subscription? Do this in Superbase. So effectively just say, hey, real time, Superbase, what you want to do, and it should be able to automatically handle that for you. And then if you go back to Superbase and you go to one of the tables, for example, you're actually able to press on the table and you can just enable the real time feature. But again, we'd rather just have, what do you call it, Lovable.

Do that for us. You can see that if I'm in the table editor. Right. And then I go here, I can enable real time. Right.

And then that's a feature that will make this able to be subscribed, which means we can get these events in real time using something called WebSockets. Again, we don't need to understand what that is, but that's kind of how it works. And we're going to test this in a second by just opening this up in two pages. And we'll see if it updates in real time when I like do a vote if on the other one it updates. But let's wait for this to finish. Okay.

So I enabled the real time featured said that it worked. So I'm going to test this now. So we see we have one that I voted on. And if I unload it it just does take a second. But you can see that it votes on the other page.

So now we have the real time feature enabled and that is all working okay cool. So let's continue here and move on to the next. So the next thing we want to do is add files. Now. Right now we have like normal data or like textual data or profile data or numbers or whatever.

But I actually want to add a file upload. So I want to allow users to be able to attach images or screenshots or something like that. So what I'm going to do is just ask this the Lovable. I want to enable file upload so that when people submit feedback, they're able to attach files to that. Let's limit it to three files per feedback.

Make sure that each file is no larger than three megabytes, and let's create a storage container inside of Superbase that can store all of these for us, so we can view them in real time and see the preview on the web. UI again might sound technical, but all I'm saying is, hey, allow me to do this file upload in Superbase. There is a feature here. So if I go called storage this is for larger pieces of storage. So files PDFs right.

Attachments not just what do you call it normal textual data. They have other stuff like vector databases S3 whatever. But we're just going to let it handle all of that for us so we can use that feature okay. So it looks like the storage is finished. We can test this out.

Now I'm just going to refresh and see if we can add something. So let's yeah perfect. So I can attach a file okay. So let me just add a random image. It's going to do mine. Let's go. Hello.

Test submit for publication. And let's see if we can view the image when it pops up here. And it looks like it's going to give us a preview. Nice. Okay.

And then we get my image. And if I click on it we can view it full screen here. Sweet. So it looks like that's working. If we go back to Superbase and we go to storage, we should be able to see the new storage bucket.

And then we should see the attachments in here. Okay. So I just clicked through and we can see the images here. Just takes a second to load. Nice okay.

So we have images. Let's move on to the next feature. So the next feature we want to look at is edge functions. Now edge functions are essentially backend operations that can run or be triggered based on some particular action. Now think of it like this.

Let's say we want to run some kind of AI summary, or we want to get an AI response or generate an image, or we need to actually do something that requires some kind of computational power on the back end. Well, in order to do that, we can create a function. This function is something that can be triggered. So for example, you press a button and trigger will run and the function will occur. And then it can give us back some result.

So what I want to do is create kind of an AI summary feature. So for example like if I go to the admin desk you can see that there's like a bunch of stuff here. Right. And maybe I don't want to read through all of this, I just want to get like a quick summary. Well, in order to generate that summary, we need to use like an AI model, like OpenAI, GPT, whatever.

And then we need some place to display it. So we'd have to like press a button, or maybe every week it will run automatically, which we can set up on like a scheduled task, and then it will give us that result. In order to do that, you can use again, it's called an edge function, which is built into Superbase. So what I'm going to do is just prompt this and you'll see how it works. Okay.

So I'm going to ask something like this I would like to create an AI feature. This is a feature where whenever I press a button, it can generate a full summary of all of the changes that have occurred on the boards that I see. So it can tell me anything that's actionable that I need to look at. If something's been uploaded a lot. I don't know exactly how we should build this, but I just want like an AI kind of summary feature.

Build this out using an edge function in Superbase. Let's have it run every week automatically, but also let me trigger it manually by pressing a button from the admin panel. Okay, so that's kind of what I'm asking for. And then it's going to tell me probably if there's anything that I need to set up. So I'm just going to say if you need anything from me like an API key or some access for the AI feature, let me know because I'm not really sure how it works.

So again, like I don't even know exactly how this should work, so I'm just asking the model, hey, give me any instructions. And then once it does, I can just follow those. Okay. So it looks like it's created this for me. However I wasn't seeing the button that says generate now, so I just told it to add that.

But if we go back to Superbase and we go to edge functions, we should see that we have the board summary edge function. So we can actually view the code. Right. See like exactly what's going to happen here. And in fact what this is actually using is an API key that got added automatically to our Superbase project.

If we go and we look under secrets, if I could find that. So if I go to secrets, actually, you'll see that there is this Lovable API key that automatically got inserted for us. This is an API key that actually connects to Google Gemini by default from Lovable. I think using some like AI credits from Lovable or something. So we don't need to, what do you call it, actually set anything up or use OpenAI or whatever.

It will just work by default. Now I still don't see this generate button on the admin page. There we go. Okay, so it just popped up and it says what? Change what you need to know.

And then if I press generate now hopefully it will give us the result. And if we want to see if this is working in the back end we can go to our edge functions. Okay. And then we should be able to see a log of this being called as soon as this is triggered. And there we go. Okay.

We get the result and it gave us the feedback. And if I go to the logs here we can see that it just got called. So that was like a few seconds ago. And then we can click into it and we can see the details, the response, what actually happened. All of that kind of stuff.

Okay. Cool. So that's working. The AI feature is built. Now let's move to the next okay.

So at this point we've covered a lot of the main things that you would want to do with an application. The next things that I want to quickly cover here are more developer focus features. For those of you that are interested in building something serious now. First is GitHub, so I highly recommend that you actually take this project and connect it to GitHub. And in order to do that you can press this plus button, press GitHub and then you can connect it to your account.

Now as soon as you connect it to the GitHub account, you can actually export this to GitHub, which will allow you then to pull the code down, modify it in other places, and then Lovable can actually automatically pull the code or any changes you've made from the git repo and update it on their side so you can work in Lovable. You can work in your own repo. I'm not going to go through that whole feature, but I definitely recommend that you do add that. Now, beyond that, if you go to this knowledge tab here from the settings page, this is a place that you can add specific knowledge and kind of save information so that you always will have access to this whenever you're in the project. Think of it like an agent's file.

If you've worked in something like Cloud Code before. So if there's specific guidelines, text, acts, styles, themes, whatever you want to use, you can put it inside of here. Next, let's have a quick look at different environments. Now with these applications, a lot of times you do want to create what's called a dev environment, a staging environment and a production environment. Now this is a lot more complicated than not something that I really have time to cover in this video, but I'll mention it.

So you kind of know that exists now from Superbase. Here you can create different branches, which can kind of act like different environments. Now, right now you can see that I'm on a production environment, okay. But what I can do is make a new branch if I have the pro version of this, if you want to use that and I can call this staging or I can call it development. And this will allow me to have different versions of my project that I use for different life cycles of the project.

So production is where my real user data lives. Staging is where I have effectively a clone of the production database that I test before I roll out a deployment, and I actually deploy the full application. And then dev is where I do all of my testing. I break the database, I mess things up, etc. so it's typically a good idea to have at least two different branches or versions, especially as you build a larger application so that while you're doing your development work and you're testing, if you mess something up, it doesn't affect the real users.

Because right now, the data that I have while I'm messing around with it in this Lovable UI is the same that my real users will have. Sorry when I deploy this app, so just keep that in mind. And again, if you're a little bit more advanced, you're probably going to want to enable that. And with Lovable you can set up the stuff as well and tell it, hey, I have these different environments, set it up. So the deployment version as this, the development version has this, etc.

and it will be able to do that for you okay. So another feature that I told you we would have a look at here was collecting payments. Now in order to collect payments you effectively just tell Lovable to set up stripes. You say, hey can you set up stripe so I can collect payments? Right?

And then you just press enter and it will walk you through the full process. You're going to have to go to a stripe dashboard, make an account, add the API keys. There's a few things you connect there, and then it will just build into your application automatically. It doesn't really make sense for this app, so we won't go through the whole process. But if you want payments, it's quite literally as easy as this as long as stripe is enabled, which I showed you at the beginning.

So if you forget, you can go back to the main dashboard. You can go to connectors. From connectors you can find stripe which should be enabled. And then you can just enable the connection right. And you'll be able to use it.

So let's go back to our project for now okay. So you can see that just saying hey do you want to enable this. And then I would just go yes enable it. And then we would be good to go okay. So I'm not going to do that.

But that is how you would enable that feature. And then the very last thing I think that we need to cover here is the security scan and the deployment. Now you can see that there's a built in security thing that Lovable recently added. It shows you different issues that you have right. So you can see public can execute security definer leaked password protection disabled sign.

And users can execute security definer functions that can be callable with this. And then you can just reference them and have it try to fix all of them by pressing this button. Okay. Now if you want the deep scan you have to upgrade to the pro version, I'm pretty sure. And then I think you can use that.

I don't know exactly how that works, but that's like a new thing that they added. So you should probably do that before you deploy the app. Okay. And then from SEO and AI search, again a lot of these are pro features. But you can kind of do this analysis because this is now server side rendered to make it so that you get better results in search when this is deployed with Lovable.

And then you have analytics that you can view once it's deployed. So what I'm going to do is just allow this now so we can do this lockdown thing that it wants. And we're going to look at the deployment okay. So how do we do this. Let's move this over here and you'll see that we have this publish button.

Now with this publish button what we're able to do is just deploy this URL to a generated URL from Lovable. You can see it's mind meld boards or something, or we can add our own custom domain if we're on the Pro account. So for now, if we're happy with this, we can just deploy it. It's going to be public obviously, because we don't have this business account. And then anyone will be able to view and, you know, mess with this application and we can change all of the terms.

So I'm just going to press continue for now and just publish it because I don't want to wait. But you guys get the idea. That's as easy as it is. Now. If you want to add your own custom domain, you have to upgrade the account.

Then you have to buy a domain. It will give you the instructions. It's very straightforward. You can connect it and then no one will know that you built this with Lovable. Okay.

So we can see that it is live now. So if I just go to the URL you can see live URL. We can remove this Lovable tag thing. But for now it's there. And then we can just use the app as we normally would. Right.

And there we go. We have a full production app built in less than one hour using Lovable with a full back end. And if we hate Lovable and we want to move this somewhere else, well, we still have all of our data and our projects set up so we can do that. Okay guys, that is going to wrap up this video. This was a lot of recording for me, but I hope this was useful to you and taught you how to use Lovable, how to connect it to a real database, and how to build an app that's production ready in 2026 and beyond.

If you enjoyed, make sure leave a like, subscribe and I will see you in the next one.