---
video_title: "How to Build an AI Agent That Interacts With All Your Data Sources"
video_id: LHKhYH0xDSg
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHKhYH0xDSg
video_date: 2026-04-02T13:37:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Get started with CData Connect AI for free today to build your AI agent: https://bit.ly/4dsrmLL
  
  Building an AI agent seems pretty simple on paper. But as soon as you try to deploy it, use it on a real world scenario or hand it off to someone like a client - it becomes a lot more difficult. When you actually use an AI agent in the real world, you need three things: connectivity, context, and control. I'm going to show you how to fix that problem.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 (this link will be live in 4 hours)
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  01:22 | CData ConnectAI
  02:32 | Setup/Getting Started
  06:48 | Connecting Data Sources
  08:42 | Interacting with Data
  10:21 | Connecting to Claude
  12:33 | Access Controls
  14:00 | Data Specific Views
  15:39 | Connecting to Langchain
  
  Hashtags
  #CData #AIAgents #SoftwareEngineer
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Building an AI agent seems pretty simple on paper. But as soon as you try to deploy it, use it on a real world scenario or hand it off to someone like a client. It becomes a lot more difficult. Now, the reason for that is that when you actually use an AI agent in the real world, you need three things. Now that's connectivity, context, and control.

You need to connect to various different data sources, and ideally you don't have to set up, you know, 100 different connections. You need to control the context that the AI agent has access to. And then most importantly, you need security and control. Who can use the AI agent? What data do different users have access to, and how do you have rule based access control based on the different privileges of people in your organization, and then might be using the agent?

Now in this video, I'm going to show you how to fix that problem. And the easiest way that I've found to create a production ready AI agent that covers all three of these areas connectivity, context, and control. We're going to build an AI agent that connect to pretty much unlimited number of data sources through one unified platform. And then I'm going to show you how to use the AI agent from different tools like Claude Cursor. Really, any AI assistant, or to directly build it into your own systems using something like Python or any other language.

With that said, let's get started and let me walk you through a full tutorial on how to set up an AI agent that would actually work in production. And it again covers those three areas that I discussed. Okay, so the way that I'm going to build this AI agent here and accomplish those tasks that I talked to you about is using a platform called Cdata, and specifically their Connect AI platform. Now, what this allows us to do is effectively connect an unlimited number of data sources through one unified platform. So rather than me having to go to Claude and connect to, like, you know, 100 different sources like, okay, MongoDB, okay, I want Google Drive, okay, I want this, okay, I want that we can connect everything by default in connect I then we just connect connect I to the Lem or to whatever AI tool that we're using.

And it's just one sign in one authentication, one platform, in this case one MCP server. That makes it a lot simpler. Now most of shoutout to CData for sponsoring this video, but don't worry, everything I'm going to show you in this video is free so you can follow along. Try it out and see if you like it. But again, it's a very easy way to actually make these AI agents.

And at the end of the video, like I said, I'll show you how to use the AI agent from an AI tool, as well as how to connect to it from code. Okay, so first step here, what I'm going to do is just press the Get Started for free button. I'll leave the link to this in the description. And then this is going to bring me to a new page here where I can make a new account. So let me make the account and then I'll be right back okay.

So as you go through the account creation process, you'll be brought to a page that looks like this, where it's going to ask you some different sources that you want to connect. Now for this video I'll just connect two sources, but obviously you can connect as many as you want. In my case I'm going to connect QuickBooks and I'm going to connect MongoDB. So I'm just going to select QuickBooks here. So just select that there.

And then I'm also going to select MongoDB. But you'll see that there are literally hundreds of other things that you can connect. And you can also connect them later. So you don't need to fill it all out right here. Then what I'm going to do is go to the right side here and click on what it is that I actually want to integrate this tool with.

So in this case I want Claude simply Claude I use Connect Claude code and I want long chain. So I'm just going to select linking again. You can find these afterwards. But I'm just selecting them now. And then I'm going to press on complete.

Now from here I can directly connect the data sources. Or I can just go directly to the dashboard. Then I can do that later. So that's what I'm going to do. Right now I'm just going to the dashboard so I can quickly explain to you again kind of how this works.

So you understand why we're using this. Before I go any further okay. So I just want you to understand what it is that we're actually about to do here and why this is useful before we go through it, to connect the data sources connected to AI, all of that kind of stuff. So typically, if you want to use a lot of different data sources or tools or whatever, what you would need to do is connect them one by one to an AI tool. So let's say I want to use Claude as my lab, right?

And I want it to have access to my Google Drive and my production database and my QuickBooks and my Facebook ads. I would have to connect those as individual sources. Now, when you do that, what happens is you start overwhelming the AI model with a ton of different MXGp tools because that's typically how they're connected, and you end up using a lot more calls to these various tools, which results in more tokens. And also just a little bit of confusion from the LLF. So what we're going to do here is we're essentially just going to connect one tool to our LLM.

Now that tool is going to be Connect AI. So what our LLM can do is anytime it wants any data it can just go through Connect AI where it's all stored in one unified place. So rather than going to five, six, seven, ten, 20 different platforms and being overwhelmed by that, it just goes to one known advantage of this is because we have all of our data in one place. We can actually get better semantic understanding and just better context feeding into the AI. Because in this case, what connect I will do is help kind of connect the dots and keep related data together.

I'll show you what I mean later, but it allows us to also create views and kind of group specific parts of data that we want into certain sections that if the AI is trying to query data, it doesn't need to pull it from different tools. It just gets it from one place where it's kind of already connected, hence the name. Now, another advantage of this is that we actually get lower token cost and improved accuracy. The reason for this is that normally when you have the data directly connected to an LLM, it needs to perform all of these different queries. Again, it needs to pull the data from these different sources.

And it's actually searching and querying for data as well as processing it. Now in our case, what we're going to do by using this platform is we move the data processing specifically to Connect AI, which is designed to do that. So now if the LLM wants a specific piece of data, rather than it having to query for that, it effectively goes to Connect AI. Says, hey, I want this data connect. I then handles that data processing, fetches it and gives it to the yellow level, which drastically improves the token cost.

But it also improves the accuracy because it just results in getting better data. So this allows the yellow LLM to focus on the reasoning based on the data that it got, rather than having to focus on actually querying and finding the data, which again, can slow it down and cost a lot of tokens. And then lastly, again, because all of the data is in one place, that means that you can handle all of the security and rule based access in one platform. So you can control who has access to what data. And it's just going through one connector.

So we don't need to go change the MongoDB permissions versus changing the Facebook permissions versus changing the quick book permissions. You can just check some boxes, which I'm going to show you in one second to determine who has access to want to change that at any point in the future. And nothing changes from the lens side. It's still just viewing all of the data through one platform. Anyways.

It's a lot of information, but I just want you to understand why you would even do something like this and the advantages that you have, because they're kind of hidden unless I explicitly mention them. Okay, so anyways, that said, let's start setting it up. I'm just going to go through the tutorial now and show you how we can create the agent. Okay, so once we're in Connect AI we're going to go to our sources here. And we're just going to connect any data sources that we would want our model to have access to.

Now by default it includes Postgres and MySQL. You don't need them for right now. But what I'm going to do is just add a connection. And let's start by going to MongoDB. Now what I'm going to do is just simulate kind of building an agent that works on my company's data DB launch, which has a bunch of student data like attendance data, you know, roadmap data, mock interview data.

It has like a bunch of information in the database. And a lot of times I want to be able to go to my database and say, like, hey, who attended the last call? Hey, where is John at with his roadmap progress? You know, how many mock interviews is this student done, etc., etc.

so what I'm going to do is just connect this. I'm going to say dev launch, okay. DB and then in order to connect MongoDB I'm going to follow the steps on the right hand side here where it explains how this works. Now I was able to connect to MongoDB here. Obviously you can connect to any other source that you want.

But in order for me to do that, I did need to add the correct IP address range so that we have that available in MongoDB. I had to make a new user, so add a username and a password, and then I just have to fill in the details for the connection string essentially so that MongoDB could connect. Now you'll see that because I've connected I can now see my different databases like DB launch discord, and I have all of the different tables that are inside of here. And now we can move on to connect my next data source which is going to be QuickBooks. So let's go here and let's go add connection and then let's go to QuickBooks.

Now again you can just read through here. There are literally what does it says 186 different connections. So it covers pretty much anything that you want in terms of connecting the source. And again you put it all in one place. I'm not going to walk through the process of connecting because it depends on what data source you're using.

Okay. So you can see that I was able to connect QuickBooks here. Again I just went through and use kind of this open setting. And now we are good to go. And we have our two data sources connected.

Now because the data sources are connected we can actually just directly start working with them by looking in the data copilot. So I'm going to show you more settings in a second. But if we just want to see okay, is this working. What we can do is just type a prompt inside of here. And this is a quick way to just kind of test AI on your existing data.

So we can just test something like how many mock interviews were completed. And let's just see if I can go to the table and find that information. Okay. So it took a second. You could see gave me the result, which is 139.

And then we can actually look through all of the queries that are executed in order to. Fine. Now let's just do another one and say, how much money did we spend in the last three months at Dev Launch and just even go to QuickBooks and find that data? So I just had a small hiccup because I actually was connected to the wrong dev launch company in QuickBooks. So anyways, I fixed it and you can see it gave me some information here saying, you know, devel and just made a total of this amount of money will blur some of it according to Profit and Loss detail report.

So you can see that is working. And now what I'm actually able to do is I can correlate data between these different sources. So I won't do it right now. But I could ask a question like how much money have I made corresponding with the number of new students that joined? And we could see, you know, how how much, for example, the value of a new student is, or how much we're spending per student, or how if we have a lot of students that correlates with a lot of expenses or more income, or you get the idea now.

Anyways, that's interesting. Of course we can use it directly inside of Connect AI. Where it becomes more useful is when you actually connect. So you'll see this button right here that says Connect data to AI. You also can go to integrations.

And I'm going to show you now how we could connect this over to Claude. So we can start using this from an external source and how that actually works. So I'm just going to search for Claude here in the search bar and we'll see. Claude AI so what I'm going to do is press on this and it just gives us a quick setup guide so we can follow this to set up the integration. So I'm going to go to Setup Guide.

And it should show us exactly how to do this. and we can go over to Claude. So let's just open it up. So let's go like this and I'll show you exactly how to connect it again. You can also follow that guide that I opened up okay.

So if you open up Claude, what you can do here is you can press this little plus button and you can go to connectors. Now from connectors you can go manage connectors. And then you'll see I connected to this previously. But let's close it then what I can do is go plus and I can go browse connectors or add a custom connector. Now if we go browse connectors, you'll see that there is a bunch of options.

And what we can do is just type CData Connect AI you're going to see that it shows up. And then we can press on connect. So when we press on connect here, what it's going to ask us to do is sign in in our browser tab. And it's going to bring us now where we can just directly sign in with our CData account. So I'm going to go ahead and press on accept.

And just wait a second here. And it should authorize us back here in cloud okay. So it does bring us back. And then from here we can go plus and we should be able to see in connectors that CData is connected. And if we go back to manage connectors we can see that we have all of the different tools here.

And we can manage what tools can be used excepted, all of that kind of stuff. Now again what we've done here is we've kind of moved the data layer over to Connect AI. And then when we start messaging here, we're able to just reason on the data using whatever model we want. In this case something like opus 4.6.

So let's give it a prompt, something like check how many new students have joined dev launch and correlate that with the profit and loss value from last year. I don't know if that's going to work or if that even makes any sense, but let's just press enter and see if it's able to give us a result here. Okay. Sweet. So it was actually able to do this.

Now I need to blur the time of this data because of course it's sensitive. But you can see that I kind of have a dashboard on the right side of my screen here. And you'll notice that we have kind of correlation between revenue, number of students, etc.. You can see it's kind of fully showing up right here.

And then we have a monthly breakdown on the expenses. Revenue, all of that. Again we need to blur some of these figures because I can't share all of them with you. But point is it was able to get that data. So what I'm going to do now is go back to CData because now this is connected to Claude.

And what I want to do is show you a little bit about how the security works and how we can actually create kind of different views of data and then grant other people access to them. So what I'm going to do is go to users. And this is where this becomes a lot more powerful from kind of like an organization perspective. So we have my user right here, but we also can invite other users. So what I could do for example is take I don't know Tim at dev launched us one of my other email addresses and I can give them a role like just the ability to query so they can't change anything, execute anything, modify anything, whatever.

We can just say, okay, they only can query stuff and then we can actually choose what data sources we even give them access to. So maybe we don't want them to have access to accounting or Postgres or MySQL. We just remove those. Maybe we want them to be able to update something in the devil database. Again, we can just add that and then we can send the invite directly to them.

So now this particular user, if they want to connect this to their own AI tool, they just go to Claude and then they can just connect it, just like we did by signing into their CData account. But this time they're only going to be able to view the data that we've given them permission to view. So if we go to even sources, right. And I click into like the accounting source and let's just view here we go to permissions. You can see now it shows both of the users.

And then again we can change and modify the permissions based on what we want them to be able to do, which is super cool. Now another interesting thing is that we may not want to just give a user full access, for example, to the dev lunch database. So if that's the case, what I can do is go to workspaces here, and I can actually create a workspace that contains different sets of tables or information and then kind of have that as like a grouping that I can give access to other people. So if I go add workspace, let's just call this, I don't know, student data or something. Okay. Let's go ahead and press on confirm.

Then what I can do inside of student data is I can add various assets. So if I go add, I can go like tables and views. I can go to my database. And then what I can do is just grant access to particular tables. So for example we can go to dev launch discord here.

Right. Plus you see the different tables that we have. And maybe I just want to give access to group called data okay. So let's do that. We just check the group call stuff and then confirm okay.

And then that's that. And then what we can do here is give this a description or just leave it as a workspace and go to permissions. And now what I could do is I could say okay team at dev launched us. You have access to all of this right. We don't care.

You can access all of this stuff in this student data workspace. But you just don't have access to the full database. So we can give kind of table based granular controls, which again is very powerful. And the reason why you want a platform like this, if you're actually going to use this out in the wild, right, and deploy this to a ton of different users. And of course, there's a lot of other stuff that we have inside of here, like jobs, for example, if we want to automatically have data come in to the platform synchronized, etc.

there's also a full API that you can use. I'm not going to go through the docs there, but what I will show you is that of course, you can also connect this to your own models and your own systems directly through code. So in order to do that, what I'm going to do is just go to integrations here, and I'm just going to show you an example of integrating this with link chain. Also, just keep in mind you can integrate it with a ton of different platforms. So I'm going to go link chain.

And what I'm going to do is create a personal access token. And I'm going to show you a quick code snippet that I set up before this video in order to actually connect this. So let's go create new personal access token. Let's just call this link chain and create. Okay. Let me copy that. Obviously I don't want to share that with you.

And let me just add this to my environment variable file inside of my Python code okay. So I created the access token. Now again I can go to the setup guide. And if we go here it'll bring you to a page like this where it explains how to set this up in terms of connecting an MCP server to link chain. So you can see that we kind of have some link chain imports like length chain, OpenAI link chain, MCP adapters.

Right. You can set up a config where you set up your authentication as well as MCP base URL, and then you are effectively just good to go. And you can connect this to a simple link chain agent, which I'm going to show you right now. Okay. So I'm just running my code demo here.

And you can see that I just said you've run, run agent Dot Pi. I'll show you the code in one second. You can see that it prints out all of the tools that it has available to it when it connects to CData here. And then you can see that it says User Prompt. This is the prompt that I had, you know, tell me how many current students I have in the database as users in MongoDB.

So it's going to go to MongoDB search and see how many students are there. Okay. And you can now see that we get a response saying they're currently 111 students in the database as users in the MongoDB collection. Now let me quickly show you the code I use in order to get this because it's very, very basic point. It's just that you can connect it from code.

So you can see that I have a super simple run agent script where I connect to Langchain and the link chain MCP adapters. I just create a multi server MCP client here where what I do is put in my authentication. What is it kind of details here, which I'll show you in one second. So configure MKV base URL and configure MCP auth which includes kind of my token. And again I'll show you the one second.

Then what I do is I load up all my MCP tools and I just print them out here just so that we can see what we have access to. I then use just GPT for oh again, just cheap agent here. In order to interact with this, I create an agent. I connected to my MCP tools. I just had a prompt, you know, tell me how many current students I have in the database and then just printed that out.

I then waited for the agent to essentially execute that prompt, and then it gave me the response. That's it for the agent code in terms of connecting to the MSI server. Very simple. I just import a few stuff directly from the documentation guide they had. I create this off, so I have my CData email and my personal access token.

I base64 encode them because that's what I need for this kind of bearer authorization token. So we know who the user is and their token so that we can, what do you call it, have the correct security for that particular user. Then what we do is we just return that value. And then here in the config we have the MCP base URL, we have the authentication token that we generate. And then we have our OpenAI API key, all of which I have in the environment variable file.

And that's it. So we literally just connected the MCP server to Lang chain. And then we can directly use it inside of the code, which allows you to use this from any library, any module, any language that you want. Because again you're just connecting to an MCP server. So that's it guys. That's pretty much going to wrap up this video.

I know it's pretty basic, but I just wanted to show you a really easy way to connect multiple different data sources, handle all of the security, handle the context, control all of that stuff that I discussed, and then use it from multiple different AI sources. The way the Connect AI works is that it acts as the intermediary, right? So it's handling all of the security, all of the data, but then ultimately your data and the way that you interact with it is up to you. And you use this as the connection layer, which just makes your life a lot easier. Again, massive challenge to them for sponsoring this video.

If you guys enjoyed, make sure leave a like. Subscribe to the channel and I will see you in the next one.