---
video_title: "OpenClaw vs Hermes Agent: Which One Is Actually Better in 2026?"
video_id: 86Dfgazdu-0
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86Dfgazdu-0
video_date: 2026-07-02T13:00:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Deploy OpenClaw with one click: https://www.hostg.xyz/SHJh6
  Deploy Hermes with one click: https://www.hostg.xyz/SHJh7
  
  Six months ago everyone was running OpenClaw. Now Hermes Agent has surpassed it — 224 billion tokens per day vs OpenClaw's 186 billion. So which one should you actually be running today? In this video I set up both on real servers, run the exact same jobs through each one, and give you a straight answer on which is best — and for who.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-jul26
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Intro/Overview
  00:44 | The Numbers/Stats
  02:17 | How These Agents Work
  03:30 | The Key Difference - Skills
  05:00 | Where to Deploy
  06:27 | Deployment Process
  08:05 | UI Walkthrough
  09:22 | Skill Config/Setup
  12:01 | Hermes Agent Curator
  14:38 | Gateway & Config
  15:50 | Repetitive Work
  16:35 | Security Issues
  17:01 | Final Comparison
  
  Hashtags
  #HermesAgent #OpenClaw #AIAgents
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Six months ago. If you wanted a personal AI agent, you just installed OpenClaw. Everybody did this. We saw a massive amount of hype. Then this June, Hermes agent passed it.

It's now at over 224 billion tokens per day versus open claw at 186 billion. So which one should you actually run today? Well, in this video I'm going to set up both on real servers with real tokens that I paid for. And I'm going to run the exact same jobs through each one. So you can see how they differ in which one is best for your use case.

Now I'm not just going to tell you, oh yeah, you should use both, because the reality here is that one is much better than the other, specifically at certain set of tasks. And we're going to dive into that right now. So let's start by looking at a few numbers. Understand where these projects stand. And then we're going to get into all of the specifics.

Now Open Claw is a much more mature project. It was released in November 2025 and has over 137 releases at this time. It has a massive hub of skills that you can install at one point that over 13,000 skills. There is then a bunch of security issues that purged it down to 3300, and now it's grown back up to 5400 at the time of recording this video, compared to Hermes Agent. This was released later in February 2026.

It only has 11 releases, at least when I'm recording this video. And while it doesn't come with a massive amount of skills out of the box, it can build its own skills and you can actually take any skills that will be available for Open Claw and install them in Hermes Agent. It's just not as native. Continuing if we look at the native providers, this is for AI integrations, messaging platforms, etc..

Open cloud definitely has a lot more. It's a more mature ecosystem. Whereas with Hermes agent you still can connect to pretty much anything you would want to. But a lot of those model connections are going to happen through open route. If we look at daily tokens, we already talked about this, but Hermes has recently surpassed Open Claw.

And then one thing that's super important is that open source had a bad reputation with security. There was a massive incident that happened in February of 2026. Over 40,000 open claw instances were exposed to the internet, meaning they could be configured change were publicly available. Whereas with Hermes, there's been a lot less security issues. There has still been some, but generally speaking, people would consider Hermes agent a little bit more secure.

At this point, it's not as big of an issue because releases have fixed these, but it is something that you should be aware of. Now, in case you're not super familiar with these tools, I do just want to quickly cover what these actually are really the way that you should think about open Claw, an Hermes agent, is that they're really just an LLM to some kind of model or brain wrapped with a bunch of different tools. So we have tools, right? Mic servers, things that can go to the internet or go to your Google Drive or go to your Gmail. We have skills.

These are essentially large markdown files that explain how did you a task so you can do it reliably and repeatedly multiple times. We have a memory. This is so you can save store information, know what was talked about in previous sessions and improve over time. And then we have a gateway. This is the way in which you interact with the model or in this case kind of the agent tool.

Right. So we could have telegram, we could have discord, we could have email. There's all different kinds of things there. Now both Open Claw and Hermes Agent have all of these features. And the thing that differs is really how well they work and the way in which they operate, which is what we're going to dive into.

With Open Claw, your skills and your memory aren't quite as fine tuned as they are with Hermes, whereas with Hermes, the gateway isn't quite as good as it is with open. So we're going to go through all of those differences and that will give you the information to understand which one you should pick. So this leads us nicely into what the key difference really is here between these two tools. Now with Open claw this is really built around a skill catalog. This means that there's a ton of skills that have already been written.

And what you can do is go browse and install them. So really, when you're using open claw, you're going through this huge marketplace, you're searching for something that already exists and you're clicking install. Whereas with Hermes this is built around a self-learning loop. What this means is that the more you use it, the better it gets. It remembers things about you by default, and it will automatically create skills based on what you're asking you to do.

So if you just want something really quick out of the box, you want to use some existing skills. It's probably easier to do that with open call. Whereas if you're planning on using this agent for a long time, you're going to be chatting with it a lot. You're going to be improving what you're doing. Continuing to teach it things and tell it about different processes and systems.

Hermes is going to be really good because it will actually get better over time. Now it's worth noting that technically, both of these tools can accomplish the exact same goals. And anything you could do with Hermes agent, you could also do with OpenClawaw. It's really just how they're set up and which one is going to work faster for your use case because of how it's designed. So keep that in mind.

There's not really a wrong decision. One is just going to be faster to get to the end product with based on how it's set up. Now, one thing to keep in mind is that this catalog of skills is not just specific to open claw. You can actually take these same skills and run them on a Hermes agent. So don't think that you can't install pre-built skills on Hermes.

You absolutely can. It's just a little bit more difficult to set up. Okay, so what I'm going to do now is I'm actually going to deploy two instances. I'm going to deploy an open claw instance and a Hermes agent instance. We're going to give them the same tasks.

And I'm going to show you what the setup looks like, how you run them, and what the practical difference is when you actually have both of these agents spun up. Now, when it comes to deploying these agents and setting them up, you can install them on your own computer and your own physical hardware devices. But typically that's not going to be recommended. That's because you're opening this up to your account, your network, all of your files. And when you have an autonomous AI agent running, it can do things that you didn't explicitly ask it to do.

If you do get hacked or something does occur, it's going to be a lot more damaging on your own computer, on your own network, than it would be if you used a disposable device. Now, what I typically recommend, and how I set up all of my AI agents, is using a virtual private server. This is a server that runs in the cloud on a company's infrastructure. It's a lot more secure by default than your own machine would be. And the most important part here is that if something goes wrong, you can just nuke the server.

You pay five, ten, 15 bucks a month, whatever. And if something does go wrong, all of this is isolated on somebody else's hardware. You can press a single button, you can delete it, uninstall it, and stop it from running and do this remotely from anywhere, and then just restart on another. And especially if you're a beginner and you don't know a lot about security, this is going to be a safer option. That just gives you a reset button if something does go wrong.

So anyways, what I'm going to do now is deploy the two instances. Let's go through the process. So for all my AI agents and virtual private servers I personally use Host Stinger. Been using them for years now and they have one click deploy options for both. So I'm just on the open cloud page.

And you can see that you can just select a plan here. And it will deploy and set everything up for you automatically. Same thing with Hermes agent. What I typically use is the KVM two plan when I'm deploying this. I'll leave them both in the description and full transparency.

I have a long term partnership with Hostinger. They sponsored a bunch of videos on this channel, and that means that I actually have a discount code that you can use. It's tech with Tim. This will give you an additional 10% off any subscription as long as 12 months or beyond. When you are going to deploy these, I recommend that you uncheck the ready to use AI.

This allows you to put in your own API keys if you just want it set up immediately. You don't touch anything. You can enable that, but if you want a little bit more control, better to remove that. Same thing on Hermes agent. I'd recommend going with the KVM two plan.

You can use my discount code if you want, and then you can deploy both of these. It will set everything up for you and you'll be good to go. So let me deploy these and show you what it looks like. So both of the agents have been deployed here. Worth noting that I didn't do any setup.

I didn't install this from the command line. You can do that. And if you install it on your own device manually, you will need to go through a little bit of setup. But it's pretty straightforward to follow through. And you just need an API key for the model provider that you want to use.

Now open claws UI looks something like this. This is the main chat interface. You can change the model and then Hermes looks something like this. Now this is the user interface. By default Hermes does not come with the user interface and you need to install it.

But if you do this through Hostinger, it will automatically set it up for you. Now for both of these agents, there is a ton of configuration you can go through to really optimize it for your use case. I'm not going to do all of that. I want to show you kind of what you get out of the box. So if we look at the open claw control board, you can see that this is, in my opinion, a little bit more complicated.

You have a lot of configuration options. You can kind of do everything directly here from the user interface. You can manage scales, agents. You can have different nodes and different gateways. You have obviously communication if you want to chat through Telegram or Discord or something like that, automation, infrastructure, etc..

Okay. And I would say this is a little bit more kind of developer focused. Whereas if we look at something like Hermes and we check the boards, we have different tasks scheduled jobs. We have a Kanban board. This will give us kind of different swim lanes of what it is that it's working on.

And we need to do. We have different skills that are built in by default, and then we can enable or disable them. So it comes with all of these automatically enabled. Open claw has some as well. We have the memory which is really easy to manage different spaces profiles to DOS insights and then the logs.

And this at least from a user perspective, is easier to work with and manage from the beginning. Whereas Open Claw is going to give you a lot more controls. Now with Hermes, you of course can go in the settings and you can change some stuff here, but you'll notice it's a little bit more barebones than Open Claw, at least from the UI control. So what I want to do now is give both of them the same task, and let's see how they perform. So now that we've had a look at the user interfaces, I want to show you some of the key differences between these tools.

Keep in mind that these are a lot more exaggerated when you use them over long periods of time. It's very difficult to demo this in just 3 or 4 minutes, but I wanted to start from a fresh instance so you get kind of how it works. All right. So let's go to open claw. Now one of the main differences between these tools is skills skill review and how skills are handled.

Now with open claw. Typically if you want a skill some kind of reusable workflow, what you're going to do is go to this skills tab. You're going to go to where it says Claw Hub, which should be set up for you automatically, and you're going to search for it. So you might search for something like GitHub. And you can see there's just a ton of skills that are going to pop up.

And these are coming from claw where there's like over 5000 skills you can use and you can click into one. You can read what it looks like okay. And then you can install this skill. I mean, this one is super basic, but you get the idea. So that's typically how you would work with skills.

And then if you wanted to make your own custom skill you could do that. But you would have to manually tell the model. So you would say, hey, I want you to make a skill to do x, y, z. And then it can make one and install it and set it up, but it's not being handled automatically. Whereas when you're using Hermes agent, what actually happens is has something called a curator.

Now this is going to be going through your memory, your session logs and what you've been chatting with the agent about and automatically determining whether it needs to create a skill or not. So if you've done something five, six, seven, eight times, it's going to detect, hey, this is probably something I want to turn into a skill and it will automatically make that file for you. And you set it up so you can reuse. And as you use this over time, it will automatically adjust the skill to improve it and adjust it based on what you're telling the agent to do. So if you just want to install a skill by default, open close a little bit.

Easier to do that. If you want to have your own skills that are based on your actual workflow. Hermes will do that for you. And if you go to the skills tab right here, you can see there's a bunch that are already built in that it will use by default. If you search for something like GitHub, you can see it already has a bunch of them here and that's already installed because that's a popular thing to do in Hermes.

And then if you want to add a new skill, it doesn't have the marketplace by default. You can just put in your own. So you can say, you know, content writer, give it a category, give it a description, and you can just do it like that. So that's one of the main differences. It's skills.

Now another main difference here is memory. Both of these tools will automatically save things to memory for you. But the memory in Hermes agent is optimized significantly. It's much faster. It's better at detecting when it needs to write to memory, and it can recall through more memory than open clock can.

Again, you can change things in OpenClawaw to make this better, but typically, if you want kind of an ongoing agent that improves over time, that's why you use Hermes. So just to elaborate a bit on this, this is the curator page directly from Hermes. You can read it if you want. What you'll notice is that there is a background maintenance process that's essentially going through any of the agent created skills which will be created automatically or by you manually telling it, and it will move those skills through an active, stale and archive state based on which ones are used and how often you know they're being considered. Now it says that it exists so that the skills created via the self-improvement loop don't pile up forever.

So that means you can keep creating skills without getting a ton of context bloat. It explains in depth how it works, but that's one of the main Distinguisher is between Hermes agent and you'll see here that this is the self-improvement loop that it's talking about. So the agent can create, update, and delete its own skills via the Skill Manager tool. This is the agent's procedural memory when it figures out a non-trivial workflow, which I'll try to demo in one second, it saves the approach as a skill for future reuse, right? And then it works together with the memory to be able to give you a better result and improve over time.

So let's try to see this in action. I'm going to paste kind of a seven step workflow here and see if it will automatically create the skill again. Sometimes it's hard when we're just doing one prompt at a time. But let's run that and then I'll run the same thing in OpenClawaw and see if we get any difference. Okay, so both tools are finished here.

If you look at Hermes agent, you can see that it wrote you know what it needs to do in an outline. The steps that it took to complete this in order to test it. This created a new skill for me. What I did is I just opened up a new conversation session and I said, hey, run my video research brief again. I need you to do X, y, z.

And then it said, okay, I'm going to do this and notice that the first thing it did is it looked up a skill. Now this skill here, Source Driven Briefs, is one that's not built into Hermes by default. This is one that was actually created after we asked it. You know, in the previous conversation to create this for us. So we generated this automatically in the background.

I then loaded this skill and used it to make the brief again. So that's exactly what I'm talking about in terms of the self improvement. Now with open here it was able to generate the brief. What I'm going to do now is just open a new conversation and we'll test if it automatically made the skill. Okay.

So let's ask it to run the research video brief again and see if we get a response. So you'll see right now if we just look through the output there's nothing related to any skills. And while it is able to search through the memory, which we can see here and find the response, it's a lot less efficient. It takes longer and it's not using that skill. So now if it ever forgets that memory is not loaded in context, it's not going to be able to give us the response.

And that's really the key difference here between Hermes and Open Claw. How are the memories managed and how the skills are automatically handled and produced? Hopefully that makes sense to you. And let's talk about a few other differences. So at this point you're probably saying, okay, well I'm just going to use Hermes agent, right?

Because it seems like it's better now for most of you, that's the correct choice. Hermes agent is better as more of a personal assistant or something that you chat with a lot. Now, I will say that one of the things that does give open a little bit of an edge, and probably the only reason I would use it now in 2026 is its gateway management and advanced configuration. So let's say that you want to have multiple people from different areas chatting with your bot. Maybe you want it to be customer facing.

Maybe you want to have different people in your organization using it. In my experience, it's easier to set up multiple gateways with open claw and route them into different agents with shared memory than it is to do that with Hermes. I'm going to go back to my presentation to explain this. So, for example, maybe you have telegram users, discord users, you know, website widget, WhatsApp line. You can have different gateways set up in open cloud.

They can handle that. You can also do this in Hermes agent. But again in my experience it's a little bit easier and more intuitive inside of OpenClawaw. So that's one reason why you might want to use this is if you have different types of avatars or people using it, if you're just a single user, you're probably going to go with Hermes. Now you're going to notice that the main gap here is the repetitive work.

We already saw this a little bit with OpenClawaw. For everything that you're doing is pretty much manual. You need to tell it to make a skill. You need to know that it needs to optimize this. Whereas with Hermes, it's doing all of that in the background for you.

Now when you have this set up, it actually means that your agent gets cheaper to run over time because it's learning how to do things and it doesn't need to rediscovered it. You saw that when we wanted to remake the brief, it just pulled the skill. It was already there. That was created one time, whereas OpenClawaw, any time we wanted to do that, if we didn't manually tell it to make the skill it needs to figure this out. Again, it needs to search the memory, go through the tools, and it doesn't have that baked in like Hermes agent does, which means it can be very expensive to run continuously.

Now continuing here, the bigger ecosystem also leads to a bigger target. So with OpenClawaw, if you're installing a ton of different skills from the hub, a lot of these could have security vulnerabilities. And this is exactly what we saw back in February, where people had all of these skills baked in, or they've set up things incorrectly where they're exposed on the web. Whereas with Hermes, it's a lot smaller surface. You're not pulling in all of this stuff externally, which leads to it being typically a little bit more secure.

Now let's keep going and let's just have a look at a side by side comparison. So when we talk about cost typically going to be a bit more expensive with OpenClawaw on the same tasks, whereas with Hermes it optimizes and gets better over time. In terms of this set up, OpenClawaw is one click. Same with Hermes. However, it can be a little bit more advanced to set up, especially if we get into the gateway stuff you saw.

The UI is not quite as friendly. Whereas with Hermes it's pretty much just there, ready to go, and you don't really need to tweak anything in terms of capability. There is more skills, definitely. With OpenClawaw you have the multi gateway support, you have a ton of different providers, so maybe you have a little bit more advanced capability. But with Hermes you have the learning loop, you have the memory and it can also run the same opening close skills.

You can just pull them in and manually create them there. Now OpenClawaw is going to be best for things that are customer facing, multi-channel, a lot more advanced where you want to kind of get your hands dirty, whereas Hermes is significantly better as a daily driver. Anything the repeats or that you're going to be chatting with a lot. So in most cases you're going to go with Hermes. But if for some reason you're more advanced user, you have kind of this special use case, then OpenClawawaw can be considered.

But that's pretty much the conclusion, guys. I would almost always go with Hermes in 2026, but I wanted to show you why that's the case, that you have some evidence to back up that decision and you know which is best for you. So I'm going to wrap up the video here. If you enjoyed make sure leave a like subscribe and I will see you in the next one.