---
video_title: "How to Become a Forward Deployed Engineer in 2026"
video_id: vLlIBT0HSSc
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLlIBT0HSSc
video_date: 2026-08-14T17:42:59+00:00
video_description: |
  Best courses to learn the tecnical Python and AI skills to become a Forward Deployed Engineer: 
  DataCamp Python for Software Engineering Track: https://datacamp.pxf.io/m41oL7
  DataCamp Associate AI Engineer for Developers Track: https://datacamp.pxf.io/MKERPM
  Save 25% Off DataCamp: https://datacamp.pxf.io/NGE25q
  
  There's a role in tech right now where mid-level engineers are making $300–400K a year, job postings grew over 1,000% in a single year, and most developers have never heard of it. It's called a Forward Deployed Engineer — and the skill set is mostly things a solid developer can learn relatively quickly.
  
  In this video I break down exactly what the role is, the three skill buckets you need, how to build your portfolio, and what the interview process actually looks like — so you can prepare for the right things instead of wasting months on LeetCode.
  
  Want to LEARN how to build useful AI agents that actually get things done? Go here: https://aiagentbuilders.co/yt
  
  How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-aug26
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:46 | What a Forward Deployed Engineer actually is
  02:08 | Why Demand Exploded
  03:16 | The Skill Stack
  05:09 | How to learn this
  07:01 | The Fast Path (3 steps)
  09:25 | The Interview: What to expect
  
  Hashtags
  #ForwardDeployedEngineer #FDE #AICareer
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
There's a job in tech right now where mid-level engineers are making 3 to 400 K. Job postings grew over 1,000% in a single year, and most developers have never even heard of it. Now it's called a forward deployed engineer. And the big companies like OpenAI, anthropic, Google, and Palantir are all fighting over these same small pool of people who can actually do it. And here's the part that's pretty interesting.

This is not some high level PhD research rule. The skill set is mostly things that a solid developer can learn pretty quickly. And when stacked in a specific combination, almost nobody has it. So in this video, I'm going to break down what a forward deployed engineer does, the exact skills that you need, how the interviews work, and a realistic fast path to get hired as one. Let's dive in.

Okay, so what is a forward deployed engineer? Well, this role was basically invented at Palantir. And that's because their software was powerful but also incredibly complex. So instead of just shipping it and hoping they actually embedded engineers directly with the customer to make sure that it works. So that's kind of the forward deployed part.

You're deployed forward out of the headquarters, and you're actually in the field and working directly with customers. Now, every series AI company has pretty much discovered the same thing. And that's because every enterprise AI product has one major gap. And that's the demo works extremely well, but then it meets the customer's real world. So their legacy systems, their weird data, their compliance rules, their internal processes, whatever.

Now a forward deployed engineer is the engineer who lives inside of that gap. So you write real production code, but not for your company's core product. You're writing it inside of the customer's environment and effectively wiring an AI product into their systems until it actually delivers value. So it's really a hybrid role where you're part engineer, part consultant, and part product owner. One day you're doing a data pipeline, the next you're in a room with a bunch of executives explaining what AI can and can't do, and then you're debugging some production issue while the clients watching over your shoulder.

If that sounds stressful, it's because it is. But that's also why this role is really hard to fill and pays so much money. So here's a bit of context on why this role is suddenly everywhere. Because the numbers are crazy, especially in the tech field where we know it's been a little bit more difficult to get jobs recently. Now, PhD job postings grew over 1,165% year over year going into 2026.

Now, one recent count actually found hundreds of open PhD roles across more than 100 different companies. So again, think Palantir, OpenAI, anthropic, Mistral. You guys get the idea. All of these big AI companies, they're all hiring this role. And interestingly, New York has actually overtaken San Francisco is the biggest FTE hub.

Now that's because a lot of the demand here is in fintech and the highly regulated industries, where this role is a lot more necessary. Now, the reason for all of this is pretty simple. The bottleneck is no longer models. The models are good. In fact, they're very good.

The bottleneck is getting them from a demo environment into a production system that actually has an impact on a company, so they're willing to pay for it. Now companies have realized that they don't just need researchers anymore. They need people who can actually make the AI work in the messy, real world with all of the systems that we talked about. Now, that's essentially why Ford deployed engineers exist. So now let's dive into this skill stack.

What do you actually need to know if you want this role. And there's three main buckets that I'm going to split this up into. Now first is real software engineering. So this is pretty much foundational. It's not really negotiable.

You need strong Python. You need to know about APIs. So consuming them building them databases SQL. There's no about testing debugging and writing code. And then of course system design and understanding large scale code bases.

Now that's effectively Elsa being able to take requirements and turning them into components, data flows, trade offs and decisions that you can defend, especially to clients into stakeholders. Now bucket two is the AI stuff. So you need to be fluent in building with Llms calling model APIs, prompt engineering, structured outputs, building production AI systems, and then things like Rag vector databases. You guys get the idea. Now you don't need to be able to build your own LLM from scratch, but you need to understand agent orchestration, multi-step workflows, evaluations, observability, logging, right.

And all of the stuff that goes into the integration of these AI systems. Now the third bucket is customer skills and also just being personable. Now this is the one that's going to filter out most engineers. And it's the reason why the compensation is so high. You need to be able to sit with a non-technical person, take a vague, ambiguous problem, and decompose it into a plan.

You'll need to be able to explain technical decisions in the customer's language, not in yours. And you need actual ownership. So when it breaks at 5:00 on a Friday, you're the one who owns this and you need to fix it. If there's a line from a forward deployed engineer hiring guide, that sums it up pretty nicely. Technical skills get you in the door.

Customer skills get you the offer. Now, most developers out there are going to have portions of bucket one, but almost none of them are going to have all three buckets of skills. And that's the gap here. But it's also the opportunity. So I'm going to show you how to close it on how you can learn these skills.

Okay. So the obvious question is how do you build the first two buckets of skills. Because watching this video is not it right. Studies have shown that when you just watched as you read articles, you're only retaining about 20% of the material. But when you learn actively by actually writing code and building things, the retention can jump to 75 to 90%.

Now, for a role that's entirely about shipping in the real world, that difference is literally everything. So that's why for this video, I partnered with Data Camp. Now that's because they're tracks mapped directly onto the first two buckets that I mentioned. Now, I've used data Camp for years to sharpen my own Python an AI skills, so I can tell you this from actual experience. So if we talk about the software engineering bucket, they're Python for software engineering track is 32 hours of hands on work covering exactly what I just described.

So object oriented programing, data structures and algorithms, writing efficient code, testing, all of that stuff that separates someone who can write a script from someone who is an engineer. Now for the AI bucket. There's so engineer for developers. Track is 29 hours where you build real applications, and it's just refreshed in July of 2026. So all of the content is current.

And when you finish, there's an industry recognized AI engineer certification with a four hour practical exam where you build a real AI application. Now that can go straight onto your LinkedIn. And for a role where you're literally being hired to ship AI in production, a certification that proves you can actually build one does carry real weight. And that's exactly why the exam is practical and not just multiple choice. Now, full disclosure here.

This is not going to cover the soft skills that we mentioned earlier, but it's a solid base that's going to get you most of the way there. So right now you can get 25% off using my link in the description. And considering that these skills are literally what you can get paid 3 to $400,000 per year for, I would say it's a worthwhile investment. Check it out. Okay, so you're building these skills now.

How do you turn them into an actual offer in the exact order? Let me share what I think. Now step one is to build 2 or 3 deployment style projects. And I mean a very specific type of project, not another standard to do list application. So you want to find a real messy problem, ideally from a real business like a friend's company, a local business, your own workplace, whatever, and you want to solve it end to end using AI.

So take their actual document or the data that they have, build a Rag system or an agent around it, deploy it, and then measure the result. Now the magic words on an FD resume are end to end ownership and measurable impact. So for example, built an internal tool that cut quote turned around from two days to 20 minutes is going to beat every single tutorial project that's out there because you actually did something meaningful. So you want to actually integrate AI into a real world system. That's step one.

There's step two is to get customer facing reps wherever you are right now. When I say reps, I mean repetitions, not like the reps of the people that are working there. So you want to be doing things like volunteering to demo things right, talking with leadership, sitting in on requirement calls, presenting things to non-technical people and getting grilled by them. Now, if you're currently a developer, this is the free training that most of your peers are actively avoiding, which is exactly why it's valuable to you. You want to be able to show that you have experience talking with people that aren't just technical or developers, because that is really a lot of the leverage points for this job.

Now step three you want to aim at the right doors. So things like Palantir in the AI labs are obviously going to be famous companies that you want to work for. But there are hundreds of smaller AI companies that are actively hiring PhDs right now with a lot less competition. So if you can get 1 or 2 years of experience at a smaller company in this field, that's going to be a massive launchpad. To be able to work for a company like OpenAI, anthropic, wherever, where you're going to be making 500 K per year plus.

Now, of course, this is going to be more difficult than I'm making it sound. But the idea is build legitimate projects, actually integrate AI, get the repetitions in in terms of doing social stuff right, talking with people, communicating and showing that charisma, charm and the ability to work with clients, which is a massive part of this role, and then aim at the right type of jobs, get a little bit of experience, then really quickly switch up to a higher level company. That's exactly how I would do this. Okay, so now the last thing I want to talk about is the PhD interview. And the reason for that is because it's really not like a normal software engineering loop.

And if you prepare for a normal software engineering loop, that's going to lead you astray. So what you're going to expect here is about five stages or five rounds of interviews, probably over about 3 to 6 weeks. Now. There's usually a technical screen. And yes, you want to brush up on your practical coding skills, a bit of lead code, your sequel, whatever.

But the signature round here is typically an ambiguous case study. So a hypothetical customer is going to hand you a vague problem, and you have 45 minutes to decompose it and turn it into a plan. Now, this round has the lowest pass rate, where about 40% of people pass it, right. And also is the highest weight in the decision of hiring an FD. So yes, of course you'll probably need to pass 1 or 2 lead code rounds.

But the mistake that almost everyone is making here is over indexing on lead code and engineering, because roughly half the loop here is actually your judgment, right? Case studies, stakeholder scenarios, behavioral rounds. So you want to prepare your star formatted stories. How you handle ambiguity cross-functional work a failure. You had a technical disagreement driving impact.

You get the idea that is so important. And in every single round here do the things that Ford deployed engineers are supposed to do, which is clarify before solving. Decompose the problem out loud and explain your decisions in business language, not in engineering terms, because that's literally the job here, and that's what they're looking for from the first minute in the interview. Okay. So that is forward deployed engineers.

It is the highest leverage rule in tech currently. The most developers haven't heard of. The demand is exploding. The skill combo is very learnable. And the window where this is underpriced is not going to stay open forever.

So what I would suggest is start learning it now. If you want, you can check out the Data camp tracks that I love to link to in the description, and get 25% off to master those two buckets. And for the third bucket, focus on all of those other things we talked about. And you're going to be well set. And it was guys, that's all I have for you in this video.

If you enjoyed leave a like subscribe and I will see you in the next one.