---
video_title: "Top 6 AI Certifications That Can Make You Rich in 2026"
video_id: hAckBGtCwxo
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hAckBGtCwxo
video_date: 2026-08-16T18:06:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Two of the best AI certifications you can get from DataCamp:
  DataCamp AI Fundamentals | https://datacamp.pxf.io/X4E2gG
  DataCamp AI Engineer for Developers Associate | https://datacamp.pxf.io/ZVEYoK
  Save 25% Off DataCamp: https://datacamp.pxf.io/Ag5RdK
  
  Other AI certifications covered in the video:
  AWS Certified AI Practitioner | https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-ai-practitioner/
  NVIDIA Certified Associate, Generative AI and LLMs | https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/learn/certification/generative-ai-llm-associate/
  Microsoft Azure AI Engineer  | https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/credentials/certifications/azure-ai-apps-and-agents-developer-associate/
  Google Cloud Professional Machine Learning Engineer | https://cloud.google.com/learn/certification/machine-learning-engineer
  
  --
  
  Workers with AI skills are earning a 56% wage premium over people in the exact same role without them — that's from PwC analyzing close to a billion job applications. But most AI certifications are garbage. Nobody checks them, nobody's impressed by them, and some are outright scams.
  
  I went through the entire landscape and pulled out the six that actually mean something in 2026 — ordered from beginner to advanced, with an honest breakdown of who each one is for, what it costs, and what the real downsides are.
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-aug26
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:54 | What a Cert Does
  02:14 | Cert #1 - DataCamp AI Fundamentals
  03:59 | Cert #2 - AWS Certified AI Practitioner
  05:09 | Cert #3 - NVIDIA Certified Associate, Generative AI and LLMs
  06:19 | Cert #4 - DataCamp AI Engineer for Developers Associate
  08:01 | Cert #5 - Microsoft Azure AI Engineer
  09:19 | Cert #6 - Google Cloud Professional Machine Learning Engineer
  10:45 | How to Pick
  
  Hashtags
  #AICertification #AICareer #DataCamp
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Workers with AI skills are earning a 56% wage premium over people in the exact same role that don't have them. Now, that's not my number. That's PwC analyzing close to a billion job applications, 56% more for the exact same job. Now compare two ways of proving that you have these skills one, a university degree which takes four years and easily cost six figures in total, or a certification somewhere between three and maybe $250 and a few weeks of study. But here's the problem.

Most AI certifications are complete garbage. Nobody's checking them. Nobody's impressed by them, and some of them are honestly just straight up scams. So I went through the whole landscape and I pulled out the six. That actually means something in 2026.

Now I've ordered them roughly from beginner to advance, and at the end I'm going to tell you exactly which one that you should pick based on your exact situation. So let's dive in. So before I get to the list, I just want to spend 30s discussing what a certification actually does for you because people get this wrong in every direction. Now, a certification will not get you a job by itself. Anyone who tells you otherwise, it's just trying to sell you the certification.

What a certification does do though, is it gets you past filters. So recruiters and applicant tracking systems are going to scan for signals. And a recognized certification is a signal that survives that six second resume scan. Now these certifications are also typically going to force structure onto your learning, which is more important than people admit. And it's going to force you to learn more.

Okay. So overall here the winning combination and you're going to hear me repeat this again is to have one good certification plus at least one very good project that you can actually demo. And my criteria for this list for the certifications as the following. Real industry recognition. Reasonable cost in time.

Actually current right meaning generative AI and LMS rather than just classic machine learning. And then bonus points if it actually tests you hands on instead of just using multiple choice. If it's practical and it's giving you something that you can actually demonstrate and talk about in the interview, that's going to be a bonus, because the cert is also a talking point that you can discuss when you actually get to those roots. Okay. So let's get into the certifications.

I have six different ones. Let's go through them. Okay. So we're going to start here at the entry point. And that's with the data camps AI fundamentals certification.

Now this one certifies exactly what it sounds like that you actually understand what AI is. Now it's a 30 question timed exam. It takes up to an hour to complete. And here's the detail that I like about it. It doesn't matter because the fundamentals don't really change.

Right now the exam covers how AI works at a foundational level. Machine learning and LLM concepts, generative AI and the ethics. So the core vocabulary that you need to be genuinely AI literate at work. Full disclosure Data Camp has been a long term partner of this channel, and I did partner with them for this video. That said, I've personally completed some of these certifications myself, and I use the platform all the time to keep sharp with my Python skills.

So I know many of you have used it and I feel very comfortable recommending it, so that's why I've partnered with them for this video. I would talk about this certification regardless, and again, I've done it myself. Okay, now who is this for? Well, honestly, this is aimed at pretty much anyone who isn't already super technical. So if you're a marketer, an analyst, a manager or a student, and every job posting that you see now says AI literacy preferred, this is kind of that checkbox that you can actually get by that's backed by a real exam instead of just a LinkedIn course that you can really easily cheat on.

Now, the honest downside with this certification is that this alone is not going to get you an engineering job. It's also not trying to do that. It's really the floor, not the ceiling, but as a first credential that just takes a few days rather than months. It's a very easy win, and it's included with a data camp subscription rather than being an extra exam fee. Anyways, I'm going to have another data Camp certification later on.

That's going to be a lot more meaningful, but for now, this is a great one to check off, and it's going to give you a lot of value relative to the cost and also the amount of time it takes to complete. Okay. Now let's move on to certification number two. Now this is the AWS certified AI practitioner. Now it's $100.

It's a 90 minute exam. And it's probably the best brand to effort ratio that's on this whole list. AWS is still the largest cloud on the planet, which means this badge is recognized by basically every single company that has some cloud bill. Now the exam covers AI and ML fundamentals plus the generative AI layer. So Foundation models AWS services like bedrock, Amazon Cube, SageMaker.

Right. You get the idea. And the prep is genuinely doable. Most people report 30 to 40 hours of studying and it's valid for up to three years. Now who is this form?

Well, it's pretty much anyone that's working at or applying to a company that runs on AWS, which is a lot of people, because pretty much everyone uses AWS now. It's also a great first kind of real certification after getting the fundamental one, because it's from a vendor whose name needs zero explanation and everyone's going to recognize right away. Now, the honest downside here is that it is multiple choice. So it's really just proving knowledge and not ability. And it's AWS flavored.

So some of what you're learning here is really dependent on their ecosystem and not really a transferable skill. Okay. Now let's move on to certification number three which is the Nvidia NCA, Jenelle and the generative AI and LMS associate certification. That is mouthful, but I'll put it up on screen so you can see exactly what it's called. Now this is $125. It's a one hour exam.

And it's been called the fastest growing AI certification going into 2026. Now there's two reasons that I picked this certification. First, it's from Nvidia. Now Nvidia is the name when it comes to AI. So it actually carries a lot of weight on a resume.

The second is that the content is actually surprisingly transferable. Roughly 70% of what you're doing is platform agnostic. So LLM fundamentals transformers prompting retrieval, fine tuning. You know, you get the idea, right? It's not just pure Nvidia product knowledge.

Now who is this for. Well it's really developers and kind of data science type people who want to signal that they're specializing in the LM and generative AI direction, rather than just general cloud AI. This is valid for two years. But here's the honest downside. It's newer.

So it doesn't have kind of that decade of HR recognition that something like AWS or Microsoft might have. And again, it's a written exam, not a practical one. Okay. So now we move on to certification number four. And this is genuinely the one that I would recommend to most developers watching, especially as their first kind of real AI certification.

Now this is Data camps AI engineer for developers associate certification. Now every other cert on this list is testing you with multiple choice questions, but this one actually makes you build something. So there's a two hour timed exam that's covering AI models, prompt engineering, and application development. There's then a four hour practical exam where you complete three real world tasks in Python by actually writing code, actually getting graded. Now, for an employer, that's a fundamentally stronger signal because it certifies that you can do the job and not just talk about it.

And the preparation is built into the platform. So the associate AI engineer for developers track is 29 hours of hands on learning where you build chatbots, semantic search and recommendation systems using things like the OpenAI API, Lang chain hugging Face and Pinecone. Plus, it has the LM ops side where you have rate limiting, error handling, structured outputs, and the production stuff that most people are skipping. So you're writing real code in the browser the entire time, and that matters a lot, because studies have shown that you only retain about 20% of what you watch and do passively when you're actively writing. Code retention can jump to 75 to 90%.

Now, both data camp certifications that I've mentioned in this video. So the AI fundamentals if you're starting out and then this one, the AI engineers for developers associate are included with the subscription with no separate exam fee. So right now you can actually get 25% off using my link in the description. And if you want either of those certifications, you might as well. And you can do them both though paying anything else.

Okay. So let's move on now to certification number five. Now this is Microsoft's Azure AI engineer associate. Now quick heads up here if you are going to research this one, the classic AI 102 exam that they had actually retired in June of 2026, it's now been replaced by AI 103. So this is the Azure AI apps and AI developer certification.

So make sure that you are studying for the current one if you go with this track. Now this is really the enterprise play. It's about $165. And it covers building real solutions with Azure AI Foundry and Azure OpenAI. So generative AI agents, natural language vision, the whole Azure AI service.

Now Microsoft expects you to actually work with Python or C sharp here. And to use things like Rest APIs. So it's more technical than the practitioner level certs that we talked about above. Now who is this one for. Well, it's really if you want to work in enterprise consulting or basically any big company that lives in that Microsoft ecosystem.

Now this is arguably the highest value badge that you can hold because these companies specifically hire against the certification. Now the onus downside here is that this is very deep in the Azure world. So if you're targeting companies that aren't Microsoft shops, a lot of the specifics just aren't going to transfer or apply. Now the study time is measured in months, not weeks. So it's definitely something that's going to take a lot more preparation.

And you want to be more serious before you dive into. So let's move on to the final certification. I'll classify this as the heavyweight of the list. And this is Clouds Professional Machine Learning Engineer certification. It's $200. It's a two hour exam.

And this is the one with the biggest reported salary impact on this list. Holders that have this command roughly a 25% premium over uncertified peers. In some analysis, it's hard to say exactly which, but anyways, that's what's reported. Now, this is a professional level certification and it definitely earns that title. It expects real ML experience.

So things like designing and training pipelines, deploying and monitoring models, MLOps and increasingly generative AI side of things like vertex AI. Now people fail this exam, and that's partly why it means something is not easy to pass. Now who's this for? Its engineers who are already working with ML or data and want a senior defensible credential. Now this is not a starter certification.

And if you're very early on taking this too soon, it's just going to be expensive and waste a lot of time. So the downside here this certification is it's difficult okay. It is also focused really purely on Google Cloud. And like most of the other big vendor certifications here, it does expire after two years. So you're certifying all of the time.

Okay. Anyways, good certification overall if you're a professional, but if you're just starting out you probably want to skip this one. So at this point we've gone through six different certifications. And what I want to do now is give you a cheat sheet to decide which one, if any, that you should take. So if you are a total beginner or you are in a non-technical role, then you want to look at the data camp AI fundamentals.

It is the fastest win, has no expiry and it gets you AI literate extremely quickly. Next, if your company or target companies run on AWS, then you want to look at the AWS AI practitioner and build it from there. Now, if you're aiming at big enterprise or Microsoft shops, you're going to look at the Azure AI engineer path, specifically AI 103. Now, for developers who want to prove build skills very quickly, data camps AI engineer for developers associate track is the one to look at. This is the practical exam. It's a big differentiator.

And again all of the prep and everything is built into the platform. If you want to go deep on the LMS specialist role have a look at invidious certification. This is a really great signal. And again it's one that you can stack projects on top of. It is really going to make you stand out.

If you're already experienced in machine learning and you want kind of the senior most prestigious badge, go with the Google one. Now, regardless of which one of these you pick, what I would say is just start from one certification and then add one deployed project on top. Again, the certification is going to open the door, hopefully get you past some of the screening, and the project is going to walk you through it because you have something that actually demonstrates those skills. What you want to avoid is just becoming someone who collects a bunch of certifications, but doesn't actually build anything. Okay, so those are the six AI certifications that I believe are actually worth your time in 2026.

The links to everything are going to be in the description. Let me know in the comments which one you prefer and which one you're going to go after. And if I missed one, definitely leave it there because I know there is a ton. These are just the ones that I found that I thought were valuable. Anyways, guys, that's all I have for you. If you enjoyed make sure

leave a like subscribe and I will see you in the next one.