---
video_title: "The Best LOCAL Agentic Coding Workflow (Complete Guide)"
video_id: hfba9dAT6xE
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hfba9dAT6xE
video_date: 2026-06-10T13:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Deploy your site using here.now completely for free, copy the prompt for your agent here! https://here.now/r/twt
  
  In this complete guide, I walk you through the best local agentic coding workflow using LM Studio and VS Code - no API keys, no cloud, no cost per token.You'll learn how to install and configure LM Studio, choose and run the right local models for coding, and connect everything to VS Code so you can use AI-powered agents directly in your editor. This is the exact setup I use for local AI coding that actually works.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-jun26
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  Presentation in This Video: https://clever-mirage-d82v.here.now/
  LM Studio Download: https://lmstudio.ai/
  VSCode Download: https://code.visualstudio.com/
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:46 | What are Local Models
  02:30 | VRAM & Computer Hardware
  05:18 | Memory & Model Speed
  06:39 | How to Pick a Model
  11:10 | Trying It Live
  12:23 | LM Studio Setup & Model Download
  22:15 | Using Local Models in VS Code
  28:43 | Autocomplete Model Setup
  
  Hashtags
  #LMStudio #AICoding #AIDevTools
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
In the past few months, local models have gotten incredibly good and relatively easy to run. So much so that you can now use them for full local coding. That means you don't need the internet connection, and you can do full a genetic coding on your own computer without spending any money or subscribing to any platform. Just by having the right model and configuring your environment properly. So in this video, I'm going to give you a tutorial on exactly how to do that.

We're going to talk about model selection how local models actually work, and more importantly, how you can configure them and set them up to do a genetic coding. It's one thing to get a local model on your computer is another to get it working inside of a coding environment so that it can actually execute tasks right? Files, write code, do bash commands. You get the idea. So with all of that said, let's get started.

So I just want to spend 30s here talking about how a local model works. And then we're going to get into model selection, which is super important. So whenever you're doing a genetic coding, you're essentially just using someone else's computer for your autocomplete or for your, you know, agent tasks or code generation or whatever, that that other computer that you're using is extremely powerful. Typically it has like a terabyte of Ram, a bunch of graphics cards, and it can run really powerful models. Then you can just essentially call that computer and get the response back.

Now, when you're using a local model, everything's on your own computer. So you're not calling out on the internet. You're going you're not going to some kind of server and more importantly, you're not paying for any compute. If I'm using cursor or I'm using cloud code, I'm using cursors model and I'm paying their fees. If I'm using cloud code, I'm using anthropic Spotlight.

I'm paying their fees. If I'm using a local model, I'm just running it on my own machine and it doesn't cost me anything. So I can run this, you know, an infinite amount of time and there's no cost whatsoever. It's just going to be using my own hardware. And that means that the type of model you can run is fully dependent on what type of hardware you have.

And we're not yet capable of running, you know, opus level models on our own computer. We can run ones that are pretty good, that are close to maybe like a sonnet or a haiku. And depending on the type of computer you have, obviously you're kind of mileage and performance is get a very. So keep that in mind. If you're on a really old computer, this video is probably not going to be that useful.

But if you're on a newer computer, if you have a high end graphics card, you're going to see that you can get some really good performance to the point where you can actually just use this fully all the time and only go to a high end model. If you really need something complex done. Okay, so with that said, let's talk about selecting the model because that's super important. And then after we do the selection we'll go into all of the setup. So in terms of selecting the model the type or more importantly the size of the model that you can run is going to be dictated by pretty much one number.

And that's your video memory or your video Ram. Okay. Otherwise known as v Ram. Now in order to find that number, it really depends what operating system you on. So if you were on a windows computer, you hopefully know the hardware that you're running.

If not, you should be able to locate that relatively quickly. I believe you can go to your task manager, and you should be able to see what your graphics card is, and that graphics card is going to have a certain amount of Vram. So if you're running an in video GPU, for example, maybe running a 49 year, 5090 or 30, 60 TI or whatever the value is, just figure out what the Vram is, the amount of video memory. For most modern graphics cards, you're going to be looking at eight gigabytes, 12GB, 16GB, sometimes 24GB, depending on the model. And of course, you know how expensive it was and what you paid for.

Now that number is effectively going to dictate the maximum size of model that you can run on your computer. I'll talk more about that later. But if you have a 16GB of Ram graphics card, you can effectively run a model that's up to 16GB in size, should be a little bit smaller. But about that size. If we talk about MCC, things change a little bit because on Mac, especially the newer Macs, any M-series Mac, you have something called unified memory.

Now what that means is that you Ram on your computer. So in my case, I have an M5 Max with 64GB of Ram is actually shared between the CPU and the GPU. So I have 64GB of Ram, just normal unified memory on my Mac computer. And that technically means that my GPU could use up to 64GB of video memory or of this unified memory. So if you're on windows, you're looking specifically at your graphics card and how much Vram is there?

If you're on Mac, you're looking at how much unified memory you have. And if you want to find this on Mac, it's really easy. You can go to the Apple icon, you can go to about this Mac and just look for memory here. And you can see that I have 64 gigs. Now this is only going to be applicable on the M-series Mac.

If you're running an Intel Mac, then you're going to want to look at how much Vram is on the integrated graphics card that's on your computer. But if you're on an Intel Mac, then this video is probably not going to work that very well for you, and you're only going to able to run really kind of. Local models because those are just very old machines at this point. Now, one thing to be aware of is that while you have unified memory and it technically all could be used by the what you call a GPU. In theory, it's not all accessible.

There's some memory that's required to run the operating system, other processes that you have. So while you might have 64GB of Ram, like me, maybe only 55GB of that can actually be used to run the model. So essentially just figure out, okay, how much memory do I have, how much Vram do I have on windows and how much unified memory do I have on Mac. And then we're going to subtract about 10 to 15% of that. And that's about the maximum size model that will be able to run with decent performance. Okay.

You could actually see I made a slide for this. And effectively on Mac. Yes 75 to 80% of unified memory is probably usable. And if you are on windows you can use effectively all of it because you have all of that Ram specifically for the GPU. It's not shared like it is on a mac.

Now, one thing to note is that if you are running on a windows computer, your memory throughput is going to be a lot faster than on a mac computer. So, for example, if we look at an RTX 4090, we have 1008GB per second in terms of the speed of the memory. If we're looking at M4 Macs, we have 546GB per second. Don't worry too much about this, but this is effectively the speed at which the memory can read and write data. So while you might be able to load a bigger model on Mac, having a dedicated GPU, especially a high end GPU, usually you're going to get more tokens per second or a faster response from the model because it's just faster.

Okay, so there's a difference between speed and kind of capability. And just because a model is bigger doesn't necessarily mean it's better. And same thing just because it's smaller doesn't mean it's worse. The speed also is factored in based on the hardware that you're using. So with Mac you can have bigger models generally.

But if you have a dedicated GPU, while the models you can load are typically a little bit smaller, they're going to be a lot faster because the memory bandwidth is typically quicker. Okay, so let's keep going. And let's just quickly go through kind of a cheat sheet of what the size model you'll be able to run based on the computer that you're on. The models have a number of parameters. And you're going to see this advertised.

When you start looking at them you'll see 7 billion, 14 billion, 32 billion, 70 billion, 480 billion. And the number of parameters will dictate the size of the model. So typically speaking, if you have eight gigabytes of Vram, you can run a 7 billion parameter model. If you have 12 to 16 gigs, you should be able to run a 14 billion won. If you have 24 gigs, you should be able to run a 32 billion won. And if you have 64 gigs or more,

you should be able to run a 70 billion model. And this is not always the case. And we're going to look at this later. But this is kind of a general guideline for the size of the model that you can run. And some models will be smaller or larger with the same number of parameters based on kind of how they're tuned, the quantity ization, which we'll look at later.

I'm just trying to give you a high level understanding, because the model selection is by far the most important part. Okay. Now let's just quickly have a look at what model you should be running based on the hardware tier that you have. Now, if you want to look for models you can go to hugging face. Hugging face has a ton of different models that you can scroll through here.

You can filter and you can find all different types of models that you can run on your machine. But these are the ones that I'm going to recommend if you follow along with. This is just going to be super easy because I've tested a lot of these different models. Now usually we're going to use two models when we're setting up, kind of local development. We're going to have one really small, really fast model, which we use for auto complete if we're actually going to be typing and, you know, getting autocomplete from code.

And then we're going to use one much larger, more capable model, which is what's going to be used for chatting, editing, agent mode, whatever. So you're going to have two different models. For most of us, we're just going to be using this Gwen 2.5 coder with 1.5 billion parameters for our auto complete model.

Pretty much any computer that you have is going to be capable of running this model. Even if you don't have a graphics card. But if you don't have graphics card, it's going to be fairly slow. So anyways, for autocomplete, that's pretty much just what we're going to use. And then for our chat and edit model, this is really going to depend on the amount of Vram that you have.

That is a family of models that are very good for running locally and doing a genetic coding. And it's the Gwenn family of models. So you'll see. Gwen 2.5.

Gwen 3.6. Gwen 3.5 Gwen coder. Next.

Okay, so there's a bunch of different models with different sizes. We'll look at them here in a second, but for example, if you're running on a 16 gigabyte unified memory laptop with Apple or eight gigabytes of Ram, for a normal PC, you should be able to run this Gwen 2.5 coder with 7 billion parameters. Not a ton of parameters. Is going to take up a few gigabytes of space.

Should be possible to run and run with decent performance. Next, if we go up in performance here, we have 24 to 32GB of Ram on Apple or 12 to 16 on a dedicated GPU. We should be able to run this 14 billion parameter model or this 30 billion parameter Gwen three coder model. Okay, so again, I'm just putting a cheat sheet here so you guys can see them later. If we have more than 24GB of Ram or on a really high end machine like I am, you should be able to run this Gwen three coder model.

If we keep going, you should be able to run the Gwen three coder next model. If you have 64GB or more of memory, and then if you don't have any GPU at all, you're going to use the same model that you use for auto complete as your main completion model, which is Gwen 2.5 coder with 1.5 to 3 billion parameters. Again, we'll look at this in a minute.

I'll go into it in more detail, but I'm just giving you a quick cheat sheet. And I made even a larger table here with exact models in terms of GPUs and max, specs, just a few of them that are pretty common. So you can see which model I would recommend. Okay, so have a quick look at this. See if any of this applies to you.

And now we're going to get into the actual set up. We'll look at a few models specifically. And this will start to make a little bit more sense. And one last thing to be aware of while you can run any of these models on your computer, assuming you have enough hard drive space, they're really only going to be efficient to run if they fit into the amount of Ram that you have. So this is why I focus so much on the Vram.

If a model is ten gigabytes but you only have eight gigabytes of Ram, the model can still be loaded and it can still run on your computer. But the overflowing amounts like you have eight gigabytes in Vram, the other two gigabytes is going to go in your normal system memory, or maybe even on the disk, depending on kind of how things are loaded, which is going to make it like 100 times slower than if it was fully loaded in your video memory. So pretty much just only run models that are smaller than the amount of Ram that you have. If you want them to run in any reasonable amount of time. Again, you can always run these models, but they can just be extremely slow if you can't load them in your free Ram.

Okay, so we're going to keep going and get into the setup. But one thing I want to make you aware of is that this presentation is available from the link in the description, in case you want to check it out for yourself. And you'll notice that I actually have it deployed to this here Dawn now domain now here Not now is actually a long term partner of the channel. They are completely free to use, and there are a way that you can deploy sites really easily, especially for demo purposes, by literally just copying one single prompt. Let me show you what I mean.

If you just go to Here.now, I'll leave a link to it. In the description, you can copy their agent instructions. And this is actually exactly what I did when I was building this presentation. Using cloud code.

You can just paste the instructions here and say, hey, I want you to set up Here.now and I want you to deploy this site and you literally just paste it inside of here. I already did this so you can see it does it, and it will just deploy this to a website for you automatically. So you see it deployed to this site that was loading. Right. You guys can now view it.

And then if you want to claim the site and have it be available for more than 24 hours, you just need to create a free account and sign in just so you can save the site to a particular account. You can see if I go to my dashboard here, I have a bunch of sites that have already been deployed. This is completely free. You don't need to pay for anything. You actually don't even need to make an account unless you want to claim the site.

And then of course, if you do want to upgrade, you can pay $4 per month, $20 a month if you want more sites, a bunch of storage. But I haven't had to do that yet and I use this a ton. Anyways, massive shoutout to here Here.now for sponsoring this video and providing this service because I use it all the time and I genuinely think it is great. And with that said, let's go to the next part of the video.

Okay, so now that we have kind of a basis in understanding, we can start actually setting this up. Those two pieces of software we're going to use in this video. The first is LM studio. The second is Visual Studio Code. So download both of these if you want to follow along. Exactly.

You can use other code editors as well. But VSCode recently added a feature that makes it really easy to run these local models. So I'm going to suggest that you go with that. And it's just kind of the best experience for local model development. Trust me, I have tried a lot.

Okay, so download Visual Studio Code, download LM studio again both these free. You don't need to pay for anything. And then what we're going to do is we're going to open LM studio, and I'm just going to walk you through kind of the basic user interface here. Now LM studio allows you to download and manage with some more precision than something like a llama. Local models.

Now what you can do is you can go to the chat, which is kind of in the top left hand corner. Here you can go to the developer view, which allows you to run a server, which we're going to look at in a second. And you can go to the model view, which is what we're going to want to go on here, where we can search for models and we can see our current LLF. So you can see I have some downloaded. And then we're going to want to do is go to sorry.

Actually this last button here, we're kind of the robot button where we can start searching for the LM that we want to download and use. Now, if you're unsure which one to use, feel free to ask Cloud Code look at my presentation or just copy. Exactly what I use in this video. Again, really depends on the amount of Ram that you have. So in my situation, I have 64GB of Ram on this computer.

I'm using it M5 Max very high end machine, which means I can run some pretty powerful models. Now, the models that I'm going to be running in this video are going to be the Gwen 3.6 35 billion parameter model and the Gwen three coder next model. Now I'm going to talk to you about how I decided to pick these. And then I'll go through a few smaller ones that you can use, because I know a lot of you don't have the same level of hardware that I do.

So the reason that I decided to pick these models is, first of all, they're capabilities. Now, when you're looking at models, you want to make sure that they have the ability to do tool use. Okay. So this is going to be for your main chat model okay. The auto complete one is basic for the main chat and edit model.

It needs to have tool use. If it doesn't have to use, it's not going to be able to actually call the tools to create the files. It's just going to be able to give you a chat response. So yeah, I can tell you, you know what the code is, but it can't actually edit it, modify it, which is what makes these useful. So first of all, you need to use, right?

Okay. Now for this one here. The reason I picked it is because it's 22GB. So I know for sure I can load it in my Vram because I have 64GB of Ram. And I'm using this Q four version, which is what's called quantization.

Now effectively when you pick these models you can have the entire model okay. Which is all of the parameters, nothing short and nothing fine tuned, whatever, which is going to be quite large. And in this case it's 37GB for the 35 parameter, billion for the 35 billion parameter model, we have Q six, which is just a smaller, more condensed version of this. And then we have Q4, which is an even smaller version of this. You have different levels of what's called quantization.

Effectively, you lose a tiny bit of performance, but it shrinks the size of the model drastically. So it's almost always best to just go with kind of the lowest quantization version of the model that you're capable of running on your machine. And this is also going to make the model a lot faster. The smaller the model is, the faster it's going to run. So I decided to go with this one.

So my okay 35 billion parameters. That's a lot. It's still super capable. It has tool use. It's going to easily fit in my memory and it's going to run relatively quickly.

Rather than me trying to run a super powerful, really big model. There's going to be a lot slower. And I'll show this to you in a second. Okay, so that's one model. That's a great choice.

Another one is the Gwen three coder. Next. Now this is a much larger model. I'm going to show it to you in a seconds. About 44GB on my computer.

But the reason I picked it again is because it has tool use and because this is kind of one of these state of the art local models that you can be running. And fortunately, it just fits on my machine. I tested both Gwen three coder next, and this 35 billion parameter Gwen 3.6 on my machine. Both work really well.

This one is just quite a bit slower, so typically I prefer to use this. Gwen 3.6 okay. And that's for me. Right?

Because I'm running a pretty high end machine for most of you. You're probably going to want to look at the Gwen 3.6 14 billion parameter model. Okay. So you can scroll through here.

You'll see that there's this 14 billion parameter model with this 83B. What A3 b stands for is active 3 billion parameters. Don't worry too much about that. But effectively it means that what's actually going to be running on your graphics card is a smaller number of parameters than the full size of the model, which allows you to run larger models, on worse hardware. So if you see these A3, b, a6, b, A9 b, whatever, that's saying the number of active parameters.

And that means the model's typically going to see more performance on your machine, even if it's a little bit larger. So if you look through the options here, you can see that there's a Q4, a Q3, a Q2. So depending on, again, the amount of Vram that you have, pick the quantization and try to pick something that is maybe like 5,060% of the Vram that you have. So it runs pretty quickly. So for most of you, if you have 16GB of Ram you should be able to run this model.

No problem on your machine. There's a few other ones, like there's a deep SK model that's capable of being ran. You can see this one is pretty small. We're looking at like, what do you call it, 4 or 6, whatever gigabytes with 8 billion parameters. So have a look, do some research, see which one you want to try to run.

The Java four models are also pretty good. They're very new but they're not as good at coding. And then again, the Gwenn ones are the ones that I would probably recommend to pick. I know I'm rambling a lot, but I'm trying to give you as much info as I can because this model selection is really going to dictate the performance, and you're probably going to want to play around with a few of them and see the best results that you get. Okay, so that is for just downloading your main kind of chat model.

Once you find the one you want, download it, wait for it to download, and then make sure that we get our auto complete model, the one we're all probably going to want here is the Gwen coder. Next 2.5 with 1.5 billion parameters. I'm typing it incorrectly, but if we scroll through here, we should be able to find it.

Okay, let me just find it from here. What is it called? It is. Let's see my alums. Let's make this a little bit larger.

Okay? Gwen 2.5 coder 1.5 billion. Instruct.

I just downloaded the largest version of X. I have a really high end machine, but you can download the smaller version, which is 900MB. Okay, so these are the models that we want. Now, once we have these models, if we just want to test them and make sure they're working, we can just go to the chat window here. We can select the model from the top of the screen so we can go, you know Gwen 3.6.

And we can adjust a bunch of settings for this model. Now what we're going to want to do is just make sure that our GPU offload is as high as possible. We're going to set the context length. So the more that you set this so you can see it goes up to 262,000 tokens here. Obviously, the more room it's going to take up on your computer because this also needs to be loaded in memory.

And you can see at the top that it shows you the amount of memory that's going to be used here as you scroll through and set the context so you can check versus your Vram to see what you should set this at. There's a bunch of other settings that you don't really need to go through. You just want to make sure GPU offload is as high as possible. So it uses the full GPU and then you set the context length. Then you can load this model.

It's going to take a second to load. You can see that at the top. And then you can start chatting with it just to make sure it's working. And you should see that you start getting tokens. Output it.

Now you can see for me, I was getting 100 tokens per second. That's quite fast, and you're not going to feel like it's a slow model if you're running more than like 5060 tokens per second. But you can again play with it and see what speed you're getting. Let's quickly change over to the Gwen three coder next. And you're going to see that in some situations it's going to tell you, hey like you cannot load this model.

It's going to take up too much room on your computer. I found that this is pretty aggressive and that most of the times the model will actually load. So if it's giving you this issue, don't worry about that too much. Feel free just to crank up the context. I'm going to go here and just press load anyways and just wait and see if it loads.

If it loads, you should be good to go. Then you can go ahead and use it and see the performance that you're actually getting. Keep in mind that if you're on Mac, if you have a lot of other things open, you're probably going to want to close those when you're doing this so that your memories freed up so that you can do this. So now we've switch the model. Let me just go. Hello.

And now you can see we're using Gwen three coder next. I believe this should work. And let's see if we get a response. Okay. Now, it did give me a response here, but this one took 25 seconds, even though we had 82 tokens per second.

So sometimes on Mac, if your other processes are using the memory, you're going to have a delay. And it's kind of fighting for the space, I believe, because on screen recording right now, I'm just at that limit where I'm not able to, you know, run this efficiently. So for this video, I'll just use the Gwen, what is it, 3.6 35 billion parameter model, but you guys get the idea. Okay, so just test them, make sure they work, and then what we're going to do is go over here to this developer section.

Now from this developer section, what we need to do I'm just going to eject this for right now is we need to pre load the models that we actually want to use when we're coding. We're going to need to do this every time that we're setting up coding. And we're going to need to start this development server. Now starting this development server is going to expose these models to our local machine, which means VS code will be able to use them. And then we can see all of the logs and everything that's going on in here.

So I'm just going to turn on the server. And then we're going to go to load model. And we're going to load our auto complete model. And we're going to load the chat model that we're using. So I'm going to use Gwen 3.6 right. Like I said.

So I'm going to load that up here. You can change the settings again make sure GPU off load is as high as possible, and then adjust the context based on how much memory you have here. And you're going to have to play with these settings a little bit to see what works best for you. So that's loading. While it's loading we're going to load the auto complete model as well.

Same thing I'll just set the context really large, even though we probably don't need that much. Let's set the GPU off load and then just load this up. And then both of these are now ready okay. So both of these models are now loaded meaning they'll be accessible when we start using them from VS code. And the next step is to set this up in VS code.

So in order to set this up in VS code, first of all make sure you have the newest version. If you have the newest version of VS code, they have a feature that allows you without signing in or being connected to the internet to manage local models. So first thing I did here is I just went to File open folder. I just opened a new folder on my desktop. So you just make a new folder and open it just so you're inside of some kind of project.

And then what you're going to do is open what's called the command palette. So you're going to hit Ctrl shift and then P on your keyboard or command shift P if you're on Mac this is going to open what's called the command palette. From here you're going to type manage and you're going to look for manage. It's like models or something. Yeah. Manage language models okay.

This is the new feature that they've added like a week ago or something. Now from here what we can do is simply press on add models. We press on add models. We're going to go custom endpoint. And from custom endpoint we're just going to give this a name.

So the name you can just call this LM studio I already have one called Home Studio. So I'm just going to call it LM studio two. It doesn't really matter. This is just what's going to show up in the list. So we're going to press that for the API key.

Just put any random values in. You just need something. So just put random string and hit enter. And then we're going to go with chat completions okay. So select chat completions.

And then what you're going to see is that it opens up this config file for you. Now in this config file what we need to do is just fill in three values here the id name and URL. It's super basic. What we're going to do is we're going to copy this URL right here. It'll be the same that I'm typing in.

So you can just copy it from what you see me typing. But it's also available here in LM studio. And this is the URL to the LM studio. What do you call it? API okay.

So we're going to paste that URL. And then for the ID we're going to select the ID of the model that we want to use. Now the ID is available right here in LM studio. So you can just press this copy button and it will directly copy it for you and just paste that ID. And then for the name you just put the exact same thing okay.

Now you'll see that for the capabilities it shows tool calling. And then vision. You only want to select vision if vision is a capability of the model. For Gwen 3.6 it is.

So we'll just leave vision as true. And then you can adjust the max input and output tokens. So in my case I believe we can see the context of this. Yeah it's this. So I'm just going to copy this number here and adjust the max input tokens.

And then for the output tokens you can set up whatever you want. I'm going to crank this up to 64,000 okay. So what this is now done is it's simply added a model. And if we want to test if this is working, let me just delete my other settings here so that we don't mess anything up. We can just save by hitting control S on the keyboard and then exit out of this.

And in order to see if this is working, what we'll do again is go control go command shift P or control shift P. So open up the command palette again. Same thing manage language models. And we're just going to see if this model's appearing. And you can see that it is this is Gwen Gwen 3.6 35 BA3B.

Now if we want to adjust this we can press this button right here which is opening the language models Json. So it's going to bring us right back here. And then we can add another model as well. So I'm just going to add my next model. The way I can do that is just copy this and put it inside of LM studio here.

So notice there is this kind of models array. For this next one I'm just going to say vision is false okay. And for the max input tokens we're going to adjust this. It's going to be a lot smaller. We're just going to go like 32,000.

And then for the ID name in the URL we can put the autocomplete model. So I'm just going to copy this okay. And just change the model here for our autocomplete okay. Cool. Go ahead.

And now we've added that and we have this other model added as well. Although for the autocomplete we're gonna have to do something a little bit different which I'll show you in a second. But this so you can add multiple models in case you want to switch between them. So now that we have this, what we want to do is we want to open the chat window in VS code. So to get to chat I believe you can toggle it from the top somehow.

Or you can hit control L or command L on your keyboard. I just want to go into this chat window. Should be open by default I believe you can also go view appearance. You should be able to find chat somewhere. I don't know exactly how you open it.

Usually in VS code. Here you go. Chat in this setting it should open it up that just on open it of course because it was already open. But from chat we can make a new chat and then we should be able to select our model. So if we go to select model and we go to other models, we should see the models we've added.

So we have this Gwen 3.6 model. And then we can say something like hey can you make me a game of chess using JavaScript and react? Okay, go ahead and press enter. By the way, you guys always ask me what I'm using to dictate here.

It's a really cool tool called Whisper Flow. I'm an absolute power user of the tool. You can see I have over 133,000 words. It's free to use. It's the best AI voice dictation.

It works right inside of these code editors. You can also directly tag files and have a long term partnership with them. So if you guys want to download it and support me, I have a link below that you can use again, totally free. And then you can upgrade if you want to get more limits, whatever all the features that they have. Okay, cool. So you can see this is not working right.

It's functioning. It's actually using the model, although it seems to be a little bit slow. And if I go here, you can now see in LM studio that's generating tokens. And if we go to this developer logs at the bottom of the screen here, you'll be able to see all of the requests that are being sent back and forth, the speed, what's going on, the responses, any errors. And we've set this up.

And now we have functioning local models inside of Visual Studio Code, which is super cool. So it's going to take a second here to do this. My fan is now spinning up on my computer, and my performance is going to be a little bit degraded because I am recording my screen, so it might be a little bit laggy here for you guys, but overall this should function. I'll wait for it to finish, then we'll come right back and see if this is working. Okay, so it actually just completed the game here.

Now there was a little bit of a glitch where it was trying to access like an integrated browser, which didn't work and it gave me some bug, but it's now functioning. It's created this huge index file, this script dot JS, which is like 600 lines, the style.css. And while it didn't make it in react like I asked for, it did make the fully functioning game. And now if I want to just open this, let's just test it out and see if this actually works.

Okay, so clearly there's some bug or something in the chess game because it's not loading. But the point is it did some coding. So you know, I to have to debug that. And maybe I should have given it a simpler task to begin. But it is working okay.

So that's how you set up the chat right. And this now is going to allow us to do agent encoding. We can change the mode, ask agent plan whatever, set up different agents, test them, see which one is going to work. We can tag different files and just use this like we would use any agent, a code editor. However, if we want autocomplete to function locally as well.

So if we don't have any internet that this will work. What we can do is install an extension in VS code and this extension is called continue. So to install the extension you can go to this little puzzle piece icon. Here you can search for continue. You can open this up and continue essentially will do the same thing that we've already done inside of VS code.

But it will just allow us to, set the autocomplete, which is I don't believe, a native setting right now in VS code. So you can install continue. This should be a button here that says install. And once you install that, you should see an icon on the bottom left hand side of your screen that looks, sorry, that's not what I meant. And type looks something like, let me just put it here like this.

Okay. It shouldn't show this weird kind of hexagonal thing. And now this is going to open up essentially a chat window, which is a clone of what we just saw in VS code. So what we can do is we can configure models inside of this continue extension. They're going to work the same way that it would work natively in VS code.

And we can configure the autocomplete. So what I'm going to do is just use continue to configure the autocomplete. But you also could just fully use this configuration for everything else as well. So I know it might be a little bit confusing. Let me just show you what I mean.

What we're going to do is go to settings here from settings. If we go to models you should see that it says like setup model or should show you some default option or something. What we can do is just simply press this, add button. We can change the provider to say LM studio. And then for the model we can just pick anything random.

It doesn't have to be the one that we actually installed if it's there, obviously selected. But if not, just pick anything and just press connect. From here, it's going to bring you to this config file. And at the bottom it's going to have this kind of connected model, which is the one that you just added. What we want to do here is we just want to change this model.

So what it shows right here to be the name of the model that we have in LM studio. So what I can do is just select this right here. The Gwen 2.5 coder. I can change the model like that.

And now it's good. And we've simply just added this. And of course we can change the name Gwen 2.5 coder. However, if we want this to work for autocomplete, let me just delete this because I'm going to show you a finished version.

We need to one second here. Let me get rid of this add. They roll okay. So roles is just an array here that says autocomplete. So effectively what you can do is just copy what I have here.

If you use the same model put the name but the provider, the model, the API base which is just this, which will already be there, and then the rules dash autocomplete. Once you add that you can just save this file ctrl s, and if you come back here now you can set this autocomplete model. And if you set this autocomplete model now when you're typing inside of VS code, it's going to use that for the automatic completions for the chat. You can also add your own chat model here, and then just make sure that you add these roles and capabilities like I have here chat, edit, apply, and then to use again, you can just literally copy the configuration that I have and then that will work in this chat window. In the continue extension, I kind of prefer to use the default chat in VS code.

I find it works a little bit better and it edits the files better. I'm just showing you this because this is how we set the autocomplete. But if you want to use this chat window, you can and you can mess with it and see okay, so now if I go to like index.html actually let's go to script, I'll just write like if or something you should see that we start getting some autocomplete. Let's just go like console dot error okay whatever.

And if I go back to LM studio and I click into the coder model, we should see that we're getting some token stream. And regardless it should be working in that, LM studio view. Sometimes you need to restart VS code in order for it to work, but for me that's pretty much all I did. And now the autocomplete is functioning. And again you can go settings is a bunch of other stuff that you can adjust and change here.

Overall, I don't change anything there. I just set the autocomplete model, set the chat model stuff, and we are pretty much good to go and that is going to complete the setup. I mean, that gives you the auto complete model, that gives you the chat, the edit, whatever. And now you can just do full local coding on your machine. Now again the results are going to vary here.

This is not as good as opus. It's not as good as using these cloud providers. But if you're on a plane and you need to use this for a few hours, if you're out of credits and you want to do something small, if you're doing, you know, smaller inline edits, creating some functions, not trying to do like super complex problems. This works, and it works pretty well. Now later I will do a video going through the performance of these local models and talk about that more in depth.

But generally speaking, I just wanted to show you guys how to set this up. If you found this useful, make sure leave a like. Subscribe to the channel and I'll see you guys in another video.