---
video_title: "Claude Tutorial - How to Connect Claude to ANY Tool"
video_id: bzV2EwDyxpk
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzV2EwDyxpk
video_date: 2026-05-12T17:32:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Use composio for free here: https://composio.dev/toolkits
  
  If you've been using Claude, Codex, Cursor or Windsurf coworkers or windsurf - it doesn't matter. You know that these AI tools get significantly better when you connect them to external resources. I want to show you how to connect any application, product software tool that you use directly to your favorite AI agent.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/techwithtim
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  Composio Url: https://composio.dev/toolkits
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  01:50 | On Demand Tool Discovery
  05:25 | Composio Setup
  07:27 | Composio Install
  09:01 | Use Cases/Examples
  
  Hashtags
  #Claude #Anthropic #AI Agents
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
If you've been using Claude, Codex, Cowork or Windsurf - it doesn't matter. You know that these AI tools get significantly better when you connect them to external resources. I'm talking about Figma, Salesforce, HubSpot, Gmail, Google Drive, the things that you actually use on a day to day basis. Now, fortunately, pretty much all of these tools now have native integrations for AI agents. However, they can be a little bit tricky to connect on your own.

And that's what I want to show you how to do in this video. By the end of this video, you're going to be able to connect pretty much any application product software tool that you use directly to your favorite AI agent. It's going to be completely free, and it's also going to give you a significantly better tool accuracy and discovery, which we'll talk about later based on the method that we're going to use. Now I'm going to show you how you can connect literally up to 1000 different applications through just one MCP or one connector. So Instagram, Serp, YouTube, slack, Reddit Monday, I'm just going through a few examples that they have here.

But the tool that we're going to use to do this is something called composer. Now compose yo allows us to connect all of these different tools and multiple different accounts through one connector. So rather than me going to Claude and manually searching for the connectors and hoping that they're just built in, or adding 1000 different MXGp servers, you do it all through a really simple web dashboard with compose yo. Then you just take one individual connector, add it to Claude codecs, whatever tool you want open. I'm going to show you exactly how to do that.

And then you can access all of your favorite tools. Now this converts your AI agent from a chat bot to something that can actually take action and call multiple different tools to send an email, read your ad spend. Go send a message in slack. Look at your HubSpot messages. Whatever. It doesn't matter.

You can do all of it when you have the right connector. So with that said, let's get into it and let me show you exactly how to do this. So I promise that I'm going to show you how to set this up. But I want you to understand the difference between what we're about to do and just natively adding a connector inside of something like Claude ChatGPT or whatever. Gemini doesn't matter.

Now, you'll notice that if you go into Claude, right, you'll probably have seen that you have this long list of connectors which are kind of officially approved by anthropic. Now, if you're just adding 1 or 2 of them, it's not a problem to do it directly from Claude. But a few things will start happening. First, you can only connect to one count at a time. So if you have five different Gmail accounts or five different Google drives like I do, you're kind of just out of luck.

You only get to pick one at least how it's currently configured. The second and most major issue is something called context bloat. Now I'm going to show you what I mean. I just created a quick kind of like dashboard here to explain it to you. But by default when you just use all of these connectors built in, you're going to have this long list of tools here.

And I'll just make it kind of larger so you can get the idea. And all of these tools are going to be passed to your Lem in its kind of systems prompt, so it understands what tools are available to it. If you just have 2 or 3 tools, that's not a problem. But if you have ten connectors and those all have 50 available tools, that's 500 different tools that are going to be passed to your Lem on every single prompt. And that's going to make it much more expensive, because you're just going to have a lot more tokens, but more importantly, it's going to reduce the accuracy in the tool column.

So again we just put a slider here and you can see that when we go up and we have a ton of different tools, the accuracy decreases, the context increases. And overall you're spending more for a worse performing model. And this is a very well documented problem with Lems. When you give them thousands of different tools that they can choose from, they really don't perform well there. To compare that to what we're going to use, which is compose yo, who's kindly sponsored this video.

But keep in mind they are free. You don't need to pay for them. And I've used them much before the sponsor, hence why I'm making this compose you'll use is something called on demand tool discovery. That means that we only expose one to maybe three tools to Claude. These tools allow Claude to search for tools inside of compose yo.

So rather than having access to 500 different tools, Claude or any AI agencies, one tool, it uses that tool to then find the correct tool using something called semantic search. Then that tool gets sent or triggered directly from compose you. And this way we're not bloating the context every single time, and we get significantly more accurate tool discovery and tool calling. So here's kind of a quick flow on how this works. Right.

So let's say we say send a recap email to the team about today's standup. What's going to happen is that a user request arrives. The agent calls the one tool right. Which is search tools, which is exposed to it, not hundreds, just one compose. You then uses this internal system to return the matching tools, which is a significantly smaller and more targeted list.

That gives us, again, better tool accuracy. The agent then calls the correct tool and then gets the result right, and then you can see that we get the response. Now compose. You'll also trim the result from the tool call, which can again bloat the context and make the prompt get larger and larger to again save us money. And the advantage here is that because we're going to set up all of our connections inside of compose, you know, it handles the authentication for us, and we can easily switch between any model or any tool that we want.

So we can go between Codex Claude Gemini doesn't matter, and we don't need to reconnect all of these tools in the individual platform. We just point them to compose, you know, which already has all of our configuration done. So with that said, I want to show you exactly how to set this up again. I've been using this for months inside of all my different tools, and it really makes your AI agents have a lot more capabilities. Okay.

So effectively what we're going to do here is just go to the compose your website. I'll leave a link to it in the description. Just go ahead and sign in. And by the way, if you're looking for the different tools to see if they're available, you can just check they have something on their website again free to search through. And from there you're just going to sign in or create a new account.

And what I'm going to do is just press on, use compose. So once I go through this new account flow and I'm going to select okay, just skip that for now. And we can start connecting various different providers. So in my case I'll just connect like 3 or 4 for the purposes of this video. But you probably want to go through and just connect all of the ones that are going to be useful to you.

Typically I have like 30 or 40 different connectors that I'm using, and then I'll show you how we add this inside of our AI tool. Okay. So I'm going to go with Gmail to start. So let's go connect and you'll see that what this is going to do is run me through kind of like an O off flow where I can connect to my Gmail account. And then all of the session tokens and whatnot will be handled by composer.

So rather than Claude will automatically refresh it, you won't get any of that authentication downtime or like you have to reconnect, which happens a lot if you use the native connectors. All right. So once you go through this kind of, you know, initial setup flow, you'll be brought to a page that looks like this, where if you want to connect or manage additional applications, you can just go to Connect Apps. And you can see pretty much everything here. Now, of course, the tools you use are ultimately up to you because it's whatever you use on a daily basis or for your business.

But if you go through, if you Twitter, HubSpot, Reddit, asana, that's what I'm going to connect LinkedIn doc you sign, you get the idea. And there's a bunch of stuff here. Scroll through, find what's useful, spend the time to set it up. It's literally just signing into your account. And then if you want, you can manage the tools more in depth.

So if I go to Gmail, for example, you can see I'm connected to an account. It will show you a list of all of the different tools that are available here. And what I like is that I can connect multiple accounts to this. So if I want to connect multiple email accounts, I can do that from here. And I can have multiple active at the exact same time.

I can also name the connection so I know which is which. Okay. So you guys get the idea. Now what we need to do is install this inside of our tool. You can see that there is some setup instructions for open claw Co-Work cloud code codecs ChatGPT, etc..

So for now I'm going to connect this to cloud Co-Work. But you could see there's a lot of different options here. And you can just directly connect and mQTT as well. So what I'm going to do is press on cloud Co-Work and it says that all I need to do here is just add a custom connector under the connectors for Co-Work, which is this URL right here. So let me do that.

The way that I can do this, let's say we're inside of Claude, right? Is we can go to chat. We can go to Co-Work. Doesn't matter if we go here to our name and we go to settings, we can find the connectors. So from here we're just going to go to Add Custom Connector.

We're just going to give this a name I'm just going to call it compose yo compose yo spell correctly. And I'm going to paste the compose yo URL and then just press add that when I press. And what we're going to need to do is press on connect here. When we press on connect is going to bring us to our browser where we're going to be able to authenticate compose yo directly. So if we're already signed in, we're on the same computer.

We can just go ahead and press on authorize. And that's literally all we need to do. So you can see this as we're connected. So let's go to open Claude. Now we are connected.

And if I want I can go into configure and we can see that there's a few different tools that are exposed that these are the only tools that we need to manage all of the different tools that are available directly from compose yo. So C manage connections, multi execute tool, remote bash tool, remote workbench for connection search tool and then get tool schemas. That's literally all we need. And if we want we can just always allow them. So I'm going to go for read only always allow but for right and delete we'll go needs approval.

That way it can search the tools but it can't execute them unless we give it the ability to. And then directly from Co-Work or even just from the chat because it should work in both. We can start using this. So in my case I connected to my email. So let's just do the following.

Give me a summary of the last three emails in my inbox. Just give me high level points in anything that I need to know now. Previously this wouldn't work because I wasn't connected to any of these tools, but now it should start by going to compose yo searching for the available tools, getting the different tools, executing them, and then giving me the result. Okay, so I just change the prompt slightly because you kind of need to teach it that it needs to use compose yo, because by default it's not like a descriptive name of the tool. But I said using a posi yo.

Go to my email, find the latest three emails, and notice that it's search for the tools is now doing a multi execute and you can see that it has Gmail fetch emails right. And that's what it wants to execute. So I'm going to go allow for this task. And then hopefully we get the response okay. And there we go.

We get the response. Now we're getting these Google security alerts because I was signing in with compose yo that's normal. You're always going to get those. And then some sponsorship thing someone wants to sponsor video. You get the idea.

Anyways, that's what I got directly from my email now because I've added the connectors. Now. The cool thing is that because we have multiple different tools, we can stack them together. So for example, I could say something like, okay, now I want you to write a Google document that contains the summary and then save it to my Google Drive and send me the Google Drive link. Again, use compose yo for all of the tool calls, okay?

And then assuming that's connected to all of the appropriate tools, it should be able to do this and then give me the response. And this is kind of cool. Notice that it actually search through the tools. Notice that it needed Google Docs, but that I wasn't already connected to Google Docs. And then it ere that I can press that will allow me to connect to Google Docs.

So not only is it able to actually use the existing connections, but if it determines that you need a new connection, it will prompt you directly inside of the AI tool to connect that which we can do, and then it can proceed to actually use that tool. So let me connected and then we'll proceed from there okay. And there we go. It looks like it completed this. And if I open it up we can see that we have the email summary directly inside of my Google drive.

And it wrote everything in there. Now again there's a lot of other tools we can connect to you, but that's kind of just a quick usage or, you know, demo. And of course you guys are going to get more use if you connect your own tools to this, but this is how you connect pretty much anything to any AI agent. And now again, the benefit is I can just connect, compose you to any other AI tool that I'm using, and I have all of the same connections already set up there without me needing to reconfigure it all. Now, if you go back to compose yo, you can see all of the tools you've used, streaks, whatever, all of this kind of stuff.

And you can see the log right here of when all of the tools were culled. Now just keep in mind that for compose, you know, you get 20,000 tool calls per month free. I personally never even got in close to that limit. However, if you are using this for like open claw and you're doing it, you know, massive amounts of tool calls, then of course you can upgrade to this $129 per month for 200,000 tool calls, or this one, which is 2 million tool calls per month, and you can pay, I think, more after that or get an enterprise plan or something. But again, I've never needed to pay for it and I use it in multiple different accounts.

So really, I think with that said, that's all I wanted to show you in this video. This is something I use all of the time. It's extremely useful. It just adds all of the powers of capabilities to your AI agents. I would definitely recommend setting it up and adding it to pretty much anywhere you use an AI agent, and just being selective of the different tools that you want.

You also can set up multiple organizations. So if you want to create a new org and you want a separate tools based on where you're using them, you absolutely can do that. And there's a lot of other cool config and they even have like some what is it build and manage agents which I haven't dug into yet with the compose yo SDK. So anyways, guys, that's going to wrap it up. If you enjoyed, make sure they like subscribe.

I will see you in the next one.