---
video_title: "Which Agent Tool Should You Use?"
video_id: XUfdkXYNtik
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XUfdkXYNtik
video_date: 2026-08-16T12:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Which tool should you actually use to build an AI agent? Here's the honest take, no sponsorships involved. Just want something working and you're not technical? Use a no-code tool like Genspark or a setup inside Claude Code. 
  
  Need real logic, branching, and lots of service connections but don't want to manage a codebase? Go low-code with an automation platform, great for simple agents. Want a genuinely powerful agent that runs in production without building from scratch? Use a harness like OpenCode. Need full control to integrate deep into your own product? 
  
  Use an AI framework like LangGraph and write it in full code.
  
  #techwithtim #ai #aiengineer
---
Now, here's my honest take, right? I don't really care if you use any of these tools. I'm not getting paid to promote them. But, if you just want to get something working and you're not technical, use [music] a no-code tool. Use Genspark. Use OpenAI. Use even like

a Claude code where you set up your own tools and stuff inside of there. If you need real logic, branching, and connecting to a bunch of services, but you don't want to manage a codebase or you don't want to kind of deploy something, then I would use a low-code platform, something like Anvil. Those are again more automation platforms, but they're really good for simple agents. If you want a genuinely powerful agent that you can use for yourself, that works in production, and that you can kind of set up and add all of the features you want, use a harness like Open Claude or Hermes Agent. Okay, it's super powerful and it's not as much work as building something yourself. And if

you need the full control, you're integrating something deep into your own product, or you want to actually understand every single piece, then use an AI framework, something like LangGraph, and write it in full code.