---
video_title: "The Open Source Claude Cowork Alternative I've Been Waiting For"
video_id: QID-QHVLYYc
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QID-QHVLYYc
video_date: 2026-08-12T13:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Get started with Mindshub Cowork for free: https://mindshub.ai?utm_medium=influencers&utm_source=youtube&utm_campaign=26q3-tech-with-tim&utm_content=dedicated-video-1
  
  I use Claude Cowork every day — but it has one fundamental problem: you're completely locked into one company's pricing, one company's models, and one company's decisions. If they change the deal, you have no options.
  
  Minds Hub Coworker is the open source alternative I've been waiting for. Same coworker-style interface, same skills and memory system, but you can run Claude, GPT, Gemini, DeepSeek, or your own local models — and switch between them any time you want. Free to use, self-hostable, and no vendor lock-in.
  
  Want to LEARN how to build useful AI agents that actually get things done? Go here: https://aiagentbuilders.co/yt
  
  How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/TechWithTim-aug26
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  GitHub Repo: https://github.com/mindsdb/mindshub
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:50 | What is Mindshub Cowork
  02:22 | Setup & Install
  03:18 | UI Walkthrough
  05:00 | Sample Task
  06:08 | Changing Models (Local & Cloud)
  08:12 | Skills
  09:28 | Connectors
  10:50 | Memory
  11:49 | Realistic Use Case #1
  13:06 | Realistic Use Case #2
  
  Hashtags
  #MindsHub #OpenSourceAI #AICoworker
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
This dashboard was built by an AI agent called Anton. I briefed it once, walked away, and this is what was waiting for me. Now I use Claude code and Claude coworking every single day. But it has one fundamental problem, and that's that you're locked to one company's pricing, one company's ideology, and one company's models. Now, the tool I used to build this dashboard is called Minds Hub.

Now it's fully open source. You can run it hosted or you can self host it on your own machine. It has a real model router so you can run Claude, GPT, Gemini, Deep Seek or even your own local models. Now they sponsor today's video and I'm going to show you exactly how to set it up and to use it start to finish. The key differentiator here is that it's free.

You don't need to pay for it. Again, it's completely open source. So you're in control. And as soon as a new model comes out, you can immediately start using it and you're not locked into one company's pricing. Anyways, let's dive in.

So here's a quick look at Mindset Coworking. You'll notice it's a very familiar user interface. Looks like many of the other coworker applications you have projects, artifacts, connected apps, channels, memory settings, skill libraries. You get the idea, and then you can click into a task and obviously interact with the model and see what it's produced and the progress that it has. Now, again, the main differentiator here is that this is fully open source.

That means that there's multiple ways to run this application. You can download the desktop app, you can self host it yourself, or you can even run it in the cloud directly from Mines Hub, which I'm going to talk about in a second. Now, in my case, I'm just using the desktop application because it's the easiest to set up. But the reason you would even use a tool like this is because you have all of the options. Like I said, it's open source.

You can play with the code on your own, and you can choose any model you want at any point in the future. And that's super important now because we've seen Kimmy's come out, we have GLM, we have all of these great models which are pretty much as good as something like fable, but are so much cheaper. So rather than running everything through something like Claude Coworker, where you're completely locked into anthropic environment, you can use an open source harness like we're using right here, and switch out the model whenever you want. Now, of course, you can still use cloud models, but you can also run local models and you can choose any provider at any time with no vendor lock in, which is the reason I'm even showing this to you. So I guess what I'm going to do is quickly show you how to download it and set it up.

Then what I'm going to do is walk through the process of adding skills, connecting data, and how you use this just like an agent coworker, except with all of the benefits that I discussed. Now, the easiest way to get started with this tool is to download the desktop application. So from this page here, I'll leave a link to it. In the description, you can just press the button that says download for your operating system. So let's start with that. Now run through the installer in a second.

But if you do want to self host this you can go right to their GitHub. All of the code is open source. You can download it, run it, do whatever you want with it directly from here. Elsa. You can open it directly in the web.

They have a web UI if you just want to do it from here and you don't want to download anything. Okay. So let's run through the installer and let me show you how we get this setup. Okay. So the installer is finished.

And from here you can either continue without an account. If you just want to do everything yourself and create your own models and set up. However, if you just want to use this super easily, then you can connect to your mind account so you can create a free one or sign into it. And then from there you'll get a bunch of free credits to use some of the cloud models. And you can of course bring in your own providers, which I'll show you in a second.

So from here, if you don't have one, create a free account. In my case, I'm going to sign into my account. Okay. So I've signed into my account here. And now I can start using this just like any code work tool.

Now behind the scenes what this tool uses is something called Anton. Now Anton is an agent harness somewhat similar to something like Hermes. Okay, if you've seen like Hermes agent before and actually within Mindset Coworker, you can change between the harness that you want to use. So if I scroll here and I go into the settings and I go agent, you can see that I can select the harness of either Anton or Hermes, so I can go between them and then save the settings if I want. Now Anton is the best default option because it's the best for actually providing usable output, whereas Hermes is more for like running things automatically on a schedule.

Now here I'm connected to myself already because I've signed in with my account. That means that I can use any of the cloud models. So you can see they have a bunch of ones here like mine. Sub air. This is a free model they provide that gives you a ton of additional usage.

Or you can pick any of the other models like GLM 5.2 or grok 4.5, right? Or Kimmy, K3 or whatever you want. And you can choose what you want for planning, for routing and then for coding.

Now, if you don't want to use this, you can connect to your own provider. So anthropic OpenAI whatever or use any OpenAI compatible API. So something like LM studio or Alama. And if you want to see your usage here with mine sub again you'll get a bunch of free credits. And then if you want to keep using their model router, you can of course like by a subscription, by additional credits, etc.

the way you would see that is from the website. You can go to your console, from the console you can go to coworking, you can top a balance for using the cloud models, or you can get a ton of additional credits again for their minds hub air model as it describes here. Okay, so let's go back. And actually for the coding model I'm just going to switch this to GPT 5.6 sell or sold for now.

And let's save that okay. And then let's just give it a task. So I'm just going to ask it something simple. Can you do research on the top LMS right now and create a dashboard that goes over the performance versus the price? I want you to cover at least ten different LMS, go through the model families and give me a ton of information in a interactive dashboard that I can view.

Okay, so let's do that and then go ahead and press on enter. And I just want to show you what it generates and how it works. Then we'll go into all of the other settings okay. So just wrapped up. Now we can see we've got all of the info here.

And we can actually go to the artifact that it generated which is a full web dashboard. And we can view everything inside of here. And then if I want what I can do is actually just share this, I can add a password, I can select users, or I can make it fully public. And then anyone is able to view this. Now this is kind of the difference between Anton and the Hermes harness that you have here.

Instead of mindset with Anton, it's meant to produce these artifacts that you can then reference later and actually give you like fully finished work. Whereas with Hermes, it's typically better for automations running things like on a schedule. You get the idea and then kind of that skill curation. So anyways, if we weren't happy with this, of course we could do a follow up prompt and we could make it give us something better. But for now, I want to show you a few other features.

For example, I want to show you how we can change to use something like a local model. So for example, if we go into the settings and we go to the models here, we can add another provider. So if we go to provider we can go OpenAI compatible. What I can do is just call this like LM studio for example. And then if I pop open LM studio, let me just load up a model here.

So let's load like Gemma for for example, let me just pump up the context window here in a second. And then what I can do is find the API endpoint. So it's just this one right here. And what I'm going to do is just reload this quickly so it gets the updated context. From here I'm just going to put nothing for the API key.

And I'm going to put this slash v1. And then we're just going to wait a second. So once LM studio loads this up and I can save this. And then what I'll be able to do is actually adjust the model here in just one second. Okay. So we can see this provider is added.

So for example if I want my planning model to be LM studio I change the provider. And then for the model ID I just have to copy it here which is Google Gemma for. So let's paste that right there. And then I can save the settings. And now I've adjusted this.

So for my planning model, if I go and I make a new task I can say hey, what model are you using right now? And if we hit enter, it should use the planning model and we should get the LM studio response. And there we go. We get it. Gemma three 4 billion just using a small one.

And you can see how fast it is. Again, because I'm running that local model on my own machine. Now you can switch to any provider that you want, but I'm just trying to indicate that it's very good, easy to switch and to use local ones directly in this harness. Okay. So for now let's go back and change the model because this one's not going to be quite as good as what I want for these examples.

Let's see what do I want to actually use here. Let's try like deep v4 for example reasoning level we can go with high. We'll change the routing one here to use mind sub air. Just because we don't need super high intelligence for this one. And for the coding model I want to go with something a little bit faster.

So let me see if I can find grok here, which is pretty fast. So yeah let's use grok 4.5 okay. So we're going to just save those for right now. And then you'll notice that this bunch of other stuff we can do here like there's a back end, the account channels, all this stuff.

I'll show you how we set that up in a minute. Okay. So now that we've got that, let's have a look at adding skills, for example, because similar to kind of Hermes there's a skill library here. And you can manually create a new skill by asking coworker. You can write the instructions or you can upload one.

So let's just do a very simple skill. Let's create a skill together. First ask me what the skill should do. Let's hit enter. And I just want to show you how that works.

So just to do a super quick skill here, let's do something like this. I want to create a skill that can generate a YouTube title for me. The idea should be to generate something that peaks curiosity and interest. Overall, we want to keep it under 100 characters in length. We want it to be to the point, and we want it to be kind of tutorial based and full course based.

Go look at my YouTube channel tech with Tim, find some of the titles that have performed well, and then build this skill around that so that we always get titles that kind of fit that narrative. Not sure if that makes 100% sense, but let's tell it to go do that and see the skill that we get, all right. So we can see it. Actually, when it looked up, a bunch of my YouTube video titles, saw how they were performing, gave me a bunch of stuff here output, and then I can just save this skill directly. And if I go to the skills library now, we now have the YouTube title generator that was written.

If we want to invoke the skill, of course, as usual, we can just go slash and then we can just do the skill. So YouTube title generator and then just ask you what to generate and it will create it for us. Now skills are great, but we also can connect to different applications. So if we go to connect here there is a ton of connectors that are built in. So for we've got Gmail, Google Drive, Salesforce, slack, right.

You name it. Pretty much all of the integrations are here now. One that I'll connect to for this video is a sauna because this keeps track of like my video pipeline and stuff. So I can show you a demo. So let's go here.

I'll grab my personal access token and then show you the connection. Okay, so I've got the token. I'm now just authorizing it here. So I've given it to Anton. And in a second, what it should do is start connecting this and then allowing me to talk with the sauna.

Now, it's worth noting that all of the credentials that you put here go into something called a credentials vault. This means that it's actually not viewable by the agent or the LM itself, but it will be used when it actually needs to access the service. So it's automatically handled. And that's kind of part of the software. You can look at it obviously in the open source code if you want, but it's called the credential vault.

So it keeps everything secure. All right. So it looks like we're connected here. We've got the connector. And if we want we can go to a new task and say, give me a quick summary of what I have coming up for videos in asana.

And this is because it tracks all of my video status, what needs to be edited. Kind of like the pipeline there. So let's see what it shows us. Okay. And you can see that it's pulled all of this information, two videos that are being edited, and then a whole sequence of shorts that I'm doing for a new school community that I have.

By the way, I'll leave a link to the description if you want to build AI agents yourself, but you can see that it pulls everything up. Nice. So I think the last thing to mention here is the memories. So like pretty much all of these agents, it can pull from the session history, but also it can automatically keep track of rules. You can add stuff in the profile for example.

You can give it lessons. You get the idea. So if you want it to always remember something, just tell it. It can automatically update this or you can edit the file yourself, add the markdown and it will remember Now, just to clarify here, the memory that you see is self-learning. Now that means that it's going to automatically remember what you tell it.

And these files that you see here aren't really designed to be edited manually. It's more so that you can view them and you can see what coworkers extracted and remembered. Now, another thing to note is that the memory is shared across harnesses. So that means that you can easily switch between Hermes and Anton and you keep the exact same memory, making it a lot easier to switch between harnesses. okay. So that's kind of a general walkthrough.

Of course we have the scheduled tasks too, but I'm not going to show that one right now. What I want to do is show you a few legitimate use cases of what these types of tools can produce, and why you would actually use them. Okay, so for the first example, I have this kind of Google sheet with a bunch of information just like fake sponsorship data. Right. So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to have Anton convert this into a fully functioning dashboard and web user interface.

And that's what this prompt does. It turns it into a legitimate database application that I could actually deploy, which is going to be a lot more visual than something like the sheet. So let's run this and let's see the output we get. Okay. So took a few minutes here.

But it looks like we've got the result. Let's check it out. And okay you know that's not exactly perfect. It looks like there's a few issues. So what I'm going to do is just copy some of this and I'll just tell it to fix this up.

And look guys sometimes that happens when using AI agents. It's not always perfect. So let's give it another prompt to fix that up. Hey, there are some pretty big issues. The UI is not really rendering properly this all kinds of random text on it.

Can you have a look at this again and redo it? Okay. And I'm just going to paste this in. This is an example of what I'm seeing on the actual screen. Again the UI is pretty messed up okay.

So just wrapping up now, but if I go to the artifact we can see now it's working. There we go. That's better. That's what I was looking for. And we get the full dashboard with all of the deals we have any payments that came in, deliverables, sponsor.

So we effectively just took the Google Sheet and convert it into a real legitimate dashboard that's actually usable. Nice. Let's go to another use case. So something I've been doing a lot recently is actually making interactive presentations to go along with some of the videos that I have. So for example, I have this brand guide for my new school community called AI builders.

It has all of the information about it. So what I'm going to do is just pass this in as a file reference here to mine sub or Anton. And I'm going to ask you just to make a quick presentation about something. Right. And then use this brand guide.

So let me come up with a prompt and I'll be right back. Okay. So I just asked it to make something about prompt injection. Let's see what it can do. And the result we get okay.

So we're just wrapped up here. If I go to the artifact we can see this is what we've got. Prompt injection follows the guidelines. Exactly. We have.

Let me make it actually full screen here so that we can see it a little bit bigger. Okay. There we go. We can see we have kind of little box down here. We have the code snippets.

We have real world impact defense layers. And it's exactly for slides just like I asked for now. It's not super complex with the point is it follows the instructions and I can add these documents and create something really meaningful. Now look guys, there are so many other things that you can do with tools like this. I'm going to leave it to your imagination.

The main reason why I like a tool like this really, is because I have full flexibility with all of the different models and the providers, and I can keep all of my data and information local and really have full control. So anyways, that's going to wrap it up. If you guys enjoyed the video, make sure they like subscribe to the channel and I will see you in the next one.