---
video_title: "I Tried 100+ Claude Code Skills. These 6 Are The Best."
video_id: ZSvcxjNZdxk
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSvcxjNZdxk
video_date: 2026-05-29T10:57:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Claude Code skills are one of the most underrated features in AI coding right now — and most people aren't using them. I went through hundreds of them so you don't have to, and narrowed it down to the 6 that will actually make a difference in your workflow.
  
  gstack - https://github.com/garrytan/gstack
  Hostinger MCP - https://www.hostg.xyz/SHJW7
  Firecrawl - https://github.com/firecrawl/firecrawl-claude-plugin
  Humanizer - https://github.com/blader/humanizer
  Composio - https://composio.dev/
  VibeSec - https://github.com/BehiSecc/VibeSec-Skill
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10 
  Wispr Flow (Best AI Dictation): https://ref.wisprflow.ai/techwithtim
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | Overview
  00:16 | #1 - gstack 
  03:37 | #2 - Hostinger MCP
  08:38 | #3 - Firecrawl
  11:37 | #4 - Humanizer
  12:48 | #5 - Composio
  17:01 | #6 - VibeSec
  
  Hashtags
  #ClaudeCode #ClaudeCodeSkills #AIProductivity
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
I've tried hundreds of Claude code skills. In this video, I'm going to show you the six most useful and give you a full tutorial on how to set them up and configure them. All these skills add additional features and capabilities to cloud code, and I guarantee you one of them will be useful to you. So stick around and let's dive in. Okay, so the first skill that I have is actually a set of skills.

And this is a full repo called G stack which comes from Gary Tan the president and CEO of Y Combinator. If you look through here, there's actually 23 different skills that are included in this kind of bundle that he's created. And this is effectively his solution to being able to create software products using Claude. Now there's a lot of different skills that are bundled inside of here. I'm not going to go through all of them, but I'll just explain this essentially for founders and CEOs.

First time cloud code users, tech leads and staff engineers. And if you want to read through the whole kind of methodology and how he came up with it, it's included in the Readme here I'm going to show you how to install it. But the key skills that he's mentioning to run here, at least to test it out, is the office hours skills plan, CEO review, slash review, and then QA. Now this is specifically designed for again, people who want to build software products. So if you want to write code, if you want to build a startup, if you want to build something useful for yourself or your mom, this is a great skill kind of bundle to download and set up.

If you scroll through here, you'll get a full list of all of the skills that are included so you can see office hours, plan, CEO, review, review, investigate, design, QA only, etc. and again, this is built by Gary who's kind of an expert in building software products and investing in them, given that he's the CEO of Y Combinator. Okay. So how do you actually set this up inside of cloud code? Well, if you go to this link, I'll leave it in the description.

There's a large paragraph here that you can just copy. So if we just copy this paragraph right here, we can just go and open up cloud code. In my case what I did is just one in the terminal and just typed cloud. And then I'm literally just going to paste this inside of here. I also put auto mode on just so it can do everything itself.

And go ahead and press enter. And you're going to see here that what it will do is go download set all of this up. We'll wait a second and then I'll show you some basic usage okay. So it's just asking me to proceed. I'm going to say yes.

Proceed. And then it should go with these steps okay. So it's almost done adding it. Here you can see a list of all of the skills that's going to set up for me. So I'm just going to go yes create the.md.

And it's going to list out all of the skills that are available. And then boom, it says, okay, we're all good here. We've created this list and now I can start using them. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to get out of this, and I'm going to change into a directory where I have some kind of coding project going on, or at least a new one where I want to create something and I'll show you the basic usage. Okay, so I just opened Claude here in a coding project I have, which is like some internal accounting software that I'm using.

And again we'll go through the quickstart. So the first command we can run is the office hours command. So we're going to go slash office hours like that. And then we can describe what it is that we want to build in terms of a new feature the overall application. And then G stack will take over.

So I'm going to say hey I would like to build an internal accounting software for my YouTube business where I'm tracking invoices, expenses and just generally kind of the financial health of my business. Okay. And let's see what we get. So you can see now it's kind of prompting me to ask, like, what's the pain? Why am I actually building this application?

I can submit this answer, and it's going to go through and start to understand better why I'm actually building this now. After that, we could go on and we could use the slash plan CEO review the plan engineering review, the review, the QA command. I'm not going to show all them because that's going to take a really long time. It could be a full video. But the point is, if you're building something, you can use all of these different skills, and it's really going to make sure that you build something that's actually useful and that's validated, rather than just a random vibe coded project.

Anyways, that's G stack. Play around with it. It's very cool. Have a look at the repo. It's pretty well explained.

Now let's move to the next one. Now, the next feature that I want to add here is related to deployment. Now a lot of times I'm building apps with Claude code. And then what I wanted to deploy them I actually need to leave the terminal I need to go buy a VPS. I need to spin up some hosting whatever.

Now, rather than doing that, you can actually bring that full functionality into Claude code. So you can simply just say, hey, deploy my application. Hey, put it on this URL. Hey, spin up a new for this API. It will just automatically be handled.

Now this is obviously specifically for developers, but it's a really good skill. And I'm going to show you how to add it. Now, the way that I'm going to do this is by adding the hosting or MCP server, as well as the hosting or agent skills. In order for this to work, you will need a hosting or account and you're going to have to have some kind of PS now you can actually purchase it directly from the terminal, but because I have a partnership with hosting, or if you go to the website, I'll leave a link to it in the description. The plan that you're probably going to want to go with is the business plan here, which is as low as $4 per month.

And with this you're able to deploy up to 50 websites. You get a free domain, you can deploy, manage Node.js applications. And again we can connect this directly to cloud code, which I'm going to show you how to do. So I can just say, hey, go deploy my site to this URL which will give you a live demo of.

So if you are interested in having a virtual private server connected to cloud code that you can deploy to and use from the terminal, the way you can do this is just go to that link, you can put in the duration that you want. And then again, because I have the partnership, you can put in the code tech with Tim. And that will give you an additional 10% off any plan as long as it's 12 months or above in duration. Then if you want a domain. So for example, maybe I want my name Tim or something, I can type that in here and I can actually get that one year for free.

So anyways I'm going to proceed with this. And then once I have the I'm going to show you how to connect all of the tools to cloud code where it can automatically deploy setups, spin up the websites, etc.. Now once you subscribe to this flow, it's going to ask you what domains you want to use, and it's going to try to prompt you to deploy a site right away. You actually don't need to do that.

What you can do for now is just get out of this onboarding flow. You'll still have everything created, just waiting for you to kind of finish it here. And then what we can do is go over to API. Now from API here, it shows you directly how to add the MCP configuration to cloud code. So we can literally just copy this config right here from the API page we can go to cloud and we can say add this MCP server to my configuration okay.

And then I'm just going to paste in the config. And then go ahead and press on enter. And it should be able to automatically change the MCP config to add the MCP server. Now while it's doing that, you'll notice that it needs an API token here to connect to your hosting or account. So if we just go here to the API page we can generate a new token.

So I'm just going to call this. I don't know cloud code. Give it an aspiring whatever you want. In my case I'm just going to go never expires. And then I'm going to generate that and copy it.

And obviously don't leak it to anyone. Okay. So it looks like it's all added here. Now what we need to do is we need to update this here to be our token. There's many different ways to do this.

For example, you can just directly edit this file here. If you know how to do that you can set this as an environment variable or what we can do if we're lazy and we don't really care too much about the security, is just tell cloud code to add the token for us. So I'm going to do that even though this is not best practice and not recommended because I'm going to delete the token afterwards. Hey, can you please add this token to the MCP config. And then I'm just going to paste the token.

Don't worry, I'll delete this afterwards and then hit enter and it should add it for me and then connect okay. So now we just need to restart cloud code in order for the MCP server to work. So I'm just going to type slash new and then slash MCP. And you'll see that hosting our MCP is connected with 118 different tools that we can use. So what I can do now is just directly tell it to deploy site or create a new or whatever.

So for example I'm going to say what can you do with the hosting or MCP server. Give me a quick summary okay let's see what we get okay. So you can see that we can create a VPN. We can manage snapshots. We can buy a domain.

We can check the availability, we can DNS whatever. So we can do all of this stuff directly. Now from Clodia that actually having to go over to the UI. Now what I'm going to say is what domains do I have available. And for your case you should get one, right?

Because if you signed up with that plan, you would have gotten one for free, or you could purchase additional ones from hosting, or it's going to give me the list here, and then I'm just going to tell it to make a super simple website and deploy so you can see how it works. Okay, so you can see we have a few different domains available here. So what I can do now is something like this. And just say, hey, can you create a super simple website that just says, hi, my name is Tim, and deploy that to Tim.

Boom. Press enter and it should just be able to do that. And again we now handle all of the deployment directly from Claude. We don't need to go to a third party source and we can just deploy a site, spin up a VPN all from the terminal. Okay.

So it says this live. Let's go now to the URL and let's check it out and see if it works. And there hi my name is Tim right. Super simple. That's just what I asked to do. But it deployed it.

It's live. It's working all from the terminal that is the hosting or MCP server. And just to note that this is only going to work once you register your domain. So what I actually did here is just from the UI, I went to my domains, right? I just had a look at the domains that I had, and I just made sure I registered this because you do need to say who owns the domain, the contact info, all of that kind of stuff, and then you'll actually be good to kind of push the site, deploy it, etc..

Anyways, let's move on to the next one. So the next skill I want to have a look at here is Fire Crawl. Now Fire Crawl allows your AI agent to crawl and scrape the web, while cloud code by default can access the web and it can search for things, it oftentimes will get rate limited, blocked, have a captcha pop up or something that it can't pass and fire. Crawl essentially solves all of those problems, so it will just be able to go and automate the web for you significantly better than the built in features in Claude, and we'll be able to bypass any of those security features that the websites have. So, for example, you can just scrape all of the temp that's on a page, which allows you to automate more tasks, whatever, crawl things and just search more efficiently than if you're using the built in skills in Claude.

Now, Fire Crawl is free to use. You get a set number of credits that you need to pay if you want more. Now, in my case, I don't use that many so I don't need to pay. But of course, if you're using it a lot, you will need to upgrade and buy a few additional credits. Now, the way that you can set this up is you can just make a free account on the site.

I'll leave a link to it in the description. And then what you can do is just copy this skill file right here. So if you just go to the main page there should be a skill file. And then you can literally just open up Claude. So let's go to Claude right here and you can say, hey, can you add this skill for me.

And then boom, you could just paste in the skill, go ahead and press on enter and it should automatically add it for you. And then it will tell you anything you need to what do you call it here, set it up install, etc. so you can see if you actually look up in the skill definition here that it has this pnp y fire crawl cli thing. So it's actually telling it how to install it, which it should do automatically for you. Okay. So it looks like the skill is added.

Now I'm just going to go slash new just to refresh the context here. And I'm going to paste in a prompt just to demonstrate to you how this works. So I'm just going to type slash fire crawl here to initiate the skill. I'm then going to paste in a prompt. The prompt that I have is go to the wiki company's directory and crawl every AI startup page and then extract the following.

Now, while this might work with the built in Claude browser, Fire Crawl is going to do this a lot faster. It's going to do it at scale, and it's significantly better at crawling and scraping and giving you the data that you actually want. So if you want to do something larger, right, like get every single company, not just a simple web search or going to one single page, then that's where this really comes in and allows you to just more efficiently and more effectively actually grab context on the web, which can be very difficult to do. So anyways, I'm going to press enter and let's see the result that we get. Okay.

So this is just finished. It scraped over 300 different pages, took about ten minutes to run. And you can see that it gave me a full markdown file here with the 20 top companies. It talks about hiring founders, what they do. If we scroll down, we can see the series that they're in.

I think it talks about fundraising is fundraising as well. I'm not sure. The point is it did this all directly just from Claudio without me having to step in. And in terms of fire crawl, this used 312 credits. I now have 822 remaining, and I believe you get 1000 credits per month or something for free.

So I didn't have to pay for this. And I used maybe, what, 30% in one of these uses for 300 different pages, which well, makes sense anyways. Guys, that's fire crawl. Let's move on to the next one. The next skill on my list is a very simple one, and this is just a humanizing skill.

Now all this does is just make the output that Claude code gives you sound more like a human. So you use this. Obviously, if you want to write an email or you're going to write a response or you want to make a social media post, whatever, so it doesn't sound like an AI generated this. Now setting up this skill is super basic. There is a git repo right here.

I'll leave a link to it in the description. And if you just go to the cloud code installation, we can literally just copy the two lines that it has right here. And we can just say, hey, can you add this skill. Here is the instructions. And just paste it.

And it should just add it automatically for us that we can test it out. Okay. So it says it's installed. And then what I can do is just use the skill by going slash humanized. And let's actually just take this text.

Let's copy it and paste it here and see if it can humanize it. Nice. And then you can see it gives us the final rewrite. And it looks a little bit more human installed. It leaves at this and runs us.

Humanize your point at any text, and it'll flag the stuff that screams like abuse and recycled words. And notice that using the word stuff, it's using like lower cases, right? It's dropped the kind of m dash. It's very common whenever cloud code is generating text. And again, super useful. I use this all of the time.

That's how you add it. Now, the next skill I have for you is one of my personal favorites. That's not really a skill, it's more of just kind of like a tool that you can add that makes Claude a lot more useful. And that is Composio. Now, if you work in Claude a lot, you probably end up connecting a lot of your different tools.

Maybe you connect your Google Drive, maybe you connect Gmail, maybe you connect notion or Facebook ads or meta ads or whatever. And when you start adding all of these different tools, it can actually bloat the context quite quickly in Claude. So Claude has like 100,000 tokens, which is representing the 200 different tools that you've connected. It also means that sometimes the tools can disconnect. If you switch over to another machine, it can be a huge pain.

To reconnect all of them and Composio you effectively fixes all of those problems. What you do is you just connect, Composio you to Claude code, and then inside of Composio, you can connect all of the individual tools that you want to use at any time. Claude. Code needs to use one of those tools, rather than having to have them all listed out and potentially making a mistake or viewing hundreds at the same time. It can just call Composio.

You search for the correct tool and then get the response back. So not only is this more token efficient, but it also just works a lot better with higher accuracy because it's discovering tools on demand and just connecting them a lot easier rather than what is it having all of them already kind of loaded and stalled and showing up in the prompt every single time. So let me show you what I mean. If I go to Composio here, I'll leave a link to it in the description. You want to go to the 41, by the way, because you can also use it to build AI agents.

So from Composio you, if you just go to the home page here and then you go to Connect Apps, you can connect all of the different apps that you want to use. So for now, let me just connect Gmail, for example. Let's go here. You'll see just a whole list of tools. And then I can just connect my account and I can actually connect multiple from this one page.

Okay. So I've just added my Gmail here. You can see that it's connected. If I want I can connect multiple which is also a nice feature of this. And then you can just go through and connect literally thousands of different applications from one page, so that you don't need to have a built in connector skill, whatever.

In Claude, you can just connect anything directly from here. Then what you're going to do once you connect everything is just go to install. From install you can go to either Claude Cowher, Claude Code, whatever. I'm going to go to Claude Code. And then I'm literally just going to copy this prompt that it has here.

It also has my user API key, and I'm just going to paste this here and say, hey, can you add this to my MCP config or can you add this skill or whatever. And here I'm just going to paste this and it should automatically add it for me. And I guess yeah it's going to use kind of the terminal CLI or whatever to connect this. Now one thing to note here when you're using Composio is that this is free to use. However, I think you get like 20,000 tool calls per month.

And then if you go over that you will need to pay. I've never gotten anywhere close to that, and I guess if you're using it super heavily, then it's like 20 bucks a month or something. But anyways, don't worry, it's quite free to use I would say, compared to a lot of the other tools. So let's wait for this to finish and let's see if it works. Okay, so I finished installing. Now I'm just going to make a new session.

And then you'll see that if I actually go Composio, you'll see this is now a skill that's added to cloud code. So let me use the Composio CLI tool here. And then I'm just going to say something like grab my three most recent emails, but don't expose any sensitive data and just give me a summary of what they are. Okay. And it should be able to use this.

Now if it doesn't, just make sure you have Composio added to path, you can just tell what is it cloud code to do that you can see now it's going to use Composio to execute this tool call. And it should give me the result. And this again is much more token efficient than having all of the tools loaded in at once. Because what will happen is it will execute it, it will get the result. And then what will happen is the result will come back actually already parsed.

So we don't get all of this random data that cloud code needs to run through. And you can see the boom. We get three emails here giving us kind of a summary of what they are. And that is actually what is in my email. Okay. That is Composio.

Of course, this becomes a lot more useful when you add more tools to it. I'm just using a demo workspace for here, but in my real Composio you have like 50 different tools connected and it works extremely well and I use it inside pretty much all of my AI tools, because then once you connect the tools here, you can just go and you can connect this to any tool, and you don't need to reconnect all of the different tools here. You just go to codecs. You do the same configuration we just did for Claude. And now all of the stuff that you've connected, it's just connected.

In codecs I get a new machine, boom, install it there. All of my connections exist, which is why I like this. But let's move to the last skill. So the last skill on my list here is the vibe skill. Now what this says is stop vibe coding vulnerabilities into production.

And essentially what this is, is a skill that will look for any vulnerabilities, any security issues in the applications that you built. So you should run this skill before you deploy something to production, to do kind of a full audit of your code base and make sure that everything is secure and that you don't leak an API key or have unauthenticated access to your data or something like that. So in terms of installing it, I'll leave a link to the repo in the description. Like always, I'm super lazy, so I'm just going to literally copy the instructions that it has for Claude code. And I'm just going to go here and paste this and say, can you please add this to my Claude code skills?

And we'll just let it automatically run and add it for us. Okay. So just added the skill right here and just set it to restart cloud code. Now again I'm inside of my Tim accounting application which is actually deployed right now. So what I'm going to do is just run the skill vibe skill and let's see what we get for this repo.

Now, the idea behind this skill is that it's going to be used while you're building the app. So while you can use it to audit the app, which is what I'm doing right now, you should install it before you start building. And then it's kind of teaching Claude code how to actually think through all of the vulnerabilities and not make the mistake in the first place. So in my case, I didn't have this skill before. So now you can see it's going to go through and have all of these steps, which is probably going to take a few minutes to run.

But the point is once you add it, then you should just get more secure applications. Of course, you still want to review the code, but generally it's a really simple thing to add to reduce a lot of the risks that you might have when you're five coding apps. Okay, so you can see there is a lot of here that are detected in my application. So it's going to go ahead and fix them now automatically for me. But again good thing I ran this because I actually had this app deployed.

And there's all kinds of issues that I just didn't notice because I was literally just five coding this. So that is five. Great skill to add and definitely something you need in the vibe coding era. So what I was going with that said, that's going to wrap up this video. Those are the six skills that I personally found the most useful.

Of course, there are hundreds of other ones that are also very useful to adding Claude code, but I guarantee one of these will make sense in your workflow and that you should probably consider adding. Let me know if you enjoyed this video. If you did, make sure leave a like subscribe and I will see you in the next one.