---
video_title: "Save 95% of Your Tokens - OpenClaw Full Tutorial"
video_id: lTXFv1Z0qfI
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTXFv1Z0qfI
video_date: 2026-03-13T14:52:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Setup your VPS with Hostinger and use the code TECHWITHTIM for a 10% discount on annual plans: https://hostinger.com/techwithtim
  
  In this video, I'll teach you how to optimize your OpenClaw to save over 90% in API. We'll go over caching, context pruning, I'll show you how to run token audits, so you can actually see how much money you were spending. I guarantee that you will save more money on OpenClaw than you ever thought was imaginable.
  
  🚀 Tools I Use
  Get 10% off with code techwithtim
  Openclaw setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim
  VPS setup: https://www.hostinger.com/techwithtim10
  
  🎞 Video Resources 🎞
  Guide in this video: https://www.techwithtim.net/openclaw-guide
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | What You'll Learn
  00:55 | Credit to Matt Ganzak & Free Guide
  02:03 | Security and Disclaimers
  03:30 | NEW OpenClaw Setup
  06:07 | Accessing the Gateway 
  07:00 | SSH into Server
  11:10 | VSCode Remote File View/Edit
  16:24 | Model Routing
  29:21 | Session Initialization
  32:00 | Local Heartbeat with Ollama
  38:20 | Spending Limits
  39:40 | Enable Prompt Caching
  42:47 | Context Pruning
  44:18 | Token Audit
  
  Hashtags
  #OpenClaw #API #SoftwareEngineer
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
In this video, I'll teach you how to optimize your OpenClaw to save over 90% in API. You go over caching, we'll go over model routing and selection. We'll go over context pruning. I'll show you how to run token audit, so you can actually see how much money you were spending. And overall, by the end of this video, I guarantee that you will save more money on OpenClaw than you ever thought was imaginable.

Now, I say that as someone who's now used billions of tokens, I have spent myself hundreds of dollars on Open Claw, and I realized very quickly that this was not sustainable. So I went ahead and created a very detailed guide. What you're going to see here on how to reduce the cost. I myself won from spending over $100 per day to now spending less than $5 per day, and recently helped one of my friends, who is spending $200 per day now, spend about $10 per day. This works. All you have to do is follow along.

So with that said, let's get into the video. So first things first, I just want to give a little bit of credit here to Matt Gasic. He's really been on top of the open source stuff. Is a great guy to follow. And I saw his guide on how he saved 90% usage on his open claw a few days ago, and I decided that I wanted to make my own version of it, enhance it, make it better, and just walk through it step by step.

So massive shout out to him. I'll leave his video in the description, and just want to be clear that I'm by no means copying what he did, but I just got some inspiration and wanted to give credit where credit is due because he's been on top of the open claw stuff for a long time now. With that said, what I have done is I have created a guide that explains exactly how to do everything that I'm going to show you in this video. So any of the prompts, any of the stuff that I mentioned or that you'll put in one of the files is all available here. And while you probably could just follow this guide and have everything done without the video, obviously it's easier to watch in video format because you have visuals.

I can explain stuff to you. You get the idea. Now you can download this guide for free by clicking the link in the description. And all I'm going to ask is that you give me your email so I can send it over to you, and then I can send you more open claw stuff later in case you're interested. Okay, so that's the guide and I will be referencing this in the video again available from the link in the description.

Now with that in mind, I quickly want to talk about setting up Open Claw. Now I assume some of you already have open claw set up. Some of you do not. And I want to just let you know that I have two previous videos on this channel that go much more in depth in terms of all of the setup and configuration steps not related to the model optimization and saving money on API calls. So this video is purely focused on that.

I will set up a new open claw instance from scratch, just so that I'm starting from scratch, and I don't have anything that you guys don't have. But if you want a full secure hardening setup guide, I have one right here. I'm not going to repeat all of those steps. If you want to understand how to enable skills, voice mode, all of that. I have another guide right here.

Again, I'm not going to repeat all of those steps. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to set up a new open claw instance. If you don't already have open claw setup, you can totally follow along with what I'm going to do here and it is completely fine. I'm just making you aware that there's more details in some of the other videos in terms of all of the other config, but of course this is also very important. Now with that in mind, I am going to recommend that you do set up Open Claw on a virtual private server.

This is just a general best practice. It gives you an isolated environment. And the method I'm going to show you in this video allows you to set up with literally a single click, so you can skip all of the configuration that would be required if you wanted to run this on, for example, your own local computer. Definitely don't run it on your own machine. Whatever you do, at least run it in some type of isolated environment and just be aware that this can be insecure if you don't know what you're doing.

So make sure that you set it up correctly. Now, with that in mind, for this video, I'm just going to make a new open call instance using Hostinger. This is a long term partner of the channel. They are personally what I use for all of my open call box already, and they have a KVM two plan here, which is as low as $7 per month. Actually even cheaper if you use my discount code.

So what I'm going to do is just go ahead and press on, select plan and walk you through the options. If you do want to use hosting now they have a one click install option, which means you literally just go through this and it deploys open cloud for you automatically. It does that using Docker which is also a secure way of doing this. Again, if you want the most secure kind of overkill method, I'll leave a video on screen that you can watch. Last overall message to you here.

Just because I really don't want you guys to get hacked. Make sure however you run this, whether it's hosting or something else, you do it in an isolated environment where it doesn't have access to your main computer, doesn't have access to your primary accounts, and anything that got exploited, lost, exposed, whatever wouldn't cost you a massive amount of pain. Okay, so let's say if you do want to use hosting or if you're following along with me here, just select whatever plan you want. I'll go with 24 months for the coupon code. You can then enter the tech with time code.

By the way, this does not work on the one month plan. It only works on 12 months or above and that will give you an additional 10% off. I. Then I'm going to recommend that you uncheck this ready to use AI, because you can just use your own keys. You don't need that.

And then what you can do is choose a location. In my case I'll go with Malaysia because that is closest to me here. And then go ahead and press on. Continue. Now at some point during the setup process, you will see a screen that looks like this.

Just make sure you include at least one of these four API keys. So in my case I'll go with anthropic. But you can go with anything that you want and then just press on deploy. Okay. Now while this is provisioning here, I am just going to recommend that on any of the platforms you do get an API key from, you set a monthly spending limit and you don't enable automatic recharge.

We just want to make sure that if your API key were to get leaked for some reason, that someone couldn't absolutely rinse you and just have like a ton of money being charged to your account. So ensure that you have some kind of limit. In my case, I set $100 per month and that you check this platform regularly, whatever it may be, to ensure that you're not spending a massive amount of money. Again, I'm going to show you a bunch of stuff in this video, so that shouldn't happen. But just for security, always lock down your API platforms and make sure that you have some kind of spending limit.

Okay, so this is just being deployed right now. You can see it's spinning up open claw. Once that is done. And what we're going to do is just get into the gateway. We're then going to SSH into the open claw machine, start doing some configuration.

And I'm going to show you how we can view the files of the open claw instance in a nice kind of UI or user interface, so that we can start modifying some of those and making the changes that will well, reduce our cost. All right. So the project is deployed. Now the first thing we'll do if we're using the hosting or deployment is we'll just press on this open claw button here from the dashboard. Now by default what Hostinger will do if you use the one click install is it will actually install Open Claw for you using Docker.

This is a pretty secure way of installing it, but just be aware of that because it does change the way that you interface with the open claw command, which I'll show you in a second. So you see it's open up this page. Right. It's giving us access to this kind of URL. And what we can do is copy the gateway token and then just paste the gateway token inside of here.

And then log in. If you didn't get that you can copy the gateway token. There's a button right here. Press open Claw sign in. It should bring you to the gateway.

And now you can communicate with your open claw bot by typing something like hey, now, once you verify that this is working and you've connected to the gateway, what we're going to do is open up a terminal or command prompt, and we're going to SSH into the remote machine so we can start configuring it. Now I'm going to assume that you probably know how to do this if you've already set up open claw. If you haven't, all this is going to do is essentially log in to this remote computer and allow you to execute commands on it. So what we're going to need is access to this command right here from the hosting or dashboard in overview where it says SSH root at and then the IP address of our server. If you're hosting this somewhere else, then you're going to need to know the IP address of your server.

And you're going to have to know your user, which is usually root unless you've changed it. Now because we're using Host Stinger and it doesn't give us the root password by default, we're going to press this change button. We're going to generate a random root password. We're not going to expose that to anyone. We're going to copy it and we're going to confirm.

So just change the root password to something that you can at least remember. Or write it down somewhere in a secure environment. And just make sure you know the root password and you know the IP address of your server. Okay. Then what we're going to do is open up a terminal.

We're going to go into the terminal, and we're going to copy the first command that we had. So SSH root at IP address of the server. Again this is securely logging into the server. So we can run commands on it. If you've hosted this somewhere else you need the IP address and you need the user can.

Usually it is root. If the user is something else, you need the user and you need that user's password. If it's root, you need root and then you need the roots password. You can usually reset that from any hosting providers like UI okay. So we're going to go ahead and press on enter from here.

We're just going to type yes and hit enter. And then what we're going to do is paste in the root password. Now to paste it you can hit Ctrl V on your keyboard or you can right click on the mouse depending if you're on Mac or if you're on windows, you will not see anything appear here that is completely normal. And just go ahead and press on. Enter.

You also can type it in obviously, but just be aware that you won't see anything. So just type it or paste it and then hit enter once it's correct. Okay, so from here we're now inside of the server. But because hosting runs open cloud using Docker, if we want to access open cloud and start doing any configuration using the open cloud commands, we need to actually execute the Docker container. This is not complicated, but it just requires a few more steps.

So bear with me. Now, if you're not using Docker, you should just be able to directly run the open claw command here. So open cloud like this. But you'll notice that when I do that, nothing happens because the open claw command is only available inside of what's known as a docker container. A Docker container is just an isolated kind of environment that's running on the virtual private server, and it makes it so we can really easily restart the environment or shut it down or, you know, create a new one if we need to, as opposed to installing everything directly on the server and not inside of this environment.

Again, I'm just giving you some options because I don't know how you're open clause set setup. So from here on the hosting RVP we're going to type Docker ps. Now Docker is going to show us the different containers that are running. You'll notice two here. The one that we're looking for is the one that's labeled open call.

Now what we want to find is the ID of this container which should be on the far left side like this. So we have three, seven, seven, five, six whatever. We're just going to copy that by highlighting it and pressing control C we're then going to type Docker exec dash it. We're then going to paste the container ID which is the one that we just found from above. And we're gonna type slash bin slash bash okay.

Now what this is going to do is it's going to bring us inside of the Docker container. So we can start executing commands in there. Again you're going to type this exact thing Docker exec dash it. This is going to be whatever your container ID is which will be different. And then slash bin slash bash and go ahead and press enter.

Now what you should notice is that you get this ID changing here at the at such a change from SRB to something like this. And that, that is how you know sorry that you're good. Now if you want to clear the terminal you can type clear just so it brings you up to the top of the screen. Now from here, if we type the open cloud command, we should be able to access open Glor. So let's wait for a second. It should start running.

And this will allow us now to run the commands that we need in order to make some of the configurations and changes. Okay, so now that we're inside of the server, you understand how you can run the open cloud command and change something from here. What we need to find is the open clogged Json file, which is a file that we're going to start modifying in order to apply some of the model optimization changes we're going to make. Now, you can do this directly from inside of the terminal. And the way that you will do this is by using the nano command which is a built in text editor.

If I type nano, you'll see it opens something like this. However, this is really not efficient and not going to be very easy for a lot of you to use. So I'm going to show you an additional method that allows you to view all of the files that are on your server. If you're using a virtual private server, so you can modify them without having to use the terminal. Now, we still will need the terminal later, so we'll leave it open.

But what we're going to do now is we're going to open a tool called Visual Studio Code. This is free. You can download it. It is extremely popular. Just search Visual Studio Code online.

And I'm going to show you a way to remote access your server's file system. Again this will make it a lot easier. And if you don't already know this, you're welcome because this will save you a massive amount of time. So what we're going to do is open up Visual Studio Code. You'll see.

I was already connected to a session previously, and what I'm going to do is just go file here and new window. You don't need to do this just because I already had something open. Okay. So from Visual Studio Code, don't worry. If yours doesn't look exactly like this, it will probably be a different color.

What you're going to do is you're going to look for this kind of puzzle piece icon on the left side, and you're going to search for the SSH extension, which for some reason is taking a long time. And yes, this is what we're looking for. Remote SSH from Microsoft. Okay. Look for the one with the official check mark.

And we're going to install this. So already have it installed. But just find the extension again puzzle piece SSH install. Now once that is installed you're going to hit the following shortcut on your keyboard. Ctrl shift and then P okay.

Now you also can press this button down here in the bottom left which is open a remote window. Now if you hit Ctrl, shift P or Command Shift P, this is going to open up the command palette for you, which looks something like this. And you can type remote. And then you should see a bunch of options here. The one that we're going to look for is connect to host.

So go remote dash ssh connect to host. Just press it again. You can also press the bot button here in the bottom left hand corner. So we're going to press that button. Now from here you likely won't see anything.

You'll just see add new SSH host. So you're going to press that. And we're going to type or copy what we used previously in our terminal. So SSH root add. And then the IP address of your server again to find that if you're using Hostinger you just go right here and copy it.

If you use another provider well you have to find this ssh command okay. So we're going to go ahead and press on. Enter. When it asks us to save this just choose whatever the first option is and then it should what does it save the config. Now that is saved.

Same thing. Ctrl shift P or command shift P. Open up the command palette and we're going to type again. Connect to host. When we do it this time we're going to select the IP address of the server that we just added.

So I believe it is this one. And it should open up a new window for us. Now in this new window let me zoom in. We're going to select Linux okay. And we're going to copy the root password and paste it when I asked for the password.

So it's asking for the password. We're going to paste it in and hit enter. Now what that is going to do is going to take a second, but it's going to open a remote view of our server that allows us to directly download, upload, modify files right from this user interface without having to use the terminal to make these changes. Okay. So you'll know that you're connected when you see this at the bottom left of your screen where it says editing on SSH.

What we're going to do then is look for the explorer, which is kind of like this file looking menu. You'll see your file and then press open Folder. So we're going to go open folder. When we do that it's going to give us a prompt here in terms of selecting the folder. Now the folder that we want to select is going to be slash.

And then it should be Docker. So we're looking for slash Docker. Then we're going to have slash. And we're going to select the open claw folder okay. And then we're going to go slash data like that.

And we should see a dot open claw folder which is the one that we want to open. And we'll go ahead and select it. Now if you're not using Hostinger and Docker then you're going to have to find the location of this dot open cloud folder. The normal locations for this will be inside of your users directory. So if you're root, it will likely be inside of just the root folder.

If it's not inside of there and then it would be inside of slash home slash and then whatever your username is. So you can see like there's one called ubuntu but it could be in another location. Again I don't know what location it's going to be in because I am not working with your, what do you call it? You know, open call, for instance. So I don't know, but I just know here that it's going to be in this directory slash docker slash open claw slash data, then open claw and then go ahead and press on enter or open or whatever.

Trust in continue. And you should see all of the files pop up here on the left hand side okay. So at this point you should now see all of your files from that folder. And we're looking again for this open claw dot Json file. Now inside of this open cloud Json file, what we're going to do is we're going to start changing a bunch of settings so that we get this model kind of optimization I was talking about.

Now the first optimization that we're going to make is model routing. Now the idea is that you don't just want to set one default, kind of model and just have open call. I'll use that all the time. A lot of people are using opus 4.6 for literally every single operation on their open claw, which is costing them like 20 times more than they need to be spending.

There are different models, even just within the cloud ecosystem where we have opus honest, we have haiku, write, sonnet, sorry, and then haiku. You know, you can use all of these and they can accomplish the same task. And in fact, sometimes even these cheaper models can just do it better because there's so much faster and they don't run into any rate limits. So what we want to do here is we want to change some of the model configurations that we're using, the correct models, and we're routing between them accurately. Now in order to write between them we need to have different models that we can select.

Now what I'm going to suggest is that you add as many models here as you're comfortable adding as long as you understand which ones you're adding right and which ones you want to use. So I would suggest having at least two different providers for the LM models that you want to use. I'm going to show you exactly what I mean in one second. But right now we just have Claud, right. Because I've just added the anthropic API key.

So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add an open AI API key, and I'm going to add a GPT model as well. So ideally you want to have two providers. The reason why you want to have at least two providers is because if one of your providers gets a rate limited, you want to be able to switch over to another providers that you can start using that. So, for example, if we're using Claude and all of a sudden we hit a rate limit, we don't want to wait two, three, 4 or 5, ten minutes before we can continue. We can just instruct the model or instruct the agent to switch over to.

Now use, what is it, the GPT model instead? Even if it's not quite as good, it can finish the task with GPT. And then when the rate limit is done, it can switch back over to use something like Opus or Sonnet. So what I'm going to do is just reference my guide here, because this kind of explains how to do it. So let's go to model routing.

And as we scroll down here okay. This is the setting that we're at. So we're editing this open claw dot Json file. Now what we need to do is we need to start by adding the API keys for the model providers that we want to use. Now we've already added anthropic so we don't need to use that.

But what we can do to add the API keys is we can add this env section at the top of our open clogged Json file that indicates the API keys for the other providers. So what you can do is just copy this section directly from the guide. So I'm just going to copy here. You also can just, you know, type it in and just paste it at the very top of your Json file inside of this first brace. Now you have to be a little bit careful here because Json is very sensitive to syntax.

And you'll notice that Json stands for JavaScript Object Notation has braces. It then has these text fields that are surrounded in double quotation marks with colons. These are called keys. And then another set of braces or a set of string. Right.

And then another set of keys and then potentially values. Now one thing to note is that all of these keys and values are separated by commas, except for the one at the very end. So you'll see like comma, comma, a comma, but no comma right here. Make sure you don't accidentally add a comma here, because if you do that it's going to yell at you and it's going to give you an invalid configuration. So if you get some error message saying like invalid open clogged Json, you just made a mistake in the Json.

And what I would suggest you do is just copy all of it, give it over to ChatGPT or something and say, hey, fix my Json for me and then it will fix it. Now you should remove the keys before you do that, but you get the idea. Okay, so you notice here that I have four sets of API keys. Now I'm just going to include the OpenAI API key. So I'm going to remove these other ones that I'm not going to use.

But I was just putting those there as an example. So what we're going to do now is we're gonna find an open AI API key, and we're going to paste it here. The more models you put the better. But at default just have to provide. So I'm going to remove this.

Now I'm going to go and I'm going to get an OpenAI API key. So I'm just going to say OpenAI API key right. I'm going to go over to this page and I'm going to generate a new key okay. So I put the key inside of here. Obviously I'll delete it after the video.

And again if you want other model providers you put them here. Now if you already included a key like you already did anthropic before, you already did OpenAI before, you don't need to replicate it here. Claude Bot or OpenCL or whatever is going to pull these keys from different locations. It will pull it from what's called your environment variables, which in our case is configured by host Stinger. Or it will pull that from this env section inside of the open dot Json.

So don't worry about replicating a key if you already had it. This is just when you're adding a new provider. So now that we've added this new provider, let's go back to the guide quickly. What we can do is we can include some more models that we want to use. So if we go to my guide you'll see that I have a new Json file here.

So what you'll see in this guide is I just have a short list of providers that you can just directly copy into your configuration. Now you're gonna want to change the GPT for a mini and for oh, this is just AI generated to the newest models like GPT 5.1, GPT five mini, which I'll change in a second. But based on the providers that you're using now, you find the list of the models that you want to use, right? And you add them into the config.

So what I'm going to do just for demo purposes, I'm going to copy this whole model section here, okay. Or actually I'm going to copy this whole default section just so we can copy all of it. I'm going to go to VS code, I'm going to go to my defaults and I'm going to replace the default. Now make sure that you match up the braces so that I'm replacing this whole default section. Right.

And you can kind of see the line lining it up here. And I'm going to paste this and then I'm going to save okay. Now to save sorry. So let's just tap that in. You can hit Ctrl s on your keyboard or you can go up if you have this expanded and go file and then save.

Okay. Now what you'll notice, right, is that we have a bunch of models here. So we have the anthropic models we have before. And we have what's called an alias. Now the alias is just a shorthand that we can call it.

So that, Open Claw understands, you know, what the name of the model is, and you'll see that we have the three clawed models that we had before. So we have opus 4.6 cloud, sonnet 4.5, I think now they have 4.6.

So you could change this like four six or haiku four six. Right. You got to check what the recent model is and then you can set your primary model. This is the default model that you use by default. To my case cloud haiku 4.5.

The reason why I'm using this is this is the cheapest model. And we'll start by having the cheapest model. And then tell the cheapest model to select a more expensive model if it needs that for the given task, which you'll have a look at in a second. So the point is we're adding various models. Now in terms of these models, we want to remove any of the ones where we don't have an API key.

So I don't have an API key for Gemini or Deep Secret. So I'm going to remove those. Right. But I do have them for OpenAI. So I'm just going to adjust these quickly.

So we're going to have GPT five mini. And then GPT 5.1 I believe is the current one that we can use. So just adjust those so that we have the correct name. If there's any issues with this Json, again, you'll know when you run open clone a second, which I'll show you. Okay.

So at least now we've selected or we've enabled a few other models. Now in order for us to actually save these changes because we're using Docker, we're just going to go back to our terminal. We're going to make sure we've exhausted out of the Docker container, which you can do by typing the exit command. So let's say we were back inside the Docker container. So we have this Docker exact command.

You'll notice we're inside of it right. Because of this ID to get out of it you just type exit. And now it brings you back to the root OS. Now from here where we're going to type is Docker restart. And then we're just going to restart this container.

So we're going to copy and paste this okay. Now when we paste the container ID what this is going to do is restart the open clock gateway for us automatically and apply any of the changes that we've made here in this file. So sometimes you'll make changes here, but they won't actually be applied. If they're not being applied then what you need to do is you need to restart the gateway, which again I just did from here. Otherwise restarting the gateway is you can run the open clock command like open clock gateway restart.

However you don't want to do that if this is running through a Docker container for some various reasons, we don't need to get into the way that you restarted with Docker. Is doing Docker restart container id again, the container ID you get from running docker ps like this. If you're running open claw in a different way, then you can just run the docker command I showed you're sorry the open clock commands to open. So again you can run open claw and then gateway okay restart like I mentioned and it will restart it for you. You can also just tell Opencore to restart the gateway okay.

So now that that is applied what we're going to do is we're going to go to the open cloud gateway. So let's go here and we're going to say what model are you using. And we're just going to test and see if it's using the correct model okay. So you can see we have the correct model here. Then I'm going to say what models you have access to.

And let's enter it and see what we get. And you can see that it shows us now the five models. So just test that and make sure that it has access to these various models. So sorry. Quick pause.

I did realize they do actually have clouds on it for six, so I just added for six. We also still have four five. We can remove that if we want and then we have haiku 4 or 5. But they don't have haiku for six. So keep haiku 4 or 5 is the default, right.

Because we want the cheapest one. But then add for six because obviously it's better than 4.5. Okay. So anyways, what I did is I was just messing around with some stuff in the chat, and I just wanted to show you that now that we have these models available, you can actually type slash model and then you can switch to a particular model if you want.

Or you can just tell the H to switch. So say switch to use the OPA is 4.6 model right. You can just tell it to do that. And then it can automatically switch to a different model.

And this is the feature that we're going to leverage here now to handle model routing. So now that we have this what we want to do is we want our opencore to automatically select the best model based on the task that it's given 90% of tasks you can run using this haiku 4.5 model. It's still pretty good. It's very fast, it's very cheap.

And if you need advanced reasoning, you can use opus. And if you need something kind of in the middle, you can use sonnet, which is significantly cheaper than opus. So what we're going to do is we're going to go to our workspace here, and we're going to open up this soul.md file. Now inside of this solar MD file, I mean, you can change this to anything that you want.

What we're going to do is we're going to put in some model routing code, which is effectively a prompt telling this, okay, what model should you use based on what we're asking you to do? Now you can find the exact prompt that I am going to use here. If you just scroll through to step four adding routing rules to.md. Now this is the prompt that I'm going to copy.

So I'm just going to copy it in. And then I will read it to you. But you can change it to anything that you want. Generally speaking it is very it's going to be very similar. Sorry to this okay.

So actually you are going to have to change it based on what we have here. So it says model routing rules read before every task default. Always start with haiku cloud haiku 4.5. Switch to sonnet I'm going to change this to 4.6

because now we have access to that only when the task requires designing reviewing security a major decision if anthropic is unavailable. Okay, or rate limited. For example, then you can switch to these models in order. I'm going to remove the two we don't have. And I'm going to change this to GPT five mini okay.

So this is kind of the equivalent to haiku for complex tasks that need sonnet level capability, switch to GPT 5.1. Right. And then we put that like that okay. Never switch models mid task unless you hit a rate limit.

Never use a premium model for writing reading files or simple questions, status updates, formatting, etc. and then if we wanted to add the opus one, we can do another one and we can say switch to opus. Right? Claud opus 4.6 only one.

The task requires, advanced reasoning that sonnet is not doing successfully. Right. So you can add whatever you want here for the rules. But the point is that we're adding routing now to this solo MD. So any time that we're asking for a particular task, it's going to be reading this and then switching the model as needed.

Okay. So now that we have that, what we can do is we can just task and we can say based on your routing rules, what models should you be using in what situation. Right. And then we're going to go ahead and press enter. Now it might not have it updated right away if we've changed the Soledad MD.

Let's see because we might need to restart the gateway. But it should now tell us assuming it's reading the correct. So what models it should be using. Okay. Yeah.

So it looks like I got to just restart the gateway before this is going to apply. So let me just go docker restart. And then when we restart if we chat with it again it should now have the solar MD updated. And we should be able to what do you call it here. Get a correct answer okay. Perfect.

So the gateway restart worked and you can see it found it in solar MD. And as default you know solid 4.6 opus 4.6. And then the various fallbacks.

Again the fallbacks are important for if we hit a rate limit okay cool. So we now have these rules applied. And already this is going to give us significantly better performance. But it's just scratching the surface of what we really need to do to configure this further. So to configure this even further, the next thing that we're going to add here is session initialization.

Now by default Opencore is going to load a full conversation history of every message that you've sent. I believe in the past two days into context. Any time you create a new session, and this is extremely wasteful and also loads a bunch of other files that you don't need. So what we can do is we can tell it to only load the absolute necessities before, or sorry when a new session begins so that we don't have all of this stuff bloating up our context, which is costing additional money. Now, the reason for this is that what ends up costing you money when you are using these models is the number of tokens that you're sending and the number of tokens that you're receiving.

And think of token like a word. So if we load, you know, the past two days of session history and you were chatting a ton, that could be, you know, tens of thousands of tokens that are just being added wastefully to every single request that's sent to our API provider. So it's not really about the number of requests that we send. It's about the size of the request that we send. And we want to reduce that size.

And that's effectively what this is going to do. So there's another prompt effectively that I have here, which is session initialization. You can can change these rules to be whatever you want. But what I'm going to do is just copy this and then put this below what we had below before. Sorry. In our solar empty.

So same thing in solar MD. We're just going to paste this session initialization load limits says at the start of every session load only sold at MD. User at MD, and then today's memory file, if it exists, do not automatically load the full conversation history, memory.md session or logs from previous days. Tool outputs from past sessions and when the user asks about past contacts, run memory search if found, run memory get return only the relevant snippet.

Do not load the whole file and at the end of every session write a summary to memory. Keep it under 500 words and the format is bullet point only. So I'm not going to go through all the files. But there's this file memory formed which will slowly fill up with long term memory that the bot keeps. Then you will have, what is it?

We don't have it right now because it hasn't written anything yet. But you'll have, like, daily memory logs. The point is, we only want to load what's necessary, and we'll search through the memory to see if there's something that's necessary before we load it. And this is an effective search. That is.

How can I explain this? It's just going to search the memory rather than loading all of it into like, you know, an alarm. It's going to search it using standard like searching in computer science and coding, which doesn't cost you any money. Then if it finds something relevant, only then will it load that. So anyways, what we're going to do now again is just save solar MD and then same thing.

Restart the gateway from the terminal or in any way that you want. And we should be good to go here. We now have session initialization done. Now I can't really prove to you that this is going to work, but you should see that it reduces the context size. And now we're going to move on to the next feature, which is to set up a local heartbeat with alarm.

So a heartbeat is something that allows opencore to automatically run at a set time increment. So every 30 minutes, every 60 minutes, every two hours or whatever, most people have it set up to run like anywhere from 30 to 60 minutes. Now, what the heartbeat is doing is effectively pinging the current tasks that are happening inside of Open clone and just kind of telling them to continue. It's a very, very basic task that is does not require any level of like intelligence to complete. And by default, if we use an alarm provider.

So something like anthropic or open AI and we're sending a request every 30 minutes, we're just wasting money on these heartbeats because they're not really doing anything useful. But they're just like checking. Is there anything that needs to continue? Okay. Continue. Right. That's what a heartbeat is kind of doing.

So you can read this heartbeat as a scheduled check in that open call a sends to an AI model on a timer. By default, this would use your paid API credits. This step writes those check ins to a llama, a free AI that runs locally on your server that never costs you anything. So what we're going to do is we're going to install a llama. This allows you to run Lmms locally on your own computer.

And we are going to run a very lightweight, very easy to run model. Llama 3.2 on the computer that we can kind of delegate these heartbeat tasks to. Now, a lot of you might be saying it's, but okay, well, if we're going to run a local model, then wasn't the whole what's the whole point of this? Why don't I just use a local model the whole time?

The issue is that these local models that are capable of running on small veeps or even like my computer, like a huge computer that I have, are very limited in order to run these frontier models, which are the best, which are the ones you want running all of the time you require, like a massive amount of hardware that costs, you know, tens of thousands of dollars. So we can't run like Cloud Opus 4.6 on our own computer on a virtual private server. Unless you know more than me and you're not watching this video, right? So a llama is just used for these really light, easy tasks that we don't really need intelligence for.

We just need like a quick checkup and then everything else we still go to the, provider for because it provides the intelligence that we value that we're willing to pay for. Right. So anyways, what we're going to do is just follow these steps. So we're going to go into our server. What we can do is we can get out of the Docker container like we are, and we can run this command.

This command is going to install a llama for us. So curl FSL right. And then running a llama wait for that to finish. And then the next thing that we're going to do is just make sure a llama is installed. We're then going to start the llama service.

I'm going to fix this because it's a little bit messed up in the formatting. We're going to pull the llama model. We're just going to test it to make sure that it's working. And then we can configure the heartbeat in our open cloud, our Json. You can see the code snippet right here.

To use a llama every one hour or every 30 minutes or whatever, etc.. Okay. So that's how that's going to work. And let's wait for this to finish installing.

Looks like it was. Now you'll see that if you don't have a GPU, it says it's going to run in CPU only mode. That's fine. So we'll just run in CPU only mode. What we're going to do now, let me just look at my guide is make sure a llama is running.

So we're just going to type o llama okay. Now if a llama gives you any output that is good. That means it is running properly. You can press escape to quit out of that. And then like I said, we're just going to start the alarm a service and make sure that it's running.

So we're going to copy this first command. So system CTL start a llama okay. That's going to run a llama for us. We're then going to type system enable. So system CTL sorry okay CTL enable.

And then same thing. Oh llama okay perfect. And then if you want to check the status of it you can run this command right here. However you don't need to okay cool. Then we're going to pull the model.

So let's just separate this over here. So it's a little bit easier to see. We're going to say a llama pull llama. And then this is going to be 3.2 colon 3 billion.

3 billion by the way stands for the number of parameters you can install. One that is much larger than this with like 70 billion parameters. But you just won't be able to run that on CPU. Or you can, but it's going to take like forever to run. So there's no point.

So we're just going to pull this model here, which I think is like two gigabytes, which again, it's capable of running on CPU. Okay. We're now going to copy in the next command, which is a llama run llama 3.2 billion. And then we just put some quoted text like respond with only the word okay.

We're going to hit enter. And then we should see that it runs the local model. And ideally we're going to get the text okay let's give this a second to run. It says okay. And we can see that the model is working.

So you can now ask it anything that you want. But you'll notice that it's going to be kind of stupid if you ask it something like really complex, like let's say, what is the capital of Canada? And like I'm not even sure it's going to get that correct. Okay. It to get that correct. So actually that's surprising.

But some things it will give you really stupid answers. Sure. But again, that's fine just because we're using it for the local heartbeat. Okay. So now that it's a llama is installed on the server, what we need to do is go back to our open cloud, our Json, and we need to effectively just copy this heartbeat snippet that I have in the guide here and put it inside of the default section of our agents.

So if we go back to open cloud dot Json, I'll show you we have agents. Right. And then we have defaults okay. Now inside of default make sure it's inside of defaults. Otherwise it will mess up.

So you can find kind of at the bottom here we're going to put a comma and we're going to put the new section which is our heartbeat okay. So I'm just tabbing this in. So it's nicely formatted. And you can see we now have the heartbeat section again inside of the default section. So it comes right after the models that we have listed.

We've said we're going to use this model which is the local model that we have access to. Just put it session main target slack. This is like the channel that you would want it to apply in. So just leave that. And then for the prompt briefly check any blockers pending tasks or reminders.

You can change the heartbeat prompt to be anything that you want. And you can also just put it directly instead of this heartbeat.md file. Okay, so anyways, that's now going to run the heartbeat locally. So every one hour it will trigger alarm.

And this is completely free and now will not cost you anything. Whereas before if you had the heartbeat enabled it would use a default model, load all of the context stuff and cost you a bunch of money. So what we're going to do is again, just restarts the gateway. So let's go back to our restart command. Make sure that that is running.

And now we're going to move on to the next step, which is really where we're going to get a lot of the cost savings. All right. So next step is to quickly add some spending limits. And then to enable the prompt caching which again is one of the major things. So I have another prompt here which is related to spending limits.

This is something that we can just place inside of the solar MD, to instruct the model how it should deal with effectively. What happens if we go over a certain amount of money, if we hit a rate limit, etc.? So you can read this, but I'm just going to copy it from the guide and I'm going to go here to VS code. I'm going to go to solar MD and just after the other we call it sections here.

I'm going to paste this in. Now let's read it. Rate Limits and Budget rules API call pacing minimum five seconds between consecutive API calls to make sure we don't get rate limited to quickly. Minimum 10s between web research requests. After five web searches in a row, pause for two full minutes.

Task batching group similar tasks together. Daily spend target you can change this to whatever you want $10, $20, whatever. But notice it says at $3.75, notify the user before continuing at $5. Whatever monthly spend target $150, right?

Same thing. And then if you hit a rate limit, switch to the next available model in the fallback list. Note which model you switch to retry the same task on the new model. Tell the user what happened at the end of the session. Okay, so that if we hit a rate limit, which is very common, it knows now how to deal with it and it will switch to the other model.

Okay, cool. So we're going to get out of that. And now we're going to move to the next section which is to enable prompt caching. Now we're just going to read this explanation. But prompt caching lets the AI provider reuse your system prompts or sole users MD across messages in a session.

So instead of processing those files from scratch on every single message, the provider stores them after the first message and reads them from the cache on every message after at roughly 90% lower cost for the cached portion. So what this means is that there's a huge amount of context, right? That's being read in from open claw, that's being sent to the limit every single time. The salt MD always being sent right. User.md always being sent.

All of these memory files always being sent. If we enable caching, then as soon as we send it one time, the next time we read it, we effectively save, you know, ten times the amount that we normally would have. So if the first, you know, cost first run cost $0.10, the next run only costs $0.01 because it's cached.

So that's roughly the math. But by implementing caching you don't have to do any changes. No performance differences occur and you just immediately save a massive amount of money. So the way that we enable caching here is we add this params parameter or value inside of the model configuration in our open clogged Json. Now it's only worth doing this for the models that are larger.

So ones like 4.6 and sonnet 4.5 or sonnet 4.6. There's no need to do it on something like haiku because it's already so cheap.

So you can also change the cache so you can use short or long. So if you go short, it means the cache is held for approximately five minutes of inactivity. So if you stop using the model for five minutes, it will clear the cache, whereas if you use long it will hold it for one hour, which is much better. So for these larger models you can go with long, right. And then for the smaller models you can go with short.

So what I'm going to do is just show you how we would add this, but it's very easy. And again, as soon as you have this, you're going to see literally how much money you saved just by having the cache. And we can actually look at how much that cost in just a minute. So we're going to go now back to VS code. We're going to go to open cloud our Json.

We're going to find the models we want to cache. So open this one. Notice I add the comma here. And then I paste this in. And I have cache retention long for 4.6 I'm going to cache retention.

And then short okay. And for 4.5 same thing. We're going to go here and just make this short. We're then going to save okay.

So let's save all of that and then go back and restart the gateway. And there we go. We literally just added prompt caching there just to quickly show you this year it does cost you some money to write to the cache, as you can see here. However, when you read from the cache, you save a massive amount of money on the expenses. But the thing is, if we look at something like Cloud Haiku 4.5, it costs us so much to write to the cache,

but then it doesn't give us that much of a benefit from $1 to $0.10. So what we did with haiku is we disabled that, but with something like Opus and Sonnet 4.6 on a 4.5, you can see that we do value still writing to the cache.

So you can have a look at these, and you can see the other models to how those work. But generally speaking very cool, right? And just works well and saves us a bunch of money. So now that we have that, I'm just going to go right into the next, configuration changes here. What we're going to do is we're going to add context pruning.

Now what context pruning will do is as the session grows longer, the old tool outputs and pass messages, you know, they generally accumulate and they get sent with every new message, even when they're no longer relevant. So what we're going to do is we're going to prune the stale content after the cache. TTL stands for time to live window so that it doesn't bloat our cores so effectively. What this means is like after, in this case, 55 minutes, all of the old stuff that we're no longer using, we're going to prune that. So we not including it in the API requests.

Going forward, our requests going forward. So we save some money. Now, the way that we do that is we just add this context pruning section inside of the default section in our what do you call it vs code config. So we just go find defaults right. And then right below models doesn't matter where we put it, we can just paste it inside of here just as a new key context pruning.

And now if we save this you can see we are good to go. And again we just restart the gateway. And now context pruning will be enabled. And again it will start saving us some money. So let's now go back and we can just move to the next thing.

So I'm not going to do this right now. But if you want to monitor your cash performance by. After adding that, you can add a diagnostics section into your, what do you call it? Open cloud Json file. So this should be in the base level.

So as a sibling of agents and commands. And then I have a few other things in here like kind of troubleshooting that you can look at in the guide. But generally speaking that should be all of the performance optimizations you need to know. Save a massive amount of money. Now all of this is great.

However, you don't know if any of this is working unless you run what's referred to as a token audit, where you actually look through and see how many tokens you're spending and on what. So let me set up a quick demo so I can show you an example of a token audit. Okay, so I'm just asking the agent to generate a bunch of text so I can kind of start spending some tokens and show you how it works. But notice if you go to the usage tab inside of your open cloud gateway here, you will be able to it does take a second, usually to load see all of the usage that you've had in different sessions. So I think I need to like filter.

So I'm just going to press on today. And if I do that let's make this a little bit larger. And you can see the number of messages we sent. The tool calls, the errors, the average tokens for a message, the average cost per message in this case $0.02 per message, the throughput, the error rate, the cache hit rate, all of this kind of stuff.

So you can see right now already we're at a 99.9% cache hit rate, right. Which is very good. And then it shows us how much we're spending by the different token types. We have cache right.

Cache reads and then the total amount of output. Now in terms of seeing the exact cost is always going to be easier if you do that directly from the, what is it, the provider. But you can see that it says we've spent $0.51 on anthropic. Right.

And we had $0.41 on opus, 4.6, $0.10 on haiku 4.5.

And you get the idea. Okay. So you can switch between this, see all of the usage, which is very good. However, there's actually even better ways to do this. Now I just got it to do a bunch of stuff here.

But what we can do is we can type slash, and then there's a bunch of commands that we can run. Now the first command that we can run is slash status. When we do that, it will actually give us a status message which tells us what model it's currently using, how big the context window is, the number of actions, the run time. And we can see what's going on in the current session. So that's the slash status commit.

Now there's another command that you should be aware of which is slash context. And then list. Now what this is going to do is give you a list of all of the different characters and tokens that are being used by various different files, and what's actually included in the context that's being sent to your Lem provider when you're sending messages. So you can see in workspace we have this bootstrap file, this bootstrap max, the sandbox, whatever. And we have agents, soul tools, identity, user heartbeat, bootstrap memory.

All of these files here have a different amount of tokens. You can see it estimates the amount of tokens here. And these are being injected into all of the prompts that you're sending to your Lem provider. Now it also has a skill list, right? It has all the skills a tool.

This tool schema tool reads right. And then it shows you the total session tokens, which is 35,786. And the max context window is 200,000. And then you can see that it shows you this. And again, as I said, you can type slash status and it will show you the current tokens in tokens out the current cache hit rate, the context window, all of that kind of stuff.

If you want a detailed, more broken down list, you can type slash context and then detail, and this will give you something that's a little bit more detailed in terms of literally everything. With all of the tokens, if you really wanted to fine tune it, but generally just enabling the cache already is going to save you much money. Now, what you can also do, and I'm just pulling this from another guide that I'm not giving away for free right now, but that I'll release later. And this is essentially a token audit prompt that says, please give me a token usage and cost audit for this session. And recent sessions include current session summary per response breakdown, cost drivers, historical session summary, and recommendations so you can effectively just tell it, hey, go run all of this stuff and give me, you know, a detailed breakdown on everything that's going on with my actual cost and API usage.

And if you paste that in and hit enter, it will do that for you and you will be able to actually see, okay, am I spending a lot of money? You know, how much is the usage, all of that kind of stuff. But generally already at this point you should see a massive amount of reduction in cost purely because of the cache and also the model. What is it kind of switching where you're not relying on, what do you call it, these super heavy models? Now let's just quickly have a look at what it says here. Right.

So it says total token inputs 38,000 total output tokens 56 context usage, cache performance, estimated cost. And anyways, you get the idea. You can run this and you can kind of see how you can modify, you know, what it is that you're doing, how much it's costing, etc.. Now, even if you want, you can also just go in per API key.

You can view in, for example, cloud, OpenAI all of the different usage. You can see we used $1.30. Now that's a lot because we didn't have all of these things implemented. And you'll notice almost all of the usage is from opus, which I switched over to.

And just didn't switch back from. So just make sure you have the correct default model and that you only use these super heavy models when you actually need them, right? Which is the whole point of having that, what is it model routing implemented. Now of course there is more that you can do, but generally speaking, you should see a massive cost reduction by implementing these tools. Again, the guide is available from the link in the description.

But that's it guys I think I'm going to wrap up the video here. Again, one of the best ways to spin up and use Open Cloud is hosting. That's what I use for this video. You can see how easy it was to get up and running. If you guys want to get this up and running or have multiple open claw bots, then check it out from the link in the description and use my code tech with Tim.

I hope you guys enjoyed it and I look forward to seeing you in another video.