---
video_title: "Go Programming - Full Course"
video_id: V-lI7AmusGs
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-lI7AmusGs
video_date: 2026-02-12T18:18:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to this Go Programing Course. In this course you will learn all about the Go Programing language, starting at the basic features all the way up to more advanced features like threading and concurrency and go routines. This will cover a ton of aspects of the language, and by the end of this course, you'll be very comfortable to write code in Go.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00:00 | Golang Course Intro
  00:01:18 | Introduction to Go
  00:11:56 | Go Environment Setup
  00:23:14 | Binary Fundamentals
  00:35:07 | Data Types and Variables
  00:44:13 | Implicit Assignment
  00:51:48 | Console Output
  00:58:51 | Arithmetic Operators
  01:12:34 | Conditions and Conditionals
  01:16:32 | Switch
  01:21:48 | Looping (for and while)
  01:32:09 | Arrays
  01:42:48 | Slices
  02:00:53 | Maps
  02:10:31 | Functions
  02:24:57 | Structs
  02:39:23 | Interfaces
  02:50:43 | Error Handling
  03:05:41 | Generics
  03:18:48 | Pointers and References 
  03:47:00 | Threading and Concurrency
  04:03:39 | Go Routines
  
  Hashtags
  #GoProgramming #SoftwareEngineer #Coding2026
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
Welcome to this go programing course. In this course you will learn all about the go programing language, starting at the basic features all the way up to more advanced features like threading and concurrency and go routines. This will cover a ton of aspects of the language, and by the end of this course, you'll be very comfortable to write code in Go! Now this course is split into over 21 individual lessons. All of those are available to click into from the description down below, or the video player.

In terms of the chapters on this YouTube video. Now, while you can go through this course as a complete beginner, I would suggest that you have some fundamental understanding of another programing language. So something like Python, JavaScript, you know, any other language really will do. Because this does assume that you have some of the fundamental concepts understood, like what a variable is or what looping is, or what an if statement is. Of course it will go over the syntax in the go language, but it's not going to explain them as if you were a complete beginner.

Because this is meant to get you up to speed relatively quickly without going over some of the really, really basic stuff that I know most of you already know. Now, with that said, I will let you know that this course did used to be a part of a larger course that I was actually selling that was premium that you would have had to pay for. We've recently discontinued that course, and because of that, I'm going to be releasing some of the content for free on YouTube. So I hope you enjoyed this go programing course. I'll be going over backend development with go!

We're going to learn a new programing language in this section, as well as how we can write some back and services and then deploy those and eventually connect them to the front end applications that we were building in the first section. So with that said, let's dive into an introduction to go otherwise known as Golang. All right. So go or Golang. So go was designed at Google and was actually designed by employees at Google to kind of combat some of the frustrations they had with languages that they were using, as well as keep the performance of those languages.

You'll see what I mean in one second. But it was designed to have high performance, yet simple and easy to understand syntax. So the idea was at Google, they were using languages like C and C plus plus, which are notoriously difficult to write code in and to understand. However, those languages are very fast and very performant, and they wanted to maintain that level of performance while having a new language that would be easier to write in and easier to understand. So that's why they developed go.

Now go is a statically typed compiled language, which will make sense in just a minute, and it's useful for running performant backend services. Go is used primarily on the back end. You're not going to be using it to build user interfaces or entire websites or anything along those lines. It's really mainly a backend language. It's also great for networking and multiprocessing, and has some great features built into the language that makes it very easy to develop scalable applications.

Okay, so go use cases. Where would you use go? Why are we learning? Go well go is good for cloud and network services. It's good for command line interfaces which typically need to be very performant pieces of software for web development.

When I say web development, I'm talking about backend web development. So creating APIs, authentication services, anything that works in the back end, it's good for automation and DevOps and for building utilities and standalone tools. So you can see that all of these use cases here are kind of low level back end type features where you're not having a massive graphical user interface or anything along those lines. And typically what you'll do is connect, go with other languages. So they go is kind of responsible for all of the back end performance heavy tasks.

And then you have a front end language like JavaScript, which may be displaying a nice user interface and handling all of that. Now, before we go on to the next section, I'll quickly mention that the reason we're learning go here is because it's a very different language from JavaScript, which will allow us to get a good appreciation for different types of languages and how you write code in statically versus dynamically typed languages, which we're going to get into in a minute. So even if you're not considering becoming a backend developer, this is a really good language to learn. It's going to make you a better programmer, and it's going to allow you to see a bunch of features that we didn't really see very much in JavaScript that now will be very prevalent in go. So regardless, very good language to learn.

Hence why I put it here as the second language, a little bit more challenging than JavaScript, but it just introduces a bunch of new things that you haven't yet seen. And that's why we're teaching it. All right. Moving on. Different programing languages.

So there are various programing languages, each of which has its own use cases and language features. Now, one of the main features of languages we're concerned with is static and dynamic typing. Now language can either be statically typed or dynamically typed. Now we also care about how languages are compiled and interpreted. Now whenever we're looking at various programing languages, these all have different use cases, right?

No one language is just the best programing language. It depends on what you're doing. So JavaScript as we've seen, is very good for doing front end web development where we're building user interfaces, whereas go is going to be very good for backend development. So there's all these different languages. They fit into many different categories and classifications.

And your job as a programmer is not to say, oh, I'm only going to use this language. It's to use the best language for the job. And as you get better and better at programing, you'll learn many different languages and be able to switch between them very quickly and just use whatever one is going to be. The best for the specific task that you're working on. All right, moving on.

Let's talk about interpreters and compilers. So when we humans write code, we write something known as source code. So all of the code you've seen so far, this kind of human readable code that's in a programing language like JavaScript, Python, go, whatever it may be. This is known as source code. However, this source code can't be directly executed by our computer.

The point of the source code is that it's easy enough for us as humans to write, but machines computers can't really understand that. So what we need to do is we need to take this source code and convert this into another form of code that can be understand by our computer. Now, that type of code is typically called byte code or machine code or assembly. Okay. So before this code can be executed by our computer, it must first be converted into a language the machine can understand.

Don't worry about the name of that language. That's not something you'll look at or have to understand, but we have tools that do this for us. So there's a tool called a compiler. And what this does is transforms our source code into something called byte code that can then be directly ran by the CPU. So when we say a language is a compiled language, what that means is that we take the source code, we compile it into this new type of code, which is our byte code or machine code.

And then directly from the processor of our computer, we can execute that code, whereas an interpreter works a little bit differently. What an interpreter does is it transforms and executes our source code, one line at a time. So the compiler takes all of our code, gives us a new file, and that new file is what we can actually execute. The interpreter takes our source code and one line at a time. It converts that into code that can be understand by the machine and it executes it at the same time.

Now there's different implications here for using a compiler or an interpreter. And some languages actually use both. Regardless, what you need to understand right now is the JavaScript is an interpreted language, whereas go is a compiled language. So that means we're going to kind of run our code a little bit differently than we may have with JavaScript. So just to walk you through this again and kind of explain it a bit more in depth, what happens is we write our source code and then we need some way to execute this.

Now we're either going to run this through a compiler where it's going to be transformed into something that can then be understood by our CPU, or it's going to be interpreted where we don't need to compile it first, we just give it to the interpreter, and then it executes the source code one line at a time. Now, using a compiler typically means that you're going to have stricter rules in your programing language. That means that you need to define things like the types of variables, which we're going to talk about in a second. And there's a lot of errors that can be caught at compile time. Now, what that also means is that the compiler can perform a lot of optimizations on our code that allow it to be ran a lot faster than if we're passing it to the interpreter.

So imagine with our compiler, we're passing it this entire file. It's reading through the entire file, transforming it into this new format. And while it's doing that transformation process, it can optimize quite a few things and catch a lot of errors that we may not want to be caught at runtime. So compile time is obviously when you're compiling the code and runtime is when you're actually executing the code. Whereas with an interpreter, what happens is since we're not first compiling our code, it can be a lot slower to run our language through an interpreter because we need to not only compiler transform that code into something that can be executed, but it then needs to be executed directly.

That also means that a lot of times we're catching errors at runtime rather than compile time, which can make our programs a little bit more difficult to work with when they get larger and larger. So to summarize this a bit, compiled languages are typically a little bit stricter and are going to be faster to execute, whereas an interpreted language is typically a bit more dynamic. A bit more flexible, but it's oftentimes going to run a little bit slower and catch a lot of errors at runtime, which means you don't actually know you have an error until you execute the code, which can be a big problem in a lot of different use cases. Anyways, that's kind of the summary here on interpreters and compilers. We'll talk about this a bit more when we start actually compiling and running our go code.

Moving on. We have dynamic versus static typing. Now this is a property of all programing languages that are either dynamically typed or statically typed. And we usually want to know that before we start learning a language or working with it now. Dynamic or static typing refers to when and how the types of variables are decided.

So when a dynamically typed language, by the way, JavaScript is dynamically typed, variable types are decided at runtime, while in statically typed languages they're decided at compile time. Now what? That effectively means that when working in a language like JavaScript, we can change the type of a variable. And you've seen this. We can have something like var x equals one.

And then later on in the program we make it equal a string, we make it an object or we mutated or modified in some way. That's completely fine in a dynamically typed language, because the types of these variables are being decided as the code is running, which means we can change the types as we execute that code dynamically. Whereas in a statically typed language we actually need to define beforehand what type all of our variables are going to be. That means if I define, say, x and I make it equal to one, it can only ever store an integer or whatever the type was that we declared when we first made that variable. I can't later on go in the program and change the type of that variable to be a string, or to be a boolean that won't work and that will cause an error.

Now, if we continue here and kind of extrapolate this, we can imagine that since we know the type when we're compiling, some code like a statically typed language, that's actually one of the reasons we're able to perform a lot of optimizations on that code. If I know this variable is only ever going to be an integer, or only ever going to be a floating type value, then that means that I can do a lot of optimizations and make my code a lot faster to execute, whereas in my dynamically typed languages, if we're interpreting them, that means that we can't do those same optimizations because we're unsure of what the type of the variable is going to be. Now, this is a very high level kind of dumbed down explanation, but hopefully you get what I'm saying here. So we have dynamically typed languages and statically typed languages. And that has to do with when the types of our variables are decided.

JavaScript is dynamically typed and go is statically typed. All right. So with that said I'm going to wrap up the video here. That's all I wanted to discuss as a general introduction. To go.

Go is a great language. You're definitely going to enjoy it. It's a really great thing to have kind of under your belt and just to know a little bit about and it looks great in an interview and on a resume, when you have more than just one language that you know, you know, a statically typed language and dynamically typed language, and that means that you are able to program in a variety of different languages and pick up and learn new things a lot easier than someone that only knows a dynamically typed language or only knows a statically typed language. I'll be sharing with you how to set up your development environment for writing and executing go code. Now, to do that, the first thing we need to do is download and install go.

So go to go.dev. Click on download and you'll see that we have a few options here at the top which are the ones we're going to want to go for. So if you're on windows you're going to click on the MSI installer. If you are on the M1 or M2 Mac, you're gonna go with the Arm64.

If you're on an Intel Mac, this one and then Linux, you'll go with this one. There's a bunch of different options here, but you always want to go with the installer option. So if for some reason this page changes later on and you only have stable versions here. Go with the latest version and go with whatever is the installer. So in my case I'm going to click on the windows installer so I can do that from there or from up here.

I'll put that in my downloads, and then I'll run through the installer and show you what we need to do. All right. So I've just opened up the installer here. I downloaded it and then just double clicked on it. It's computing the space requirements right here.

Once that's done, it will walk through this and go through all of the steps. All right so it's done. We're going to click on next I do have a previous version of go. So I'll actually uninstall that and just install the new version just so I can walk through this installer with you. So accept the terms. Where do you want to install it.

The default location is fine unless you want to change that. Ready to install? Go. Yep. I'm going to go ahead and press install.

We'll give that a second to run and then be right back. All right so the installer is now finished. So I'm going to go ahead and click on finish. And what we'll do now is open up Visual Studio Code. And we're going to start actually developing or writing a go program inside of here.

And then seeing how we can compile and run it. Now actually the first thing we need to do here is make sure that we restart our Visual Studio Code if we already had it open during the go installation. That's because ghost should have added the go command to our system path, which will allow us to type go here inside of our terminal. Now for me that works because I already had go installed, but if you don't, you might see this command doesn't work. So restart your Visual Studio Code once you restart it, kind of like reopen it.

Get into some directory where you want to write your first go program, and then we're going to do that in just one second. All right. So I did just restart my VS code. Just make sure I have the latest version. And for all of you what you're going to do in VS code is you're just going to open up your terminal here and you're just going to type in go and just make sure that command gives you some output.

If that command doesn't work, then likely what's happening is go has not been added to your system path. Now this is a little bit of a complicated error. It's actually pretty well impossible for me to explain how to fix it in this video, what you'll need to do is just Google how to add go to your system path or two path on and then whatever operating system you're on. So on windows, it's going to be different from Mac. On Mac it's going to be different from Linux.

For 99% of you, this should just work automatically. But if it doesn't, that means go is not added to your path and you need to add it. So again, that's kind of the error. Well, you'll need to look up is how to add go to path. And then whatever your operating system is follow through a few tutorials and you should be able to get that added.

Again, apologies that I can't show that to you here, but it just depends on your environment and a million different factors. Okay, now that we have go installed, what we're going to do is write a very simple go program. To do that, I'm just going to open up a new file here in VS code. I'm in a directory by the way called go. You can do this anywhere you want.

And for now we'll just call this kind of demo dot go. Now the extension for go is going to be Dot go. Now that reminds me that what we can do here in VS code is we can go and install the Go extension. So if you click the extensions pane here and go to go install this here. And it will give you a few more features in Visual Studio Code which are nice like close that you can see already have this installed.

Okay, so now that we have the Go extension installed and we have a go file, we're going to write our first Go program. To do that, we're going to begin by declaring a package main. Then after package main we're going to say import FMT. And then we're going to create a function called main. And instead of main.

What we'll do here is say FMT dot print line. And then we're going to print hello comma world exclamation point. This is our first go program. Now let's break this down here. And then I'll show you how we can write.

So every time we create a kind of go file here, we need to have an extension go. And then we need to declare package main. Now we can have different packages and modules. I'm not going to get into that right now. But whenever we're creating kind of an individual file that we're going to be executing, we always put package main, then we're importing FMT.

Now this package allows us to actually output things to the console. So you can see that I've used FMT print line or print LN which stands for print line. Then I have a function. This function is called main. I open my curly braces and inside of the curly braces I put the body of the function.

Now it's important that you call this function main, because go is going to look for an entry point to your program, which is the function main. So anything I put inside of here is automatically going to run any time I run this go file. If I call this something like main with a capital M, then you'll see the will actually get an error when we try to run our code. Okay. So let's go ahead and see how we run an execute this so we can talk a little bit more about our go program. So to do this is quite simple.

We need to get in the directory where our file is. In that case it's the go directory. And we need to type go run. And then whatever the name of the file is in this case it is demo ago. When I do that you'll see that it's actually going to compile the code in the background and then execute that code.

It takes a second and it spits out hello world. Now the reason that took so long is because what this go run command is doing is creating a temporary compiled file of this program. Then it's running that compiled file using our CPU. It's kind of doing two steps in one. However, we have another command that can just build the compiled file.

And then we can directly execute that file if we want. So most time we're just going to use go run. However we have the ability to say go build. And then the name of the file which is demo go. When I do that notice it creates an X file for me.

If you're on Mac or Linux, you're going to get a different file actually. But on windows we get an X. And then if we want to run that x, I just type the name of that file which is demos X and it executes it instantly. Right. You can see how fast that's happening now once we've actually compiled that code.

So let me just break this down a little bit for us because this is going to be different depending on operating system. So if you're on windows, everything I just did will probably work for you. If you're on Mac or Linux it's going to work a little bit differently. So again, what Go Build is doing is actually building a compiled version of this go code. But that compiled version is based on the operating system that you're on.

So if you're on Mac or Linux, you're going to get a slightly different file that can only be executed by the Mac operating system or the Linux operating system. So to execute that file you're going to type dot slash. And then the name of the file, which is probably just going to be demo. It might have a dot associated with it or some other extension, but most likely it's not going to have an extension at all. It will just be something like that.

So you'll see the file pop up here. In that case you just run dot slash whatever the name of the file is. It's then going to execute that file for you. So again that's if you're on Mac or Linux. After you ran that build command.

Now the great thing about this, executed file here, this what do you call it? Sorry, compiled file is that I can actually take this file and I can give this to whoever I want. So I could give it to my mom, my brother, anyone else who's running a windows computer, and they'll be able to execute it without having go installed on their computer. So when we installed go, we were installing some command line tools for go that allow us to compile and build go applications. Once we have them compiled, then anyone on the same operating system as us can execute these files without setting up their environment.

So this is different than something like JavaScript with JavaScript. If I want to execute that, I need to have a browser. I need to maybe have Node.js. Depending on the script that I have, I have to do a little bit of setup here with go, all I need to do is just run the executable file that I'm given and it will execute that program.

So hopefully this makes a little bit of sense. But depending again on what operating system you're on you'll get this compiled file. You can then pass that to anyone you want. And as long as you're on the right operating system, you'll be able to execute it without having go installed. Okay, so now that we've talked about compiling and running our go code, let's quickly have a look at some errors we can run into.

And then we'll move on to the next video. So for example let's see what happens here if I actually comment out this line. So notice if I comment this out. All of a sudden I start getting this kind of red highlight says FMT is imported but it's not used. Now I'm just going to save my file.

So save that formatting and I'm going to try to run my go code. So go run demo DGO. Now notice it actually doesn't allow me to run this go code. It says FMT is imported but it's not used. Now. This isn't something that really would cause an error, right?

Like typically we'd be able to import something and just not use it. But in go that's actually not allowed. We can't even get to a compiled file. If I try to even say go build and then demo dot go, it won't even allow me to compile this. So the compiler is catching an error for me and telling me, hey, you imported this, but you didn't use it.

So if you want to be able to run your code, you need to either remove it or actually use it. So that's why if I start using it here all of a sudden, that will work. Now we'll also see that if I change this to say, capital M, for example, and we clear this and let's actually do like main to and then I go ahead and run this, we get an error. It says function main is undeclared in the main package. So again same error occurred here.

I tried to compile my go program but I couldn't do that because there was an issue where I don't have that main function. So you're seeing already that a language like go is going to be a lot more strict than a language like JavaScript, and it's going to catch a lot of the errors or bugs that you have before you actually get to a runtime environment. So in most cases here, when you're working with go, you won't actually be able to execute code that's going to have a bug or issue in it. Obviously that can happen and that will happen in some instances. But most times the compiler is going to be almost your friend here and catch all of those errors for you before you end up compiling that code.

I just wanted to quickly demonstrate that to you. Will obviously see more examples as we go and write real go programs, but I just wanted to get you kind of familiar with go see how the compiler and the interpreter works and get your first go program up and running. I'll be giving you a quick overview of the binary numbering system. Now, the reason we need to do this is because in the next video we're going to look at data types and variables. And it can be very confusing to understand the different data types in go.

If we don't have some kind of fundamentals or basis of understanding of binary. Now binary is just a different numbering system. It's not overly complicated. In about 10 or 15 minutes I can actually teach you everything you need to know about it to understand the different types that we'll be using in go. So let's start here.

And I actually want to begin by talking about the base ten numbering system, which is the numbering system that we're used to using. So in base ten that's the numbering system we use. You might not know it as base ten, but that's really what it is. We know how to write numbers right. And we can write numbers that have the digits zero through nine.

Now the reason why we have these available digits is because the base of our numbering system is ten, meaning there is ten different values that we can have for every single column in our numbers. So if I write out a number like 374, we see that this has three different columns. Now, I know you've learned this in elementary school, but I'm just going to go back to the basics so we can then apply this to base two. So we have the first column the second column and the third column. You may refer to this as the one, the tens and the hundreds column.

Now what that actually means is that to determine the value of the number, what you'll do is you'll take each column and you'll multiply it by the base of the numbering system to a specific exponent. Now in this case we'll say this is id zero, ID one and ID two or index zero, one and two. If I want to calculate the value of this number I take my one column. So I take four and I multiply that by ten to the exponent zero which is one right. If I want to calculate the value of this column which is going to be 70, I take seven.

And I'll need a bit more space here. So it's kind of draw this over here I take seven and then I multiply this by ten to the exponent one. Because this is the tens column that gives me 70. I then go here to three. I do the same thing three multiplied by ten to the exponent two which is 100.

And that gives me 300. And then to calculate the whole value here, I just add all these numbers together and I get 374. Now in our case we can just read the number directly as it is because we're working with base ten. And we just know that numbering system. But the exact same thing I just showed you here can be applied to any base numbering system.

So let's clear the whole screen here and let me show you now with binary and some other numbering systems. So we have multiple systems. We have base ten which is known as decimal. We have base two which is known as binary. We have base eight which is known as octal.

And we have base 16 which is known as hexadecimal. Now I'm not going to get into the other numbering systems. We're just going to look at binary. But in a binary numbering system we have base two. Now base two means that we have two digits.

We can use zero and one. Whereas if we were working in say base eight we'd have seven digits. Right. Or sorry, eight digits zero through 716 would actually be zero through nine plus a through F, where a through F represent, the extra six here that we can't fit in our digits. So just want to quickly kind of show that to you. Okay.

Back to base two. So with base two we can write numbers that include the digits 0 or 1. So if I write a number like 10010 this is a binary number. Now if we know that's a binary number we can actually calculate the value of this number in base ten quite easily. The way we do that is again we can label our columns zero, one, two, three and four.

And just like we do in base ten, kind of unknowingly, we'll do that here explicitly in base two. So I take my first column and I raise two to the exponent zero, and I multiply it by the digit value which is zero. I take my second column to the exponent one and multiply it by one. Then I have two to the exponent two. Multiply that by zero to the exponent three.

Multiply that by zero, and then two to the exponent four and I multiply that by one. Now what that gives me is the following. So two times one is two two to the exponent four is what is that 248 16. So we get 16. We take 16 plus two and that gives us 18.

And that's the value of this binary number. Don't worry I'll go through a few more examples. But you can see that all we're doing is we're looking at all of the columns from right to left. We're giving them some kind of index. We're just counting right, zero, one, two, three, four.

And then we're taking the base of our numbering system, raising it to the exponent of whatever the ID of the column is, and then multiplying that by whatever the value is in this case we're only ever having 1 or 0, which makes it quite easy for us. So here we get 18. Let's go through another example. All right. So we've got another example here.

We'll begin by just labeling our columns just to make this nice and easy for us. Eventually you don't need to do this. But for now I'll just make it nice and visual. And now we know that any of the zeros. Well, that's not going to result in any value.

So we can kind of skip doing these ones. And instead we'll just do where we have all of the ones. So we can start in this first column here where we have a zero. So that's going to be and I'll kind of just write it from left to right here. Two to the exponent zero multiplied by one is equal to one okay.

So we have one for this digit right here we can give that a checkmark. All right. Next we have this one. So we have two to the exponent one multiplied by one is equal to two okay. That one's done.

Now we know these three are done because they're all going to be zero. Now we move on to this one. All right. So now that's two to the exponent five multiplied by one which is equal to. And I believe that this is going to be 32.

Then we can check these off. Now we go over to six. So when we're at six we get two to the exponent six multiplied by one which is equal to 64. And then lastly we have two to the exponent seven multiplied by one which is equal to 128. Okay.

So now we need to add all of these together. So we have 128 plus 64 plus 32 plus two plus one. I'm not exactly sure what that's equal to off the top of my head, but I'll quickly sum it up and then let you know. All right. So that is equal to 227.

So we can see this binary number means 227 in decimal. Okay. So I just showed you very quickly how you can convert from a binary number to a decimal number. Now that we've seen kind of the basics of binary here, I want to talk about a few properties of binary numbers and something known as bits and bytes. So let's erase all of this.

So if we have a binary number, every single column in this number is referred to as a bit. And the bit can either be 0 or 1. But the more bits that we have, the larger numbers we can represent, whereas the fewer bits, the smaller numbers we can represent fairly straightforward. So we have bits. We also have bytes. Now a byte

is simply equal to eight bits. So if you hear someone say oh I have eight bytes, all that means is that they have eight multiplied by eight bits. So they have 64 bits okay. So one byte is equal to eight bits. Just make sure you understand that because that can become important.

All right. So we have bytes and we have bits. Now the reason I'm telling this to you is because in go and in many different languages we'll be defining variables like int 32. Now what this 32 component represents is the number of bits that we have in our number. So we need to know by having 32 bits what is the range of numbers that we can represent and how many numbers can we represent with this value.

Because we also could have int 8 in 16 in in 64. And all of these variables essentially take up a different amount of space. And we want to use the least amount of space that we possibly can. All right. So let's begin here.

We have something like eight bits. What is the maximum number of values that we can represent. So how many different numbers can we represent with eight bits. Well the answer is simply two. So the base of our numbering system raised to the exponent eight which is 256.

So if you want to figure out the number of values you can represent, you simply take the base of your numbering system, which in this case is two. And you multiply it by the number of bits that you have. So in this case, we have 256 unique values that can be generated when we have eight bits. If we had 64 bits then we would get a very very large number right for the number of values that we can represent. So that's the idea here.

When you're trying to determine essentially the maximum number of unique values. Now my next question after this though is what is the range of values that you can represent. Because the range of values and the number of values are different. When I talk about number of values, I'm talking about the discrete number of unique values. The range means up to what maximum and down to what minimum.

Now the range of numbers with eight bits is actually going to be 0 to 255. Now you may notice that that's simply one less than the number of unique values. The reason for that is that we have this zero right. So if we have 1 to 255, that's 255 values plus the zero that gives us 256 unique values. So if you want to determine the range of values, you're going to say the maximum is equal to two to the number of bits, which in this case is eight minus one.

And then the minimum in this instance will just be zero. So max is 255 and the minimum is zero. All right. So hopefully that makes sense. Try to remember that because we're going to need to kind of use those properties as we get further into binary.

Now I want to talk to you about something known as signed binary numbers. So so far everything I've been showing you is just positive numbers, right? That whole kind of equation that I walked you through only works when we have positive values. But we need to represent negative values in our computer as well. Now when we use negative values, what we need to do is change our binary number a little bit.

So let's say we have 11001. Now I actually want to make this a negative value. Well the way I do this in my computer program is I add an additional bit here, which is referred to as the sine bit. Now that was a horrible way of writing sine, but you get the idea. The sine bit, if it's one that equals negative okay.

And if it's zero that equals positive. So fairly straightforward. It does kind of change this a little bit. We're not going to get into all the details of negative and positive binary numbers. But the idea is you have this one bit at the beginning of the number.

And that bit tells you if the number's negative or if it's positive. So in this case this would be a negative number because we have the sine bit equal to one. If it was equal to zero then it would be positive. Now when we have signed integers or signed binary numbers, what that means is that the range of values that we can represent changes. So let's say now again we have maybe eight bits.

Okay. So something like this. Well if this first bit is being used as the sine bit, that means that no longer am I able to represent a maximum of 255, because I've removed one of my bits that is used for the value, and now I only have seven value bits. So what I need to do if I want to figure out the minimum and maximum when I'm using a signed binary number, non unsigned binary number is, I do the following. I take my base, I raise it to the number of bits minus one, and then I subtract one.

And that's going to be equal to my maximum. However, my minimum is going to change. Now my minimum is going to be negative two to the exponent eight minus one. Like this. So in this example what that results in is a minimum value of -128 and a maximum value of 127.

Now keep in mind here that the total number of values we can represent hasn't changed. It's still two to the exponent eight which is 256. So using eight bits I can represent 256 unique values. But if I use one of my bits as a sine bit, then that means that my range changes. And now I can represent negative values as well.

So I get -128 to 127. If I went up one more bit, then that would be -256 to 255. Okay. And you just keep kind of repeating this process here as you add additional bits. So hopefully that makes sense.

I don't want to get into all the rationale for this. But essentially when you remove one of the bits from the value, then it changes the maximum value you can represent. Because obviously now you are using a sine bit. So you need to know if you're using signed integers or unsigned integers, or in this case sine binary numbers or unsigned binary numbers to know what the value of this binary number is going to be. Because again you may have this sine bit.

Now, just as a note here, throughout the rest of this go section, I'm going to go a little bit faster than I went in the JavaScript section, just because a lot of this will be repetitive, and it will really just be showing you the new syntax or kind of new ways of doing things here in go. Anyways, with that said, let's get into our data types. So first of all, let me just comment this out here. By the way, a comment is two slashes just like in JavaScript. And to do the multi-line comment is the same as JavaScript.

So that's not new. Anyways, let's go through the data types that we have. So we have first of all the new int data type. Now you int stands for unsigned integer. Now we have a bunch of different variants of this type.

So you int just by typing this is going to default to the UNT 32 or to the UNT 64 type. Now this depends on the value that you're storing inside of the UNT. We can talk about that later on. But for now, understand that what will happen is it will automatically go to the 32 or to the 64 type. Now, remember I told you in the previous video that when we see something like a 32, that means 32 bits.

So if we're looking at a UNT 32 type, that would mean that the minimum possible value we can represent is zero, and the maximum value is two raised to the exponent 32 minus one. And the total number of values is two raised to the. If we can type in this symbol correctly 32 okay. So this is the unsigned integer. Now we have starting at UNT eight to 16 to 32 to the 64 type okay.

And there's no 128 or anything higher than that. You can go 816, 3264. Those are the only options that you have now is there you went for actually no there's not. Okay. I just want to make sure.

Anyways that is our unsigned integer. And notice we kind of go up by bytes. Okay. So we're kind of doubling every single time a power of two. Now other than you int we have the int type.

Now int stands for signed integer meaning we can represent negative values. So unsigned integer only positive int either positive or negative values. Now just like our you int if we just use the int type then that's going to default to the int 32 or to the int 64 type. However, we can also explicitly set the type by saying int 8 in 16 32 or 64. Now if we're looking at something like the int eight, that means the minimum possible value we can represent is negative two raised to the exponent seven, and the maximum value is two raised the exponent seven minus one, whereas the total number of values is two raised to the exponent eight.

Okay, so that is it for our uint and for our int. Again, use uns when you only want to have positive values and use int when you want positive or negative. The default types int and you int default to either 32 or 64. A lot of times you'll just type in int. You won't actually write out, say, the 32.

Next we have a float value. So we have float 32 or float 64. Now the most common one to see is float 64. Here this is the one you're going to use most of the time. But what this means is that you have a decimal or floating point value.

So in our int and you int we can't store decimal values can only be an integer which is a round number right. Or a whole number okay. Whereas float 64 I could store something like 1.23 whatever 12.342 whatever.

And the 64 is the number of bits we're using to represent this value. Again 32 same thing. All right. So that is our float. Beyond that we have the byte type.

Now the byte type is equivalent to the int eight type okay. So eight bits one byte meaning by type is simply equal to int eight. So there's synonymous. There's certain instances where you typically will write byte as opposed to something else. But byte can be used to store a number. So one byte.

Or you can actually store a character with it. So if I'm going to use a character in my byte type I use single quotation marks. So something like this. Now I can store an individual character which can be represented by one byte. Next we have the run type.

Now the run type stores the int 32 value okay. So run is equal to int32 and our byte is equal to int eight. Again you can use them synonymously. We then have the boolean type. This is either going to be the value true or false.

Straightforward. That's what you can store in your boolean. Next we have a string. The string is going to be anything inside of double quotation marks. Note here that you're not using single quotation marks.

You are using double quotation marks only okay. So unlike JavaScript where you can use either single or double for strings and go, it's only going to be double quotation marks. And then we have this nil type which is kind of equal to undefined or no okay. So really it'd be more equivalent to know in JavaScript nil kind of meaning none, non-existent, etc..

There's a few other types, but we don't need to look at those right now. All right, I'll recap the types in just a second. But for now, let's have a look at how we create different variables using these types. So just like in JavaScript we have two types of variables we can make. We can use var which will give us a variable that can change this dynamic.

So we can actually update its value. Or const which is a constant variable that cannot change. All right. So let's actually start by just creating a variable. So we make a variable and go we're going to say var.

We're going to define the variable name which follows the same naming rules as JavaScript. So we do something like x. Then we're going to declare the type that we want this variable to be. Now this is where the static typing comes in. So I say var x.

And if I want this to be a string I type string. And then I can say this is equal to hello world. Now I actually don't need a semicolon here. Okay there you go. We've just declared a variable named x.

The type of this variable is a string. And then we can assign a value to it if we want. We don't need to assign a value. I can just put var x string. And then what will happen is that this will be equal to the default value for a string, which is going to be an empty string.

Now we'll have a look at this in one second. In fact you can see here if I highlight over x it says x is declared but it is not used. Now this is a compiler error. Meaning if I try to compile my code right now, it's actually not going to work. It's going to error out because of this issue.

So what I need to do is I need to use this variable. So I can say fmt print line. And then I can print x. And now our program should actually compile. Now excuse me if I keep adding semicolons.

You don't need them in go but I'm just used to it from JavaScript. Okay. So let me actually, build this here. So go build demo.com.

You can see it builds and then we can run our program demo dot x and nothing happens. The reason nothing happens is because I declared, x as a string type here. And when I do this without assigning a value, what happens is x will be equal to by default the empty string, which means we don't see anything. But I could do something like hello. And now if I do this, let's go actually go run and then demo dot not exceed demo dot go.

You'll see that we get. Hello. Okay, so that's the basics on declaring a variable. Now obviously we can use different types. So I could do something like a you int int32.

Now notice if I do a u in 32 here. Now all of a sudden we get an error and it says cannot use hello as you int 32 because hello is a string type. So instead we need to use a value that's going to be a UN type. So in this case I could do something like 12. Again if I try to do -12 we get an error because we can't store a negative value inside of this new int type.

Now don't worry, there's easier ways to declare variables. You don't always have to do this. But for now we're just looking at it in this way. Now let's change this actually to be something like you int eight. And let's try to store of value like a thousand.

Notice when I do that I get an error here. It says cannot use a thousand untyped int constant as you int eight value in variable declaration overflows. That might not mean a lot to you, but essentially what this is saying is that a thousand is too large to store inside of the UNT eight type, because we don't have enough bits to represent this value. But we can go up to something like 100. That'll be fine.

And if we run here, we can print out 100. Okay, so that's the basics. On declaring a variable you do var whatever the name is, then the type. And then you make that equal to whatever you want. If you don't set it equal to something you get the default value for that type, which usually you can guess in this case for you int it's going to be zero.

For an int it's going to be zero for a boolean. It's going to be false. For a string type it's going to be an empty string okay. And you can kind of go through the rest of those and you'll see what the default types are now as well as creating variables here we can create constants. So if I do something like const x unt eight I can make this equal to something like I don't know let's go to here.

And now if I run my code you can see that we print out two. And that's fine. All right. So that is the constants I don't think we need to go through those. Obviously that just means we can't change this value.

Whereas if we use the var keyword then we are able to change x and set it to be equal to something else. Okay. I don't think there's much more for me to go through in this video. I just wanted to show you how you declare variables and the different types that we have here inside a go. Don't worry if you don't have all of the memorized.

We'll continue to learn more about them as we go through the rest of this section and see some more go code. Now this is a special operator in go allows us to declare variables more quickly without having to explicitly define their type. Now let's talk about implicit versus explicit. So right now what I'm doing with this variable here is I am explicitly defining its type. It's explicit because I'm writing it out.

You can actually see it here right. I say var x under eight equals two. I'm setting manually the type of this to be uint8. However we don't have to do that. We can actually use another operator and go called the implicit assignment operator which will assign a variable.

And then it will decide what the type of that variable is still at compile time, but based on the value that's being stored. Now this can save you a significant amount of time when you're using more complicated types that we'll look at later. So to use the implicit assignment operator you declare variable something like y. And then you say colon equal to. And then whatever value you want to store.

In this case I want to store three. Now I'll just print it out so we don't get the error here saying we're not using it. So you can say x and y. But notice this is completely fine. Now what happens here behind the scenes is when go reads this line during compile time, it looks at the value the Y's store and says, okay, what is the type of this value?

Well, in this case go will assume that the type is an int. So it will say that y is going to be the int type storing the value three. Now I'll show you how we look at that type in one second. But we are now implicitly defining this variable. So again it still has the static type.

If I go down here and try to change it say y equals hello here we're going to get an error. The reason we get an error is because we can't change the type to a string, right. It's going to be an int value by default which is what it's saying right here. Now if I highlight over this you can see that it's saying int. So it's just implying what the type is by looking at the value that we have.

Now it's not always clear what the type is going to be. But again you can just highlight over it and you'll see exactly what the type is. Okay. So we have x and y and let's get rid of x here which again is the explicitly defined variable. And let's just use y.

Now I'm going to change this to say print f. And I'm just going to print something out that's not going to make a ton of sense is going to be t comma y. Now what this is going to do is simply print out what the type of the variable is. When I do this you see that we get an int okay. So it defined that as an int.

Now let's set this equal to zero. See what we get. Again we get an int. Let's do something like 2.3.

Here we're going to get a float 64 not 3264. We can do something like false okay. We're going to get a boolean. Now what else can we do here. Not too much.

That's pretty much all the types that I showed you so far. Anyways, you get the idea. Okay, so we can implicitly assign variables using this operator. Now, you might be asking yourself the question. All right, well, when should I use this versus when should I use this kind of var declaration.

Well, the only time you should be explicitly defining variables is when you want to not actually assign a value to them. So what I mean by that is we have a variable say var number. Maybe this is an int 32, but you don't actually want to give it a value. If that's the case you can just write the variable like this. And now you've declared okay I want to have a variable number, I want it to be in 32.

And I'm going to assign a value to it later on. So you could come here and say number is equal to ten. Right now we'd still have to use this variable. That's why it's giving us the error. But you get the point okay.

We're able to do this with the explicit, kind of declaration of the variable. Whereas I can't do that with a variable like y using the implicit assignment. Because for implicit assignment to work we need to have a value on the other side. Okay. So that's pretty much when you use explicit.

Otherwise you just always use this implicit assignment. Operator. This is the one we're going to use 90% of the time. Again a few scenarios where you need to do it explicitly, but in a lot of cases you just do it implicitly using this operator. Now we also have the ability to kind of set with the type is within the implicit operator.

So for example, you saw when we did zero we got the int type. But maybe we want to have the UN type. Well if that's the case what I can actually do here is something called a typecast. Now a typecast is when I take whatever the type is that I want to convert a value into, and I simply write it. And then I kind of write the function definition here and pass a value inside.

Now when I do this, if I run my code, I get you int okay. Now I can do this with something like unit 32. That's going to work completely fine. And I can typecast different variables. I could even go here and say x colon equals two.

And then something like int 64 of y. Now as long as I use x here. So let's pass that in. Even though that's not really going to work properly. You'll see that now we get you INT 32. Okay.

Well actually sorry we should have got in 64 but we weren't really printing out X. Don't worry too much about the statement. Regardless, just trying to show you that you can use this typecast syntax. Now just as a note here, there's some instances in which our typecast is not going to work exactly as we expected. So to show this to you, I'm just going to change the example a little bit.

We'll go print line. We're going to print XY and we're just going to declare these in a different order. So x colon equal to. And let's go with negative nine and say y colon equal to. And then we want to do the UNT of x.

Now if I do this everything might look okay. Right now we're not getting any errors on the screen. However when I actually go and run my code here and print out X and y, look at the values we get. So we get negative nine and then we get this massive value here. That is definitely not the conversion of negative nine to a UNT right.

You might think, oh we're just going to get nine here. No that's not how it works. Now the reason that's not how it works is because we're trying to squeeze a signed integer into an unsigned integer, variable. And we can't do that. Right. That's not going to work.

What's going to happen is we're going to get the equivalent of this as an unsigned integer. But that's not going to be meaningful to us. So you have to be careful when you're doing these conversions. Because sometimes you can convert from different sized variables or different typed variables. And you get an unexpected result.

Now we're going to look at this more when we get into arithmetic operations. But I just wanted to kind of hint at this to you and show you what happens if you do this. Now another example could be trying to convert this to a smaller size int like an int eight. For example, if I go here and change this to -1000, and then I try to convert this to an int eight which isn't large enough to store this value. You see here that what we get is 24.

We're getting a positive 24. That doesn't make a lot of sense. Well, the reason why we're getting that is because here we have 32 or 64 bits. And then we're going down to using eight bits. So we just can't store the same information.

So we get kind of this weird value of 24. Now again we'll talk about this in future videos. Just trying to show you what happens here when you use these type conversions. Okay. So I think with that said that's going to start to wrap up this video as a quick summary.

You have explicit and implicit assignment where declaration of variables. You pretty much only use explicit assignment or declaration when you're trying to create a variable that doesn't yet have a value. Again, the example is something like var number int like that. If you do this, you create a variable number that has the default value of int which is equal to zero. And then you can use it later on.

That's pretty much the only scenario where use that again a few others, but they're not very common. Otherwise use the implicit assignment where you're going to imply what the type is based on the value you assign to. Sometimes you'll want to have a different type. If that's the case, you can do a cast. So I can cast any value something like int eight and then put zero in here.

And now this will be of type int eight. We want that to be a u int. Then again you int eight. And then that type will be a unit. So what we're going to focus on here in this video is this FMT package.

And this FMT package stands for format. And this is what we use to well format our output and to create specific strings. And we've already seen that we can use this print ln. And I showed you this print f previously. Now print l n stands for print line.

And it says print line formats using the default formats first operands and rights to the standard output. Now what this allows us to do is exactly what the console dot log allows us to do in JavaScript. So we can place a string something like hello, maybe two. We could place a variable if we had one defined. So let's go x colon equals to false and it will print this out.

It will automatically move us to the next line. So if I run this you see that we get our output. Now notice here that we get this blank line at the end of the output. The reason for that is print line will automatically print an escape character, which is this backslash n, which will force us to go to the next line after it's printed. And it will automatically add spaces between all of the different arguments that we place inside of here.

So very straightforward, very easy to use now as well as print line, we have something known as print F. Now print F stands for print formatted. And this allows us to print out specifically formatted strings. And this is what we used in the previous video. But what I can do here is something like T now I'm doing a capital here.

And the present stands for essentially a special character. And then afterwards I can pass arguments that will correspond to all of the different kind of characters or special characters that I have inside of my string. So view this first string here is kind of the template or the format string, and then everything afterwards is an argument that will be passed into that string. So in this case x we pass this percent percent T stands for type. So it will print out the type of x which in this case is a boolean.

Okay. Straightforward. Now if we want to have more than one character we just add another one. And now I could do something like x x. And if I run this I get bulbul.

Now if I add a space here then we will get bool space bool okay. So this is one of the many symbols. There's like hundreds them that you can use inside of here. But I'll show you a few other ones as well. So other than percent T which gives you the type which can be useful, we can also do something like percent v.

Now percent v just stands for value. This is going to be the default value. Whatever would be printed by print line. That's what this is going to do here. So I can put percent v and now I get false.

And I can do something like the value of x is colon and then percent v. And you can see that this is kind of how I embed variables inside of my string. Unlike the way we do it in JavaScript. Now let's continue. Other than percent v we have access to percent b.

Now percent B is actually going to print out the binary representation of a value. So if we do something like seven, you'll see that we get the binary 111. Okay. Not sure why you would want to do that, but that is an option other than percent B we have access to percent. So let's say we have a value that has a ton of different kind of decimal places here.

This will actually print out the scientific notation of this value. So if I run this here you can see that we get the scientific notation straightforward. Continuing we have access to f. Now f stands for float. This is just going to print out the floating representation of the value, which is what it's doing right here.

You can see it's kind of rounding it a little bit. Continuing we have percent s. This stands for string. So this will just be used to print out the string representation of something. In this case if we do hello.

You see that we get hello. We also have access to formatting some of our different strings here and values that we have. So for example maybe I have 7.8762. And I want to format this and maybe only print out the first two decimal places.

Well I can actually do dot to f. This stands for give me two levels of precision or two decimal places of precision for my float. So now if I run this, you can see that we get 7.88. So it actually rounds up for me now as well as just dot two f.

We can actually add the level of spacing that we want. I know this seems a bit weird, but I can do something like 10.2 F. And now what will happen is you'll see that it will actually move our number over such that this number takes up a total of ten spaces, kind of in the printed output or in the row here. There's a ton of other formatting options we can use.

Last one I'll show you is what happens if we actually want to include a percent. So maybe I want to have the percent sign. Well if I just do percent this isn't going to work. I need to do a double percent. So if I do 2%, that actually gives me the percent sign itself.

Beyond that, we can also embed escape characters. So maybe I wanted to have this inside of quotation marks. Well, if I wanted to do that, I'd have to escape the quotation mark with my backslash, just like we do in JavaScript. So now if I run this, you see that that works. If this ever compiles and we get the quotation mark appearing here okay.

That's the basics on print F again, when you want to do any kind of special formatting, there's all kinds of options. Feel free to look them up. I'm not going to go through anymore. All right. Now as well as printf we have another option here which is sprintf.

Now what Sprintf will do is actually create a string for us, but not print it out. So sometimes we want to create a formatted string and maybe pass that to a function, print it out later on in our program, whatever we may want to do. Regardless, we don't always want to print it, so if that's the case, we can use Sprintf and we can assign that to a variable. So I can do something like y colon equal fmt dot sprintf. And then maybe down here I do fmt print line and I print y a few times or something.

I don't know why I want to do that, but maybe I do. And then I come here and you can see after we give this a second to run that we get that printed out three different times. So you just use Sprintf if you want to actually create the string stored in some kind of variable, put in a parameter for a function, whatever you want to do with it, and then you can print that out later on if you want. Obviously, if I get rid of this, well, it's not going to compile anymore. But you would see that this wouldn't print.

Okay. So I think with that said, that's pretty much all I had to show you related to the FMT package and to console output. There's a ton of other stuff you can do here with sprintf and printf, and there's a ton of other options in the FMT package, but these are the basic ones that you need to understand. Quick recap we have print f that's going to print out a formatted string. We have print line.

This is going to print out different arguments separated by a space and automatically add a backslash n. And actually that reminds me if I do two print fs here. So let's print I don't know percent v. And then we'll put an x. And I do this a second time here you'll see when I run this that we actually get the output on the same line.

Now the reason we're going to get the output on the same line here is because we didn't print a backslash n. So by default that happens with print line but with print f it doesn't. So this allows us to print things in the same row. If I want to add a new line, I'd have to manually print out this backslash n, which would then force me to go to the next line. So then for the next print f statement, I'm on the next line.

Now the arithmetic operators in go are pretty much the same as in JavaScript. I'll quickly run through them. Then we'll have a few examples of using them and how to do some more advanced type conversions. So in go let's just do a multi-line comment here. We have the same operators that you're familiar with in JavaScript.

So addition subtraction multiplication division decrement increment and modulus. The change here is that we do not have the exponent operator. There is a way to perform an exponent. But I need to show that to you. And that's pretty much it.

Now the main thing we want to focus on when we're looking at operators in go is not how, you know, add or subtract works. You all know that. It's how we perform these on types that are different. So in this simple example I have on the screen, both x and y are going to be the same type. They're both ints.

So that means when we perform this arithmetic operation here everything works fine and we get 16. However, what happens when we start mixing up the types? For example, we might change this to be something like UNT eight. And now notice when I have UNT eight of seven, I'm trying to add that to nine. I'm actually getting an error here.

It says mismatched types int unt eight and int. The reason for that is whenever I'm performing arithmetic, I need to have the same types on the left and the right hand side. The reason why go enforces that is because if we don't have the same type, then go isn't sure what type we should be using for the resulting variable, right? So in this case it's an invalid type. It doesn't know if it should be UNT, if it should be an INT, etc..

So we need to actually tell it by making the operands the same type. So in this case we have x and y. Now let's make y something quite large like a thousand. What type would I convert to the other type to be able to perform this arithmetic? Well, in this situation, let's see what happens if we try to convert Y.

So maybe I go here and I say oh this will be a UNT eight. Okay. Now all of a sudden this is fine. We can add this. This will be a UNT eight type.

We're always going to get the same type back as the type of our options. So now we have two UNT eight type. So we're adding together. But when I run this you see that we get a weird result. Well let's give it a second to run.

We get 239. Obviously that's not the result of this addition. The reason we're getting that is because we converted a larger value to a smaller value. We converted an int value to a UNT eight type. What we want to do whenever we're performing our conversions is we always want to take this smaller type and cast that, or convert that to the larger type.

So in this case, the correct thing to do would be to go and take our x variable here, which is a UNT eight, and convert that to whatever type of y is, which is going to be in this case an int. So we'd say int x like that. And now when we add these we would get the correct answer of 1007 because we've done the type conversions correctly. So you need to be very careful when you're doing any arithmetic operations with the types that you're using. But for the both the left and the right hand side.

And if you are doing a conversion, you need to make sure you convert the smaller type to the larger type so that you don't lose information in something called an overflow. What occurred in the previous example is we had a value that was too large to store inside of the container of uint8. So we got an integer overflow, which means we lost a significant amount of data, and we're left with whatever the resulting bits were. Which gave us kind of a weird value. All right.

So that's the first thing to look at with arithmetic. Now let's have a look at when we use say division. Okay. So same example here. We can take actually in this case let's go y and divide this by x.

Now when I do this again I need to do my type conversion. So I could just actually make XA7 here and that'll be fine. But notice when I run this division here then I'm actually not going to get a decimal value. What I'm going to get is an integer value. So remember I always get the same type out as the types that I put in.

So in this case I get 142 which is essentially the math.floor of whatever the division of 1000 by seven is. If I wanted to get a floating value and I couldn't convert these two types beforehand, then I would need to convert both of these types to be float64. So if we go float 60 not floor, but for then you can see here when I run this that now we will get whatever the floating point result is. Let's give it a second to run which is this value right here.

Okay. So just keep that in mind. Always. You're going to get the same type out as the types you put in. You need to do the correct type conversions.

If you're doing something like division then you need to use float 60. Vause for both of your values or float 30 twos. But I'd recommend 64 to be able to get a decimal value or floating point value. Okay. I think that's pretty much it.

I guess we could quickly go over string concatenation. So if we have hello here and hi or something. Obviously we can add these so we can go x plus y. This is just a standard string concatenation. And if for some reason for our why let's change this to be something like two.

If we wanted to add this to high we wanted this to be added as a string. Then I would need to convert y to a string. To do that, I could simply use the string cast here. So what's the error here? It says conversion from a into string yields a string of one rune, not a string of digits.

Did you mean fmt dot sprint x? Okay, let's quickly have a look at this. And then I'll go over that. So go run demo dot go. And you see that we actually get this kind of weird looking character.

So the error that this is showing us here is that when I convert it into a string using the string function, it actually gives me whatever the Ascii representation of that integer is as a string. So it's not giving me the string two. It's giving me whatever two represents. Kind of in an Ascii format. It's not exactly like that.

It works a little bit differently, but it's telling me here that what I need to do, if I actually want to convert this to the real representation of that number, is FMT dot sprint. Okay. So we'll use that instead fmt dot sprint here. And now if I run this you'll see that we'll get high. And then two.

Come on let's give this a second run here. There we go. That is now working properly. Hopefully that makes sense why that was occurring. But if you use the string function, you're going to get the kind of representation, in an Ascii format or UTF eight format, whereas when you use sprint, you'll just get whatever the literal string is of the number or whatever it is that you're trying to convert.

Okay, now we've gone through the basic operators. Also just mention we have plus plus and minus minus here in go. So I can do something like Y plus plus. That's valid I could do y minus minus. And we have the mod operator as well.

So I can do something like y mod two etc.. Okay perfectly fine. Now let's have a look at another package here known as the math package. Let me get rid of all of this.

So inside of go we can import the math package. By the way if I want to import the math package as well as the FMT package, I can simply put a set of parentheses here. And then I can separate this. Actually not with a comma, but with a new line. And I can import all of these things.

From the same import statement. Okay. So it's kind of a weird syntax, but you can just write different packages that you want to import inside of quotation marks or inside of parentheses. Here, as long as they're separated by a new line. And if you do that you'll import all of them.

Now, the reason I'm showing this you is because there's a bunch of math functions that we can use from the math package. So I figured it'd be good to see them. So let's do the following FMT dot print line. And then if you want to use the math package we write math dot and then whatever function we want. You can see there's a ton of different functions here.

Obviously I won't go through all of them, but you can probably just guess what most of them are. So in this case we could use math dot min. Notice we have a capital for the M here. And I could do something like 4 or 5. And then if I run this it's going to tell me whatever the minimum of these values are.

In this case that would be four now as well as max or min, we have the max function. So we can use that. We also have the square root function. So sq art. That'll give us the square root of an individual value in this case that would give us two.

We have access to the power function. Now the power function will actually raise a base to an exponent. So this is how you implement an exponent in go I could raise four to the exponent two. If I run this, you see that we will get 16. Let's give this a second to run here okay. There you go.

So if you want to do an exponent you have to use math dot pow. We also have access to round. So if we want a round to value something say like 4.245. If I run that, you'll see that we will get the value of four.

And then we have access to the ceiling function. Again, this is going to always round up as well as to the floor function which will always round down a bunch of other ones. But those are the notable ones that I wanted to show you. Okay, so last thing to go over in this video is how we do a conversion from a string value to an integer value, because it's possible we may actually want to do that. And we need to see how.

So let's say that I have my variable 01234. Well how do I convert this into a number right. Or into an int. Let's try the naive approach. Or we go y equals two.

And then we take an int and we wrap x inside of here. Notice if I do this it says cannot convert x variable of type string to an int. So I actually cannot directly use a string inside of my type conversions here inside of my type CAS. What I need to do is use a special package from go. It will do this conversion for me.

Now there's a bunch of ways to do this, but the most popular ways to use the String Convert package, which stands for string Convert. Okay, so now if I want to convert this string into its decimal representation I can go string convert like that. If we spell this even remotely correctly dot. And then there is a bunch of different options. Now the first option is to use a to. I.

Now what I'm going to I is going to do is it's going to take a string and convert it to an integer. So if we have a look at it here, it says a2 is equivalent to the parse int. Don't worry too much about that. I will look at that in a second. And what it does is take in a string value and then it returns an int and an error.

So we're going to say y comma error colon equal to string comp y. We're going to pass x. And we're going to say fmt dot print line. And we're going to print y and error. Now you might be a little confused here with the error.

What's happening is this is returning two values y which is going to be the converted integer value. And then an error telling us if an error occurred when it attempted to do this conversion. So what I can do is print out both of these here. And we'll see that for error value we should get access to nil. So it's telling us hey there was no error. So we just have nil.

And then it gives us the actual int representation here of 1234. You can see again if we hover over this it returns it. All right. So that is 80. Now let's see what happens if there's an error.

So if I go 1234 and then hello. And then we run this here. You'll see that now we should get an error value being returned. So it just gives us a default default value of zero. And then it's a string conv y passing 1234.

Hello. Invalid syntax. It's not able to parse this because well this is not a valid base ten number okay. That is eight two. I now as well as eight UI we have access to this pass int as well as many others.

We have pass float. We have pass boolean. We have all these different passes. But the one we're mostly going to use here is pass int. What we do now is we pass some string that we want to pass, but we also need to pass the base.

So in this case ten and then the bit size. So the size that we want to use to store our value. So I could do something like 8 or 16 or 32 or 64. So what I'm really doing here with this argument, which is the bit size is I'm saying how many bits does this number need to fit inside of? Okay.

So I could do 64, could do 32, could do eight. Don't need to worry about too much. Most cases we're just going to put zero. And if we put zero that means don't worry about that. Just see if it fits inside of the int 64 type, which is what's going to be returned to us by default.

So now if I run this, you see that this should work fine. And it gives us one, two, three, four and then again nil because no error occurred. All right. So that is pass int. If I wanted to get a binary number right I could do two here.

And now if I'm doing this in base two you'll actually see that we get an error here. The reason we get an error is because this is not a binary number. So when we attempt to convert this reading this as a binary number, it doesn't work. But if I change this to a valid binary number and then I go ahead and run this, you'll see that now we should get a response. So this is actually the number 123 in decimal.

We read it as a base two number. So hopefully that's making a bit of sense. Again a ton of different options you can use here. You don't need to memorize them. Just trying to show you a few different things we can do here.

Because as you've seen it gets very strict with the types and we need to be very careful what types we're using and how we're converting those different types. So quick summary. We have pretty much all the arithmetic operators we have in JavaScript. We're missing a few. But don't worry about this too much.

When we're using the arithmetic operators, we need to assume that whatever types go in are the type that is going to come out, meaning we need to be careful about the types that we use when we're doing the arithmetic. Oftentimes, we need to do a type conversion to convert one of our types to the larger size type, such that we can then do that operation when we're using strings, and we want to convert a string to an int, we can use this string convert package. We can use parse int or a to I. We also have access to the math package, which gives us a bunch of helpful math functions similar to the ones we saw in JavaScript. All right. Let's begin here with conditions.

So just like in JavaScript a condition is any expression that evaluates to true or false or writing conditions where typically using our comparison and logical operators, the comparison operators as a reminder are the following. In go, we do not have access to the triple equal sign. In fact, we don't even need the triple equal sign because we are statically typed. Meaning if we're comparing different types, that's not going to work anyways. So we have less than, greater than, less than or equal to, greater than or equal to is equal to and not equal to.

Again, no need for that triple equal sign or that does not. And then double equal sign okay. So now let's look at a few sample conditions. Let's say we have x colon equal to a UNT of something like eight. And then y colon equal to something like ten.

And then z equal to x less than y. And then we go not console.log fmt print line. And then we print out z. Now notice here we're getting an error.

Well first of all we need to import fmt. But second of all we have cannot compare x and y mismatched types okay. So just like when we're doing our arithmetic, when we're using comparison operators, we need to have the same type on the left and right hand side. So in this instance what I would do is I would convert x into the same type is y. So I would need to make this an int for this comparison to work.

Now as a note here, if I did something like x less than and then I did a value like negative nine here we have a look at this. This is not going to work. Again it doesn't work because negative nine is an int type and this is a UNT type. But if I go with something like nine this actually does work. Reason it works is because nine can be treated as a UNT type, since I don't have an explicit value for nine, and I'm just writing this in here, even though if I were to assign it to a variable, it would get the type of int here, since I'm using it in an expression where the left hand side operator is a UNT type, this will default to a UNT type.

I know. Seems a bit weird. You don't have to fully understand this behavior, but whenever you're using a literal value like this, go will attempt to convert that value on your behalf to whatever it needs to be for the comparison to work properly. So in this case, it works because we can convert nine to a UNT and it will fit inside of that UNT type. Maybe that makes sense, maybe it doesn't.

Anyways, we'll move on now. So we have these operators. Of course, if we want to do an equivalence check we can do the double equal sign. Again if we're using different variables here a different type. Sorry I have like an int of five.

And I compare x and y. Again we're going to get this error saying that there are mismatch types okay. That is it for the comparison operators. Just make sure you use the correct types. Next we have our logical operators.

I don't need to demo them. We have or which is this and which is the two ampersands. And the exclamation point which is the not operator works the exact same way as in JavaScript. Again, we don't need to go through a demo now. We can quickly have a look at how we can write an if statement inside of go.

So the if statement is going to look very similar to JavaScript we write. If we write some condition. Notice I don't need the parentheses here. I can just write a condition so I can have something like x colon equals two and say if x is less than three then go ahead and do this which might be from t dot print line. And then something like run okay.

Want to add an else if statement. We can write elseif and then put the condition here x is greater than four. Then go ahead and do this. And then if we want an else statement we can tack that on at the end. Just like in JavaScript, we can have as many elsif statements as we want.

So if I add another one here and say greater than seven, then that is perfectly fine. Not sure why this is giving me the error here adds because it needs to be on the same line. Okay, so notice you have your curly braces, you don't need the parentheses. And then again anything inside of the body here is going to run. If the condition is true.

Just like other languages you can nest other if statements inside of here no problem and do whatever you need to do. Now the switch statement in practice works the same way as it does in JavaScript. There's just a few different features and functionality of it. So I want to show that to you in this video. So let's begin by just creating a variable.

We'll say a is equal to one. And then we'll switch on our variable A by creating our switch statement. Notice here I don't need my parentheses like I would have in JavaScript. Okay so I have switch a. And then what I'm going to do is create some cases.

So I'm going to say case something like one. Then inside of here I could do something like FMT dot print line and then one. And then of course I need to import the FMT package for this to work. So import fmt. Now I can make another case so we can copy this and go to case two and change this to say two.

And then if we want to we can add a default case here and say fmt dot print line. And something like default. Okay. So if I go ahead and run my code here, you'll see that we will go inside of case one and we will only print case one. Now notice here that I did not need to include my break keyword.

After my cases in go, you automatically will break once the case is finished. So essentially everything that comes after the colon before the next case will only happen. So you're not going to fall through automatically to the other cases like you would in JavaScript. However, there is a way to fall through which I'm going to show you in one second. But now I quickly want to look at the naked switch statement.

So usually you need to put a variable here right. So switch on a and then you're checking for all the different values of it. However in go you don't need to do that. You actually can exclude the variable. And instead you can write conditions for your different cases.

So I can do something like a is less than one, a is greater than two. And now I have what's known as a naked switch statement, where I have some different conditions inside of the switch that I'm checking. So kind of just like an if else if block, you're going to check the first condition. If that's true, you go into this case and then you ignore the rest of them. If it's not true, you go to the next one, you check it.

If it's true, go in here, ignore the rest until eventually you potentially get to this default, which kind of acts like an else statement. So if I go here and I run, you will see that we get the default because A was not less than one or greater than two. However, if I say less than or equal to one and let's do something like this less than negative one just to show you here, you'll see when I run this code that we will only get one printing to the screen. Let's give it a second. We don't get two, even though this case is true, because we went into this case and we didn't fall through into the other cases.

So this is a naked switch. Just something useful to know. Now, as I was saying before, we do have a way to actually trigger a fall through. So what I can do is write the fall through keyword. If I write fall through, what will happen is it will automatically pass me down into the next case.

It was a variety of reasons you may want to do this. Sometimes you want to trigger one case, and if that case is true, you want to continue falling throughout the rest of the different cases. So let's write a slightly different example that will actually make sense with the fall through. So what I'll do here is I'll write a case and I'll say case a less than negative one. And then I'll say FMT dot print line.

And then a is less than negative one. And then I'm going to fall through. Now I'm going to write another case. This will be the same thing except this time less than zero. And I will say less than zero.

And then we'll have one last case here. We'll actually remove the fall through, and we'll say a is less than one. And then A is less than one. Now the idea here is that if A is less than negative one then it's also less than zero. And it's also less than one.

So I want to fall through into these two different cases here so that I end up printing the accurate information for whatever the value of A is. Now, if A was zero, for example, or if A was actually negative one, then that means we're going to go into this case right here. So not this case just this one. Then we're going to print a is less than zero. And we would print A is less than one.

But we wouldn't end up printing this one. So hopefully you kind of get the idea here of how we might use a fall through, but it allows us to fall through one case into another. And typically, the order of your cases is going to kind of dictate how you're falling through. So if I run this with a negative two here. So it should be valid for all of the cases.

You'll see that when I run this what happens is we fall through. Let's give it a second. And it says a is less than negative one zero and one where. So if I change this to negative one now we'll only go here. So if I run it now we get a is less than zero and A is less than one.

Just an example of how you can use this fall through keyword. Okay. So that's it for fall through. Now another thing to show you with our switch statements here is that we can actually have multiple values we're checking for inside of the switch statement. So let's change a to something like character maybe H okay.

Then we put it here. And what I can do is write a case where I check for multiple values of this character. So I could do something like a b and then c. That's actually completely valid. What happens now is I check if a is either A, B or C, and then I go ahead and run this case.

So fmt dot print line and I say is a b or c okay perfectly fine. I could also do this in a naked switch statement. So if I removed a here and I could say a is equal to that a is equal to B or a is equal to c, that's completely fine. We can kind of write multiple conditions on the same line. Specifically, I'm going to talk to you about for loops while loops and then how we loop through strings which actually isn't very trivial in go.

All right. Let's begin here and look at the for loop syntax. So for a for loop you write this very similarly to how we would in JavaScript. We write for we create some variable. In this case I can do it.

I'm going to use my kind of walrus operator here or my implicit assignment operator make this equal to zero. I'm then going to put a semicolon. I'm going to put I'd less than ten. This is my condition for looping. And then I'm going to put my increment condition here or increment kind of statement expression whatever you want to call it where I'm adding one.

Obviously I could change this around. I can make it equal to something else. I can have a different condition. I can change the increment. Whatever you can do in JavaScript, you can do the same thing here.

The syntax just looks like this. So now if I go in here and say fmt dot print line and I print id, if we can type that out, we'll see when we run this code that we're going to get zero through nine printing to our console, because we start at zero and we go up to but do not include ten. And that's exactly what we get okay. That's the for loop. Now. Much more to go through that.

Now though, I want to show you that inside of go we don't have access to a while loop okay. So unlike in JavaScript where we have well in go, what we actually need to do is use the for loop syntax to create a while loop. So what I can do is write for and then I can write some condition. So I could write for example. True.

And then inside of here I can loop. So if FMT dot print line and then loop. Now obviously I want to execute this code because this is going to be an infinite loop. So what I would probably do is have some variable, something like a less than equal one and say well A is less than ten. And then we can say a plus plus like that.

And now we have a while loop that we've implemented using the for loop syntax. I know seems a bit weird that just how they did it in go. So if you want to have a while loop you use for and you just put a single condition, you don't put the increment and all of that kind of stuff. Okay? So that is looping.

Now I want to talk to you about looping through strings. The reason I want to discuss this is because it's not quite as simple as it seems, and strings are a little bit more complicated in go than they are in something like JavaScript. All right. So let's create a string here. We'll say string is equal to in the classic hello world.

Now I want to first start by showing you that we have index access on our strings. Meaning I can do something like string zero. Now I can't set that value to be something like S, but what I can do instead is I can access that value. Okay. So I can do something like FMT.

So I'll print line and then I can print my string at index zero. Now let's have a look at what happens if I do this. So if I run this code here you'll see that we actually get the value 104. And the reason we're getting 104 is because we're getting the integer representation of the character in our strings. Now this is where it gets a bit complicated, but in go our strings are actually slices of characters or slices of bytes.

Now, we haven't talked about slices yet. You can kind of just imagine they're an array. And what that means is that the actual representation of this string is some kind of data structure that is containing various different bytes. So really, when I type hello World, what happens in the back end is we convert all of these characters into bytes. We then store those bytes.

And that means when I access string it index zero, I'm accessing the first byte that is inside of my string. Now recall that a byte is simply the UNT eight data type, and I can prove this to you if I go here and I type percent t like this and run the code, you will see the type of this value. Here is the UNT eight type or sorry, this needs to be printf. My apologies not print line. And now you'll see that we'll get that UNT eight type.

Give this a second. And there you go. We get UNT eight. Now the reason I'm explaining this to you is because that means if we're accessing the individual indices of our strings, we're going to be getting that byte type back. Which means if I want to actually get the individual character, I would need to convert that into a string.

So I take a string and then I convert my bytes. So let's run this. And now you'll see that we should actually get that first character, which is H. Okay, so that's great. However, now we need to quickly talk about some different encoding formats for our strings and why accessing all of the individual bytes of our string is not necessarily what we want to be doing.

So we have this Ascii format and we also have this UTF eight format. Now Ascii is the American standard code for information interchange or something along those lines. Anyways, this is a standard encoding code that uses one singular byte or eight bits to represent all of the different characters inside of this encoding. Now, for a very long time, that was sufficient. All of the characters we have, well, we can represent those with one byte, which gives us 256 unique values or unique characters.

However, as we expanded the number of characters we ran out of space in Ascii, meaning we can no longer use only one byte, we need to have more encodings, or more bits or more bytes to represent our characters. So we can have more characters. That's why UTF eight came out. So UTF eight is the standard encoding format. It's used pretty much everywhere.

In fact, you can see right down here it says UTF eight, which is the encoding we're using for these characters right now. And UTF eight allows for characters like emojis, Chinese letters, and all kinds of other symbols that you've probably seen many times before. Now, UTF eight actually uses four bytes, which allows a lot more possibilities of characters to be represented with this encoding format that means that if I have a string here and I have any UTF eight character inside of this string, we can potentially be using up to four bytes to represent that character. If I were to embed an emoji inside of this string, then that emoji would use more than one singular byte, which would mean if I were to access all of the individual bytes of my string, I would only get a portion of the encoding for that emoji. I'm not sure if you see what I'm saying here, but it's possible that I have a single character, so I don't have a special character right now.

But let's imagine that Dash was a special character. I put that inside of my string, and what you'll see is that the length of my string will actually be larger than one character. It may be three bytes, four bytes, etc. because we need more space, more individual bytes to represent that special character. So if I wanted to actually be able to print out that individual character from my string, I would need access to more than just the individual index.

So I would need more than index zero. I need index zero through three. I need to kind of combine those values together, and that would then represent my entire character. Hopefully this makes a tiny bit of sense what I'm explaining here, but with Ascii we have 256 values and one byte with UTF eight, which is what we're typically using. Now we have four bytes and substantially more characters, meaning that I can't just access each index from my string because this is kind of an array of bytes.

What I need to do instead is loop through my string in a special way. So let me show you this. Okay? Actually, let's go back and have our string. I can of course loop through the string in the way that we kind of naively would do.

So I could say for I'd colon equals zero and then I can say ID is less than. And there's this Len function Len gives you the length of an object. So like that. And then I can say id plus plus. Then what I could do is fmt dot print.

And I'm actually going to print f. What I'm going to do is print percent c which stands for character. And then I'm going to pass here string at my id x. Okay. Now if I run this code you'll see there's not going to be a problem.

This will work fine because we only have Ascii characters inside of here. So let's make this a little bit larger. Like Hello World. And again when we run this there won't be an issue and we'll get all of the characters printing out to the screen. So we get Hello World appearing.

However, if we had again a special character, this wouldn't work properly. That's why what we need to do instead is use a different syntax, which is known as the range syntax. Now what range allows us to do is get access to the index as well as the character at a specific position and range will handle all of our special characters for us. So what I can say here is for I comma char colon equals and then I can write range and the name of my structure, which in this case is the string. Now what I can do is I can print out the char like that okay.

And then this is going to work the same way, except now will handle all of the special characters automatically. Now range gives us the index as well as whatever the value is inside of the thing that we're looping over. In this case, it's the string okay. So it gives us each character as well as its index inside of the string. Now in this case I don't want to use the index.

So what I can do is just put an underscore here instead. That's going to get rid of that error that's popping up for this unused variable. The underscore acts as an anonymous variable that we can kind of put as a placeholder. Since I have two things that I'm extracting. Well I need to have two values here.

But if I don't care about the variable, I just put an underscore and I can kind of ignore that. Okay. So now if I run this, you'll see that we get the same thing that we got before. Give this a second to run and we get hello world. Okay. Now just a note here inside of our for loops.

It's perfectly valid for us to use the break keyword for us to use the continue keyword. Okay. That's valid. So we can use those just like we used in JavaScript. And last thing that I'll show you here is actually if I print out the percent t of this char here, you'll see now that when we run this the type of our character is actually an int 32, okay.

And the int 32 is synonymous with the run type which is four bytes okay. Whereas if we went back to that previous, way of looping through our string. So we had idea X, okay. And then ID less than the line of the string. And then we have id plus plus.

And then we're printing out the type of string at the index ADX. You're going to see now that when we run this we get the UNT eight type right, which is different than that run type. There you go. That's the main difference here. Hopefully you understand that.

Just know that if you are looping over a string you want to use that range syntax, not the syntax that I'm showing you here. Now, before I dive into arrays and get into this video, I just want to mention that kind of from now on in this section, a lot of this stuff we're going to be learning will be a lot different from what we learned in JavaScript. So even though we might have the same name like an array, we're going to have a lot of different behavior. So just make sure that you're not making too many assumptions and assuming that because you know something in JavaScript that it applies here in go. Some stuff is similar, but as I've said, a lot is going to be different.

So make sure you're paying attention and and kind of carefully noticing all of the differences here in go versus JavaScript. Obviously, I'll try my best to point all of them out. All right. So let's start talking about arrays. Now arrays are a fixed sized data structure that can store values of the same type.

Now already this is different from JavaScript. And this is going to more closely resemble the arrays that we learned in the data structures and algorithms section. So let me show you how we make an array. So I can create a variable here. And I can say var something like error.

And then I can define the type of my array. Now the type of an array actually indicates its size. That's because in go arrays are a fixed size, which means I have to specify the size and the values that are going to be stored inside of my array. So what I've done here is that I'm having a variable. It's called array.

And the type of this variable is an array that stores integers of size two. Now this type is different than this type. Okay let's type this out. Three int. Yes they both are int arrays.

But this is an int array of size two. And this is an entry of size three. So this is the entire type okay. It's not just int with the array. This whole thing is the type.

I know it's a little bit confusing but the size of the array is very important. And once we initialize an array we cannot change its size. We can't grow it, shrink it, delete it, etc. and all of the values inside of our array will automatically be initialized. So if I type fmt dot print line error here, you'll see that if I go and run my code, that the values inside of my array are going to be whatever the default value of this type is, which in this case are int.

If I made this something like a boolean array and then I ran this, you'll see that we get false. So give us a second. Here we have false false. Okay. So very important when we are initializing these arrays they start at whatever size.

And we cannot change that size later on. Now there's a variety of different ways to go about creating these arrays. What I've done is initialized one using the var syntax. We also can initialize arrays using the implicit assignment operator. So to do that I can do something like array colon equals two.

And then something like two int. And then I can actually set the values that I want. So in this case if I run it you see that we get one two. This is known as an array literal where I'm actually writing the values inside of my array. And notice that I use my curly braces here for the array, not my square braces okay.

Now what I can also do is have a nested array so I can do something like two two. And now inside of here I need other arrays. And each of these arrays need to have two values. So if I go ahead and run this you'll see that we now get a nested array. And the reason this kind of works here is because what I'm saying is okay, I have an array of size two that contains integers.

Then I have an array of size two that contains arrays of size two that contain integers. So you kind of need to read it like this where you have a set of parentheses on this type here. And then another set of parentheses here. And you're indicating okay I'm going to have a nested array. I have two nested arrays.

And the type of my arrays are this okay. So the entire type of the structure we're looking at right here is two two int. And just to prove that to you if I print out percent t here. So let's change this to print f you'll see that that's the type that we're getting. Let's have a look here.

And you see that we get two two int okay. That's the type of this array. Now unlike in other programing languages I can't go ahead and embed a string inside of here. Right. All of the values inside of my array need to be the exact same type.

It's not as dynamic as a language like JavaScript. Okay. Now there is one more way to initialize arrays here that can make things a little bit faster for us. So let's say for example, we're writing an array literal and we don't want to count out how many values are inside of our array. Well, if that's the case I can actually go here and write a dot dot dot.

Now if I do that, what that means that the compiler is automatically going to count how many values are inside of the array for us in this literal, and initialize the array automatically with the correct value. So now if I go here and run this, you'll see that we get the exact same type. Except in this instance, we didn't have to actually explicitly set it as two. The compiler was able to figure that out by simply counting. Oh well, you have to erase here.

So that means the type must be two. Okay. Kind of just a shortcut that we can use that allows us to not have to count the values inside of our literal, and then makes it so I can quite easily go here and kind of change this. Right. And write three, two.

And now it will automatically be adjusted to the size of three two. Doesn't mean the size is going to change, just means the compiler sets the size as soon as it reads this line, so that we don't have to set it ourself. Okay. So that is kind of the basics here on creating arrays. Now let's look at a few properties of arrays.

So I do have index access to my arrays. I can do something like array zero. If I do that that's going to be accessing this array right here. And then I could set this so I can actually mutate my arrays just like I can in JavaScript. So I could set this to something like 1011.

Now if we go ahead and print out our array here actually what is the error here. Okay. So this is actually a good error to run into. Notice here that I'm trying to set array zero equal to 1011. And it's giving me a red squiggly.

It's saying expected operand found. And then this sign. The reason for that is since I'm going to be placing a new array as one of the elements inside of my array, I actually need to make that new array. So I actually need to write here two and then insert like that. Now if I write this what I'm doing is actually initializing a new array literal that I'm then going to nest inside of here.

So actually that was a good error to run into something that I mess up all the time. You think you can just write out what the array looks like? But no, you actually need to create a new array that's of the type that you're placing inside of here. So now if I clear and run, you'll see that this should work fine. And we get our 1011, two two and then three two.

All right. So that is how you access the array at the index. Obviously you can access as well as mutate and change it. A few other things to look at. We have the ability to see the length of our array.

So we can use this Len function. So you wrap the array in Len and it's going to tell you the size. So let's go ahead and run this. And you can see that we get the size of three. Okay just as a quick recap here because this is super important.

Again you cannot change the size of an array. It is a fixed size which means when you initialize it it's always going to be that size okay. Can't add to it. Can't delete from it. You can change what's inside of it.

But that's about it. Very inflexible. And that's why in the next video we're going to learn about something known as slices, which are more flexible version of our Ram. Now last thing to look at here is how we loop through our arrays. So if we want to loop through the array we can do something like I value colon equals.

And then the range of our right. Now what I can do is fmt sub print line and I can print I end value. That's going to give me all of the nested arrays inside of my array. So let's have a look here and make sure that this works. There you go. We get the index as well as the value.

Now if I wanted to loop through the nested arrays I could continue here and go with for j comma. And actually we'll call this nested. Get rid of this and then we'll say value colon equals range of nested. And then we can say fmt dot print line. And we can print out the value.

If we don't care about I and J then we can just put an underscore here for those. Go ahead and run our code. And you will see as I do this, that we get all of the different values inside of our right. Okay. Last thing to go over here is what happens when we use arrays inside of functions.

Now I know we haven't looked at functions yet, but I'll just quickly show you an example of what happens if we pass an array to a function. Then we can touch on this more in later videos. So let's say we make a function. Let's just call this function something like test okay. For this function what I'm going to take is an array.

So what I will do is actually write to to int. And then we're going to call this our array. And believe we put this before the parameter name. I always forget that okay. So we have our array.

All I'm going to do inside of here is say array at index zero is equal to a new size two into ray that contains 101 hundred. Then what we'll do is inside of here we'll pass our array to the test function. And then we'll say fmt dot print line the array. And let's change this to actually be the size three two. All right.

So what we're doing is we have our array. We've initialized it. We're passing it to this test function. This test function is taking an array. Notice I had to specify the type of the array as an array that contains three nested arrays that have two integers inside of them.

Then what I'm doing is mutating the array. And what I want to show you with this example here is that when I run the code, you'll actually see that we don't end up changing the original array from inside of this test function. So you can see that we pass the array inside of here. We made a change that array. And if we were working in JavaScript what would have happened is that would have actually mutated the original array.

However, in go that doesn't happen by default. When I pass in array to this function here, I'm actually passing a copy of that array, which means when I try to make a mutation here, I'm mutating the copy of the array, not the original array that I passed. Now things change slightly when we talk about slices, and there is ways to modify this underlying array. However, we're not actually doing that. So I just wanted to quickly show this to you in case you were wondering, when I pass this to a function, I don't mutate the original array unless I pass what's known as a pointer to the original array, which we're going to talk about in future videos.

I don't mean to confuse you here at the end, just trying to show you some more advanced use cases of this. Okay, last thing here. This is three two. Right. So if I change this to two to notice that we actually get an error here for this error it says cannot use error value of type three two int as two two int value in argument to test.

Essentially, the point of this example is just to show you that the type of three to int is different from the type of two to int. That means the size of the array is associated with the type of that array. Now slices are a much more flexible version of arrays and go we're almost always going to use a slice. But in order to understand how a slice works, we first needed to look at arrays. So let's discuss a slice and see what it actually does.

First of all, a slice is a view of an array. So you always have an array. But the slice allows you to view a different portion of that array. And then to kind of increase the capacity of that array or decrease it you'll see what I mean in just a second. So to make a slice we can either have an array that we take a slice of or we can make a new slice.

And that will automatically create a new array for us. So let's do the first option here where we have an array. Let's say we have error colon equal to. And then we do something like I know for int and then 1234. And in fact let's go with size five here just to make this a little bit larger 12345.

Okay. Now let's make a slice of that array. So I'm going to say SL for slice is colon equal to array. Then I'm going to put a set of square brackets. And I'm going to use the slice operator which is this colon.

Now if you've worked in Python before you may have seen this. But if not don't worry. The way this works is you're indicating what portion of the array that you want to view. Okay. So a slice again is a view of an underlying array.

When I do this it's going to give me access to the underlying array starting at the very first index. If I leave the left side here empty and to the very last index if I leave the right side here empty. However, I have the option to specify different indices. So if I specify index three here, what I'm really saying is I want to view the underlying array up to but not including index three. So that means I'm going to view these first three elements to show that to you.

Let's print out SL here and have a look at this slice. Okay. So when we run this here we get 123. We've slice from the beginning up to but not including the third element. So we get one, two, three.

Now if I were to do one three that means start at index one and include index one. So we're going to view two and three. So if I run this here we get two and three. Come on hurry up here. Let's run. All right.

And then if I go one colon that means slice from the first index up to and including the very last index of the underlying array. So 2345 we'll talk about a few more properties of slices. But first let's see how we have index access to our slices. So my access index zero of my slice. What that's going to give me is the first element in the slice okay.

So it's not giving me index zero of the underlying array. It's giving me index zero in the slice which is two because that's the first element of the slice. I know it can be a little bit confusing when I use index access on the slice. It's referring to the elements inside of the slice which are a part of the underlying array. Okay.

Now I also have the ability to mutate my slice so I can do zero is equal to say 100. Now let's see what happens when we print out the slice as well as the underlying array here. So let's clear and run and see what happens when we modify the slice. Notice when we modify the slice. We also modify that element at the underlying array.

Okay. So here with the slice we've said slice the index zero is equal to 100. So for the slice we get 103 4 or 5. But really the way that works is that we mutate the underlying array. We change whatever that slice index is referring to, which is this element right here to be 100.

And then that means as we view the slice we then view that changed element. So any change I make to the slice affects the underlying array and vice versa. Any change I make to the underlying array affects the slice. To illustrate this a bit more, let's have a look at what's actually involved in creating a slice. So when we make a slice we have three properties okay.

We have a pointer. We have a length and we have a capacity. Now let's start by viewing those. So we have the slice. We have the length of the slice.

And then we have something referred to as the capacity of the slice okay. Now to illustrate the capacity I'm just going to slice up to the third index here. Let's clear and run. And then I'll talk about what those are. So we can see here when we print this out that we're going to get the length of the slice is three.

That's the current number of elements inside of the slice. And then the capacity. Now the capacity is how much larger I could make this slice. Now the capacity has to do with the underlying array. So when I create my slice I have a pointer.

Now this pointer is going to point to whatever the first element in my slice is in the underlying array. So in this case I have array. And then I'm starting at the very first index of my underlying array. So I'm creating a slice of this. And that means that my pointer goes to array at index zero.

If I change this to one then I go to array at index one okay. So then I'd be pointing to here. Now the length refers to the number of elements inside of the slice. So in this case when we have kind of index 0 to 3 that means we have a length of three. And the capacity is the number of elements that exist from the pointer, which in this case is going to be array index zero until the end of the underlying array.

So in this instance our capacity is five. Now let's see what happens if we change the slice to go from 1 to 3. If I do this and now I run, you see that my length changes to two and my capacity decreases to for the reason my capacity decreases is because now my pointer is starting at this element right here index one. So my pointer is array at index one. Which means I can only expand the slice for more positions.

Right. Or I only have a total of four positions after this pointer. So my capacity decreases. And in this case so does my length. The reason why we have this capacity is because we can re slice or expand the size of the slice.

To do that, I can take a slice of the slice so I can say SL colon equal to and then slice. And then I can say colon up to. And then I can increase this to the capacity okay. So actually sorry this just needs to be an equal because this variable is already declared. So now when I do this you'll see that what happens when I print out my slice is that I get all of the elements that were inside of the underlying array, starting at where I first sliced this slice, or I first slice this array.

I know it's a little bit confusing, but now we get two, three, 4 or 5 a length of four and a capacity of four. We're at capacity because we've increased the slice to go up to whatever the capacity of the array is. The reason why this is kind of important to understand here is because depending on where you begin your slice that tells you how many more elements you could expand the slice by. So you can take what's known as, again, a slice of a slice, which is what I just did. And that allows you to expand the size of the slice.

There's a lot more stuff we can do here, but I'm just trying to give you kind of the underlying information about how this works so that you understand this length and capacity kind of property of the slice. Again, a slice is a view of an underlying array. I'm viewing a certain number of elements. The number of elements I'm viewing is the length and the number of elements I could view, so that I could increase the slice to is the capacity. So what I did here is I now change the length of my slice to go up to the capacity, which allowed me to view all of the elements that were from the starting position to the end of the underlying array.

All right. So that's kind of the first thing to look at here in terms of slices. Now let's have a look at how we create slices without first having an underlying array. And then kind of what we can do with them like appending to them, iterating over them, etc..

So again just keep in mind very important for the slice. You always have a pointer to the first element of the underlying array you're referencing, then a length and a capacity. If you know that, then you'll really understand how slices work. So to create a new slice without first creating an underlying array, we can do the following. I can say SL colon equal to.

And then I can just do this kind of array syntax without specifying the size. So I can do something like string. And then I can say hello comma world. And then FMT dot print line and then SL. Now this is different than an array.

What I'm making is a slice not an array. Which means what will happen implicitly is an array will be created. And the pointer for this slice will point to that underlying array. Then the slice will have a length equal to two and a capacity equal to two. So it seems like it's the exact same thing as an array.

But this is a more flexible type that we can do some more stuff with. So when I print this out, we get Hello World. And if I print out the type of this percent t, you'll see that it's not going to tell us to string, it's going to tell us slice of string, which is this empty set of parentheses or empty set of brackets or okay, this type is different than the two string type. This is the slice type. This is the array type.

So that means that now again in the background we have an underlying array that has these two elements. We are then pointing to that array. And then we have our length and our capacity. All right so now that we have this slice I want to look at an example of appending to the slice. To do that I'm just going to create a for loop here.

And I'm going to say for x less than zero and say x sorry not X0X colon equal to zero x less than ten. And then x plus plus. And for every single value of x we're going to append something inside of the slice. So we're going to say SL is equal. To append we're going to append to the slice.

And we'll just append Tim okay. Then we're going to say fmt dot print line. We're going to print the slice. We're going to print the length of the slice and the capacity of the slice. Okay I'll break this down because I know I just went through a few new things here.

So we have our slice again. Remember this points to an underlying array. We're then looping through X here. And we're going to do this ten times. And what we're doing is using this append function.

Now with the append function does is allow us to add an element to a slice. The way it adds an element to a slice is by doing 1 or 2 things. It looks at the slice and it says, okay, is there capacity in the underlying array for me to add this element? If there is, then it adds that element and it re slices the slice and gives me a new slice that contains that view of the underlying array. Okay.

Which is why I need to actually say SL is equal to append. I'm reassigning whatever the new version of the slices to this slice variable. So append is returning to you a new version that contains the original slice with this added element. That's how the append function works. Then what I'm doing is printing the length of the slice and the capacity, because you're going to see the things work a little bit differently than you may anticipate.

So let me run this, and we'll just kind of explain what's going on here. Okay. So let's actually I need to run this one more time just so we have a bit more space okay. So we print Hello World three for Hello World Tim Tim four four. And notice here that the length and the capacity are not always the same.

So what happens the first time we call this append function is the capacity of our slice is two and the length is two. That means that we don't have enough room in the underlying array to add this new element. So what we actually do is create an entirely new underlying array and we double the size of that underlying array. So what happens was we had a size of two or a capacity of two. We then doubled that size to four which is the new capacity.

And we added our new element into the slice, which was Tim. Again this gets added to the underlying array. Now we have enough room because we doubled the size of it. So again in that append operation we increase the capacity by creating a new underlying array, then taking a slice of that new underlying array that now has those three elements. Now we do the append operation again.

This time, since there was capacity, we didn't need to change the underlying array. We just added this new element in the last index of that underlying array, and took a new slice of it and returned that to ourselves. Continuing, we then did the append operation again. This time we saw that we didn't have enough room to add this fifth element, so we doubled the size of the slice, and then we took a slice of the first five elements and put Tim in that fifth position. Okay.

We then continue this notice here. We didn't need to change the underlying record. We add capacity. Same thing here. Same thing here.

Then we get here and we again doubled the size of the underlying array by creating a new one, copying all of these elements inside of a new array. And then adding Tim as the ninth position, taking a slice of that array and returning it to ourself. Now we continue this process over and over again, and the reason we constantly doubled the size of the array is so that we don't always have to create a new array, because every time we have to make a new array, that's a big O of n time operation. Whereas if we already have the array and it's a constant time operation to perform this append, because all we do is return a new slice. I know this is a little bit confusing.

I did warn you arrays and slices are a bit more challenging than in JavaScript, but I want you to understand mechanically what's going on here. We have that pointer to the first position of an underlying array. We then have a length and a capacity. If I try to append, I first check do we have the capacity? If we don't, we need to make a new underlying array, change the pointer of our slice, copy the existing elements into that new array, and then add the new element that we're appending.

Then we now will have capacity for potentially more elements. So every new append we repeat this operation. If we have capacity we can just add the element. If we don't we need to create that new array which takes a big O of n time. Okay.

So that is append and just does one more clarification. If you try to just write append here, you're going to see this doesn't work. The reason it doesn't work here is because this returns a value to us that we're not using. This isn't going to really mutate the slice. It's going to return a new slice to us, which we then assign to this slice variable, which is perfectly fine.

Okay, now that we've looked at that, let's see a few other ways that we can make some slices. So I can actually specify the size of a slice and the capacity of a slice when I create it. So I can say SL colon equal to. And I can use this make function. Now what this make function takes in is the type that I want to create.

You can use this for more than just slices. But oftentimes we do use it for slices. So I can do something like this which means I want to make an int slice. And then I can specify the size that I want this slice to be. So if I want it to be size ten I put size ten okay.

This essentially creates kind of an empty slice for us that has a length of ten. And the capacity will be the same as the size, which is ten. If I wanted to set the capacity, then I can pass an additional value. If I pass 20 now, the capacity of my slice is 20 and the size is ten okay, or the length of the slice is ten, so length is ten, capacity is 20. If I use that make function or I can just pass ten.

There's a variety of reasons you may want to use make, but typically use it when you want to dynamically create different slices that are different sizes. In this case, I just want to make a slice of size ten so I can go ahead and do that with the make function. All right. Last thing to look at here is what happens when we want to iterate over slices and when we pass them to functions. So let's go back to another slice here so we can say string.

Hello world. Hi something like that. If we want to iterate over this slice, we can do the exact same thing as an array. So I can say for I comma value colon equal range cell, then I can say fmt dot print line and I can print my eye and my value. And if I clear this and run, you'll see that we should get zero.

Hello one world into hi. And that is exactly what we get. It's kind of cut off in my terminal, but you can see that's the output that we're getting. And now let's quickly look at what happens when we pass a slice into a function. So let's say we have a function test.

This time I'm going to take in a string slice. We'll call this okay. So error that is of the type A slice of string. Now first of all this will allow us to accept any length slice right. Which is already more flexible than when we were using arrays previously.

Now though, I want to show you that if I go Ray zero is equal to change this and we pass this into the function. So we say test at cell. Now we fmt dot print line the slice. You'll notice that in this example something different happens than when we used the array. So if I run this you can see that we actually mutate the slice when we pass this into a function.

So in the previous example when we're using an array as the parameter type for our function call here, what happened was we didn't actually mutate the underlying array. We made a copy of that array. And then we changed the copy inside of the function, meaning this original array was untouched. In this example we're using a slice. Now remember a slice has a pointer to the underlying array.

So what happens here is I pass in the slice. Since the slice has a pointer to the underlying array. When I make a change here I affect that underlying array. So I'm actually able to mutate the original slice by passing it through as a parameter into this function. Whereas I couldn't do that when I was just using the array.

Maybe that makes a bit of sense. I'm hoping it does, but for now you can understand that if you pass a array, you're not going to mutate it, whereas if you pass a slice, you can mutate that inside of the function, those ways to avoid that. But for now, I just wanted to show you this so you understand kind of the main difference here and can see how that pointer can affect some of the behavior of our slices. So if we're using the var syntax we'd have something like var MP. Then we'd write map.

We put a set of square brackets here in the square bracket. We'd put whatever the type of our key is going to be. In this case that can be a string. And then we'd associate that with some value like an int. We then could initialize the map.

To initialize the map we could say map string int. And then inside of here we would have to put strings associated with ints. So I have a associated with one. If I tried to associate that with a string notice we get an error because that's not the correct type of the map. Okay.

So this is how you create a map and then initialize it. Now obviously in this instance we don't need to actually write the var syntax. I could simply say MP cool and equal to the map. And then the type of this will be implied because we already have the type over here. Okay. So the var syntax is a little bit verbose.

Just wanted to show you how that works. Okay. So we're going to say MP cool and equal to the map. And then if we go ahead and say FMT job print line and we print out our map here, you'll see that we get a map that contains the key A that is associated with the value one, which is exactly what we get there. Now if we don't include anything inside of this map, that's perfectly fine.

We will just get an empty map. And notice that I do actually need to put the curly braces here, even if I don't put anything inside of them. Okay, so that is how you create a map. Now there's a few other ways to make it. We can also use the make function.

So I can write make. And then I can say map and same thing. I can do something like string int. In this instance I don't need to actually put my curly braces. And now we will get an empty map.

Let's have a look at this here. And you can see that we get our map. Now as a note we could have a more complicated map. So I could do something like map, and then I could have a string associated with maybe an int slice. If that's the case, this is perfectly valid.

The type of my map is this a slice of ints okay. And then this is the map itself or sorry this is the key value of the string. All right. The entire type is this whole thing. And the value type is a slice of ints.

If that was the case I'd need to put slices of ins inside of the map. So I'd say a colon. And then I'd create a slice. Something like one, two, three. It's perfectly valid for me to write this inside of this map.

Kind of literal here or declaration. Right? Now, if we print this out, you will see that this will work fine and we will have a which is our string associated with one, two and three, which is a slice. Okay. Now let's look at how we add values into the map and some other features of the maps.

If I want to add a key value pair I can do something like MP. Ask the character b is equal to and then I can create a slice. Now if I make a slice I need to actually initialize the slice here because it's not inside of the map literal. So I'm going to say int like that. So this now makes a new slice that I insert a key b okay.

So if I write this here you can see that now we get a map that has key A and has key B if I decide to override this key. So like MP is equal to int and I make this an empty slice for example, you'll see that it will replace whatever was at that key with the new value. Here. All right. So that is how you add a key into the map.

Now to delete a key from the map you're going to use the delete function. So you write delete you write the name of the map. And then you write the key that you want to delete. In this case I want to delete B if I do that. You'll now see that we no longer have that key B inside of the map.

We have deleted it. Notice that I do not need to reassign to my map when I use this delete function, it will actually mutate the map in place, unlike the append function for r slices. Okay, so that is how you make maps. Add keys and delete keys. Last thing we really need to look at here is how we check if a key is present inside of the map.

So to do that we'll do the following. We'll say value okay colon equal to. And then we're going to say map. And then this is going to be at whatever the index is or whatever the key is. So in this case we could do something like b.

Then I can add fmt to print line value. And okay. Now what this is going to do for me is give me the value associated with this key if it exists, and a boolean saying true or false. Now, if it's true that means the key did exist. If it's false, that means the key did not exist.

So when I run this here, you're going to see that we get nothing and then false. The reason we get false is because the key B does not exist. And the reason we get an empty slice here is because we always get the default value of whatever the type is of our map. So if we change the map completely to be like a boolean. So this is going to be a bit of a change.

But if we get rid of this here okay. So change this. Let's say b is equal to false okay. And then we run this. You'll see that.

Now we're going to get false false because we get the default value of the map type which is false as well as false indicating that this key did not exist. Now if this key did exist. Right. So now if I run this here, you'll see that we get false and then true indicating. Okay, well, the value is false.

And yes, this key actually did exist inside of the map. All right. So that is how you kind of do the main operations on maps. Now let's have a look at a quick example of using maps just so we can kind of see how to do this. So I'm going to keep my map up here.

And I'm going to have a map of an int associated with a uint. And actually we'll go map uint associated with another uint. Now what I'm going to do for this example is I'm going to have some number n. Now this is going to be equal to 100. And what I'm going to do is loop through all of the different values of n.

So going from 1 to 100. And I'm going to see how many of them are divisible by one, two, three, four and five. And then place the number of divisible elements inside of this map. You'll see what I mean as I start going through this. We're going to say number colon equal one number is less than or equal to n and then number plus plus.

Okay. Now that we have the number we're going to loop through one through five. We're going to see if this number is divisible by 123 4 or 5. If it is then what we will do is add that into the map under the key one, two, three, 4 or 5. Again, you'll see what I mean in one second.

So we're going to say four and we'll say d standing for divisor. This will start out being equal to one. We'll then say d is less than or equal to five. And then d plus plus. We're then going to say if the number mod d is equal to zero meaning it's divisible by zero, there's there's no remainder.

Then we want to add this into the map. So the way we can do this is we can say MP at and this is going to be D plus plus. Okay. Now what is the error here saying. Can I use the variable of type int as you int value in map.

Okay. It's actually a good area to run into here. The reason why we're getting this is because D by default is going to be int. Whereas we have a uint type for our map. So that means that I need to convert this to a u int.

Now I can decide to do that here. Or I can decide to do that down here. Now notice we're getting another error here. And it's saying number mod invalid operation mismatch types int and you int. What I can do to fix this is I can now come to my number and I can say this is going to be u int.

Now again we get another error here. Range says number less than equal to n mismatch types u int and int. So then that just means I need to go here to n and change this to be a u int. So now all of our types are the same. Okay.

So what we're doing here is we're checking if the number is divisible by d. If it is. And we're looking at our map at the key d and we are incrementing it. Now some of you may be saying well is this going to work if that key doesn't already exist inside of the map? Now the answer is yes.

That will work, because the default value of every single key inside of our map is the default value of this type, which is zero. So if I say d and I haven't put d inside of the map yet, when I increment this, it just means that the value for d is going to be one, because the default value is zero. Now that doesn't work in a lot of other programing languages and some other languages, you might have to do the following. You're going to have to say something like this. Quantity comma okay.

Colon equal to this is going to be empty at D. Then going to say if okay then at D plus plus like that. Otherwise you're going to say MP at D is equal to one. That's what you'd have to do in some other programing languages. You actually don't need the quantity.

Okay. Just wanted to kind of show that to you in case you see this pattern pop up. But in go we don't need to do this because we know if we increment the value here MP at D plus plus, since it always has a default value of zero, then it will go up to be one. And if it already has a value then we'll just increase that value. So to make this more clear, let's just print out what the result is here of our map.

And then you can see kind of what I'm aiming to do with this example. So let's clear and run. And you can see for our map here that we get one 102 5333, 425 and 520. The reason for this is we have 100 values that are divisible by one, 50 values that are divisible by two, 33 values that are divisible by three, 25 divisible by four, and 20 divisible by five. So that was kind of the goal of this example.

Here was to get a map that contained a key which is the divisor, and then the number of values in our range that are evenly divisible by that number. Now we already know what a function is, but I just want to show you how we create them and use them in go. So with that said let's see how we make a function. So to make a function I'm going to write func. And then I'm going to put the name of the function so I can do something like add.

Then I'll put a set of parentheses. And then I will write the body of the function inside of curly braces. Similar to JavaScript here, except when we want to add parameters or return values, we need to actually specify those. So unlike in JavaScript, we can just write out any parameters we want. We can have any number of return values or we don't have to have a return value in go.

We have to define the types of our functions. What I mean by that is we have to do something like num1 and then specify that this is an int, and then something like num2. And again specify that's an int. And in this case we want to return an int. So we'd specify that right here.

Now the reason for that is because go is a statically typed language. So just like our variables we need to specify the types for all of our parameters as well as any return values. Now you'll see the we're getting an error here. And the reason we're getting an error is because we don't have a return. And we've specified that we want to return an int.

So now that we've done this, this means that this function must return an int value. So what I can do is write return and then num1 plus num2. And now you'll see this function is valid. Now just like in JavaScript to call the function is straightforward I can do something like value colon equals to and then add say one and two. And then fmt job print line.

And I can print out my value. So go run and then demo dot go. And you'll see here that we get the value of three. Okay. So that is how you write a simple function.

You specify the name of the function. You write out the different parameter types and then you specify the return value. Now one thing with our functions is that we can return multiple values. So if we want to do that we're going to put a set of parentheses here. And then we're going to specify the values we're returning.

So I could return an int. And then something like a string. And I could come here and return the string. Hello. And now what I would need to do is have something like value comma str is equal to add one two.

And then I could print out both these values. And you'll see that we're no longer getting an error. Now note that you always have to use the return values from this function. So I can't just write value is equal to this. I would have to have variables for every single return value.

Now I could put an underscore in place of any of those variables. If I don't want to use them. But it's just a note that you need to kind of specify those and write them out when you're calling the function. All right. So now let's look at a few more advanced uses of functions here.

Obviously this one is quite simple. So let's get rid of this. And let's make another function that accepts maybe some more values here. So we can say function I'll call this call func. And what I'll actually show you here is that we can accept functions as parameters inside of our function.

So what I can do is something like callable. And then I'm actually going to write func. And I'm going to put here int int. Now what this means is that I'm accepting a function as the parameter. So the parameter name callable this function will accept one integer parameter and return one integer value.

Then what I'll do from here is I'll just return and then I'll call this function and I'll just pass in say the value ten. Okay. Then I'll come here and I'll say value colon equal to. And then this is going to be call function. And what I need to do is pass a function to this.

So a few ways I can do this. First of all I can write func. And then something like double number. This will take in an int and return an int. And this can simply return two multiplied by I need to give this a name.

So we'll say num int okay. Now we'll pass double number and then we'll say fmt dot print line and then value. So what I've done here is again written a function that's going to accept a function. And we've actually done that by saying the type of the parameter is a function. So that's kind of the point of me showing this to you is that our functions have types just like slices have types, arrays have types, ints, etc.

in this case, the type of this function is a function that accepts an int and returns in it. That's the type. So I can pass any function that has this parameter type and this return value type to this function. It then can call that function and return whatever the value is from it. So in this case I have double number but I could have another function.

Maybe we call this triple number and we just do three times num. And now this would be a valid function to pass to the call func function. Anyways let's go ahead and run this. And you can see that we get the value 20. This is working correctly.

Okay. So that is how you pass a function as a parameter to another function. Again very important here that we know the types of the functions that we're writing. Now just as another exercise here, I'll show you that if I do something like FMT dot print f and then I print f the percent t or the type of the double number function here, you'll see when I clear and when I run that we actually get the type of funk int int okay. So that is the type of this function.

All right. Now that we've seen that let's look at how we would do this without actually declaring a separate function. So in go you can write things known as anonymous functions. Now anonymous functions are essentially unnamed functions. What that means is inside of here what I could do is write func.

And then I could do something like x int and then int. And then I can write the body of my function and have something like return x plus one. What I've just done is written a function inside of kind of the call statement to this function. So this is a perfectly valid function. It just doesn't have a name.

And I can pass this in kind of just like an arrow function inside of JavaScript. So now if I run this you'll see that we should get the value of 11. And we do because this is a valid function definition I write func, I write all of my different parameters, I write my return value, and then I can just write the function directly here. Now I can also take this and assign this to a variable. I can say f1 colon equal to this.

We need to write this in the correct order okay. And now I can pass f1 to this function and the exact same thing would happen. I can also call F1. So it's into F1 like that. Okay.

Now just like we can pass functions to another function. We can return functions from a function. So what I can do is get rid of all this and write another function here and say get func. Now it's possible that what we'll take here is something like a string. Let's just call this str.

And now we're going to return from this a function that accepts a string and returns a string. And what we'll do is we'll say return func. We'll say str two string like that. And then this will return a string. Then here we're simply going to return this string.

Plus string two okay. Now we can call this function. So we'll say f1 colon equal to get function. We're going to pass hello here. And then we're going to call F1.

We're going to say value colon equal to F1. And then we'll pass world like that. And then we'll FMT dot print line whatever the value is here. I'll explain this in one second. But let's have a look at what we get.

And notice we get hello world. Now what I've done here is I've written a function that returns to us another function. So I'm returning the function here. And what this function does is take whatever the value that was passed to this original function is and adds another string to it. That string is the parameter to this function.

So I've now created a function kind of using this get func function that is always going to add whatever we pass to it to the string. Hello. So that's why when I called F1 with world it gave me hello world! We could do the following value to is equal to space. Tim.

And now if we print value two. And now when we print this out you'll see that we're getting. Hello Tim. So we're using this original F1 function. We're getting a different value back because we're passing a different parameter to it.

Hopefully this is making sense. Just trying to show you how we write these different types of functions and the type of these functions. Now we can get a bit more complicated than this because you can have functions, returning functions, returning functions, so on and so forth. For example, if we actually print out the type of get func, let's have a look at what that is. So we'll say fmt dot print f.

We'll go here and go percent t and then we'll just write get func like that. If I run this notice that the type of this function is a function string that returns a function string that returns a string. So you can see that as we nest these functions inside of each other, it gets more and more complicated. All right. Now a few more things to show you with functions.

So it's possible that we may have a function. Maybe say something like some where we want to accept a variable number of arguments. What I mean by that is we may want to accept one positional argument, three positional arguments, etc. we could accept a bunch. If that's the case, what we can write is something like nums and then dot dot dot int.

Then we can return here an int. Now what this means is that we're going to accept any number of numbers that allows me to call the function. Let's do that down here. We'll say some or s colon equal to some like this. So I can call it with 123I can call it with one I can call it with nothing.

I can call it with four, five, six I can call it with any number of different numbers or integers for the parameters okay. Now this is referred to as a very adic function. You don't have to remember that name. But in case you see it, that's where it is. Not sure if I'm pronouncing that correctly, but it's a very adic function where it has a variable number of arguments that can be accepted.

So in this case, if I wanted to generate the sum of these numbers, what I'd have to do is loop through them. Notice here that this is actually going to be a slice okay. So we don't pass a slice. We pass these individual values. But it gets kind of taken into our function as a slice.

It's telling us what the type is right here. So what I can do now is say something like s colon equals zero. And then I can say for I comma value colon equal to range of nums. And then I can say s plus equals the value like that. I can put an underscore here because I don't need I and then I can return s.

And now this will generate the sum of any of the numbers that we pass in. So now we can say FMT dot print line will print out s. And if we run this we'll see that we get the sum here which is 15. And I could again extend this and pass another value like ten. Perfect.

Now another thing you can do with this dot dot dot operator here is kind of similar to the JavaScript's spread operator, where I could actually write a slice here. So I need to make a slice. I can say int. How are we going to do this slice int and then I can write a few different values inside of here. But you'll notice it's telling me this is invalid.

It says you cannot use this literal because we are accepting int values only. But what I can do is put a dot dot dot here after I write the slice. And what this actually does is break down the slice into all of its individual elements, and passes all of those elements as individual arguments into sum. I'm not sure if that quite makes sense. Well, what really happens inside of this call here is I say, okay, I have a slice.

Well, I have this slice, but I want to take all of the individual elements out of the slice and pass those as parameters to this function. Well, I can do that using dot dot dot. So now you can see that when I run this we get the correct sum of 15. Again what this does is kind of break down the slice into its individual arguments and passes those to this function. Now, one thing to note here is that this dot dot dot only works when you're using a variadic parameter.

So if I had say five different, parameter values here, and I was trying to do this, to pass each of these to each of those five individual parameters, that wouldn't work. Okay. So if you have a variadic parameter then you can use this dot dot dot on something like a slice. And that will then allow you to pass all of these values as those arguments into this function. All right. So that is variadic functions.

Now let's have a look at something known as named return values. So what I can actually do here is I can put a set of parentheses and I can label my return values. So when I do this and I say s int what I'm saying is okay, I want to have a variable called s. The type of that variable is int. So behind the scenes what goes on is go creates this variable for me.

And then by default that variable will be returned anytime a return statement is encountered. So what I can do is add to this variable, modify it, do whatever I want. Because really what happens is we have var since being declared in the background, meaning I can now use s inside of my function without re declaring it. And now when I have a return statement, we'll just return whatever the named return value is, which in this case is S. So I could do return s, but I don't need to do that.

And you'll see now that when I run this, the function is going to work the exact same way as before and it returns 15. Maybe that's making a bit of sense. Hopefully it is. But you can name your return value. That then means you can omit returning the actual name of that, and you can just use that variable inside of the function.

Now we can have multiple return values as well. So maybe we have s and then we have s two or something. And this is an int as well. Now what I'll do is say s two plus equals two times value. Okay. And now if we have s and S2

and we print out both of these, you'll see that when I run this we get both of those different values okay. So sum and sum two we didn't have to write return s. And S2 like we normally would. We just write the return statement. And as soon as that's encountered whatever the value of these variables is will be returned.

Now note that I could literally have a function that's just this. If I do that, what's going to happen is both S and S2 are just going to be zero because they're initialized to the default value of int, which is zero. All right. So that is a named return values. And I think with that said that's pretty much going to wrap up everything I need to show you related to functions in go.

They're quite useful. There's a lot of stuff that we can do. Obviously we just need to kind of understand the types of functions and realize that we can pass functions around our program, just like we did in JavaScript. But if we're going to do that, we need to be careful of the types of functions that we're using and make sure we get that typing correct. That's really the purpose of this video, to just show you the more complicated typing and how you do that with seeing nested functions, returning functions, etc..

Now a struct is similar to a class. It's kind of the replacement of a class in a language like go. It does work differently, but it allows us to do similar things to what we do with objects and classes in JavaScript. Now, a struct by definition is a typed collection of fields. When we create a struct that allows us to create a new type that we can use within go.

So this is quite helpful when you want to have a type that allows you to have something like a string, an int, maybe a slice, or store information about some kind of entity or object. So you'll see what I mean here. But let's look at how we create a struct. So to create a struct we write type. We write the name of our struct.

And typically we start this with a capital letter. So something like not people but person. And then we write struct because we're creating a struct type. Now if you can't tell already we say type meaning this is going to be a new type that we can then reference in our program. Now within here, what we do is we write out all of the different fields in our struct.

So we do something like name and then we specify the type of this field. In this case we can have a string. Then on the next line we can have any other fields we want. So something like age. And this can be an int or actually more specifically something like a you.

Okay. Now we've created a person struct. How do we use this struct. Well we'll use the struct. We need to initialize it.

So I can say p one colon equals two. And then person and I put a set of curly braces like this. Now if I do this I've just initialized kind of an empty version of this struct. And I can go ahead and fmt print line p1. If I import the fmt package.

Let's go ahead and do that. And you'll see here that everything works. And what we get is a struct that contains an empty string for the name and the age zero. Now typically when we initialize a struct we want to actually set the values for the fields. So if that's the case I can write them out.

And I can do Tim and something like 23 here. And then go ahead and run. And you see that now we get the initialized values of Tim in 23. Now in this case I just wrote them in the order in which we had the fields. So I wrote the name first and then the age, and that worked.

However, if I tried to do this in the other order, wrap something like 23 and then Tim, you'll see that doesn't work because that's not the correct order of the field names. But what we can do is actually label our different values here as we're initializing them. So I can do a name colon Tim. And then age colon 23. And now it doesn't matter the order that I go in and I can write something like age 23 named Tim, or I can just have one of these many different values.

So let's clear and run and you can see this works. We just have an empty string for the name. Okay. So that's a few different ways to initialize the struct. Now what we can also do is access the different fields on our struct directly from the struct reference.

So in this case when I say p1 is equal to person, I'm creating a reference to this struct object which allows me to do something like p1 dot name is equal to Tim. So now if I clear and run, you'll see that we get Tim in 23. And additionally I can access the field and print that out. So something like P1 dot age. Then that would give us 23.

All right. So that is the basics on struct I guess last thing I'll show you is if we were using our var syntax we'd do something like var p1. And then the type of this variable would actually be person okay. So we use the person type which is the type of our struct. Now similarly if we wanted to pass this to a function something like getname and we take in a p person and then maybe return a string.

And what we could do is return p dot name. And now we've created a function that we can pass our person object to or a person struct. So now if I want to call this I would say getname with p1. I would want to store the return value obviously, and then use that somewhere. But you get the idea.

Okay, so I can now pass this struct as a type into a function. Or I could return a new person, right. So if I wanted to have this as the return value, then I would return a person struct. Okay, so now that we've looked at that let's look at how we create different methods on our structs. Now as we saw when we looked at classes and objects, and even when we just had objects in JavaScript, we can create functions that are kind of associated with that object.

Now we can do the same thing here in go for our structs. So ideally what I want to be able to do is something like P1 dot and then call a function. So how do I do that. Well first of all I can store a function as a field value. So I can do something like f.

And then I can make this a function. And I can maybe have string string like that. Perfectly valid. Now what that means is that I can actually have a function f associated with my struct. So I could do something like p1. F is equal to.

And then I could create a function. So take in x string return a string. And we could just do something simple like return x plus s okay. And now I could call the function with p1 dot f and then pass this something like hello. And that would be perfectly valid.

Now the only issue with this is that this function here is going to be different for every single instance of our struct. If I create p2 then this function is not the same for p2. Okay. So this is one way that we can do it. We can add the function directly as a field value to our struct.

But typically what we want to do is have some function that works the same for every single instance of our struct. If that's the case, what I can do is create a method. So the way that we make a method here and go is the following. We're going to write func. We're going to specify what type of struct this method is going to act on.

So I'm going to say p person like this. This is kind of equal to this keyword. You'll see what I mean in one second. Then I put the name of the method. So something like gets name okay.

This will return a string. And then what I can do here is return p dot name and have access to the person's struct that this function or method is acting on. So now this function is usable for any single instance of this person's struct. And the way it works is I write my person struct. So p1 dot and then the method name, which in this case is getname.

And then if I wanted to I could say value equals to an FMT dot print line will print out the value. And if we clear this and run you will see that we get this person's name. It's because I didn't initialize the name. So let's say name Tim like that and now run. And we should get Tim appearing on the screen. And we do.

So this is work. Okay. So just to clarify how this works one more time we write the function. We then write the struct we want this to act on. In this case I want it to act on a person struct.

Now I put a name p here. You can name this whatever you want. You could do self. You could do this whatever you want to put there. And this is referring to the struct that we are acting on.

So that refers to whatever we call it on. In this case it's P1. If it was a different struct then it would be that other struct object. What happens is we pass a copy of this struct to this parameter right here. And then we can access different properties or field values on it.

Okay then obviously this is the name of the function. We could have different parameters if we want. And then we can have return values. Okay. Now one thing to note here is that if I try to do something like p person and then maybe something like set name and I take a new name and I call this a string, and then all I do here is something like p dot name is equal to new name.

Well let's print this out inside of here. So FMT print line and then p. And now let's try to call the setter function where we try to actually modify one of the properties or fields of our struct. So how would we do that. Well I'll simply say P1 dot set name.

And we'll set this to Joey. And then we'll say FMT dot print line and then P1. Now the purpose of this example is essentially to see are we going to modify the original struct here when we have this setter type method where we're saying p dot name is equal to new name. Yes. That's going to change it inside of this function.

But will it change it outside of the function. Let's have a look here and see when we run our code. Notice it actually does know. So what happens is when we call this method we pass a copy of this person struct. So kind of a new version of the person struct.

It has all of the same values, but it's a copy of the original is used inside of here. So now when I say name is equal to new name, well, I do end up changing the name inside of this function. But when we come outside of the function and we look at P1, after calling this method, we don't actually change any of the properties on P1. Now there is ways to do that. And to be able to do that, we actually need to pass what's known as a reference or a pointer to the struct.

If we have that, then we are able to actually modify the different field values. But I'm not going to show that to you in this video because we're going to talk about that in a future video. Regardless, for now, understand when we use these different methods, what's happening is we're getting a copy of that struct and then we can use the different field values. But if we mutate them that's not going to affect the original struct object. Okay.

So that's the basics on structs. Now one thing to mention here is that inside of go we have something known as an exported name. Now an exported name is anything that's going to be accessible outside of this go package. So right now we're inside of the package main. However, it's possible that we would have other go packages that wanted to use the code inside of here.

And if that's the case, we'd only be able to use that if we had exported values or exported names. So anything that starts with a capital by default is going to be exported. So in this case person would be an exported struct. But inside of our person we have these different fields. Now since these fields are lowercase that means we actually can't access them from outside of this package or in our case outside of this go file.

So here it's fine for me to access the name, to set the name, etc. but if I try to import this person struct from another package and then try to use the name field, that's not going to work. So what I need to do if I want to allow that to be usable is set this to be a capital. So I have a capital name and a capital H. I know it seems a little bit confusing, but I just want to show this to you because you may see some go code that has capitals for things like the field names or the function or method names.

And the reason for that is that they're exporting those different values. So it's kind of similar to having private or protected values in JavaScript. When we're talking about a class by default this is going to be private okay. But if we make it capital then it will be public. And then kind of anyone can access it.

Now same with our method names. So I would want to make this get name or set name if I wanted these to be exported. So we could use them outside of the current go package. I won't go too much further into that, but just wanted to quickly explain to you the difference between exported names and non exported names. Okay, now let's have a look at how we work with embedded structs.

So I'll get rid of these methods here in this example. Okay so let's say that this person struct actually wanted to have another struct inside of it. Well that's perfectly valid. So we can create a type here. I'm not sure what really makes sense.

Let's do something like sport. Okay. And this will be a struct for the sport. We'll have a name, and we'll have a position, that this person plays a game. So name position. That's fine.

And then maybe inside of person, we want to have a slice of their favorite sports. Well, what I could do is the following. Something like sports. Create a slice and then make that a slice of this sports struct. What I've just done now is I've embedded a slice of structs or embedded structs inside of this person.

Now, I also could have just done Fave Sport and just made that equal to a single struct. For now, let's do this. Then we'll have a look at the slice later. So the point of me showing this to you is that we can do this. We can embed structs inside of other structs.

But how do we access the different values of the embedded struct or initialize those values? Well, if we have our person here, first of all, let's get rid of this var syntax because we don't really need this. We'll say p1 colon equal to person. We have our age, we have our name. And then let's have our fave sport.

Now this fave sport is going to be equal to a sport struct. So we need to create a sport struct. So we'll say sport and then we'll put our two curly braces here. Now we can either initialize the values or not. In this case I will and we'll say the name of the sport is soccer and they are a defender okay.

Which actually is my favorite sport. All right. Now let's clear the screen and print this out and notice that we get Tim 23. And we have an embedded struct that has soccer and D for defense. Now how do we access the field values on this embedded struct.

Well I would say P1 dot fave sport dot and then any of the values I want to access. So in this case I want to access name. Okay I can go ahead and have a look at the name. I also could have a look at the position if I wanted to do that. All right.

Now same thing. If I want to change those values again I just write P1 dot whatever the name of the embedded struct is. And then any of the values or fields that I want to use. Now if we were to change this to be a slice. So fave sports here.

How I would change this is the following. I would integrate a slice of sport and then inside of this slice here, I would be able to pass any of the different sports that I want in. This needs to be fave sports. Then I could do favorite sports that say index zero dot position. Now, as soon as I do this, notice what's happening is that I have a slice of sports structs.

And then it says that I have a redundant type literal from the array. That actually means that I can remove this when I'm creating the different structs inside of this slice. The reason for that is it's implied already that these structs are going to be of the type sport. So I don't need to explicitly write out sport before I define them. So what I've done is again, just create a slice that has one sport, struct inside of it.

And then down here I'm accessing that by accessing index zero from the slice of my fave sports. Okay so let's run this. Make sure that works. And you can see that we get defense. All right.

So I think with that said I'm going to wrap up the video here. Now we'll have a look at structs more in future videos. You'll see some more use cases of them. But I wanted to show you how you created structs. Embedded structs access all of the different field values and then how you can write methods for those structs.

We'll look more at methods again once we get to pointers and references, but for now, you should have a solid understanding of how these work and how you can use them as different types. Now, an interface is a way for us to abstract on top of structs. What I mean by that is that we can create an interface, and this interface will define a series of methods that various structs must implement. If a struct wants to implement the interface, it must have all of the different methods that interface defines. And that then means that we're able to view that struct as the type of the interface.

I know this seems very abstract. Let me show you a few examples. So I'm going to write type. And then for interface again we're going to have a capital first letter. So I'm going to say shape here.

And this will be an interface this time rather than a struct. Now our interfaces aren't things that we're going to instantiate. I don't create an instance of an interface. Nothing is going to be kind of the shape interface. But my various other structs will implement this interface, allowing me to treat them as if they were a shape.

So inside of my interface, what I do is I define a bunch of different methods. Okay. These methods are things, again that structs that implement the interface must implement. So I'm going to write here get perimeter. If we can spell perimeter correctly.

And I'm going to specify that this is going to return a uint value. So what I'm doing is writing out all of the different methods. I put the name of the method. I put a set of parentheses. If I had any parameters that I would place the parameter types inside of.

Here, I don't need to label them or give them names, and then I place any return values for my methods. If I don't have a return value, I just don't include it. That means we're not returning anything. Okay, so we've created a very basic shape interface. Now that we have this new type, that means that we can actually use this type inside of our program.

So I could do something like var s shape okay. This is perfectly valid. I've just created a new variable that's going to store something that is of the shape type. However we can't instantiate shape. So I can't do something like shape and then list out field values.

In fact I don't specify any fields on my interface, I'm just specifying different methods. That means that for my interface to be useful, I have to have different structs that implement the interface. So to implement the interface, the struct simply has to have the same methods that the interface defines. So what I can do is the following. I can say type triangle and this time it's a struct.

Now for my triangle I have three sides. So I have a side name that has a u and length side b has a unt length and inside C has a un length. Now at this point I've just created a triangle. This triangle does not implement the shape interface. The reason it doesn't implement the interface is because it doesn't have this get parameter method defined.

However, if I define that method and that method has the same parameter types and return values as the shape interface, all of a sudden triangle will now be able to be viewed as a shape. Now it doesn't matter what the struct actually does. If it has other methods, so long as it has all of the methods defined in the interface, it will be treated as a shape. And that means if we had another method in here, it would need to define both of these methods okay. Not just one of them.

Don't worry, I'll continue to make this more clear. So let's write a method here. We're going to say func. And then we'll go here and say T triangle okay. And then this will be get perimeter.

And then we're going to return the same return value here of u int. And we'll simply return the dot a plus B plus the TTC which will be the perimeter of this triangle. We just take the three side lengths and add them together. Okay. So now our triangle implements our shape interface.

What that means is that I can do something like this. I can say s or actually let's do this var s which is of type shape is equal to. And then I can actually put a triangle here instead of a shape. For my triangle I could initialize this with side length say 123. And I could say fmt dot print line and then print s.

So first of all, let's just run this program to prove to you that this is going to work. And you see that we get one, two and three showing up. Now, the reason why we were able to assign a triangle to the type shape here is because triangle implements the shape interface. However, what that means is that on my shape now because this is type shape, I can only view any of the properties of my triangle that are on the shape interface. So if I write s here, notice that it's not showing me the autocomplete for A, B and C, and even if I went and wrote another method here.

So something like get sides and maybe what we return here is a UNT slice. Okay. So just return a new slice. So we can go int and then go to A to B and T.c.

This needs to be un slice. Sorry. You'll notice that again it's not giving me the autocomplete. Forget sides. And in fact if I try to call get sides here it's giving me an error.

It's saying get sides. It's not valid. I can't call that on the shape. The reason why is because as soon as I make the type of my variable here shape, I'm only able to access whatever is on the shape interface, which actually a lot of times is what you want. By using the interface, you're allowed to hide or abstract away different functionality of a struct that you may not actually want people to use or be able to view.

So I'm saying, okay, I'm going to view my triangle as a shape. I don't need to know anything about the implementation of my triangle. I just need to know that it has this get perimeter method and I can call that method. So I'll show you that I can use get perimeter. So if I call S dot get perimeter.

And we run this here that will work fine. And we will get our value of six. All right. So hopefully the interface is making a tiny bit of sense. But it makes even more sense when we add multiple structs.

So let me make this a bit smaller just so we can have some more space on the screen here. And let's create another struct now and just make this something like a square. So we'll say type square struct okay. For our square we'll just take a width. And this width can be a uint.

Now similarly to our triangle for our square let's implement the shape interface. To implement that we need to write the method for our square. So it doesn't really matter where we write it. But I'll write function and then we'll say s square like that. And this will be get perimeter.

And then for get perimeter we're going to return a UNT. And all we need to do for the perimeter of our square is just multiply the width by four. So four times s dot width. And there you go. Now our square struct implements the shape interface.

What that now means is that this variable here could store either a triangle or a square. Or we could go even a bit further and we could make this a slice, for example, that stores multiple shapes. So now I'm going to say shape. And inside of here we'll have a triangle. And now we'll also have a square.

And the square can have a width of say ten. So now hopefully you get the idea here. What I'm doing is saying okay well I want to store multiple shapes. I don't know if I'm going to have triangles, if I'm going to have squares, if I'm going to have any different type of struct. However, the only thing I care about here is that they implement this shape interface.

If they implement this shape interface that I know that on all of these different structs, regardless of how they're implemented, they have the get perimeter method. So that's the method that I can use if I want to get say, all of the perimeters. So maybe I have something like perimeters is equal to zero. Let's do colon equal to zero okay. And then I go down here and I say four.

And we go underscore comma actually yeah we'll go underscore comma shape colon equals to range of s. And we can actually call this shapes because that's going to be a little bit better for us. Then what I will do is say perimeters plus equals shape dot get perimeter. Now we don't need to convert that to an int. We can just write here that this will be a UNT.

And then we can go into FMT dot print line and we can print out the perimeters. Okay. So what I've done here said all right I have a bunch of different shapes. What I want to do is calculate the sum of all of their perimeters. Well, the best way for me to do this is to use this shape interface.

So I create a slice of all of my different shapes. Again, knowing that since they implement the shape interface, I'm able to call get perimeter on all of them. So I don't care if I have seven triangles. Three squares doesn't matter. So long as they're all shapes.

I then go and loop through all my shapes and I call get perimeter on all of these different shapes. Again, I don't need to do anything different if it's a triangle or a square, because we know it implements the interface. So now if I come down here and go, go run, DeMarco, you see we get the total perimeter of 46. So this is quite useful because what I can now do with this interface is I can start using it as a type and create much more flexible functions and logic for my code. For example, I might create a function and this function might do something like say is and maybe even perimeter.

Okay. I know this doesn't make a ton of sense, but I'm just trying to come up with things that we could possibly use here. So is even perimeter. And to determine if a shape has an even perimeter, what we'll do is we'll take in a shape of type shape, and then we'll simply return a boolean value. Here I can just return shape dot get perimeter mod two is equal to zero.

And now what I can do is call this function with anything that implements or eat the shape interface. I don't need to specify that this is a triangle or that this is a square, even though both of those will work. I can instead just use the shape and that allows me to make this much more flexible, because the only thing I care about inside of this function is if it has this get perimeter, what do you call it method. Right now there might be another method that we want. If that's the case then we would add that to our shape interface.

However, now we have the ability to view our triangle and our square as shapes. Or if we want to use something specific to the triangle or specific to the square, then we can go ahead and do that as well, right? So if I create a triangle I say t equal and equal to triangle. Now I can just go t a to b, I can use my t dot, get sides or get perimeter right. I can use whatever is specific to the triangle.

And then later on I can view that as a shape and allow this to be viewed more flexibly in different functions, methods, etc. hopefully this is making a tiny bit of sense what I'm showing to you here, but that's kind of the point of the interface. Again, allows us to view different structs as the same type, which makes it much more flexible for us when we're doing things like grabbing the perimeters of all of our different shapes. There's a million other examples of using interfaces. I don't want to get too complicated here, but a lot of times what will happen is they'll be an interface and you'll be tasked with implementing that interface.

And to implement it, you just need to implement all of the methods that are defined on it. As soon as you do that now, you've made whatever you've created more flexible to be viewed as a different type and used in combination with other things that implement that. Interfaces. Interfaces are all over the place. And again, the main goal of them is that we abstract away the implementation of our structs.

We say, hey, I don't care if you have ten methods. Three methods. What? I don't care what different side lengths you have or properties you have. All I care is that you have this method.

If you have this method, I know how to use you and I know what I can do with this type of object. Now error handling and go works a lot different than it does in JavaScript or dynamically typed languages. The reason for that is in go, most of the errors will have will be caught at compile time, meaning we can't even run our code unless we fix a majority of these issues. However, there is still runtime errors. Now, a runtime error will occur when something happens during the execution of our code that we didn't catch at compile time.

A great example of this is something like dividing by zero. This is a runtime error and in go these errors are actually referred to as panics. Okay. So in JavaScript we have an exception or an error. In go we have a panic.

And it's important to understand the difference between compile time error and runtime error. What I'm going to be showing you here is how you catch and deal with runtime errors, not compile time errors, which you need to fix before you can even execute the code. Okay, so let's look at a panic. First of all, let's just emulate a panic. Like go FMT dot print line.

And then I can just do something like one divided by zero. Now actually it's going to tell me here that I can't do this. So the compiler is actually catching this error for me. There is ways to kind of cause this to occur. So I guess I can do the following func divide okay.

We're going to take a int and be int. And then we'll return an int. And we're going to return a over b okay. Then I should be able to call divide with one and zero. And now it's not going to catch that.

So the compiler is smart enough to catch a line where you actually have zero as the literal. After a division sign, but it's not smart enough to catch you when you have it inside of a function. So in this case, since we're dividing A by B, we're going to get a division by zero error. So if I run this code here you can see that we actually get a panic okay. So when I go through let's just run a one more time.

So we get the full stack here. It says panic runtime error integer divide by zero. And then it tells us exactly where this occurred. You don't need to worry too much about the rest of the error message, but the point is that we saw a panic. This was the first instance of a runtime error that we've encountered.

So what I want to show you here is, first of all, how we actually manually trigger a panic, as well as how we deal with a panic if it occurs. So there is a function in go called panic. What I can do is write panic and then place an error message inside of here and say this caused a crash or something like that. Okay, so in some instances you actually want to invoke a panic. I won't go through why you want to do that, but when I run this code here, again I need to run again so we can see the full stack.

It says panic. This caused a crash and it tells me where this occurred. Okay, so you have that panic function, but how do we deal with this panic function? Well, before we can look at that, we need to look at a new keyword known as defer. Now what the defer keyword does is defer the execution of a function until the end of some specific function.

I know this seems a bit weird, but what I can do is put something like defer, I put a function and that means that this will always happen after everything that occurs inside of this function. So I'm just going to say func and we'll just go deferred func like that. And then here we can say fmt dot print line and just say defer. Now we'll go and import fmt. I guess I didn't really spell that correctly.

Either way. Don't worry about that. And I'm going to defer the deferred function okay. So now let's get rid of our panic here. And let's just go with something like FMT dot print line.

And then we'll say run. And then we'll go here and notice that we get run and then we get defer. So even though the defer statement occurred before the run statement, this function is going to happen automatically at the end of our function. Okay. So the reason why defer is important is because defer will run no matter what.

So even if a panic occurs the defer statement will still happen. The reason why this is important is because we can use this defer statement, kind of like a dot finally block that we had in JavaScript where this allows us to clean up some type of operation even if a crash of our program occurs. So as a great example here, what we might be doing is something like opening a file. We open a file and then we attempt to write to the file. Now while we're writing to the file, something to happen.

Maybe another program is using the file. We could have an error that occurs and a panic could be caused. If that's the case, I want to make sure I close this file before I exit out of this program. So what I would do is defer an operation that closes the file. And that means even if when I'm writing to the file an error occurs, we will still end up closing the file.

Whereas if I didn't defer that and I just put it say at the end of my program, what's going to happen is if an error occurs, we won't reach that code because the panic happened first. So you can see here, since I have this panic, it's telling me that this line is not going to run into unreachable code. It's unreachable because we have this panic. So anything after the panic that's not deferred is not going to run. And even actually, if I put the defer statement after the panic here, same thing.

This won't run because the panic happens before we're able to defer this execution. So you defer operations that kind of clean up your code and that you want to happen no matter what. So just to illustrate this to you, if I run my code here, you can see that we get defer. So it actually prints this out. And then we get the panic.

Even though I put this statement before the panic occurred. All right. So understand how defer works and understand that we can defer multiple things. So I could defer the deferred function twice. And that just means we would now defer both of those.

And they would run in the order in which we defer them at the end of our code. Or when a panic occurs. Okay. So that is defer and that is panic. Anything after a panic statement will not run.

So as soon as a panic occurs, any code that's not deferred is not going to execute. Just make sure you keep that in mind. Now let's have a look at how we can recover from a panic. So we have in go this function called recover. Now this function can only be used inside of a function that is deferred.

I'll talk about why that's the case in one second. But what this will do is this will essentially catch any error that occurs and then save that error message inside of this r variable. So what I can do here is say fmt dot print line r. Now as soon as the recover is kind of hit, as soon as we get inside of the statement, what this will do is allow us to not actually crash the program. Now the rest of the function that was executing will not continue to execute.

So in this case a panic occurs. We have this deferred function that is recovering. We're not going to execute this print line run, but we will be able to continue throughout our program without kind of crashing it. I know this is very abstract. I just need to show you an example here.

And then we can explain what's going on. So I'm going to say go run demo not go. And we get defer. And then this caused a crash. But notice that we didn't see a panic that occurred in our terminal.

That's because the program was able to continue to run because we handled the panic with this recover statement. So what I did is I defer the function inside of this deferred function. I put this recover function. What this means now is if a panic occurs, we will go inside of the deferred function. I go inside a defer and I start executing all of my cleanup operations.

Inside of here I see a recover statement. When I see recover that tells go, hey, don't crash the program. I'm handling this error myself. You don't need to crash. You can let me continue to execute.

So that means we now recover. We get what the error is and then we can check the error. So I can say, hey, if the error is equal to this, I want to do this. If it's equal to this, do this. Or I can alternatively check and say, did I have an error?

Oh well, I don't have an error, so I'll just continue on. For example, you'll see that if we don't panic here, right. This deferred statement will still run. But now you see that we get nil for that error. Because when recovery ran, there was no panic that occurred.

So there was nothing we needed to recover from. And we just print nil. So what we might do inside of the defer function is something like this. If r does not equal nil, then fmt dot print line and just say no error. Otherwise we may print out what that error is.

Okay. So we can do that inside of defer. Now when we run this we'll see that we get nil. Actually why are we getting nil here? It's because if it does not equal nil, we print this, otherwise we print this.

So if it is nil, we're printing this. Okay. So actually sorry, this is the other way around. If r is equal to nil no error. Otherwise print this. Just had a quick brain fart there.

Apologize about that okay so now when I run this we get run and then no error. And if I add the panic back in you see that. Now we get this caused a crash and we don't print this run statement. We just go directly inside of the deferred function. Okay. So quick recap here.

Then I'm going to show you another way that we can handle errors. We have this panic function and we just have things that panic in go a panic is a runtime error. As soon as a panic occurs, none of the code below that panic is going to execute. So it doesn't matter if I wrote panic here or if I had like a division by zero error that occurred inside of this function. So if I had one zero, this is going to do the exact same thing as what we just saw before.

Except now the panic will happen from the division by zero. Anyways, as soon as a panic occurs, we're no longer going to execute whatever is in kind of the body of where that panic occurred, or in the stack of where that panic occurred. We're going to immediately go to any of the deferred functions inside of those deferred functions. We're going to do any of the operations that exist as kind of cleanup or finally type operations. We are then going to look for the presence of this recover function.

If we see the recover function, that means that we won't actually crash the program. We'll go into that recover statement, and we will return any error or panic message to the variable that we're writing here for recover. That then allows us, as the programmer to handle this error ourself. Now we can decide to not panic. So in this case we're not panicking. Right.

And we're just dealing with the error. Or we could actually raise a panic ourself. We could say panic error occurred. So if we want to look at this specific error message to say okay, well we don't know how to handle this one. So we'll still panic or alternatively we do know how to handle this.

Sorry. So we won't panic. We'll just deal with the error and clean it up. You have the option to do that. So recover is giving you the programmer, the flexibility to deal with the runtime error yourself rather than using go where the default behavior is going to be to crash.

Okay, that is how that works. Keep in mind you can only use recover inside of a defer statement. And that makes sense, because if I tried to write the recover function down here, even though I could do this, we're never going to reach this recover statement, because as soon as the error occurs here in divide, we're not going to go into this function because it's not deferred and it comes after the runtime error. So that's why you need to put the recover statement inside of a deferred function. If you don't do that then it's just never going to run.

It's never going to execute. Okay. So that is kind of the first way to handle errors. Now as you can see this is a little bit clunky. And actually in go we typically don't have runtime errors.

We're not dealing with these very frequently. What we can actually do instead is we can create or return an error from our function. So rather than panicking, we can just tell whoever called this function, hey, you called this incorrectly. Here's the error related to how you call this function. And we've actually already seen this pattern in go, where we call the function.

And one of the return values from that function was an error. And it was telling us if an error occurred or if it didn't. So what I could do is I could modify my divide function here and do something like this. I can say if b is equal to zero, we don't need to put this in parentheses. Sorry.

Then what we'll do is return zero and we can return an error. So what I'm going to do here is put a comma and put error. I'm going to put this in a set of parentheses. That's how you have to return multiple values. And now I'm going to return an error alongside this zero value.

So to do that I'm going to import another package up here. So I'm going to say import fmt. And I'm going to go down and I'm going to import this errors package. Now errors allows me to create a new error. So I can say errors dot new like this.

And then I can say division by zero. So rather than panicking and allowing me to actually perform this division by zero which will cause a panic, I'm going to return an error telling me, hey, you can't do this, because if you were to do that, that would cause a division by zero. Then here. If this isn't the case, if we don't have a division by zero, I'll return a over B, which will work, and then I will return nil, indicating that we don't have an error. Now, if we have a look at the error type here, this is actually an interface type.

And we can see that all of this is saying is that whatever we have is an error. Must have this error method on it. The returns a string. Now using this errors package which is built in to go, we can use this new function. And this returns as you can see here, an error which essentially means it's giving us a struct that has a method on it.

That is this error method. So then we can call that to get with the error message is. So now if I want to use this divide function what I say is the following I say result comma error colon equal to and then divide. And then something like one comma zero. Now I can say fmt dot print line result and error.

Then I can clear this and I can go ahead and run and I get zero. And then division by zero because an error occurred. So rather than panicking and going into that defer and recover kind of block that we looked at, instead we're using this new pattern where we're actually returning an error object. And then we can handle that object how we please. So now if I don't have an error so I just have one, one you'll see here that we'll get one and then we'll get nil.

So what I would typically do is I would now go and handle this error myself. So it'd say if error does not equal nil, then I could do something like FMT up print line and say error occurred and maybe I change the value of result or something, I don't know, I can do whatever I want here, otherwise I just go ahead and say FMT dot print line and I print my result. So now I'm handling this by just using a simple if else statement and checking if we did have an error. So in this case we get one. But if we make this zero then you'll see that we get that an error occurred.

Okay. So that said I think I'm going to wrap up the video here. I just wanted to show you how we can handle errors and go. The difference between defer recover, panics, all of that. And then what's going to be the recommended way to deal with errors, which is returning this error object from your functions.

Doing this avoids the panics and makes your code a little bit cleaner. And this is kind of the standard pattern that we use in go. So in case you see this now you kind of know how it works. We're returning a separate object again just indicating if an error occurred or if it didn't. And then we can handle that error however we want to inside of wherever we call that function.

Now, generics can be a complicated topic. There's actually a lot of details and nuances related to them. I'm not going to go through everything because this isn't meant to be an in-depth go course, but I will show you the basics so that if you see them, you know what they are and you have some sense of how to use them. So what is a generic? Well, a generic is a way that we can have flexible types in a statically typed language.

Now it's best for me to show you an example of where we might want to use generics. And then you can see kind of what the purpose of them is. So make a function here something simple like add, write. For this add function it's possible we're going to have two arguments so x and y and then we'll return an int. We can just return x plus y okay.

Simple function. This works fine. However as you'll see here this add function only works for the int type. Meanwhile we know that add can work for a UN type or for a float type. Really, so long as all of the values here pass the function are the same, the same type, I mean like an end to float a UNT, etc.

we're able to add them. So right now, without knowing about generics, what I would need to do to accommodate an add function that worked with other types is just make another version of add. And for this version of add, I would need to change the name as well as the types I'd have to have add two. Now this isn't ideal and that means that now all of a sudden I have all these different Add functions appearing in my program just to accommodate all these different types, when really everything is the exact same inside of my function. So how do I fix this?

Well, to fix this I use a generic. Now the way we define a generic is the following. We put a set of square brackets here. After we have the name of our function, and inside of here we define our generic type. Now we start by creating a name for the type.

Typically this is going to be a single letter and it's going to start with a capital. The most common is to use T and then after this you specify kind of the constraint for this type. So in my case I'm going to put int for union float. And in this case we float 64. Now what I've just done here is I've said okay for this add function I want to have a generic type T.

Now this means that I'm going to replace all of my parameters here with t. Now this t type, based on the way I've written it here, can be either an int type or a float type. So this operator right here which is the pipe operator is known as the union. And that means that we are combining int and float 64 together and essentially saying hey t can be any of int or float all right. So really what we're kind of doing here is placing an interface that this type T has to adhere to.

In this case I'm saying it either needs to be an int or needs to be a float. Okay. Then for the types. Now for my parameters I've placed t. And notice since I have t three times, what that means is that whether t is an int or a float, all three of the values that are passed this function must be of type T, meaning they must be the same type.

So I can't pass an int here and a float here. I need to pass either both ints or both floats. So just to illustrate the usage to here I'm going to say value colon equal to. And then we'll say add. And we'll call add with two and three.

And then we can say fmt job print line. And we can print our value. But we can also call value or not value sorry add with a UNT value. So we can say you want to and you ent of something like seven. And actually sorry UNT doesn't work because I don't have you int here.

But now if I add you int you can see that this is fine. Then I could continue this and I can call this with float values. So I can do 34.5 and 54.3.

And now as long as I name this something different and I print these out. So value two and value three. You'll see here that when I run this code. So go run demo ago that I get my results and there's no errors okay. So that is what happens when we add this generic type.

I do the name of my type which is T, I specify the interface this type needs to adhere to, or the constraint for this type. In this case it needs to be an int a float or a u int. And then I can use this generic type inside of my function parameters for my return value and inside of the function. So I can also do something like var sum of type t is equal to x plus y. And then I could just return sum.

And this is completely valid. And now again t will be equal to whatever the generic type is for this function. So this now allows me to handle different types inside of here generically. So that's what a generic is. Now we can use generics in a lot of other places.

And we can get pretty complicated with them. But I'll show you how we can use multiple generic variables now when we're doing something like viewing a map. Okay. So let's get rid of this example and let's make a new function. Let's call this get values.

And what we'll do is we'll have a generic value k here which implements the comparable interface and a value of which is any type at all. So if you just want to be any type, you can just write any. Okay. Then I'm going to put my set of parentheses here. And I'm going to say that I'm accepting a map.

So this is going to be my map. The key of the map is going to be k and the value is going to be v. And then what I'm going to return is a slice of all of the different values. Now inside of the function what I'll do is I'll say values colon equal to. And then I'm going to make a new slice.

So I'm going to say slice of v like that. Now I'm going to loop through my map. So I'm going to say for underscore comma value colon equal to the range of MP. And then I'm going to say values is equal to append. And then this is values and value.

Then I'm going to return my values. Now what I've done is I've written a generic get values function which can iterate through any map and return to me all of the values inside of that map. So let's create a map here we're going to say MP colon equal to. And then this will be a map for the key. It can be a string for the value.

It can be an int. And we'll say that we have maybe a 100 B5C ten D five something like that. Okay. Then I'm going to call get values. So I'm going to say values equal to get values.

And then we're going to pass our map here. And then we are going to print this. So FMT dot print line like that. And we'll print our print out our value. Sorry.

And just make sure this works. Before I go in and explain this more in depth okay. So you see that this worked. And this would work with any type of map that we have. Now. The reason why up here we had k being of type

comparable is because for all of the keys in our map, they already have to implement a comparable interface. So you'll see if I actually change this to the type any here. Right now we get an error says invalid map key type missing the comparable constraint. So go has a constraint on all of the types for its keys in a map such that they implement the comparable interface. Which is why I need to write this.

And you can see that this is built into go. Right. We didn't have to write this interface ourself. So hopefully that makes a tiny bit of sense why we need that. But this is a generic function that allows us to iterate over a map.

Now I want to show you a few more use cases of generics here, just so we get a better sense of how they work. I also want to show you kind of a common practice when we use them. So for example, in the last function we had, let's go back to that actually where we had add, okay, let me just get that popping up one more time here. You saw that we kind of wrote int float in until now. That's fine.

However, this is not really the best way to be kind of using these types. In fact what we should really do instead of writing all these unions inside of this kind of generic definition is go up here and create an interface. We're going to say type number interface. And then inside of here I'm just going to write int union float union uint. And then I'm going to use the number interface as my generic type.

So now this is just a little bit cleaner. It's easier to read. And I can actually specify hey I'm accepting any type of number. And in this case we can kind of create this interface that contains int float or you int. I know it seems a little bit weird.

You kind of have to memorize the syntax, but we can do this. We've created this interface that kind of encapsulates these three different types. And now I'm able to use anything that is a number as my generic type now, as well as using generics for functions here, we can actually use them for structs and for different types. Now this is going to seem a little bit strange. Again, just bear with me here as we go through this.

So what I can do is I can create a custom type here. I can do something like type generic slice. Now what I'm going to do is for my generic syntax I'm going to put T, I'm going to specify any and I'm actually just going to put this kind of slice syntax. And then t now what I'm doing here is I'm defining a type that is neither a struct nor an interface, but is my own custom type here in go. Now, all this says is that I'm going to have some type of generic slice kind of object here, and it's going to be a slice of type T.

So I'm specifying what the type actually is. And this is kind of the name of my type. I'll show you another example in one second. But to create this slice I can do the following. I could do g colon equal to generic slice.

And then I could specify the type. So I can do something like int. And then I can write here say 123 okay. So now I've specified a generic type of type 123. So now I've created an instance of my generic type which is really just a slice of a specific type.

So this is another way that I could go about making this slice. Now does it make any sense for me to do this? No, because I already have the kind of concept of generics when I build a slice by default. But this is just one thing that we could do. And then I could actually go and I could write a method on this generic slice or on this type.

So I can say something like func g of type generic slice t. And then I can say something, say like print okay. And then I could go in here, I could say for underscore comma value colon equal to the range of g. And then I can say fmt dot print line. And I can print the value.

And now I can say g dot print. And if I come here and clear the screen we'll make sure we don't declare. We can just run this here. You'll see that we get all of the different values from our slice. I know seems a bit strange.

I've defined this here, but this is getting into some more advanced syntax and go and creating these generic types. Now, if we wanted to make another kind of type here that is generic, we could do this. So we could say type and what do we want to do here. We can actually make a generic struct okay. Of type t t can be anything.

This will be a struct. And then we can go in here and we can start specifying things of type T. So I can do something like name type t. Or we'll just do something like values of type t. Now I want to create a generic struct.

So what I can do is say t for struct colon equal to generic struct. I need to specify my type so I can do something like string. And now when I create my struct I can say values. And then this will be equal to a string okay. Then I can say I from t dot print line and print s t.

I'm just trying to show you here that we can use generics in more places. So in this case I'm using it for a struct. I'm taking in some generic type and then I can use that type however I see fit throughout the struct. I also could take in multiple types, so I could take in t and k. And now I need to pass another value right.

Maybe like an int here. And then I could use k here. So maybe now I have a map type that has t and k. Now that's not going to work because t doesn't implement the comparable interface. But you get the idea here.

I can have all of these different generic types I can mix and match. And this gives me some more flexibility that we had in languages like JavaScript that we don't have in go. Well, now we do have them in go, but we just need to use generic types to be able to implement those flexible kind of operations. All right. So with that said I'm going to start wrapping up the video here.

Now I know this isn't crystal clear and you probably still have a few questions about generics. The point here wasn't to confuse you, but just to introduce you to this new topic and make you a little bit familiar with how this works, so that if you see it, you're not completely lost. Feel free to look into this more. I'm not going to spend more time focusing on generics right now. Again, I just kind of wanted to show it to you, introduce it to you, and give you a concept of how you would kind of create some more flexible behavior and functions inside of a statically typed language like go.

Now, a lot of other statically typed languages have generics as well. So now you should kind of have this under your belt and understand this, this core concept here, this general type that you're passing into some kind of function struct, etc.. Now pointers and references are more powerful language features in go that we didn't have access to in something like JavaScript. This actually allows us to view both the memory address location of where something exists, as well as to modify what's held at that location.

Now you'll see what I mean as we go through this video. But before I can even explain pointers and references, I just want to give you a good basis and understanding for how Ram works in a language like go. So on the right hand side of my screen we have this Ram diagram. Now this is random access memory. And this is the location where your program is going to be stored on your computer.

We've talked about this a little bit, but this is a temporary storage location where you have addresses associated with values or data. So on the left hand side here I have some different addresses. Now these are binary addresses. Typically in Ram we're going to have hexadecimal addresses. We don't have to worry too much about that.

And they're not going to look exactly like what I have here. But for now this is a fine representation. The idea is we have some kind of storage slot where we have an address, and that address is associated with some data or some value. So to give you a quick example here, if I go ahead and create some variable like x. So I say x colon equals zero.

What happens is my computer in the background or go in the background is going to allocate one of the addresses in my computer's memory to store this variable x. So it's pretty much going to say hey x is going to this address right here. And then I'm going to put zero in the value column because that's what's associated with the address. Then when I go and reference x later in the program it says oh where's the address for x. Well this is the address for x okay.

Let me grab the value at that address. Now when I make a variable y here pretty much the exact same thing happens. So some people may think oh well, if Y is storing the same thing as x, then maybe both y and x are going to be associated with this address. Now you could do that. But that's not the case here.

What will happen when I make this new variable y is I will allocate a new address and I will put a new zero inside of that address. Meaning if I were to change y so I say y is now equal to one. Well that's only going to affect the value at this address, not the value at this address. Meaning x will stay unchanged. Okay. Fairly straightforward.

Hopefully that makes sense. Now let's have a look at what happens when we change the example slightly. And we say something like Y is equal to x. So when I do this what happens is that our memory address diagram actually stays the exact same. When I assign the variable x to the variable y, what happens is we take whatever value is stored inside of the address at memory location x here, and we copy it inside of the location for y.

Okay. So we just make a direct copy down here. So whatever is the value we copy that into a new address right. Or a new location in Ram. And then we label this y.

So yes x and y are now the same value. But if I change x or I change y that doesn't affect either x or y. Hopefully that makes a bit of sense, but I'm just trying to illustrate to you kind of a few things that occur here in our computer's memory. Now let's go back to the example here where we actually have nothing in Ram. And let's look at what happens now if we create something like a slice.

So let's say I have s and this is equal to a new integer slice. So we can say int like that. And actually sorry I realize I'm writing this the wrong way. We'll do our square brackets first INT and then we make a slice like one two and three okay. So now we have our slice.

What happens when we create the slice. Well when we make the slice things are a little bit different. First we create an array. This underlying array goes in some location. So in this case we're going to have the array one two and three that goes in this address location.

Then what happens is we're going to have another address in Ram. That's going to be labeled as S. And this is going to store a length a capacity and a pointer to the location where this array exists. So our slice is really stored at 010. And it points to 001 which is the location where our array exists.

Now that's why when I do something like S zero is equal to say 100, it actually modifies the underlying array because we have a pointer to this location. So what happens is I go to this location, I find this array and then I modify it. Now that's the same reason why if I do the following something like let's say t is equal to. So let's do colon equal to s that if we modify t it affects S. And if we modify s it affects t.

So if I create this variable t what actually happens is the following. I now again have a new memory address location, this time labeled T, and I copy whatever was in the memory address location of S. So I take my length, my capacity, and my pointer which points to 001. So since these both have the same pointer like this, pointer points the same location. Any change that's made to this underlying array affects both of them, because they're storing the same pointer to the same underlying array.

Hopefully this is making a little bit of sense here, but that's what happens whenever you say something like T is equal to another variable, or you create some variable and assign it to some other variable, you make a copy of whatever is stored in the memory address location for that variable. So when we're just using simple values, well we copy the value. But in this case we have a reference or a pointer to an underlying array. So we copy that reference not the underlying value which is 123. Okay.

Now let's have a look at what happens when we use slices or values inside of a function call. Then we'll talk about pointers and references. And hopefully this will start to kind of clear itself up even more. All right. So I've just come up with another example here to show you what happens when we pass values to functions.

It's going to be a very similar thing. But it's important to understand this. So we have this change function. All this function does is accept some integer. In this case we've called it x and it says x is equal to seven.

Then we've declared a variable a outside of the function and pass that to the change function. So let's look at our memory when we have this type of code. So first of all we have a when we have a what happens here is we allocate some space for A in our computer's memory. So we say A is going to be this location right here. And then we store the value ten.

Now I come and I call this change function. Now when I call this change function what I see is that we have this parameter x. Now x is a variable. That variable is within the scope of this function. But we still need to store that variable.

So what we do is we allocate more space in our computer's memory. Right. And we copy whatever was the value that we passed for the parameter corresponding with the parameter x. So in this case we passed a. So we go we look at it and we say what's the value of a.

Well it's ten. So I simply copy ten here into this location. And now when I use x here and I say x equals seven, I go to the memory address location for x and I change this to seven. What that means is at the end of my program right here, after calling change A has not been modified, it's still equal to ten. The reason that's the case is because when we passed A to X, we simply made a copy of A.

And then when we change that, we're only affecting the copy. We're not affecting the underlying memory address location. So now let me quickly change the example. And we'll see what happens when we use something like a slice. All right.

So I've just changed up the example now so that what we're doing is we have this function called change that accepts a slice of integers. Then we modify the first value of that slice to be equal to 100. I've then defined a slice down here and passed it to this change function. So now again let's look at our memory and see what happens when we do this. So we have v.

When we create v the first thing we need to do is make the underlying array. So we create an array here like one two and three. And then we store that in some random memory address. Location doesn't really matter where it is. Then we create v.

Now v goes to this memory address location. We have a length. We have a capacity and we have a pointer. The points here to the location for where the array exists. Perfect.

Now what happens when we pass v to the change function? Well, just like before S is a variable. We need to store that variable. So we create a new location in our computer's memory. Or we allocate this space and we copy whatever was inside of V the variable we passed as the parameter to s.

So what I do now is I write Len capacity. And then again my pointer goes to this underlying array. So now when I say s at index zero is equal to 100 I access the underlying array and I modify the value right here. I know it's a bit difficult to see to be equal to 100. I can't really change it because it's going to mess everything up.

How I'm drawing it here. But you get the point. What's going to happen is we're going to have a new array here that's going to have 102 and then three inside of it. I've kind of running out of space there to be able to do that anyways. You get the point.

So the reason why in this case we were able to actually modify the v slice here is because we copied the slice. And when we copied the slice we had a pointer to the underlying array. So when we make a change to that slice it affects anything pointing to that underlying array. So both V and S get affected because they both point to the same memory address location. Now the reason for me showing this to you is so that now I can explain to you something known as pointers, which we can actually use on our own without creating something like slices.

So let me go back to a fresh screen here. And now let's talk about pointers. So what I'm going to do here is create a variable x. And I'm going to say this is equal to zero. Same thing happens as always.

We say x has the value zero. Now though I'm going to say y is equal to the pointer of x. Now the actual symbol for a pointer is an ampersand. But since I can't write that symbol, what I'm going to do is just put an underscore here that indicates that we're talking about the pointer of a specific variable. So whenever you see an underscore from now on in this kind of illustration, imagine this is the pointer okay.

So I'm saying I want the pointer to x. Now what is the pointer. Well really the pointer is the location where x is stored. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to create a variable y. It's going to be its own memory address location.

But what I'm going to store is not a copy of X but where X is stored. Now x is stored at 001. So I'm really writing the memory address location of x in the memory address of y. So now y knows where x is stored. Because I have a pointer to x.

That now means from y I can modify x. The way I can do that is by saying Asterix y is equal to something like 100. Now when I do this, what I'm doing is I'm using something known as the dereference operator. Y is equal to a pointer, which means that y is storing some memory address location. If I want to go to the memory address location that y storing and perform some action, I dereference y.

Okay, so I'm saying asterix y which stands for dereference which essentially means hey look at what y storing. And then go to where y is storing which is x. Okay. So since we're storing x we go to x and then we change x to be 100. So this line here actually goes to the variable x and changes the value to be equal to 100.

Which now means if I look at the value x we see that this is equal to 100. So we had a pointer to x we stored in y. We dereference the pointer which allowed us to access the value that was stored inside of x, because we knew the memory address location, and we could then change what was being stored inside of there. So this is how we use pointers to access different values. Now a pointer again is really the memory address location to where some object exists.

If we have that we can then go to that location and make any change that we want. And we can get even more and more complicated here and have things like pointers to pointers. So before I kind of end this example here, imagine that now we go even one step further. We have a variable set. Now Z is going to store the pointer to y.

Well y is already a pointer to x. But that's fine. We can do this. So I'm going to have variable z now. And z is going to store the pointer to y which means it's going to store 010.

So now if I were to dereference and that's a horrible star. But you get my point. If I were to dereference Z that would actually bring me to Y. Which means I could dereference z two times, because dereferencing the first time brings me to y dereferencing the second time brings me to x. I'm not sure if you see what's going on here, but we have 010 where Z pointing to y.

We then have y pointing to x, so we have this kind of chain of pointers here where as we go up the chain we can access the underlying value here which is x. Hopefully this makes a tiny bit of sense, but that's kind of what I wanted to show you in this illustration here. When we're talking about Ram and seeing how values get copied and how we have pointers otherwise known as a reference to another value. Now, I might have confused you a little bit, but whenever I say pointer, I'm pretty much talking about a reference. Reference and pointer are kind of going to be used synonymously here inside of go.

That pretty much means that I'm just storing where this thing exists. Okay, that's what a pointer or reference really means. Anyways, with that said, that's going to wrap up the conceptual part. Now let's look at how we actually implement this in go in code. All right.

So I'm on to the second part of the video now where I'm actually going to demonstrate to you pointers and references in go. So let's make a variable x equal to zero. And let's make y equal to the pointer of x. Now the ampersand here is how you access a pointer. Or get the pointer otherwise known as the memory address location to an object.

Now some people may also refer to this as the reference to something. It doesn't really matter. It's either the pointer or the reference, whatever you want to call it. Anyways, what I'm going to do here is just print this out to show you what they are. So if we look at x and y we'll see that x is equal to zero and y is equal to the memory address location of x.

Now this location can change. So don't concern yourself with the actual value here. But the point is that we're storing a hexadecimal location which is telling us where the value x is stored. And remember I told you that we can dereference this using the Asterix operator. So if I use Asterix y here now what happens is I say, okay, go to whatever memory address location I'm storing, which in this case is the address for X, and then find whatever value is there.

In this case the value is zero. So we get zero right? Obviously if we change this to two then you can see that we get two. Great. Now look at what happens when I start using my pointer to y to modify x.

So I can actually say y or asterix y three is equal to something like 100. Now when I do this and I print out my values here, you see that I get 101 hundred. What I've just done is I've modified x through the pointer to x. So y stored the pointer to x. I then dereference the pointer, which means go to the location where I'm storing this pointer.

I've then dereference this pointer which means go to the location. At this point your points two and change the value to be 100. And through that I've been able to effect what the value of x is. So that's the most basic usage here of pointers. Now let's see what happens when we use pointers in things like functions which is where they get quite useful.

So let's go here make a function. And let's say function change. And let's accept just a regular parameter. So let's say x ints like that. And we don't need to return anything.

We can just say x is equal to 100 okay. Very straightforward. Now we're going to say a colon equal to ten. And then change A and then FMT to print line. We already looked at this example.

But let's just repeat it one more time. And you see that we get ten. Even though we set x equal to 100. However we can actually change this now like setting a pointer to x. Now when I put an asterix before a type, what that actually refers to is a pointer to this type.

I know it seems a little bit weird, but the way that the pointer types work is that you're pointing to some underlying value. So if I put Asterix and this means a pointer to an int value. So now what I need to pass to change is the pointer to A which is ampersand a. Okay. Then what I can do inside of change is I can say asterix x is equal to 100.

I can dereference my pointer, find the location where it's being stored, and then change whatever's inside of that location. Which now means when I rerun this using the pointer, I do actually change x outside of the function. So to recap here, what's going on now that I'm using the pointer is I'm passing the reference or the pointer to a. So inside of my function here I dereference that pointer I'm just using x. But does it really matter. The name here right.

I go to the location where that pointer was pointing to and I change the value to be 100. So now when I come here a is now equal to 100 because I've changed what is being stored in the memory address location for a. So that's why pointers are quite useful, because this now allows you to actually pass in locations or pointers. And then you can affect variables outside of the actual function that the variable exists in. Right.

So in this case we're affecting a outside of the main function. Now we of course can use pointers in much more complicated scenarios, which I'm going to show you in a few minutes. But this also leads me to how we kind of modify structs using pointers. So let's have a quick example here. But let's say we have a struct right.

So we say type something like book struct. And then we say that this maybe has an int id. And we go to this other way around id int and title which is a string. Now remember I showed you that if we create a setter method for this, we're not actually able to modify the different properties. Well we can actually change this now using a pointer.

So I can say function. And we will do B book. This time though I'm going to take Asterix book okay. So a pointer to a book struct. I'm then going to write set title like that.

We're going to take in a title which is of type string, and we're just going to say B dot title is equal to title like that. Now let's create a book struct. So we're going to say B colon equals to book. We're going to give this idea of ten a title of old okay. And then we're going to say B dot set title.

And we're going to pass to this new. And then we're going to say FMT dot print line. And then print out B is a few things that I need to go through here. But I just want to first start by showing you that this does indeed work. And you can see that now we are able to modify the different fields on our struct by using a pointer to this struct.

Now you may be asking yourself, well, how did this just work? In previous examples, we've been able to just do this right. B and not have a pointer to the book. And you see that if we have this example right here where we don't use the pointer, now all of a sudden this doesn't change or this doesn't get modified. Well, when I add the pointer here, what happens by default is when I call this set title method go is going to implicitly pass the pointer to this book object.

So I could actually go and write inside of a set of parentheses here reference B right. So the pointer to be set title. Now if I do that that's more explicit and verbose. And that's saying okay I want to pass the reference to this book object to this method. Right. Which is what I'm doing.

And then I'm going to call set title on it. Now obviously that's going to works. If I run this you can see that we get new. However we don't have to do that in go because go is smart enough to determine whether or not we want to pass the reference or the value based on what's specified here inside of the method. So in this case, since we have a pointer to book, go will automatically take the reference of B and pass that to the method.

We don't need to explicitly state that. And actually same thing here when we're talking about the title go will automatically dereference our structs for us. So we don't have to explicitly write this, which is Asterix B dot title. Okay, so this is correct. Again, if we do this, this is kind of what you might expect.

Because if this is a reference, well, if I want to access the actual struct object, I would need to first dereference it. And then I can access the different fields on it. But go again is smart enough to be able to do that directly for us. So when I write this in access the field name, it goes, oh, you're trying to access and change the field okay. I'll automatically dereference the book struct for you.

Now this only works on structs. It doesn't do it for other types. But I just wanted to show you with structs, go will automatically dereference or pass the reference for you based on how you're using it, because it's such a common feature. Now, the reason why I've kind of been putting these inside of parentheses here, right? I've been doing like parentheses.

Asterisks B is because if I try to do asterisks B title here, you'll see I actually get an error. So invalid operation cannot indirect be title variable of type string. The reason I'm getting this is because what go will do is it will read this dot notation before it will read this dereference operator. So what it's saying is B title. And then it's attempting to dereference B title which is not a reference.

Hence why we get this error. So what I need to do is put this in parentheses. So I'm saying hey no I want to do reference book and then I want to access the title. Whereas again if you have it like this it's going to read this whole thing first and then try to dereference that which isn't what you want. Okay. So that's a quick example with structs.

Hopefully that's clear. But essentially you use this pointer kind of syntax here. This pointer type inside of your method when you want to be actually modifying the different fields on your struct. Now let's have a look at a few more examples and some more kind of advanced pointer types here. Just so we get a sense of how this works.

So one of the best examples I like to use is pointers to pointers. So let's have x equal to zero. Let's have y equal to the pointer of x. And let's have z equal to the pointer of y. Now let's just print these out first of all.

So fmt print line x y z and see what these values are. Okay. So let's clear and run. And you see that we get zero. We get a memory address location.

And then we get a different memory address location. All right. So both Y and Z are point your values. Now let's dereference y and let's dereference z. And let's see what we get for those.

Okay. So if I run this here you see we get zero zero and then we get another memory address location. Well the reason why we're getting zero for y is because when we dereference y, that gives us whatever value is stored in x. However, when I dereference z, I'm getting the value that is stored in y, and the value stored in y is the memory address location to x. What that actually means is that I can dereference this multiple times, because z is storing a pointer to a pointer, right?

It's the pointer of a value that is storing a pointer. So I can go here and write a double asterix and run this. And now I get 000. So from Z, if I wanted to access the value of x, I need to say dereference this two times, whereas from y I only need to dereference it one time. So to continue this example here, I can actually show you that if I look at the type of something like Z.

So I go print F and look at percent t of z here. Let's clear and run and notice that I get Asterix Asterix int. That's because I have a pointer to a pointer of int. So I guess I should touch on this a little bit more when we're writing functions or when we're writing, kind of structs or methods, we can accept pointers by using the correct pointer type. Now, I kind of already showed this to you, but it gets a little bit confusing with more complicated types.

So let's say I have a function and we'll just call this something like test right. Now inside of here what I can do is I can have something like slice or I can say pointer slice like that. And I can have a pointer to a slice that contains maybe int objects. And actually this could contain pointers to ints. So now if I'm looking at this type right here, what this type is is a pointer to a slice that contains pointers to int objects.

So if I wanted to actually create that type which I can do, I would have to do something like the following. I would say let's go values colon equal to. And then I'm going to create the ampersand or the reference to a slice of int pointers. And then inside of here I'm going to write a bunch of ints. So 1234.

However you'll see here that this doesn't work. It says that these are valid. They're not valid because one is not a pointer to an int. So what I would actually have to do is put the reference to these different values. But you'll see here that that doesn't work as well because I can't reference a literal.

So instead what I would do is create some variables. Something like a colon equals one, be colon equals two. And then I would come here and do the reference to a and the reference to b. And now I have a valid type for values that is a pointer to a slice that contains pointers to ints okay. And then if I was going to access the different values inside of here I would need to do the following.

I would need to say my values is equal to. And then I would dereference the pointer slice. And then I could say loop through the pointer slice. So I could say for underscore comma value colon equal to range of values. And then I would have to actually say asterisks value if I wanted to see what that value is.

Otherwise if I didn't use the dereference here what would happen is I would get access to a pointer. Right. So this is a pointer to an end which would give me the memory address location. Now I might want to use that I might not. I'm just trying to show you a few more advanced use cases here of pointers and these different types.

Hopefully this is making a bit of sense, but whenever you see the Asterix as a type, that's referring to the fact that this is a pointer. If you see the asterix before a variable. So something like Asterix be your dereferencing, okay? And if you see the ampersand before a value, you're getting the reference to a value which is really giving you the pointer. Okay.

It's going to give you a type which is Asterix. And then whatever the type of B is. All right. So with that said, I think that's all I have for you in this video. Now, I know this is a confusing topic.

A lot of people do struggle with this. I hope that this was clear and that you're able to understand at least the core concept of what a pointer is, kind of how the memory works and how you dereference and then access the pointer or the reference to a variable. If you understand that you're well on your way to being able to write some solid code in go, keep in mind all of these features I'm showing you are more advanced, and it's something that you might need to practice with a little bit. Kind of go into your code editor and just mess around with to really make sure you understand it. So if you need to do that, please go ahead and do so and try to mess with some more advanced types like the ones I'm showing you here where you have, you know, a pointer to a slice that's storing pointers.

Maybe you have a nested slice that's storing pointers to other nested slices. You can do all kinds of crazy stuff using this new pointer syntax and type that I'm showing you. All right. So let's begin by just talking a bit about the CPU of our computer and how the operating system schedules different tasks. Now I just want to put a disclaimer here that I'm not going to give you 100% accurate information when it comes to the hardware level implementation and all the small details that are going on.

I'm just giving you a very high level kind of explanation that will allow you to think about this in the correct mindset, such that you kind of know what's going on when you're creating something like a thread, which we're going to do in the next video. So please don't take this as absolutely 100% correct when it comes to what's going on at the hardware level. There is a few differences, and there's a lot of differences based on operating systems, types of architectures, CPUs, etc. I just want to make clear that this is not a computer engineering class. This is simply meant to give you a bit of insight into what's going on on your computer on a lower level.

Okay, so let's begin by just drawing out a CPU. So on all of our computers we have a CPU. Now this CPU has a variety of different cores. Most of our modern CPUs in 2023 are going to have four cores. However, we could have two cores, one core, eight cores.

Any number that's a multiple of two. So usually two, four, six. Sometimes we have eight. Sometimes we have 1632. We can have all different numbers of course.

Now each one of these cores here, which is kind of what I've drawn, is a physical device, something that you can actually see on the CPU. So if you were to take off the heat sink of the CPU, you'd actually be able to count and view all of the different course. Now these course all are capable of executing different operations. Really, you can think of each core on the CPU as its own mini CPU. That makes up the entire CPU as a whole.

Now, the reason it's important to understand that is because the number of cores will dictate the number of operations that your CPU is capable of handling in parallel. Now, parallel means that you're doing something at the exact same time. So really, at the exact same unit of time, you can have four different operations if you have four cores happening. Right. If you had eight course you could have eight operations.

So obviously the number of course is important. And the more cores typically the faster the CPU is because the more things it's capable of actually doing right, the more tasks it can perform. Now, on the core, we also have a speed, right? That speed is typically measured in gigahertz. I'm not sure about the capitalization for this, but you know what I mean.

We'd see something like 4.4GHz right now that's actually telling you the clock speed of the CPU. The way that a CPU handles operations is it does something called cycles. That speed that you see is essentially the cycle speed of the CPU. And it tells you the relative number of operations or cycles that can be performed on that CPU within any given span of time.

So I believe it's within one second. Regardless, the higher the speed, the faster the individual core. But it's important to note that just because you see a very high speed doesn't mean that the CPU is necessarily faster than another CPU. You have to take into a lot of other factors like the threads, the core count, the cache. There's a bunch of different things.

So just looking at, say, the cores and the clock speed of a CPU is not going to tell you everything that you need to know. We don't need to get into that too much. But I just want to be clear that if you had a single core CPU and this had a speed of like seven gigahertz, that's not necessarily faster than a four core CPU that has a speed of like 2.2GHz, right? Since this has four cores, it can do four things at the same time.

So these CPUs would both be good at different types of tasks. Your single core CPU would be very good at single threaded tasks. Whereas this multi-core CPU would be very good at multithreaded tasks like video editing, rendering, etc.. Anyways, that's enough information on that.

Okay, so we have these four different cores. Now how do our programs actually get executed on this CPU? Well, every single program that we write is bundled into something called a process. Now this process includes things like memory allocation, which is a certain set of addresses in our computer's memory that we can use. It has things like the interpreter for the code if we need that.

There's all kinds of different things that are in this process. But this process is made up of something called threads. Okay. Now up until now we've been writing single threaded applications, which means we have a process that's running our application. And that process contains one single thread that makes things very simple.

However, if we were to increase the number of threads that we have, we would actually be able to increase the speed of our program in certain applications. So just kind of keep that terminology in mind. We have a process within that process we have different threads. Those threads share things in the process like memory. So random access memory where we have different variables functions etc.

but those threads are independently executing which I'm going to talk about now. So on our CPU cores what these are capable of doing is executing different threads. What happens is one of our CPU cores will have a thread that is essentially being passed to it and saying, hey, I have some operation within the thread that I need you to perform. So that kind of means that if we have multiple threads in our application, we can actually distribute these threads and have them being executed on multiple CPU cores. So if I only have one thread right, everything in my code is happening in a single thread.

Then only one CPU core can be working on my application at a time. Because all of our CPU cores are taking a single thread and working on that thread. But if I split this up into a second thread now, all of a sudden another CPU core can be working on my application at the same time in parallel. So now I can essentially two times the speed of my application. Not necessarily precisely that, but you kind of get the idea here by distributing it into multiple different threads and then allowing those threads to run in parallel on multiple CPU cores.

So let's back up a little bit. I'm just trying to give you a bit of insight into what we're going to do in the future. Video. So one CPU core is capable of doing one clock cycle or one operation per any given unit of time. Okay.

That means that this CPU core can only work on one thread at a time. But since we have four CPU cores, that means the CPU as a whole can work on four threads at the exact same time in parallel. Now what happens though, if we have more than four threads? Well, that's almost always the case on our computer. And you can actually go look at this.

You'll see that you have thousands, probably tens of thousands of different threads. Now this gets into how the computer actually manages and schedules these threads. But what will happen is we have something known as a thread pool, okay. Where we have tons of different threads. Now pretty much the operating system.

So our OS is very, very clever and it will determine which threads need to be executed. And it will take those threads and it will essentially pass them to the different CPU cores and say, hey, right now you need to work on this thread, this thread, this thread, this thread. And then concurrently what will happen is we will pass different threads and kind of swap what we're working on. So any given CPU core is going to constantly be switching between tons, probably thousands of different threads and working on different operations within each of those threads. That's what allows you to run all kinds of different applications, have all kinds of different things going on at your computer at the exact same time.

It's not because you have 10 million CPU cores. It's because the operating system is very good at scheduling how these threads are being executed, and utilizing the full capacity of your CPU. So if you have tons of different threads, you will pass those threads in a very logical order to the different CPU cores. The CPU cores will switch between operating on different threads concurrently, which I'm going to talk about in one second. And that allows you to get this feel of having, you know, a million things happening on your computer at the exact same time.

Really what's going on is you have these individual workers. These can only do one thing at a time, but they switch between all these different tasks and keep executing them concurrently. Now concurrently means that we're working on something at the same time, but it's not happening at the exact same unit of time. I know it's very confusing because it sounds similar to parallel, but running in parallel means literally at the exact same unit of time. You're doing something concurrently pretty much means you're switching between different tasks, and you're working on all of them.

But you can only be working on one at a time. So within one CPU core, we have concurrent operation within multiple CPU cores, we have parallel operation where we work on multiple threads at the exact same time. Hopefully this is making a tiny bit of sense, but these threads that I'm discussing are known as software threads. Okay, now there's something known as hardware threads, which we're not going to get into here. Now, the reason I'm even discussing that is because on modern CPUs we have something called hyperthreading and virtualization, which essentially allows one physical CPU core to actually act as multiple logical cores, which allows it to actually perform some more operations.

It'd be more efficient. We don't need to get into that in this video. For now, just imagine that each CPU core can just execute one operation. Okay, quick recap here. We have different threads.

These threads make up a process. A process is some application that's running on your computer. We can have multiple threads in a process or just one. These different threads are what gets scheduled to run on your CPU. The CPU based on the number of cores, will go and execute all of those different threads.

Switching between them as it needs to, so that it can actually work on all of these things at the same time. What that means for us as a programmer is that if we take our application, right, so we have app right here and we split this into multiple threads, we can increase the speed at which we're running or executing our code depending on the application. Because now we are able to utilize multiple CPU cores at the same time, rather than only using one core to act on our thread. Okay, so the act of multi-threading is distributing your program into multiple independent threads that can run independently of each other and then putting them on multiple CPU cores. Now, we don't actually have to be the one that's saying, hey, you know, run this on core one, run this on core two, etc..

Our operating system and programing language will handle that for us, but we need to be the ones that separate kind of different logical piece of code on these different threads. So then we can take advantage of multithreading and of parallel processing okay. So hopefully this is making a bit of sense. But that's the basic information we need to understand about threading. Now let's just go into a quick example of when we might use threading so that we have kind of some basis for that as we move forward.

All right. So I'm going to clear the screen here. All right so let's get into an example here. We might use multiple threads. So let's say that we have some kind of application.

Now this application can be really anything that we want. We need to imagine that there's a few different things that this app needs to do. So when we launch the application we need to load a few different pieces of data. For example, we may need to fetch something like the chat history for a user. We may also need to fetch maybe the user's friends.

And then while all of that's going on, we want to allow the user to maybe do something like create a post. Okay. So we've got kind of three main operations here. We need to fetch the chat history, fetch the friends, and then we want to allow the user to create a post. We can also be fetching those different posts.

Now if we were to take this code, if we were to take this application and write this in a single thread. So let's imagine this is our code right here. What would happen is the following. We might start by doing something like fetch chat. Okay.

Now when we fetch the chat history what's going to happen is we need to go to some type of server. Okay. And this server is going to take, you know, a few milliseconds, a few hundred milliseconds. I don't know how long it will take and it will return to us some kind of chat history. The point, though, is that we have another computer that we need to go to to get some data and then return that kind of to our clients right where the client is, the application that's actually running this code.

Now, while this is happening, while we're going to the server, we're going to be waiting a certain amount of time, 100 milliseconds, 200 milliseconds a second, two second. I don't know how long it's going to take. The point, though, is that while we're waiting for this data to return, we're not doing anything right. Nothing's happening on our CPU. We have no operations that we're performing.

We're simply waiting for something to come back. However, since we have all of this code being written in a single thread, that means that I can't actually move on to the next line here. So say something like get friends right until I receive the result from the network or from the server. So what happens is I start by fetching my friends. I wait, maybe say 300 milliseconds.

Then I go ahead and I fetch my friends. Now same thing. I go to the server. The server is going to return some result to me, and maybe this time it takes 400 milliseconds. Then I have a function here like post.

So I allow my user to create a post. Same thing. When they make a post I got to go to the server, submit some post, and then it kind of returns back to me and says hey, this was successful. So the idea here is that these first two load operations take 700 milliseconds in total before we're able to get down here to this post operation. Now, that's not ideal because that means that we are hanging or we are waiting for these to be finished before we allow the user to actually be interacting with our application.

So obviously this is not ideal. We have a 700 millisecond wait. This could obviously be a lot longer. Imagine seconds 30s whatever. And in that time our processor isn't doing anything.

We're just waiting on this network bound operation. So how would we fix this? Well, we would fix this by using multiple threads. So let's kind of clean up this example here, and let's see what happens if we put these into three different threads. Okay. So let's get rid of this and go to threads.

All right. So now let's say we have three threads. Now one thread will be for the chat. One thread will be for the friends. And this will be for post.

Now what we can do is we can take these three different threads and we can put them on our CPU. Right. So now what we can do is we can take these three different threads and we can start executing them in parallel on our CPU. That means that we create this chat thread. The chat thread then goes and fetches the data here from the server.

Now it still takes, you know, 400 milliseconds to return this data. However, we don't need to wait for this to finish before we can start executing the friends thread. Since this is in a separate thread, it can be executed on another CPU core or the same CPU core. It doesn't even matter, but we're able to now go and fetch data at the same time that were fetching data for the chat. So now same thing.

You know, we go to a server, we get some kind of data. Maybe this takes 300 milliseconds. Doesn't really matter how long it takes. The point is that we do both of these things at the same time. So now the total amount of time that we need to wait to get both the chat and the friends is simply the greater of the amount of time it takes to get either, which in this case is only 400 milliseconds because again, we're in separate threads, meaning we can execute at the same time or at least be concurrently executing.

So I'm not waiting on the chat to be returned before I start executing the friends, or before I start fetching those. So now I get both those piece of data in 400 milliseconds. And the best part of this is that the user can decide to make a post at any time they want. Since this is running in its own thread. We're not waiting on chat, or we're not waiting on friends to be returned.

We can just go and do whatever we want while these different operations are happening. So this is kind of the benefit of our threads. Our CPU is smart enough to never be sitting on a thread and waiting for something to be returned. As soon as the CPU is not doing something, it's not executing an operation, and we're waiting on some return data. It just goes and does something else.

But that's only the case if we have this in multiple threads. The CPU is not smart enough to kind of jump throughout our program and say, okay, I'm waiting here, so I'm going to go here and I'm going to come back and get the result. No, it's only able to schedule the execution of different threads. So us as a programmer, if we split our code into multiple different logical threads, that makes sense. We can drastically increase the speed of our program because we allow the CPU to move to a different operation while it's waiting for something to occur.

I'm hoping that this example is making a bit of sense in the next video. When we actually go into Goroutines, we'll see an implementation on the computer that should really clarify this, but I'm just trying to illustrate to you the idea behind breaking our program into these different kind of pieces of code, right, which are these threads that execute independently and that don't need to wait on each other before we can move on to something else? Now, obviously, in some instances, we do need to wait for a thread to finish running before we execute another one, but a lot of times we're running multiple threads at the same time. So we do all these operations concurrently, which saves us a ton of time. Now go routines are the implementation of concurrency in go.

They make it very simple to actually create new lightweight threads that can be ran independently of other sections of code, allowing us to implement parallel processing and concurrency and multithreading inside of our go programs. So everything I was talking about in the previous video, I'm not going to show you how we actually implement that here inside of go. All right. So let's begin here by creating a function. I'm going to say function.

And we'll just call this I don't know run or something. And inside of here we'll do something quite simple like FMT dot print line. And then we'll just say run. Now what I'm going to do is just import another module here. This is going to be called time.

Let's put these on a separate line okay. And we're going to use this time module or time package to just wait a little bit. So we're going to say timeout sleep. And then I'm going to say two multiplied by time dot. If we can spell this correctly dot second okay.

Now I'm going to make a few other functions. I'm going to call this run two and run three. We're going to say run two. Run three. We're going to change this to be four seconds and to be six seconds.

Okay. Then what I'm going to do down here is show you how we run these functions concurrently. So the way we do that is we type go. And then the name of the function we want to run. So we just say go run.

Now what this is going to do is actually run this in a new thread. Okay. Let's kind of the way to think of it, it runs a new go routine for this function. Then I can do the same thing here with run two and the same thing here with run three. Now we'll see.

We have an FMT down here. I'm gonna say a FMT print line. Done. And if we go and run our code so go run and then demo ago that we actually only get done printing out. Now the reason why we only get done here is because what happens is we have one go routine that's running this main function.

We then create three new go routines that are running these. However, when we do that, that means okay, well we're running these independently, so we're not going to wait for those to finish. We're just going to directly go down here and print. Done. Then what happens is since there's no more code being executed in this main function, our program is going to stop because the main goroutine has exited.

Not sure if that makes sense, but we create three other go routines and then we immediately go down here and print done because these are running independently of this main goroutine. Then the main go routine is finished executing. So we just end the program. So what we need to do if we want to fix this, we just need to add a timeout. Sleep here.

So we're gonna say time dot sleep and we'll sleep for seven multiplied by time dot second. So now we actually have enough time. Just wait for all of these go routines to finish executing. So now if I run my code here and I go, go run, DeMarco, you're going to see that we get run, run two and run three okay. And then we print out. Done.

Now, I'm not sure if you guys were counting there, but that took a total of approximately seven seconds to execute the entire code, even though if we were to some the times or the sleeps for all of this code here, this would be 12 seconds, right? Because we have two seconds, four seconds and six seconds. So by using these go routines, we're able to execute all of this code at the same time, where we sleep for two seconds, sleep for four seconds, and sleep for six seconds. But the total amount of time we need to sleep is only six seconds. Because while we're sleeping this six seconds, we're sleeping four and we're sleeping two.

I'm hoping that's making a bit of sense, but to illustrate this even further, now let's get rid of this guy and we'll actually get rid of the timeout sleep. And you're going to see now if we do this that we're going to take significantly longer. And the way to actually illustrate this better is just to have the same duration for all of them. So now we can go here and go go run demo dot. Go give this a second and notice we get run, run two and then run three and then done.

So that took a total of six seconds, which is the total amount of time that we had. If you summed all of the sleeps. So we waited two seconds, printed this, waited two seconds, printed this, waited two seconds and printed this. Now if we make these go routines, you'll see that all of these will happen pretty much instantly. So at the same time.

So let's run this and give it a second. And actually I forgot we need to every time dot sleep we'll have time to sleep two times time dot second okay. Clear and run. And now you see that all of these will print at the same time. Notice that the order was not the same order in which we ran these.

The reason for that is that we can't actually guarantee the order of these go routines, because the sleeps are the exact same duration of time. So it's really based on how our processor is scheduling these different threads, which we don't know. We don't really know how our processor is going to schedule run, run two or run three. We just know they're going to be in separate threads and can execute at the exact same time. So in this example, you saw that by making these go routines, now they're able to execute.

At the same time we're not waiting for one of these to finish before we go on to the other one. So hopefully this is making a bit of sense now. But let's get into a more complicated example where we can see how to actually get return values from go routines and start synchronizing some of these pieces of code. So I'm gonna get rid of all these functions here, which means we're going to get rid of all of this and we'll get rid of the timeout. Sleep now, as you saw before, what happened was we actually had to sleep so that we would execute all of those different go routines.

But there is a way that we can wait for a goroutine to finish running. In fact, there's multiple different ways to do that, which is what I'm going to show you now. So right now let's make a function and we'll just call this ad okay. We're going to take in x and y int. We'll return an int and we'll simply return x plus y in this function about a million times.

What we'll do now is we'll run this add function as a go routine. So I'll say go add and then something like five and ten. However, I probably want to get the return value from this function. So might do something like x colon equals two and then go add. Now notice when I do this it actually doesn't work.

This as expected semicolon found go. The reason why we're getting an error here is because when we run something as a go routine, we can't wait for the return value. And this kind of makes sense right? Because what happens is as soon as we start running this in a separate thread now, we are not going to wait for this to finish. We're just going to move on to the next line in the current thread, wherever we are.

So we would immediately go down here, meaning that we're not going to be able to store whatever the return value is in the variable x, unless we were to wait on this line for the goroutine to completely finish running, which we're not able to do with this go syntax. So what we need to do instead, when we want to get return values from go routines, is use something known as a channel. Now a channel is a special way that we can pass values between different go routines, and we're allowed to send values on a channel and wait for values to be received. This allows us to implement something known as blocking code. Okay, so how do we make a channel?

Well, to make a channel we're going to say whatever we want. I'm going to call a colon equal to. And then I'm going to use this make function. And I'm going to say channel standing for channel. And in this case we're going to make it an int channel.

What we've just said is we're creating a channel that we can place an inch on. Now what we need to do is we need to give this channel to our go routine. So I'm going to pass the channel as one of the parameters, which now means I need to accept the channel inside of this add function. So I'm going to say I have a channel we call this. This is a channel of type int.

So now we have a channel of type integer that we're accepting as a parameter. And that means that I can now pass a value on to this channel. So to do that I'm going to say C-H. And then I'm going to put an arrow like this. And I'm going to pass x y into the channel.

I'm going to remove the return value here because we're no longer returning anything. We're just passing a value on the channel. So to pass something on the channel you just do the arrow, okay? And then you have whatever value you want to pass as long as it's the same type. So now if I want to receive a value from a channel I put an arrow like this.

And then I put C-H. And I can store this in a variable. So I can do something like x colon equal to that. And then I can print out the value of x. So now what happens if I run my code is you can see that we get to the value 15 which is five plus ten.

So let me break this down more. I just want to quickly show you kind of the syntax of the channel, which I know looks a little bit weird. So we cannot simply get a return value from a go routine. What we need to do instead is pass that on something known as a channel. The channel allows us to synchronize and wait for different values to be returned.

So in this case, what I do is I make a channel, I then call go routine. I pass the channel to it, I then pass a value on to that channel and then down here I wait for that value to be returned. So this line is what's known as blocking code. I'm not actually going to move past this line and print anything out until I receive some value from the channel. So to illustrate that if I say time dot sleep and then I sleep maybe five times times second like that, you'll see here that it's going to take us five seconds to actually print out what the value is, because we are waiting.

We are blocking until we get a value on the channel. So you can see here one, 234, five and there you go, we get 15 being returned to us. Which means if I scheduled another go routine. So I said go. And then I ran something here that wouldn't run until after this code was finished.

Hopefully this making a bit of sense, but this operation where you're waiting for something to be received on a channel is a blocking operation. Now let's see what happens if I remove this. And I just scheduled to go routine here and I do something like FMT dot print line and then done. Well, if I go here and run, you notice that we just get done. The reason we just get done is because we didn't wait for the value on the channel.

So we just immediately went here and print it out. Now let's look at an example where we do the opposite. So we have x colon equal to. We get the value from the channel. And then we print out x.

But we don't actually send this value on the channel. So if I go here and I comment this out okay. Now if I go and run my code, you'll see that this actually runs for five seconds. And then it's going to give us something known as a deadlock, which occurs right here says fatal error. All goroutines are asleep.

Deadlock. Now a deadlock occurs when no threads are under execution. So the reason we're getting this deadlock here is because we're waiting for some value to be passed on the channel in this goroutine, which means we're blocking, we're waiting, we're stalling here, and nothing gets returned. So as soon as we have no go routines in our program that are executing, nothing's happening in any of them. We get a deadlock, which means we're deadlocked between the different threads.

One thread is waiting for another thread that threads waiting for the same thread. And when we can't do anything in this situation, we just have one thread that's waiting for one thread to return something it never has. It never returns something about to us. Sorry. So this thread is never able to continue to execute so we get a deadlock.

So you have to be careful when you're writing these types of programs that you don't implement deadlocks, because the compiler's not actually able to catch that for you. In this case, this was a runtime error where no thread was under execution. So we got that deadlock error. Okay. Now let's look at a few more advanced examples of channels and using multiple channels.

So let's say we actually want to execute multiple add operations here okay. So we want to have the go routine for AD running a bunch of times. Now let's get rid of the sleep here. So we don't have to wait anymore. And we can get rid of the time package for right now.

So let's go like eight plus 11 zero five plus negative five okay that's fine. And now let's see if we can get the value from the channel. So we'll say x colon equal to. And then we're going to put here the channel. And we're going to say FMT dot print line x.

And then I'm also going to go in here sorry and say FMT dot print line. And we're going to print x plus y okay. So we're going to calculate it printed out. Then we're going to pass the value on to the channel. So if you want go ahead and pause the video here and take a guess.

What do you think the output of this code is going to be? I'm going to go ahead and run it. And you're going to see that we simply get five and five. Now that is kind of a weird thing to be able to predict, right? Why is it that we're getting five and five?

First of all, the first go routine we ran was five plus ten. So even if we're only going to get one value, you'd think that's going to be 15. But no, what happens here is we run all these four, go routines pretty much at the exact same time in separate threads. We come up here, we print something, and then we pass a value on the channel. Then we have this line right here where we wait for a value to be passed on the channel.

This line only waits for one single value to hit the channel. As soon as a value hits the channel, we continue and then we print this, which means what happens is we get one value. So whatever the first value is coincidentally here to be returned, we print that out and then we finish the main go routine, which means we don't wait for any of these other threads to execute, meaning we don't get any more print statements and no more computation occurs. So when we do this line here, when we wait, we're waiting for a single value on the channel. So each send is associated with one single receive.

Okay. Now if I wanted to wait for multiple goroutines to return, what I need to do is have this four times. So I would have to say x is equal to channel like that. And I could just keep doing this. Okay.

So now if I put this four times you'll see that we'll wait for all four of those values. So we get 1519 zero five. And if I run this again you'll see that we probably get it in a different order. We have no idea what the order is going to be, because again, we don't know how our threads are going to be scheduled on the CPU, but now we're waiting for all four return values from our channel. But we have no idea.

In which order we're getting these different values or which call actually returned that value to us. So in this situation, we could use multiple channels, but I'm just going to show you kind of how the channel works here. Now let's say we do this and we kind of switch this up and we just say x equals to this. And then let's take this, paste this here okay. And let's do these kind of in between the different go routines.

So now get a guess at what you think the output is going to be. Well, when I run this notice that I actually get everything happening in the order in which I scheduled these go routines. The reason why we get it in the order is because we schedule this go routine. It starts executing. It returns a value to the channel.

We immediately set X to that value, and we wait for it to get returned. Right. So we don't actually start this go routine until the value from the first go routine is returned. Then we do the same thing here. We run this go routine.

We wait for a value to be returned. Then we schedule the second one. So in this case we're actually kind of doing this synchronously in order, not concurrently like we did before when we scheduled all four and then waited for the values to be returned. Now let's do a quick example where we use multiple channels so we can actually do the same thing we did here. Just make a channel to and say make channel int.

And by the way, for your channel you could have like a slice on the channel. You can do all kinds of different types. You don't have to just do an int. I'm just doing simple once for right now. Okay. Now let's run two routines.

Let's run go add ten five and then channel and go add 2015 and channel two. All right. Now we have the ability to wait for either of these values. So I can do something like x equals two. And then channel.

And then y colon equals two. And then if I can type this correctly channel two then I can print out x and y like that. All right. So this will work fine. What we're going to do is wait for a value to be passed on at the first channel, and then wait for a value to be passed on the second channel, which means we're going to get the first value first and then the second value second.

However, we don't necessarily know which go routine is going to execute first, so that's fine for right now. Let's execute and just make sure this works. And notice that we get our values 15 and 35. It was actually coincidental that this second go routine ran before the first go routine. But anyways, that doesn't really matter now.

What I want to do is I want to add a dynamic delay here. So I just want to say delay int and I want to say time dot, sleep delay times time dot. Second, we need to import time here. And I actually need to make this a time dot duration. So these are the same types. And I can multiply them by each other.

Anyways that's what we're doing here. So we say time to sleep. We're going to wait some dynamic duration. And now I'm going to pass in four seconds here and two seconds here. So what you're going to see here when we run this is we first get the value for channel two which is 35.

We then get it for 15. However we're not able to actually print out this 35 right until we've got the 15. So the way that I've done this here is forcing me to wait the full four seconds before I'm able to receive the value for Y or for channel two. Now, again, in this instance, this is fine, but sometimes what you want to do is be waiting for either channel one or channel two to return a value and process them in the order in which they're returned. Meaning, what I would want to do is print out the value of channel y, or process that value before I'm waiting for channel X.

So just imagine the scenario right where you have a bunch of go routines, you don't know in what order they're going to execute, but as soon as something gets returned from them on the channel, you want to immediately handle that. The way that I'm showing you right now, you have no way of doing that because you don't know which one you should be waiting for. First or second, however, there is a new piece of code we can use, known as a Select statement that allows us to actually handle any different channel that's being passed. So let me show you what I mean by this. I can say select and then I can write a case.

Now for this case I'm going to say receive a value. So x colon equal to and then receive a value from channel. Then I'm going to put a colon here. And then what I can do is FMT dot print line and then print x. Then I can write another case and I can say y colon equal to and receive a value from channel two.

Then I can say fmt dot print line and then print out not x but y. And we can get rid of that print and we can get rid of the print inside of here. So what I've just done is here in the select statement, the way the select statement works is it waits for either of these channels to have a value on them. So either this channel or channel two, it doesn't know which one it's going to be. But as soon as either of these channel gets a value, it goes into the case where that value was received and then handles whatever the output is.

So in this case, you'll see that in two seconds we will handle the output for y. And then we'll just move on. So whatever value we got first we handle and then we just continue with the program. Now I might want to be waiting for both of the values to come in, which I'll show you how to do in one second. But the select is quite useful because when you don't know which is going to be returned first, you can wait for all of them and just process whatever one comes in.

So in this case Y came in first. So we process y. If X had come in first we would have processed x. Now if I want to make sure I get both of the different values here, what I can do is say for underscore colon equal to or something like actually yeah let's do this for I call an equal to zero I less than to I plus plus. And then I can put the select statement inside of a for loop.

And what's going to happen now is I run the select statement twice. So as soon as I get my first value I handle it whether it's X or y. Then I wait for my second value and whether that's x or y, I handle that again, not knowing what order this is going to be, returned it. So now when I run this code, you'll see that we get 35 and then immediately we process 15. As soon as we get that.

Now if we change these delays to be the same and we run, you'll see that whatever order it comes in, in, we process that in that order. So just coincidentally, it was 35 and 50. And let's see if it goes to 1535. And it does. You can see that it kind of switches around and we process in whatever order that is.

Okay. So that is a Select statement. Quite useful. Definitely kind of remember this and see how this works. Because a lot of times again you have multiple go routines.

You don't know which one is going to return first. So you select on those cases and then you can handle in any order in which they are returned. All right. So that kind of wraps up channels and select. Now I quickly want to talk to you about directional channels.

Buffer channels. Then we have a few more advanced examples to go into okay. So right now we have just a general channel. Now that means that we can actually wait for a value inside of this go routine. So it's possible that we have go routines waiting on other go routines.

And we passing channels to those routines so that we can synchronize the execution of code. So what I can do in here is I can do something like wait for a value. This is perfectly valid. That means that now inside of this go routine, I'd be waiting for something to be passed on the channel before I start executing it. And it's possible a different go routine will be the one that's actually interacting with this channel and passing something to me, so I can always do this.

That's perfectly fine when I have a bidirectional channel, but what I can do is accept inside of here a directional channel. Now, to accept a directional channel, I need to just specify the direction. So in this case, if I put my arrow like this, what I've done now is made this a receive only channel. So if I highlight over this says invalid operation cannot send to receive only channel. So if I want to make this a send only channel I put it on the other side and now I'm specifying hey, I can send to the channel, but I cannot receive.

So now if I go here and I attempt to receive, you see we get the error and it says invalid operation cannot receive from send only channel. So just something you can do inside of the parameters. You can specify the direction of the channel, which makes your code a little bit more clean and kind of easier to work with and understand if someone else is reading it. Okay, so that is a directional channel. But now let's talk about a buffered channel.

So to talk about the buffer channel I'm just going to clear the screen and go into a new example. I'll be right back. All right. So I've just cleared the screen. Let's get into an example of a buffered channel.

So first of all let's see what happens when we make a normal channel. So channel is equal to make we just do a channel with a boolean. Now let's say we're going to send something to this channel. So I'll say okay channel and send something like true. And then I'm going to receive the value from the channel here.

And then FMT dot print line. Done. Okay. So let's go here and clear and see what we get. And notice that we actually get an error here.

It says all go routines are deadlocked. Now the reason we're getting this error here is because of how the channel functions. Whenever we have a send on a channel, this is actually a blocking operation that waits for the channel to receive this value. I know this seems a bit strange, but every single send that we have is waiting for a value to be received. So when I do this send operation here, we don't actually move on to the next line.

We don't continue in this go routine until we see this receive block in another go routine, or just somewhere right until it appears. So this is blocking until we receive. And same with this receive. It's blocking until a value is sent onto the channel. So that means that as soon as I send a value on to the channel here, immediately I start waiting on this line for it to be received.

But since the receive is on the next line, I can never reach that receive, which is why I get a deadlock. So I've implemented a deadlock with just a single go routine here because I send the I then wait, but I never have anything that receives because that's on the next line. So I'm not able to continue in the program. That's what happens when you have an UN buffered channel on buffered channel is a channel that can have one value on it at a time. Now, even if I do receive so I go function.

Just go here. Okay. We'll take in a channel and say channel chan bool okay. And all I do in here is just receive right now, as long as I schedule this go routine first. So I say go and then I pass the channel.

Then when I send it will receive. And then this should be fine. All right. So now we have this example. Let's see what happens.

And notice that this is fine because now we are receiving. However let's see what happens if we send another value on the channel okay. So I send true. And you'll see here that we get a deadlock because the same thing happens. We only had one receive for the sent okay.

So this kind of got matched with this function right here. Then we have another send that was waiting for the corresponding receive. The receive never occurred. So this blocked. If I ran another goroutine that was receiving then we'd be fine.

So if I run this here, you can see that now it's okay because we have corresponding receives for every single send. The point of me showing this to you is that we can avoid this when we use a buffered channel. When we use a buffered channel, we'll wait for a certain number of, what do you call this? Values to be added on to the channel before we start having a blocking operation. So what I can do here, when I make the channels, I can specify size.

I can specify size, say like two. Now what I've done is created a buffered channel that can receive two different values on it. All right. So now that we have this buffered channel let's look at the same example. And I'll kind of explain how this works.

So let's send a value to the channel like true. And then let's try to receive a value from the channel. So channel receive. No not like that. Other way around.

Channel like that okay. So now let's run the code. And notice this is actually completely fine. Now the reason this works fine is because a buffered channel works differently than a normal channel. With the buffered channel, we only block when we're trying to send data to the channel and the channel is full.

So to illustrate that to you, if I place, two values here, okay. And then I clear and run, you see that this still continues to work. Now this still works because at this point when I add the second value, the channel becomes full. But I'm not trying to pass another value on to the channel. It had room.

However, if I go here and now, I attempt to add another value on to the channel, you'll see that we get a deadlock. The reason we get a deadlock is because this line blocks and waits for a corresponding receive, so that we can kind of empty the channel, right, and have enough room on the channel to be able to send this next value. So whenever the buffer channel is full, then we're going to be blocking when we're trying to send. If it's not full, then we'll just allow ourselves to continue to add value to the channel. So if I take my receive and I put this here and I clear and run, you see that now everything's fine.

Because what happens is I have two values that I pass under the channel. I then receive one of those values, which clears that off the channel. And then I send another value. And at this point it's fine because there's enough room on the channel for me to pass that there. Okay. So that's when we get that blocking code.

Now what happens if we try to receive a value from an empty channel? Well, if I try to receive a value from an empty channel, I get a deadlock. The reason I'm getting a deadlock here is because this will block as well. So whenever I'm trying to receive a value from an empty channel, this is blocking code, meaning I'm waiting for a value to be added on to this channel. Since a value never gets added, I get a deadlock.

Okay, so when you use the buffered channel, all that's happening is your blocking code now changes so that only on an empty receive you're blocking or on a full, send to the channel, you're going to have blocking code. Okay. Hopefully that's making a little bit of sense, but that is the buffered channel. All right. So now that we've looked at a buffered channel I want to talk to you about something known as a lock or a mutex.

So let me set up a quick example here and I'll show you how that works. All right. So I've set up another example here where what I'm doing is attempting to count to 100 using 100 different go routines. So I have this counter struct. Very simple, just has a value inside of it.

I then have this count function which takes a pointer to the counter struct, just that we can directly modify the field. Then we say counter to our value plus plus. So we just increment it by one and we print out whatever the value of the counter is. I then say counter count equal to counter at zero. So we're just setting it to be zero.

And then we're looping through 0 to 100. And we are creating 100 go routines that are going to allow us to count to 100. Now, what I want to show you here is that when I run this code, the output I get is a little bit strange. Okay, so I've go run demo ago and you'll notice that kind of as we go through here, I get all kinds of different counts that are all kind of slightly random, and it's possible I could actually have repeated values inside of here. It's just kind of strange how this works, right?

So you can see that we go. 122 328 five 7993 because we don't know the order in which these different threads are going to be executing. And what happens is they're all kind of accessing the value field of my counter struct at the exact same time. Now, this is a big issue in multi-threaded programs where you have multiple threads accessing the same memory address location at the same time. When that occurs, then threads can be changing and modifying things and can result in some really weird behavior where thread one goes and changes the value to one thread to immediately change it to zero.

And what that means is you get very weird kind of resulting values here. And you can see at the end of our program I'm printing out eight, right. Like does that make any sense at all? Not really. So how do we fix this?

Well, the way we fix this is by using something known as a mutex or a lock. Now, a lock is something that we can acquire and release on some resource or value. So what we're going to do here is implement a mutex with this mutex. It's kind of just referred to as a lock by the way. So mutex and lock are pretty much synonymous with the mutex.

Will do is a block until we have released the lock from another piece of code. I know it seems a bit weird, but inside of count what we'll do is we'll say, okay, I want to wait for my lock to be available. As soon as the lock is available, I'm going to lock that lock and say, hey, I'm working on the value right now so no one else can work on this. Now, as soon as I'm finished working on this, I'm going to release the lock and then allow the other thread to go and work on it. So we're essentially just forcing the threads to wait for the other threads to execute, or work on this field or this resource before they're able to do that.

So the way that we do this is we import a new package called sync. Okay. Now inside of our counter struct I'm going to create a lock. So I'm going to say lock is equal to sync dot mutex okay. So this is the type here for our lock.

Now for our counter struct I'm just going to initialize this with nothing. So we have the default value of zero. And we have a lock. Now inside of my counter or inside of my count function I'm going to acquire the lock. So to acquire the lock I'm going to say lock dot.

And then I believe this is actually going to be lock actually sorry this has to be counter dot lock dot lock. Now what this function does is it waits for me to be able to lock the lock. So if the lock is already locked I can't do that. I need to wait for it to be unlocked. Then I'm able to lock it.

Then I'm going to defer the operation which is counter dot, lock dot and then unlock. Now the reason I want to defer this is to make sure that if anything happens in my thread that kind of breaks the code, etc., that I will always do this operation. Okay, so this is kind of an error handling, strategy. And I'm also doing it directly under counterclockwise lock so that it's clear that, hey, I'm locking.

And then at the end of the function I'm going to unlock. All right. So I'm deferring that operation. Then I have counter value plus plus. And then I'm printing out the value of counter.

So now what you'll see is that when I print out all of the different counts we will go directly from 0 to 100 or from 1 to 100, because we know that we are going to always have to acquire the lock before we're able to perform an operation on this value. Okay, so let's clear and run this. And now you'll see that we'll get from 1 to 100. Okay. Now what really happens here is we run the first go routine.

It acquires lock, then it changes the value and it releases the lock. Now, while it's doing that right, while it's locking on, locking and changing the value, all of these other go routines are being ran, right? So maybe 100 go routines are running and they're all attempting to acquire the lock. So as soon as the first one acquires the lock and then releases it, that then allows the second goroutine to acquire the lock and then release it. So it's going to go in order because of the fact that we have this kind of locking mechanism occurring here.

And it actually doesn't even matter if goroutine one or 7 or 10, acquires a lock, because all we're doing is adding one to the count value. Now, since they're all going one at a time, they're not mutating it at the same time. That's what allows us to get this clean count going from 1 to 100. I'm hoping that makes a little bit of sense, but that's kind of the basics on using a mutex. So whenever you have some shared resource in this case we have the counter struct.

You need to make sure you're locking the usage of that resource so the multiple threads aren't accessing it and modifying it at the same time. Okay, now one thing I want to show you here is that we have this timeout sleep right now. The reason I implemented this timeout sleep is because I need enough time for all my goroutines to run. If I didn't have this, then immediately the program would just end. But that's not ideal.

I don't really want to wait for two seconds when maybe this code can be executed in one second, a millisecond, etc. so how do I actually wait for all these goroutines to finish running? Well, there's many different ways that I can do that. One of the ways that I'll do that is by using a channel. Okay, so what I can actually say here is called count equals to make channel.

And we can just pass a boolean okay. Now what we'll do is we'll pass this channel to our count function. And we'll now accept the channel. So C-H gen bool like that. And we can say this is a receive only channel or sorry I believe it's going to be a send only channel.

Now at the end here we'll simply send some value to the channel. So we'll say channel and we'll send the value true. Now that I've done that, what I need to do is wait for all of these different receives on the channel. Remember, every single send needs a corresponding receive. So I'll create another for loop say for I call an equal zero I less than 100.

And then I plus plus. And then I will say receive the value from the channel. Okay, now it doesn't really matter in which order I get these values, but I'm saying I'm going to have 100 receives for the 100 sends, which means I wait for every single goroutine to finish before I finish executing this code. Okay, because I have 100 blocking operations every single time I get a send, I then have the corresponding receive and I kind of go back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, allowing me to wait for every single one of those to execute. So I'm going to clear and run.

And we got an issue here. Time is important. And I used okay, so let's get rid of time. Let's clear make this a little bit larger and run. And you can see here that we get all of the different values.

And we didn't have to have that timed sleep okay. So that's one way that you can wait for all these different values to be returned. Now another way is to use something known as a weight group. Now, a weight group is a kind of special object that exists here. Inside of go, they kind of does exactly what I just showed you and avoids you having to use this channel when you don't actually want to return a value.

So what I'm going to do here is create a weight group. So to make the weight group I'm going to say wji is calling equal to. And then this is going to be sync dot weight group like that. And I'm going to initialize that with a set of curly braces actually because I believe this is a struct. It is a struct okay perfect.

So for the weight group I'm going to say don't add. And I'm going to add 100. Now what that means that I'm adding 100 go routines that I want to wait for. So all this is going to do is give me some kind of count where I can then decrease this. And as soon as this weight group is at zero, then I'm finished with the weight group.

Okay, so I have my weight group at 100. And now what I'm going to do is pass a reference to my weight group. So ampersand wji there. And now rather than my channel I'm going to take in a weight group. So I'm a weight group like that.

But this needs to be a pointer to the weight group. Okay. Then I'm going to say wji dot done. It's going to automatically dereference that for me because it's a struct. And now rather than using my channel I'm using the weight group.

And then down here I'm going to say Wji dot. And I believe it's not done. I think it's actually just weight okay. So now what I've done is I've said, all right, I'm going to add 100 routines that I want to wait for. And then I'm going to call this a done method.

And every time I call that done method on the weight group, it's going to decrease the number here. As soon as that number is zero, then this will no longer be blocking and it will allow me to continue. So now if I run the code, you can see that we get the exact same thing and we don't need to have that timeout. Sleep. Now, there's a bunch of different ways I could have done this.

First of all, rather than add 100, I could have gone here and said wji dot add and then added one. I just need to make sure that I add this before I run the go routine, because if I do it while I'm running the routine, that is possible. The weight will actually not need to wait because it will be zero. As soon as we kind of get past this for loop. I know this seems a bit weird, but what can happen is if we don't add this before we run the go routines, it's possible that we won't have that kind of equal to one, two, or three, whatever the number is.

When we reach this line of code, which will then mean we're no longer blocking, which we want to be doing because we're waiting for all of these go routines to finish execute. So let's clear and run. And again, you can see that that's working completely fine. Okay. So I think with that said I'm going to wrap up the video here.

I know there was a lot, and this is probably the most complicated video that we've had in this entire course. The point here was to give you a bit of insight into what happens when you were distributing your applications and creating multithreaded programs. This is something that you'll do a lot more if you're looking into back end. Right. So you're going to be a back end developer. You're looking at performance.

You're doing low level machines, working on embedded systems, doing any kind of hardware stuff. It can be very, very concerned with how you distribute your applications, how you run multiple threads, how you synchronize those threads, etc.. So that's something you're interested in. Then definitely look more into go because there's a ton of other features related to multi-threading that I haven't even shown you, and that would take really a whole other course to completely go through.

At this point, though, you should be comfortable running multiple threads in Goroutines have some sense of what channels are, how you can pass values between different threads, and how you can use things like the weight group and the locks to synchronize the execution of code. Anyways, I'm going to wrap it up here. I hope you found this helpful and I look forward to seeing you in another one.