---
video_title: "Blitzy Is The Best Coding Platform I've Ever Used - Full Walkthrough & Results"
video_id: r65lJG83D4k
channel_name: "Tech With Tim"
channel_id: UC4JX40jDee_tINbkjycV4Sg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r65lJG83D4k
video_date: 2026-03-07T13:01:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Get started with Blitzy for free: https://blitzy.com/?utm_source=YouTube&utm_medium=Social&utm_campaign=Tech+with+Tim
  
  Blitzy is the best AI coding platofmr that I've ever used. In this video, I'll break down what it is, how it works, and how myself and my team have personally used this over the past two months to generate a massive amount of code and save our team weeks worth of developer tasks.
  
  Want to make real money with coding? I share high-signal insights on careers, monetization, and leverage in my free newsletter. Join here and get my guide How to Make Money With Coding instantly: https://techwithtim.net/newsletter
  
  
  ⏳ Timestamps ⏳
  00:00 | What is Blitzy? 
  01:51 | Pricing & Use Case
  03:31 | My Goal & Use Case
  05:31 | Stage #1 - Codebase Ingestion
  08:54 | Stage #2 - Codebase Documentation
  11:23 | Stage #3 - Full Codebase Refactor
  18:30 | Stage #4 - New Feature Development
  21:43 | Final Thoughts & Results 
  
  Hashtags
  #blitzy #bestaiagent #codingagents #blitzywalkthrough #bestaicoding #aicoding #aicodingtools 
  
  UAE Media License Number: 3635141
---
This is the best AI coding agent that I've ever used. And in this video, I'll break down what it is, how it works, and how myself and my team have personally use this over the past two months to generate a massive amount of code and save our team weeks worth of developer tasks. With that said, what am I talking about? Well, this is Blitzy. Now, I worked with Blitz in the past and I made two other videos that you can check out, which I'll put on screen right now.

But in this video, I want to go really deep into the process of actually using this, because it's a tool that's very different from the traditional software engineering agents that exist today. Now, I'm sure all of you guys use AI for coding at this point, and you've probably opened something like cursor right, or clawed code, or you've used these kind of back and forth iterative agents where you give it a prompt, maybe it can work for a few minutes on its own. It gives you something back and you kind of just go back and forth, prompting, prompting, prompting, prompting, prompting, until eventually you get something that kind of looks like what you're looking for. Now, if you're not careful with the prompts, that can mean that you're sitting on your computer for hours at a time and again, just really interacting and kind of chatting with an agent, trying to get some desired output. Now Blitz takes a completely opposite approach where rather than doing this kind of iterative back and forth approach, what you do is you spend a lot more time up front generating a really detailed or kind of long spec or prompt.

You give that to the agent and it then goes away for one, two, three, sometimes four days, and really deeply understands your code base and then gives you a finished result that it's a lot more confident in, and then tells you all of the things that you would need to do to kind of wrap this up. And just to clarify, what he actually does is it deploys thousands of different AI agents that work cooperatively based on your prompt and the understanding of your code base to complete the task that you give it. It's effectively an entire development platform that orchestrates and coordinates agents from the major land providers. Now I'm going to show you exactly how it works in this video. So don't worry.

But just understand that this is designed for enterprises. So larger teams, organizations and companies that have some money and can invest in these AI products, it is not trying to compete with something like, you know, a cursor agent or a cloud code or, you know, a Codex model, because it really is completely different in what it's capable of doing. Okay. So I'm just going to quickly go over again like a quick brief because you kind of need to understand what this is. And then I'm going to go through the whole process of how I've used it over the past two months.

So you can see exactly what value I was able to get out of it. Pros, cons, etc.. Again, this is kind of a newer approach to generating code with AI that I haven't seen a lot of other companies implement. So first things first, let's just go down to the pricing, because I know you guys are all going to ask for this.

So if you just want to mess around with bullets and you're an individual, you guys can use it for free. And what you can do is have a document, your code base, or at least explore it and generate a deep technical spec of everything that it understands. That's already great because you can then feed that other local AI models or like models in cursor or something, which will give you a better result when you're doing the AI coding. Now, if you want to really use it and actually have a generate code for you, then you can do a concept validation 50 K. They have a structure pilot 250 K.

And then they have obviously stuff for enterprises and transformations. And of course this is quite expensive, which is why none of you are going to go buy this on your own. You would have to work for a larger organization in order for this to make sense. Now what I effectively tried over the past two months is kind of a shorter version of this structured pilot. So what you're going to see here isn't quite, you know, the extent of what we would do here, but it's kind of a mixture of like a concept validation and the structured pilot.

And you can see the results that I was able to get. Now, obviously due to the price here, I didn't just dish out 250 K bullets. He reached out to me and said, hey, we want to walk you through the process. Do you have a code base or some project you're working on that we can try this with so you can see what it's capable of doing. And I of course said yes because I have a code base here, which is actually a really large, messy, vibe coded application for some kind of management and student fulfillment tasks for my dev launch, mentorship program.

We don't need to talk about the program, but the point is, I have this, like really detailed kind of, you know, roadmap system and like application tracking, DSA roadmap, interview bags, all of this kind of stuff which students use inside of the program to keep track of their tasks and to make sure that they're essentially completing all of the objectives and making progress. And we created this application. I say we, me and my team by effectively vibe coding the entire thing. We whipped up the whole back end, the whole front end, and maybe 2 or 3 days of kind of going back and forth with some random local agents. The code base was an absolute mess, and there was a lot of features that we wanted to add that we just couldn't until we completely refactored and transformed the application.

Now, my goal when using Blitz here was to really refactor the entire code base into something that was going to be maintainable in the future, and then to add a few features that were kind of a large lift that I didn't have the dev capacity to do. Now, I was doing this in tandem with my team, so I was kind of operating the blitz, the interface, while my team was also in parallel working on other features. And I'll talk about how that kind of worked while we were using this tool. So first, here's a quick breakdown of how much time this actually saved us. Now we have three people working on this repo, and without blitzing, we estimate it would have taken us about 150 hours to do everything that you're about to see.

Well, with Blitz, see, we spent about six hours of dev time validating, testing and deploying the results that you're going to see in just a second. And in case you're curious, here's also a few other examples of some larger projects. You can see the amount of lines of code and time that was saved. Anyways, with that said, let's get into the process that I actually followed here. Now, the first part of being able to use Blitz is having the code base ingestion.

That effectively means that Blitz is going to analyze your entire code base and generate a multi hundred page technical specification, or document that explains all of the features, architecture, whatever is currently in the project. So it has the context to be able to make the larger changes. Now I actually met with the blitz team just like any other client of theirs would. They walked me through this process and gave me some help generating the prompts. But effectively what we did is we went here to the website.

We went to new project, we clicked existing product. You know, we gave it a title, so whatever here. And then I was able to select my project from GitHub, choose the branch so you can see that I just went here and I chose whatever the thing was. And then I was able to set up an environment for this, which I'll explain to you in one second. And the environment is pretty important because the way this works is that, well, Blitz is doing all of its code generation, understanding your code base, etc.

it's actually able to run your application and make sure that it's working so it can validate everything that it's doing. So we can create environment, weather, Linux, windows and just give all of the instructions on how to actually set up the project, just like you would to a new kind of junior developer. You can give it access to any variables, secret keys, etc. and that's exactly what I did when setting up this project. So Blitz, you would actually be able to spin up my website, run the backend, connect to the discord integration, write, connect to what else did we have?

Clark. Right. Our auth provider, all of those kinds of things. And with that environment in place it allows blitz just give you a better result. So actually you can see here just an example of the environment I set up where we have all of the different commands.

Right on how to actually set this up, where to go, what to look at, the different secrets, which of course I won't show you, as well as the different variables that we need in order for this project to work. And then of course, you can connect this to a team which is what I did, and I added some people from blitzes so they would be able to essentially review what I was doing. Okay. So once I set up the environment and connect to this to the GitHub repo, the next step was just to provide a small prompt that explains some basic kind of context and understanding about the project, so that it can generate a better technical spec. So what I did is I just quickly wrote kind of a description of the project right in its current state, and then Blitz went and actually started ingesting the entire codebase.

Now, of course, I'm going to skip that part because it does take one two days sometimes for it to actually generate what you're about to see, but then it generated a super long technical spec that includes, you know, it could see all these sections on the left hand side in terms of the tools that were using the different systems that exist. Right. So you can see like student onboarding, mock interview system roadmap management, different back in architecture styles and patterns that we have API auth bot, etc.. Right.

And then continuing it generates all of these different graphs and charts and diagrams. And this alone is just super useful to have as a developer. And something again, that a local AI model, if you're using it inside of like cursor for example, can reference, which gives you just much better results. But of course that blitz you then uses in the future to ensure that as it makes changes, it knows what's going on the current state of the project, and then updates this technical spec in live time so that it's always aware of the full context. Right?

And as you might have seen on one of the previous pages, Blitz is capable of understanding 100 million lines of code, which is kind of ridiculous. But the point is, you start by creating this kind of technical spec and essentially running your code base through the platform to get this ingestion finished. Now, after that, the next stage is to move into documentation. It's not necessarily required to do this, but this is what the blue team recommended as I was working closely with them on all of the different features that we were doing. So in order to document the code base, you can just press this build button and go to Document Code.

And then what you can do is provide a documentation prompt that explains what it is that you want documented. And I'm going to show you a quick example of what that looks like. The reason why we go to document the code first is because the more documentation that we have, the better the model is going to be able to understand the code base, to be able to perform something more complicated, like an entire refactor of the entire application, or adding a feature or testing or, you know, fixing a bug, whatever it is that we want to do. So I had the code base documented in two stages first the back end and then the front end. And here's an example of what the back end documentation prompt looked like.

Now, the Blinky team just provided me with the template, which I was able to fill in very easily and just explain. Okay, you know, here are the things that I want you to do. I want you to add inline comments, right. This is the format we want to go with. Here's the boundaries.

Don't touch anything else. Here are different variables that we have, etc. etc. etc. and then same thing you know I want a readme file for all of these core, you know, folders, right API, auth bot, etc.

so I then took this prompt, passed it to Blitz, so you can also find it from their website in the document code kind of feature here. It then generated the documentation and created this pull request directly on my repository. As you can see here on the blitzes branch. So what you'll notice is that it's documented all of this stuff in the back end as I asked. So we have for example, like an architecture markdown file, right?

This if we were to render it out, we'd actually see all of the different diagrams. We have the different data models, right. The deployment, the development env. For example, if we look in some of the different files, we have, what is it. You know comments kind of fixed, doc strings fixed with proper punctuation, capitalization, etc.

and everything that I asked it to document it effectively did that. I then did the same thing for the front end. I'm not going to run through that, because it's not that important to just duplicate the documentation and show it to you twice. But effectively, we then had full documentation that we as users could read. But more importantly, the I could rely on whether we were using it in kind of that iterative approach or with blitzes, because, again, this is meant to be kind of a complement, not just a full replacement of a dev team or any AI tools that you currently use.

Okay, that was the first stage, right? We documented the codebase that took maybe 1 or 2 days to generate the prompt and then get the documentation complete. Now the next thing that we wanted to do is start the refactor. Now, this is obviously one of the larger things which was going to be super critical. So I want to explain to you how that worked, and I want to show you what the previous state of my code base was, because it was an absolute mess.

And then I want to show you what he actually did by diving into some of the code, because I know you guys always ask about that. What's the quality, how good was it, did it work, etc.. All right, so it's hard to show you all of the details of the code base, but previously this entire thing kind of the state that I'm in right now because I've moved it back in the git tree is just very messy and completely vibe coded. So we have like all kinds of imports that aren't actually being used.

We have massive files where we're putting, you know, the types directly in the files, which usually is not a good idea. We have huge classes, huge functions, right. And just overall very difficult to maintain code. It's not the worst in the world, but it's. Generally not what we wanted, and something that was going to be a nightmare to have to clean up in the future.

Hence why we wanted to go with the refactor so effectively. What we did here is I wrote a full refactor prompt for the back end. This is kind of like, you know, the markdown version of it, whatever, where we put the core objectives that we wanted modularity, separation of concerns, code, organization, maintainability, consistency and readability. You know what define success. The all of this kind of information and how I wanted things to be laid out in terms of the different directory structures, etc.,

such that it was going to be easier for us to actually read and maintain in the future. So I filled this in. It's quite detailed. I wanted to make sure again, that we had everything fully kind of written out, so that we spend the time upfront to write a really detailed prompt. Then he goes away, spends the few days and generates the pull request.

Now, because of the amount of time that these can take to run, what bility will do when you put in this prompt is it will actually generate an agent action plan. Now the agent action plan, I'll put up an example of what it looks like on screen is effectively what it's going to do. So what steps it's going to take and what order it's going to do things. If it's going to archive something, if it's going to delete something, where it's going to touch, you know, what is it going to actually do here to accomplish the task based on the prompt? Now, after that, agent action plan, if for some reason you don't like what is proposing, you can revise the agent action plan to ensure that before it goes off and spends, you know, two days working on this, you actually know what it's about to do.

So that's something that I can't show you live in action, but I can put up some previous videos on screen because it does take a second to generate the plan. But once you approve the agent action plan, then it will go and generate the code. Now, in our case, what we were able to get here was a PR that looks like this. So 21,000 lines of code, 2000 deletions. If we go and look at the files changed, you can see all of the stuff that it did in terms of the refactor.

So it added you know, the V1 prefix. We have all the different routes, the schemas. Right. It moved some files change some files auth bot config core domain services use cases you know database split it into services models, infrastructure database. Right. Like all of this stuff.

Just making it a lot cleaner and easier for us to actually read. And if we scroll through, you can see that all of the code. Well, I mean, again, you're going to have to kind of take my word for it because you can't review, you know, a 22,000 line PR immediately, is very clean, very well written, and pretty much exactly what we were looking for. Now, I have to be honest here, right after this refactor is finished, it's not like all of the work was completely done. What Blissey does is anytime you make some of these massive changes, it updates the technical spec to share with you any changes that you as the human or any task you as the human need to complete in order for the work to be finished.

in the technical spec that it created, and you can see that it kind of walked through exactly what it did. Right? Okay, we've passed all of the tasks. We validated this. You know, these are the commits, files changed lines added all of that kind of stuff.

Then you can see that it validated everything and made sure it was backwards compatible. We didn't break any routes. And then this is the part that, you know, a lot of developers are going to want to look at after this is completed. So it explains the work that it completed and then what the remaining work actually is. So for example, environment configuration production deployment verification, performance profiling and documentation polish.

So if you were a developer like me, right, who is using this to generate the code, what you do is you come to this document and you go, okay, what it lets you do, okay. It did all of these things and now what do I need to do to actually complete this? So in my case I did go through and I did complete these tasks. Now it didn't take me five hours because this is being a little bit exaggerated in terms of like, you know, it doesn't take in an hour an hour and a half, sorry to configure the environment and then being honest, there were a few kind of small bugs or misconfigurations that I did need to fix myself. So while it is very good, the code quality is very high and it got me 95% of the way there.

I did need to validate this manually. I needed to reconnect 1 or 2 routes and spend a little bit of time, maybe 20 or 30 minutes debugging some of the small mistakes that just happened in this large refactor. And then we were good to go. The project was effectively refactored from the back end perspective, and I can move on to the next task. And at the same time, my team can continue working on whatever they're working, and then I can check in this refactor, we can sync everything up and we were good to go.

Now, after I did the back end refactor with this tool, I did move on to doing the front end refactor now again. At this time I was working directly with two teams. They were kind of giving me some assistance on the prompts, explaining to me in what order I should do things to make sure that I was getting the best result, and they said, okay, start with the back end. Once the backend is finished, we can move to the front end just to split it up a little bit. So I'm not going to go through the whole process, but effectively I gave it the prompt.

I reviewed the agent action plan and then what it did is it generated the entire pull request again, this time 24,000 lines of code, additions, sorry, 5000 deletions. Again, breaks down everything that it did statistics. And then the remaining work that again, you as the developer would have to go in and do. Now the front end was extremely messy, you know, significantly worse than the back end was in terms of the vibe coding that we did for it. So this definitely was a heavier lift.

And in terms of the human work, it did cost me maybe an hour and a half kind of going through this. After everything was generated and what I did is I actually open this up in cursor, and I was using my local AI model or like the model in cursor to help me kind of debug some of these small changes. For example, there was like a style sheet that wasn't connected that we needed to reconnect. There was a few, you know, broken files or the wrong imports or something. So again, we cleaned all of that up and then we were good to go.

I just added that commit to this branch and then we pushed it in, checked it into main master, whatever you want to call it. And we were good to go from there. So I was able to accomplish what the front end and the back end refactor. You can see all of the commit, the splits generated here in about, let's call it one and a half weeks, and then you can see my team member here, Kenny just gave this a review and then checked it in. Now one thing worth noting is that, of course, because we have, you know, 24,000 lines of code, are you realistically going to sit here and review every single line in this pull request?

Probably not. Right. And in our case, what we did just to make sure we were safe is we had 1 or 2 team members do a pass. So we quickly scan through it, made sure the overall architecture and kind of the high level decisions it made was correct. We made sure that it worked manually by actually testing it.

And then again, just for sanity, because this is a huge pull request. We had another team member do the same thing. Once we were both confident, we checked it into the staging environment. It worked there and then we pushed it to production and we were all good to go. Okay, so at this stage of using bility, I.

I'd had a document the entire code base ingested obviously to understand it, then do a full comprehensive front end and back end refactor which is validated, tested and worked. And then we actually pushed and the students started using. After this, I did want to actually build some new features with blitzes, so I proceeded to write a prompt to generate a full course platform on top of the existing application that we had. I'm not going to bore you with all of the details, but effectively in two stages. So back end and then front end I had blitz.

You generate this, you can see that we had this here right, which was generated for the comprehensive course platform for dev launch onboarding back end. And you can see it created the data models API endpoints and essentially kind of like a clone of Kajabi on the back end. I then had another PR that did the front end. So this is the front end PR again, you can see 12,000 additions here. And then a lot more changes because it was writing all of the front end components using our existing library types, etc.

to generate, well, this new feature. Now I want to show you what the feature actually looks like so that you get some visual kind of, you know, information here, but effectively it is a full course platform that is very similar to something like Kajabi. Now, we don't have the thumbnails right now, but you can see that it actually wrote all of this. Or what I can do is let's go into something like this. One of the courses we have, you know, how to land interviews as an engineer.

We have different videos which are uploaded with Wistia. Right. There's different descriptions. We can mark it as complete. We can move forward and backwards through the lessons.

Right. You know, it's not perfect. Definitely. There's a few glitches. We have to look through it, but it marks everything as completed.

And then also we have an admin dashboard. So the hard thing about making a course platform is actually being able to manage the content for the course. So we have different groups that are created for different access controls. Right. The ability to grant access to individual courses for individual users, as you can kind of see here.

And then of course, the ability to move the courses around to manage them, right, to add descriptions, to add different subtopics, sections, etc.. And again, this entire thing was built with a single or two prompts, I guess because we built the front end and we built the back end. We have, you know, new course, all of this kind of stuff, and it saved us a massive amount of time from going iteratively back and forth with an agent and trying to build it ourselves. Now, because this was a more complex feature, it did require, again, a little bit of time after these pull requests were completed to verify that everything was working, to connect any kind of missing routes or small mistakes that it made.

But that's fine. We can live with that, because I can literally just write a prompt, good ability, you know, work on whatever I need to. In the meantime, two days later, you know, I get delivered this great PR that's 95% of the way. There I go and I tweak some stuff, and now I'm really spending my effort in kind of the highest level fashion, where I'm doing the difficult engineering work of the architecture, the prompting and the design. All of the manual labor of writing all of this code gets completed for me.

Then anything tricky like the debugging that an AI agent can't quite handle. Again, I can pop in there and do that and use my skills where they are the most effective and the most valuable, as opposed to writing this full course platform which I've written, you know, ten versions of before and is literally just a matter of getting the keys into the keyboard. So overall, in the span of about 3 or 4 weeks using blitzes, I had to generate 61,000 lines of code. I believe that was split across 6 or 7 different pull requests and everything that it generated. We are currently using live on our website again, with those small additions that we made to the press.

As soon as they were complete. Overall, this acted for our team, just like an autonomous software engineer that we could trust to handle very difficult, complex tasks. If we were to have to manually refactor the entire code base, for example, it would have actually been faster to just rewrite it from scratch. So having something like this that can handle those really monotonous tasks was very impactful. And to be able to do it without the constant back and forth.

The one thing that I currently hate about AI coding is that constant back and forth. You know, the models can only handle doing so much at once, and I have to effectively sit on my computer and press approve, approve, select do this, fix this, change this. And it just feels like a waste of my time where something like this, like I mentioned before, I feel like it can really leverage the engineering talent that I have in the best possible way, as opposed to literally pressing a button on a computer and sending, you know, 30 prompts in the span of an hour and a half. Just to go back, fix this, reverse something. It feels like you're literally just like a monkey, you know, tapping around on the keyboard.

So when I was using this agent, I definitely didn't feel like it was fully replacing me as a software engineer or even the other AI tools that I use on my computer or in my code editor, but it just took away a lot of that annoying, redundant, monotonous work, which I think is extremely valuable. Again, in our estimation, this saved us at least a week's worth of work in terms of allocating the staff to be able to do this refactoring the full front end to full back end. I mean adding the documentation, which I don't think you could have paid any of us to do, and then adding the full new feature, which we had been putting off for months because we just didn't have the time to do it. And then this was able to come in and complete that for us again with that little bit of validation. So overall, it was a great experience working with blitzing.

I know a lot of you will watch this and go, okay, well I'm not going to pay 50 K, 250 K, 500 K. That's fine. Like I said, this isn't designed for an individual, it's designed for an enterprise. And if you are going to work with them, you know, you would get the experience. Like I got of actually sitting down with them, having meetings, having them review the prompt, going through the agent action plan, discussing kind of the course of action and what it is that you want to achieve.

And that's something that obviously I appreciate about the experience, having someone by my side to kind of guide me. And then now I kind of have a hang of the tool and I'm able to go in there on my own and kind of get it to do what I need to. Whereas at the beginning it was a little bit more hand-holding just to make sure I was getting the most value out of it. So anyways, a massive shout out to Blitz for giving me access to this tool. This is a completely different way of AI coding or I code generation that I've seen before.

I think it's very transformative, and I'm definitely going to keep using this in my project to ensure that I just get more and more code outputted, because I can trust it to do something much more complex than I can. You know, a traditional kind of agent just running in my it. Let me know what you guys think of this and the future of software development in the comments down below, and I will see you in the next video.