---
video_title: "Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)"
video_id: 8N9Y7OY7cXk
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8N9Y7OY7cXk
video_date: 2023-09-28
video_description: |
  Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a disorder in which a person has unwanted intrusive and repetitive thoughts that become obsessions. These obsessions then make them do things to relieve the thoughts, a behavior called compulsions. Because this learned ritual offers only temporary relief, the probability people will engage in compulsions again is increased and often becomes excessive.
  
  SUPPORT us to make more videos! 
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts  🐦:
  
  DOWNLOAD video without ads and background music 🤫:
  https://sproutsschools.com/video-lessons/
  
  SIGN UP to our mailing list and never miss a new video from us 🔔:
  http://eepurl.com/dNU4BQ 
  
  SOURCES and teaching resources 🎓:
  https://sproutsschools.com/obsessive-compulsive-disorder/
  
  VISIT our website 🌐 :
  https://www.sproutsschools.com
  
  CONTRIBUTE by upvoting your favorite topic or suggesting new ones :
  https://sprouts.featureupvote.com/
  
  JOIN us on discord 🤖:
  https://discord.gg/DzbyGSk5y8
  
  THANKS to our patrons 
  This video was made with the support of our Patrons: Adam Berry, Alex Rodriguez, Andrea Basillio Rava, Anil Raut, ArkiTechy, Artur, azad bel, Badrah, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, David Markham, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, Fatenah G Issa, Frari63, Gerry Labelle, Harmoniac Design, ICH KANN DEUTSCH UND ES WAR EINFACH!, Izzy, Jannes Kroon, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, John Burghardt, Jorge Luis Mejia Velazquez, jun omar ebdane, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, Mambo no 9, Marcel, María, martin, Martin Streule, Mathis Nu, Max 707, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Patricia Labovszky, Peihui, Povilas Ambrasas, Raymond Fujioka, Roel Vermeulen, Scott Gregory, scripz, Sebastian Huaytan Meder, Si, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Stephen Clark, Stuart Bishop, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Thomas Aschan, Victor Paweletz, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts 
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Voice: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Production: Selina Bador
  Fact-checking: Ludovico Saint Amour Di Chanaz
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Embarrassing Moment - Jack Pierce
  Nice Toys - Studio Le Bus
  
  DIG DEEPER with these top videos, games and resources:
  Read about the DSM 5 symptoms of OCD 
  https://www.ocduk.org/ocd/clinical-classification-of-ocd/dsm-and-ocd/
  
  Read about the link between OCD and other conditions 
  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25017045/
  
  Read about OCD and comorbid depression
  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35379766/
  
  SOURCES
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obsessive%E2%80%93compulsive_disorder
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intrusive_thought
  https://www.ocduk.org/ocd/clinical-classification-of-ocd/dsm-and-ocd/
  https://iocdf.org/about-ocd/ocd-treatment/erp/
  
  CLASSROOM ACTIVITY
  Visit our website to get access to suggested classroom activity!
  
  CHAPTER
  00:00 Unraveling the mind's turmoil
  01:09 Understanding OCD
  01:32 Symptoms of OCD
  03:21 Causes of OCD
  04:40 The OCD cycle
  05:23 Treatment
  05:48 What do you think?
  06:08 Patron credits
  06:16 Ending
  
  #ocd #psychology #obsession #sproutsschools #neuroscience
---
OCD is a mental condition in which a person has unwanted, intrusive, and repetitive thoughts that become obsessions. These obsessions then make them do things that relieve them from these thoughts, a behavior known as a compulsion. This is why it’s called Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.

OCD tends to develop most frequently in children 10–14 years of age with symptoms that range across a wide spectrum. Some just have repetitive thoughts, others experience extreme obsessions that make living a normal life difficult. For many, it comes and goes in waves. Symptoms of OCD are often grouped into four factors: symmetry, forbidden thoughts, cleaning, and hoarding. Some might experience other symptoms, and still others a mix of multiple factors.

Miko, Ann, Jane, and Joe each have their own version of OCD.

Miko is obsessed with symmetry and he can spend hours sorting books. And whenever he enters his library, he has to leave it the exact way that he came in — backward.

Ann began having “forbidden” negative thoughts after she lost her mom. Ever since she’s constantly afraid that others around her may die - including herself. Her forbidden thoughts can strike at any time. Her heart starts pounding, and a terrifying image crosses her mind. To make them go away, she starts biting her nails until they bleed.

Jane is obsessed with cleanliness and gets anxious when things appear dirty. She washes her hands like 50 times a day. And when she’s done, she washes the soap too, because in her world everything is covered in germs — especially the things she touches.

Joe is constantly thinking about losing things and to relieve his anxiety he begins hoarding. When leaving his house, he checks the lock on the door again and again. Then, 5 minutes later he starts wondering if he’s closed the windows. And so he returns — thinking he was so obsessed about locking the door, that he might have missed the windows. So how come that in a group of people, just some have OCD?

People with OCD are often born with a genetic predisposition with about 1 in 4 having an immediate family member with the disorder. At some point in life, environmental factors, such as childhood trauma, can initiate the onset of OCD or exacerbate its intensity.

While the neurobiological origins are still being studied, brain areas regulating thought processing may be disrupted in minds with the disorder. As a result, their thoughts can't shift properly, and instead get stuck, repeated, and lead to a loss of control. Someone who has to check if they locked the door over and over again, has the thought “Did I lock?” repeating endlessly without being resolved. While obsessions just seem to appear in one’s head, compulsions are learned responses that help reduce the anxiety associated with intrusive thoughts.

So if Jane experiences an ever-present fear of germs, she reduces her anxiety by washing her hands. Because this ritual temporarily offers relief, the probability that she will do it again is increased.

Once the OCD Cycle is established, obsessions lead to anxiety which triggers the compulsion that brings the relief — and then it starts again.

As a result, compulsive behavior not only persists but actually becomes excessive — often with negative consequences and makes living a normal life impossible. When you begin having OCD you often aren't aware of it and, as a result, some of the terrible thoughts in your brain lead you to believe that you are a bad person. This is why it's important to seek professional help to understand and eventually "quiet the brain”. Treatment of OCD includes: Cognitive behavioral therapy: to overcome intrusive thoughts by not indulging in any compulsions Rumination: focused exposure with response prevention that focuses on obsessions Medication Or nicknaming to relabel, reattribute, refocus, and revalue your thoughts

What about you? Have you ever experienced obsessive thoughts? And if so, what kind of compulsions did you turn to? Please share your insights and strategies for dealing with your mental monster in the comments below!

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com