---
video_title: "Linguistic Relativity: How Language Shapes Thought"
video_id: Q7yyYdiNTIo
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q7yyYdiNTIo
video_date: 2023-11-27
video_description: |
  This video was sponsored by Wiseone. To install Wiseone, visit https://wiseone.io/,  simply click the "Add to Chrome" button and install the extension.
  
  Linguistic relativity theory suggests that the languages we use influence how we think.. Because languages have different structures and words to describe the world, people pay attention to different things when speaking them - from here stems the idea that language shapes thought.
  
  SUPPORT us to make more videos! 🐦: 
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  DOWNLOAD video without ads and background music 🤫:
  https://sproutsschools.com/video-lessons/
  
  SIGN UP to our mailing list and never miss a new video from us 🔔:
  http://eepurl.com/dNU4BQ
  
  SOURCES and teaching resources 🎓:
  https://sproutsschools.com/linguistic-relativity-how-language-shapes-thought/
  
  VISIT our website 🌐 :
  https://www.sproutsschools.com
  
  CONTRIBUTE by upvoting your favorite topic or suggesting new ones :
  https://sprouts.featureupvote.com/
  
  JOIN us on discord 🤖:
  https://discord.gg/DzbyGSk5y8
  
  THANKS to our patrons
  This video was made with the support of our Patrons: Adam Berry, Alex Rodriguez, Andrea Basillio Rava, Anil Raut, ArkiTechy, Artur, azad bel, Badrah, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Cory McAbee, David Markham, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Enigma, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh,  Fatenah G Issa, Frari63, Gemma Seed, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Gerry Labelle, ICH KANN DEUTSCH UND ES WAR EINFACH!, Izzy, jakob steensig, Jannes Kroon, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, John Burghardt, Jon Rune Nygård, Jorge Luis Mejia Velazquez, jun omar ebdane, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, Mambo no 9, Marcel, María, martin, Martin Streule, Martina Hrebenarova, Mathis Nu, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Patricia Labovszky, Peihui, Povilas Ambrasas, Raymond Fujioka, Roel Vermeulen, Scott Gregory, scripz, Sebastian Huaytan Meder, Si, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Stephen Clark, Stuart Bishop, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Thomas Aschan, Thomas Dahlke, Victor Paweletz, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts 
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz and Jonas Koblin
  Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Voice: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Production: Selina Bador
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  On Eggshells - Richard Canavan
  Animated World - Crescent Music
  
  DIG DEEPER with these top videos, games and resources:
  Watch this conference of Lera Boroditsky, an expert in language and cognition
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I64RtGofPW8
  
  Learn more about the effect of language on blame
  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21037161/
  
  Read about cultural identity and language
  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC831786
  
  SOURCES
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_relativity
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Lee_Whorf
  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4814782/
  
  CLASSROOM ACTIVITY
  Visit our website to access suggested class activity on this topic.
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Introduction
  00:38 Perception of language
  01:22 Perception of time
  01:57 Effect on memory
  02:45 Cultural echoes
  03:16 Self-reflections
  03:52 Linguistic relativism
  04:28 Benjamin Lee Whorf
  04:57 What do you think?
  05:16 Sponsor: Wiseone
  06:30 Patrons credits
  06:40 Ending
  
  #sproutsschools #language #psychology #sociology
---
Linguistic relativity theory suggests that the languages we pick up and use influence how we see the world - the perception of our surroundings, our sense of time, our memories, our behavior, and even our sense of self. First, there’s our perception. Each language has different words to describe the things around us and these differences change the way we perceive these things. For example, an Italian might see objects as male or female, while an English speaker won’t —a phenomenon that extends to the perception of space. The Kuuk Thaayorre, an aboriginal tribe, does not use left or right in their language.

Instead, they rely on cardinal directions: North, East, South, and West. They might say “Pass me the salt on the South-west of the pepper”. It's probably no coincidence that they have supernatural navigational skills. There is the sense of time. Because languages are written in different directions, people who write left to right will perceive the sequence of events accordingly.

Speakers of Arabic and Hebrew might do so the other way around. In the Amele language in Papua New Guinea, there are 3 forms of past tense: Today’s past tense, yesterday’s, and remote past tense. To use the correct verb, speakers need to pay close attention to when something has happened — and hence may perceive the past in greater detail. Language also affects our Memories. In English, if a child breaks a vase accidentally, we may say “he broke the vase” — putting the responsibility on the kid.

In Spanish people would say “El jarrón se rompió” or “The vase broke” — giving more credit to the environment — a small difference with big consequences. Studies show that speakers of languages like Spanish that tend to consider these kinds of events accidental are less likely to recall the people involved. In languages that emphasize an intention, the actors are remembered more clearly. And if things end up in court the accused is more likely to be found guilty, if the language used during the trial is active, like English. Then there is our behavior.

Languages are often associated with culture, and with the context in which it was learned. As a result, those who speak various languages, access different parts of themselves. One study on Spanish-English bilinguals showed that people exhibit different personality traits when switching their language. When speaking English, subjects were more agreeable, but when they switched to Spanish they were more neurotic. And finally, our sense of self.

The words we speak also influence how we feel about ourselves. Self-affirming language for example activates brain areas linked to reward and self-perception and can increase our confidence — an effect that extends to how we perceive pain. Bilinguals report greater levels of pain when they speak the language to which they relate the most. The theory: if one language represents a bigger part of their identity, they also perceive the sensations inside their body with greater intensity. With about 7000 languages all around us, nobody knows exactly how they affect our minds.

But they certainly frame our thoughts and influence the way we look at the world. In Thai for example, the word for heart, 'jai', is woven into their language to describe a variety of human traits. Someone friendly is “jai dee”, literally a good heart. Someone that’s patient is “jai yen” a "cool heart " and someone generous, is “jai gwang” a "big heart”. As Benjamin Lee Whorf, the linguist behind the theory wrote: "Language is not merely a reproducing instrument for voicing ideas but rather is itself the shaper of ideas, the program and guide for the individual's mental activity."

So, if you ever learn a new language, remember: you're not just learning new words. You're opening your mind to a new way of seeing and interacting with the world. What do you think? Do you speak more than one language? And if so, do you feel like your behavior changes when you switch between them?

Tell us your thoughts and experiences in the comments below! This video was brought to you by wiseone.io Wiseone is an all-in-one browser extension that offers a new way of reading and exploring information online. It consists of 5 useful features: Focus helps you understand complex concepts and words. Cross-check helps you access factual and reliable sources reporting on the same subject to get diverse perspectives.

Ask Anything simplifies complex information into understandable and sourced answers from the web. Summarize helps you read more efficiently without losing information by providing key takeaways to remember. And Explore provides articles and videos from diverse sources to deepen your understanding of a topic. WiseOne is free and available in different languages and also works on PDFs! All of this makes Wiseone an excellent tool for learning new things, developing your critical thinking, and getting answers to your most complex questions. To install Wiseone, visit https://wiseone.io/,

click the "Add on Chrome" button, and install the extension. That's it! Try it now! Wiseone.io

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com