---
video_title: "7 Principles of Psychological Persuasion"
video_id: P3rbadeF9AI
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P3rbadeF9AI
video_date: 2023-12-07
video_description: |
  This video was sponsored by Shortform. To learn more than ever from important non-fiction books, join us on Shortform: https://shortform.com/sproutsschools. You’ll get a 5-day free trial and a discounted annual subscription. One of our favorite books on Shortform is “Influence."
  
  The principles of persuasion are a set of psychological rules to influence others. In his book "Influence", Robert Cialdini outlines 6 main principles: Reciprocity, scarcity, authority, consistency, liking and consensus. He later added a 7th principle, unity. Knowing these rules can be helpful to either influence others, or to protect yourself from the techniques when they are being used on you.
  
  SUPPORT us to make more videos! 🐦: 
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts  
  
  DOWNLOAD video without ads and background music 🤫:
  https://sproutsschools.com/video-lessons/
  
  SIGN UP to our mailing list and never miss a new video from us 🔔:
  http://eepurl.com/dNU4BQ 
  
  SOURCES and teaching resources 🎓:
  https://sproutsschools.com/7-principles-of-psychological-persuasion/
  
  VISIT our website 🌐 :
  https://www.sproutsschools.com
  
  CONTRIBUTE by upvoting your favorite topic or suggesting new ones ☑️ :
  https://sprouts.featureupvote.com/
  
  JOIN us on discord 🤖:
  https://discord.gg/DzbyGSk5y8
  
  THANKS to our patrons 
  This video was made with the support of our Patrons: Adam Berry, Alex Rodriguez, Andrea Basillio Rava, Anil Raut, ArkiTechy, Artur, azad bel, Badrah, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Cory McAbee, David Markham, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Enigma, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh,  Fatenah G Issa, Frari63, Gemma Seed, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Gerry Labelle, ICH KANN DEUTSCH UND ES WAR EINFACH!, Izzy, jakob steensig, Jannes Kroon, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, John Burghardt, Jon Rune Nygård, Jorge Luis Mejia Velazquez, jun omar ebdane, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, Mambo no 9, Marcel, María, martin, Martin Streule, Martina Hrebenarova, Mathis Nu, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Patricia Labovszky, Peihui, Povilas Ambrasas, Raymond Fujioka, Roel Vermeulen, Scott Gregory, scripz, Sebastian Huaytan Meder, Si, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Stephen Clark, Stuart Bishop, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Thomas Aschan, Thomas Dahlke, Victor Paweletz, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts 
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz and Jonas Koblin
  Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Voice: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Production: Selina Bador
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  A Toy’s Day Out - Shaun Frearson
  Embarrassing Moment - Jack Pierce
  
  DIG DEEPER with these top videos, games and resources:
  Read the original book 
  https://www.amazon.com/Influence-Psychology-Persuasion-Robert-Cialdini/dp/006124189X
  
  Read about the role of persuasion in conspiracy beliefs
  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36215908/
  
  Read about how the cult Heaven’s Gate used the principles of persuasion to gain followers
  https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/overthinking-tv/202012/nxivm-and-heavens-gate-cults-used-common-persuasion-methods
  
  SOURCES
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Cialdini 
  https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/persuasion/chapter/cialdini/
  https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28815.Influence
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persuasion
  
  CLASSROOM ACTIVITY
  Have the class watch a sales-pitch from the movie Wolf of Wall Street, and identify what persuaded the buyer to purchase the shares. 
  
  Show Sprouts’ video on the 7 Principles of Persuasion 
  
  Watch the sales pitch again, and ask the class to identify the principles of persuasion in the video as they are being used.
  
  Split the class into groups. 
  
  Each group will be assigned one of the principles, and they will have to come up with examples where they have seen it being used - or instances when they have used it themselves.
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 The principles of persuasion
  00:21 Reciprocity
  00:40 Scarcity
  00:58 Authority
  01:18 Consistency
  01:36 Liking
  01:50 Consensus
  02:05 Unity
  02:21 Understanding the principles
  04:36 What do you think?
  04:53 Sponsor
  05:57 Patrons credits
  06:06 Ending
  
  #sproutsschools #psychology #persuasion #influence #cialdini
---
The principles of persuasion are a set of psychological rules to influence others. Originally there were six: reciprocity, scarcity, authority, consistency, liking, and consensus. Later a 7th principle was added. The first principle is reciprocity. It means that if you give something to someone, it makes them more open to being influenced by you. This is because we don’t like to

feel that we owe someone and so we want to return the favor to clear our social debt. The second is scarcity. When people perceive something as rare or limited, they are more susceptible to persuasion. This is driven by our desire to possess what others value, and the fear of missing out that prompts us to make decisions. The third principle is authority. We often trust powerful people and their

perceived expertise. We seek their guidance, particularly in situations of uncertainty, when we lack direction and need help from someone else to make a difficult decision on our behalf. Fourth is consistency. We are more likely to do something if it's consistent with past behavior. This is because we align our actions with expectations. To influence someone,

ask for small commitments first and larger ones later. The fifth is liking. People are more willing to say "yes" to those they are fond of. To make people like you, find common interests, be friendly, and give genuine compliments. The sixth is consensus. Humans are inherently social. They want to conform to the group.

Social proof can therefore persuade people to commit to something, they otherwise doubt. Psychologist Robert Cialdini, who came up with the 6 rules, later added another one — unity. Accordingly, people are more influenced by those who share their beliefs, values, and experiences. So do you think you understood the principles? Then meet Jane, a young entrepreneur who, after learning about them, established a successful lemonade business.

Follow her story and try to tell us which principles she uses and in what sequence. To start her business, Jane first needs to get funding. To do so, she offers free samples to potential investors. When she later presents her business idea, those who tried her product are now more likely to hear her out. On her first week of business, Jane produces just enough to satisfy some customers but pretends to run out before everyone gets what they lined up for. By doing so, she creates a sense of exclusivity.

Jane then starts to showcase her top customers, encourages positive reviews, invites key opinion leaders to visit her shop, and hosts a local band to play on Sundays. Once her products are popular, customers can’t get enough of them. To ensure she’s not losing anyone, she distributes paper cups to those in line. Those that take the cup, are then more likely to wait for what they came for. Despite all that success, when Jane tries to open a savings account, she gets laughed at. So she partners up with her supplier, to appear trustworthy enough to get the job done.

To strengthen her business, Jane listens to her customers and shows interest in the community. As a result, people will feel more connected to her company and stay loyal despite the competition. Now tell us in the comments below which of the 7 principles Jane applied and in what order! Note that if these ideas aren’t enough to get the job done, here is one last piece of Cialdini’s advice: “When we ask someone to do us a favor we will be more successful if we provide a reason. Even if the reason is utterly unreasonable.”

What do you think? Will knowing these rules help you resist manipulation, and is it morally acceptable to use them for personal gain? Share your thoughts in the comments below! This video was brought to you by shortform.com ShortForm offers premium summaries of nonfiction books. If you want to dig deeper,

say, on the principles of persuasion but have no time, get ShortForm’s summary, where you can highlight key points, take personal notes, share your favorite quotes and even challenge your understanding with exercises. The ShortForm library includes many topics from the fields of education, parenting and psychology — ShortForms’s superpowered guides cover a new book’s key ideas every week in simple language. Plus it includes smart commentary and analysis. Short Form is constantly adding new features, such as Shortform AI, a browser extension that summarizes everything across the internet with a click of a button. Shortform is a really an easy way to learn about some of life’s most important ideas.

To get started, visit Shortform.com/sprouts or click on the link in the description. You will get a FREE trial of unlimited access plus a 20% discounted annual subscription

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com