---
video_title: "The Mere Exposure Effect: The Science Behind Ads"
video_id: L-2Vv4fTsyQ
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L-2Vv4fTsyQ
video_date: 2023-09-14
video_description: |
  Learn how the mere-exposure effect shapes preferences and decision-making in this 5:28 minute video lesson.
  
  Some people think they are immune to ads. If you are one of them, you might not have heard of the mere exposure effect— a psychological phenomenon by which we tend to like things the more we are exposed to them. Beware, it takes just about 15 iterations for the effect to reach its full potential. 
  
  SUPPORT us to understand human psychology better! 
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts  🐦:
  
  DOWNLOAD video without ads and background music 🤫:
  https://sproutsschools.com/video-lessons/
  
  SIGN UP to our mailing list and never miss a new video from us 🔔:
  http://eepurl.com/dNU4BQ 
  
  SOURCES and teaching resources 🎓:
  https://sproutsschools.com/the-mere-exposure-effect/
  
  VISIT our website 🌐:
  https://www.sproutsschools.com
  
  CONTRIBUTE by upvoting your favorite topic or suggesting new ones☑️ :
  https://sprouts.featureupvote.com/
  
  THANKS to our patrons 
  This video was made with the support of our Patrons:  Adam Berry, Alex Rodriguez, Andrea Basillio Rava, Anil Raut, ArkiTechy, Artur, azad bel, Badrah, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, David Markham, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, Fatenah G Issa, Frari63, Gerry Labelle, Harmoniac Design, ICH KANN DEUTSCH UND ES WAR EINFACH!, Izzy, Jannes Kroon, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, John Burghardt, Jorge Luis Mejia Velazquez, jun omar ebdane, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, Mambo no 9, Marcel, María, martin, Mathis Nu, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Patricia Labovszky, Peihui, Povilas Ambrasas, Raymond Fujioka, Roel Vermeulen, Scott Gregory, scripz, Sebastian Huaytan Meder, Si, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Stephen Clark, Stuart Bishop, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Thomas Aschan, Victor Paweletz, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts 
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Voice: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Sasalux
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Production: Selina Bador
  Fact-checking: Ludovico Saint Amour Di Chanaz
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  A Toy’s Day Out - Shaun Frearson
  Nice Toys - Studio Le Bus 
  
  DIG DEEPER with these top videos, games and resources:
  Today we know that the Mere Exposure Effect is so robust, that it can even be demonstrated on animals as an experiment with fertile chicken eggs has shown. Tones of two different frequencies were played to different groups of chicks while they were still unhatched. Once hatched, each tone was played to both groups of chicks. The chicks consistently chose the tone played to them prenatally.
  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robust_statistics
  
  Read how recent studies also found that exposure is very linked to context and that the mere exposure effect disappears when we present the same item in a completely different context.
  https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26120936/
  
  Learn more about subliminal stimuli
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subliminal_stimuli
  
  Read about the mere-exposure effect and the science behind intuitive marketing.
  https://bettermarketing.pub/side-effects-of-mere-exposure-marketing-ef6ea4053db8
  
  SOURCES
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mere-exposure_effect
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Familiarity_heuristic
  https://thedecisionlab.com/biases/mere-exposure-effect
  
  CLASSROOM ACTIVITY
  Visit our website to get access to recommended classroom activity on the topic!
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 The power of mere exposure
  00:29 Mere exposure effect unveiled
  00:49 Two main explanations
  01:31 The discoverer of the effect
  01:54 Zajonc’s experiment
  03:04 Impact on advertising
  03:54 What do you think?
  04:30 Patrons credit
  04:38 Ending
  
  #sproutsschools #psychology #bias #mereexposure
---
The mere-exposure effect is a psychological phenomenon by which we tend to like things merely because we are exposed to them.

So, simply exposing you to a random thing repeatedly, makes you like it. And the same goes for pop songs, products, and people — with the exception of those we dislike initially, seeing them more often can make us dislike them further. When we plot the mere-exposure effect on a graph with preferences on one axis and repetitions on the other, we will see that it takes about 15 repeats for the effect to reach its full potential. If the exposure is too excessive, people get annoyed. And if they didn’t like the thing initially, repeating it can make it worse.

There are 2 main explanations for the phenomenon. The first is certainty. We favor what’s familiar. Our minds naturally learned to be careful around new things that could potentially harm us. Which also means that if we see something repeatedly without bad consequences, we are led to believe it is safe.

The Second is perceptual fluency. We are also hardwired to prefer simple things that take little mental load. Hard cognitive tasks - like figuring out something new - take lots of attention and time, which is why we try to avoid them.

Known for discovering the effect was psychologist Robert Zajonc, who had noticed that organisms exposed to something new, experience fear. Each subsequent exposure to that new thing causes less fear and more interest. And with more exposure, the observer begins to react fondly to the once novel stimulus.

Zajonc then tested how subjects responded to specific symbols, such as Chinese ideograms. Subjects were shown various characters a different number of times and were then asked which ones they liked. Those who were shown certain symbols the most also rated them as most favorable. But Zajonc found something even more spectacular.

Using a tachistoscope, and a group of people, he exposed each person to a series of random shapes that… …changed so quickly that it was impossible to discern that some were repeated. When the people were later asked which shapes they found most pleasing, they reliably chose those to which they had been exposed the most often, even though they had no conscious awareness of that.

The results validated one of Zajonc’s hypotheses: changes in preferences induced by repeated exposures depend not on any prior subjective and conscious evaluations of attributes of the stimulus but rather on results from the objective history of exposures alone.

In 1968, advertisers and marketing executives were able to read Zajonc’s publication. Some were happy to learn that the effect on the brain can be stronger if exposure comes with other pleasant stimuli. The psychologist continued to study the human psyche.

Later he famously noted: For most decisions, it is extremely difficult to demonstrate that there has actually been any prior cognitive process whatsoever. It isn’t that the decisions people make are irrational; it’s that the process by which decisions are made is utterly unlike the step-by-step rational process that might be used to solve, say, a math problem. Decisions are typically made in the unconscious mind, by means of some unknown process.”

Now tell us: which of these shapes do you like the most? And were you aware that you were exposed to one more than the others?

Also, tell us what you think about ads. If mere exposure to them makes us like things we otherwise wouldn’t, should billboards be banned from the public domain? The artist Banksy said: Any advert in a public space that gives you no choice whether you see it or not is yours. But is he right?

If you like how we explain complicated ideas in simple cartoon animation, you can support us. Visit patreon.com/sprouts. Just visit us, learn how it works, and what’s in it for you. We hope to see you there!

And if you are a parent or an educator, check our website sproutsschools.com. There you’ll find this and other video lessons, additional resources, and classroom activities.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos and subscribe. If you want to support our work, join us on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information and additional contents, visit sproutsschools.com.