---
video_title: "Become an Author! [10 Steps to Publish Your Book]"
video_id: wZc1fMWXbJ4
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wZc1fMWXbJ4
video_date: 2024-08-13
video_description: |
  We made a book! The Unschooler’s Educational Dictionary. Order your copy now https://www.amazon.com/Unschoolers-Educational-Dictionary-Lighthearted-Curriculum-Free/dp/168481359X/ and discover a world beyond traditional schooling, revolutionize your understanding of education, and empower your approach to parenting and teaching. #unschooling
  
  About this video lesson:
  Writing a book involves a sequence of steps, each critical to the production of a polished product. While many start this adventure, only 3% finish writing their manuscript, less than 1% end up publishing their book, and even fewer see their work withstanding the test of time. But since we published a book, and want to see you succeed too, here are 10 things we learned from becoming a published author!
  
  Join Sprouts’ membership to get access to perks💜:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to bring engaging video lessons into classrooms!👩🏽‍🎓👨🏻‍🎓: https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  Discover everything about us at 🌱 :
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  THANKS to our patrons 
  This video was made with the support of our Patrons: Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, Gerardo Enrique Nieto,Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Jing Wu, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, jun omar ebdane, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, M. Allen, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, SAMAR ABDULKADER DAKAK BADAWI, scripz, Sigrid, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, T Franklin, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Tammy Frazier, Thomas Aschan,Veronica Powell, Phd, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱, 우진 정 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz
  Artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Voice: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Production: Selina Bador
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Cannonball Swing - Rimsky Music
  Midnight Mischief - Jonathan Boyle
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - All our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom project on the topics
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Sprouts’ book promo
  00:18 10 Steps to publish a book
  00:41  Develop a concept
  01:01 Plan an outline
  01:21 Write a draft
  01:41 Revise the manuscript
  01:57 Get feedback
  02:10 Find a publisher
  02:40 Refine the manuscript with editor
  03:05 Design the book
  03:24 Share a goproof
  03:52 Focus on marketing
  04:09 Wait for the result
  04:35 Ending
  04:50 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #books #publishing #unschooling #unschoolersdictionary
---
Writing a book involves a sequence of steps, each critical to the production of a polished product. While many start this adventure, only 3% finish writing their manuscript, less than 1% end up publishing their book, and even fewer see their work withstanding the test of time. But since we published a book, and want to see you succeed too, here are 10 things we learned for becoming a published author! First, develop a concept. It can be an idea for a story, a collection of essays, or a central argument of non-fiction. Inspired by Jason Zweig’s "The Devil’s Financial

Dictionary," we created an educational encyclopedia from the perspective of a clever child who questions traditional schooling and recommends alternatives. Plan an outline that structures your main points or story arc. This acts as a roadmap and keeps your content organized as you write. Our book has two parts: Part one covers everything you should know about learning and the unintended consequences of formal education. Part two is a comprehensive guide to sixteen alternative schools.

Write the first draft of your manuscript. This step is often the most time-consuming as it involves fleshing out all details, doing plenty of editing, and contemplating in even more self doubt. We thought it would take us about six months, as we already had hundreds of popular video scripts—it took us nearly two years. Revise your manuscript. This includes reworking the text for clarity, structure, voice, and style. We revised our text considering George Orwell’s six writing rules and followed

the advice of Elmore Leonard who said that “when it sounds like writing, rewrite it.” Have others read your manuscript to get feedback. These can be peers, beta readers, or professional editors. Our book was fact-checked by two from our team and reviewed by a freelancer for grammar. Now find a publisher. Mango, our publisher, has a data team that actively looks for creators who

already have an audience and writers who could fill a gap in the market. But there are plenty of publishers that work with independent writers. Research to find the right one for your book and then give them your manuscript to look at. Alternatively you can self-publish —including directly on Amazon, which ships over 300 million books annually and is responsible for over 80% of all e-books sold in the UK. Once you think you are finally done, you should get a professional editor to refine your manuscript. Editors can help with big picture changes, grammar or style,

and do a final proofreading. We were lucky that our publisher gave us editorial guidelines and told us to use the Chicago Manual of Style which defines how to format text since 1906. They also made a legal review to ensure it’s safe to be published. Once the text is set, you have to design the look and the interior of your book. This involves choosing fonts, colors, typesetting, adding chapter headings, page numbers. We also added illustrations, QR codes,

and created graphs. Although the most difficult part was putting it all together. Before printing, share a goproof with all people who are involved in the publication process. This document ensures that publishers, editors, authors, and designers agree with the final layout, text, and images. The goal of the goproof is to catch any remaining errors before the book is sent for production —we used a piece of software for this. If you publish yourself,

this is where you want to get help, because you really don’t want your text to come out all wrong. Once the book is out, focus on marketing so people get to see your work. In other words, you have to go hussle. We tell everyone we know to get their copy of our Unschoolers Educational Dictionary right now! It’s insightful, it’s dark—just check the links below!

If we did everything right and we're lucky, our book sales spike immediately after the publishing date, drop drastically afterward, and then rise steadily over the coming years—that's the pattern of a long seller. And while our book will never come close to selling like a true classic we might beat Be Bold With Bananas.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,