---
video_title: "Baby Schema: The Science of Cuteness"
video_id: 9EJ2TKi0Kcw
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EJ2TKi0Kcw
video_date: 2024-09-23
video_description: |
  We made a book! The Unschooler’s Educational Dictionary. Order your copy now https://www.amazon.com/Unschoolers-Educational-Dictionary-Lighthearted-Curriculum-Free/dp/168481359X/ and discover a world beyond traditional schooling, revolutionize your understanding of education, and empower your approach to parenting and teaching. #unschooling
  
  About this video lesson:
  Every day, around 100,000 videos of cats and puppies are uploaded to YouTube, highlighting the powerful influence of cuteness, particularly through the concept of the baby schema.This evolutionary phenomenon evokes feelings of care and affection and promotes positive emotional responses that can even lead to increased focus, improved mood, and even a boost in productivity.
  
  JOIN us as a YouTube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍🏽
  https://facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏🏻 🙏🏽 🙏🏿
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, genieb60, Gerardo Enrique Nieto,Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Jing Wu, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, jun omar ebdane, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, M. Allen, Marcel, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Nixie, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, RAW, Raymond Fujioka, RH1111, sameerr M, SAMAR ABDULKADER DAKAK BADAWI, scripz, SERGE SADI, Sigrid, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, T Franklin, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Tammy Frazier, Thomas Aschan,Veronica Powell, Phd, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱, 우진 정 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  On Eggshells - Richard Canavan
  A Toys Day Out - Shaun Frearson
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Book Promo 
  00:18 Baby Schema
  00:52 Brain response to cuteness
  01:12 Cuteness enhanced performance
  01:54 Cute aggression
  02:19 Konrad Lorenz
  02:43 Cuteness across culture
  03:28 What do you think?
  03:51 Sprouts Book promo
  04:23 Ending
  04:37 Patrons credits
  
  #cute #babyschema #psychology #sproutsschools
---
Around 100,000 videos of cats get uploaded to YouTube—each day. One scientific explanation for this phenomenon stems from a simple yet powerful concept: cuteness, or more precisely, the baby schema. Baby schema is a set of characteristics found in young children that evoke innocence and vulnerability, such as a round face, large eyes, a tiny nose, a small mouth, chubby cheeks, a curved body—and sometimes clumsy movements, playful behavior or even floppy ears. When you combine these traits, most of us can't help but feel a deep sense of care for the baby, thereby increasing their chance of survival—an involuntary reaction that, strangely, even extends to inanimate objects. So what happens to your brain when you see something adorable?

First, your reward pathway lights up, and dopamine flows through your synapses which gives you sensations of pleasure and attachment. As a result, you become caring, affectionate, and may even crave to cuddle. This response can be so profound that it can tame your temper, enhance your concentration, increase your attention to detail, and even improve your productivity. In one experiment researchers observed people playing Operation, a game that tests our hand-eye coordination. Those who looked at something cute before their game performed significantly better compared to those who didn’t.

The theory: subconsciously the winners still had babies in mind and hence were more careful and focused. And another study found that when we watch cat videos we feel more energetic, positive, and less anxious or sad. But there can be even more surprising reactions. When you are overwhelmed by feelings of cuteness, you may find yourself gritting your teeth, balling your fists, or having the urge to bite, pinch, or squeeze the creature that captured your heart. This quirky response became known as cute aggression.

The scientific study of this and other reactions to anything adorable has a long history. In 1949, Konrad Lorenz, an Austrian ethologist, first argued that infantile features trigger nurturing responses in adults: an evolutionary adaptation that ensured that the old cared for the young, ultimately securing the survival of the species. And later Lorenz, along with Niko Tinbergen, received a Nobel Prize for his work on the baby schema. Our fascination with this phenomenon can be traced back to the cherubic figures in Renaissance art and the Japanese concept of kawaii, which originated from an 11th-century novel. However, its roots likely extend to the very dawn of human civilization.

Fast forward to today, and teens in Tokyo, the global epicenter of the force of cuteness, express their interpretations of what’s adorable by worshiping cartoons, cosplaying, dressing like dolls, or using a handwriting style that’s so cute, and so difficult to read, that it had to be banned in schools. Even though, according to modern science, it may very well calm them down and increase their performance. What about yourself? Do you think you like being surrounded by adorable artifacts and maybe even feel more productive? Or are you immune to baby schema and find cuteness in your life rather distracting? Please share your thoughts in the comments below.

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.