---
video_title: "The 5 Stages of Burnout [How To Recognize Them]"
video_id: nnwkX6u9tFo
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nnwkX6u9tFo
video_date: 2024-09-02
video_description: |
  We made a book for parents and pedagogues! The Unschooler’s Educational Dictionary. Order your copy (https://www.amazon.com/Unschoolers-Educational-Dictionary-Lighthearted-Curriculum-Free/dp/168481359X/) to discover a world beyond traditional schooling, revolutionize your understanding of alternative education, and empower your approach to parenting and teaching.
  
  About this video lesson:
  Burnout is your reaction to prolonged stress that leads to mental fatigue, emotional apathy, and physical exhaustion. While most people think of burnout as a result of too much work, it can also get to us outside the office—and tends to unfold in 5 stages: Honeymoon, onset of stress, chronic stress, burnout, and habitual burnout.
  
  JOIN us as a YouTube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍🏽
  https://facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏🏻 🙏🏽 🙏🏿
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, Gerardo Enrique Nieto,Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Jing Wu, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, jun omar ebdane, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lucia Simone Winston, M. Allen, Marcel, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Natalie O’Brien, Okan Elibol, Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, RAW, Raymond Fujioka, RH1111, sameerr M, SAMAR ABDULKADER DAKAK BADAWI, scripz, SERGE SADI, Sigrid, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, T Franklin, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Tammy Frazier, Thomas Aschan,Veronica Powell, Phd, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱, 우진 정 and all the others. Thank you! To join them visit https://patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Terror Avenue - Jack Pierce
  Embarrassing Moments - Jack Pierce
  Alone in Montmartre - Studio Le Bus
  Solitary Soul - Immersive Music
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Sprouts Book Promo
  00:16 Introduction
  00:29 Burnout explains
  00:43 5 stages of burnout
  00:59 The honeymoon phase
  01:09 Stress set in
  01:34 Chronic stress
  02:01 Apathy takes over
  02:24 Habitual burnout
  02:49 Path to recovery
  03:07 Freudenberger’s definition
  03:25 What about you?
  03:46 Sprouts book post promo
  04:18 Ending
  04:32 Patrons credits
  
  #burnout #sproutsschools #mentalhealth #workplace #psychiatry
---
Burnout is your reaction to prolonged stress that leads to mental fatigue, emotional apathy, and physical exhaustion. While most people think of burnout as a result of too much work, it can also get to us outside the office. The phenomenon often unfolds in 5 stages and can push healthcare professionals, teachers, new parents, people with chronic conditions, and anyone who bites off more than they can chew, to the brink of breakdown. It can present itself as follows. First, the honeymoon. You feel happy, motivated,

and excited about your new challenge and as a result, take on a lot of responsibilities. Then there is the onset of stress. The initial enthusiasm gets tempered by the realities of your daily routine. You first start feeling tired and then anxious about not being able to handle everything you signed up for. Slowly signs of stress begin to surface, and you may develop a negative tunnel vision. Your limited

capacity to pay attention to other things in life can lead to feelings of loneliness. Chronic stress becomes your constant companion and even tiny new tasks can set you off in a spiral of either anxiety or rage. Life may now simply feel unfair and a setback can feel like a personal attack or a deep injustice. Eventually, you are just exhausted or develop psychosomatic symptoms, such as migraines or body aches. In your free time, you may now just want to shut down.

When you eventually burnout, apathy can take over—in defense against chronic stress your brain just stops caring. This is why your productivity plummets and you may become negative or cynical. Chronic headaches, insomnia, complete neglect of your own needs, or the desire to just "drop out" can become part of your daily routine. You reach habitual burnout, when this stressful state becomes your new normal and you experience constant cognitive fatigue, physical problems, or a mood that alternates between apathy and anger. Eventually, you may feel trapped in a vicious cycle of despair—with no way out. A

diagnosis of major depression may be the first turning point towards your path to recovery. To fully heal from burnout can take months or even years. This is why recognizing symptoms early on is important. Because then we can distance ourselves from the main stressor, create enough “me” time to cool down, and do whatever is necessary before it's too late. The psychologist Herbert Freudenberger who coined the term, originally described the phenomenon as unfolding in 12 stages, but over time they were simplified to just five. He defined burnout as “fatigue that comes from caring too much, for too long”.

What about you? Have you ever experienced any of the stages described in the video? If so, how did you recognize them and what did you do to overcome burnout? Please share your thoughts and strategies in the comments below.

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background