---
video_title: "10 Innovative Schools Changing Education"
video_id: qvbBml-RnJ8
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvbBml-RnJ8
video_date: 2024-10-28
video_description: |
  Discover a world beyond traditional schooling and learn about emerging educations models—now also our book The Unschooler’s Educational Dictionary. Order your copy now https://www.amazon.com/Unschoolers-Educational-Dictionary-Lighthearted-Curriculum-Free/dp/168481359X/
  
  About this video lesson:
  Alternative approaches to education have emerged since the beginning of the 20th century and in the last 20 years, globalization and technology has supercharged that trend. Here are 10 types of innovative schools we've covered in our book—some of which you might wish to have known earlier. 
  
  JOINus as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Constanza, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Digital INnov8ors, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, genieb60, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Jing Wu, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, jun omar ebdane, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Linus Linderoth, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, M. Allen, Marcel, Markus Fischbacher, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Naftali Rabinovich,  Nixie,  Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, Rafael Tobar (SRAT), Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Tammy Frazier, Thomas Aschan, Tracey, Veronica Powell, Phd, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Badly Behaved - Shaun Frearson
  Midnight Mischief - Jonathan Boyle
  Cheeky Plum Fairy - Shaun Frearson
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Intro
  00:31 Forest school
  00:54 Montessori education
  01:25 Art school
  01:48 Democratic school
  02:10 IB
  02:41 Waldorf school
  03:10 Microschools
  03:36 Reggio Emilia
  03:55 Technical school
  04:22 Online school
  04:51 Find our more
  05:17 Ending
  05:30 Patrons credits
  
  #education #school #parents #teachers #sproutsschools #alternativeeducation
---
If you went to a regular school and you received a regular education it's likely that you felt an acute sense of boredom quite regularly. This is the reason we spent years researching the world of learning, wrote “The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary”' and included inside 16 alternative school movements that offer bored boys and glum girls some hope. Here are 10 types of education you might have wished to know about earlier. Forest schools represent a new educational movement from Northern Europe that is focusing on holistic education for young children, who spend the entire day outside—regardless of the weather. The approach encourages exploration, risk-taking, and the practice of physical activity. Forest schools are typically anything, but boring.

A Montessori education fosters a child’s natural curiosity and desire to learn. Classes are typically mixed age and the rooms are open so children can freely explore and move around. Students work independently in 3-hour blocks— often with specific learning materials. Teachers act as guides, who encourage the children in their self-directed learning. Most Montessori schools focus on programs ranging from kindergarten to middle school.

Art schools offer an educational approach for middle and high school students that blends traditional academic learning with music, dance, drama, and the arts in general. Basic curriculums often include collaborative projects. Advanced courses typically help the students contextualize their art within a broader professional landscape. Democratic Schools allow students to have complete control over their education. Class attendance is voluntary and rules are made by popular vote—students and faculty usually each have one vote. In one famous British Democratic School,

they even voted once to allow everyone to attend class completely nude. The International Baccalaureate, or IB for short, is a globally recognized program that runs from kindergarten through high school and is known for its rigorous and holistic approach. The curriculum is highly structured and offers plenty of electives, encouraging students to ask themselves big questions: Who am I, what do I want in life, and how does the world work? Since most IB programs are offered by private international schools, they are often expensive. Waldorf schools offer a community of learning that nurtures a holistic development of children. The approach integrates arts, academics, and hands-on activities,

promoting a balanced growth of body and soul. Its structured curriculum ranges from kindergarten to high school and integrates projects like gardening, stage play, or internships. There are no grades until grade 9 and no competitions in general. Microschools are a new educational approach that was started by parents in the early 2000s. They are characterized by mixed-aged classrooms of less than 15 students, which resembles the size of a large family or a dedicated team in a company. Some microschools follow traditional

academic subjects. Others focus on practical life skills. Classes are usually led by a tutor. Reggio Emilia is an education tailored to children, from 2 to 6 years old who learn through real-life experiences. The role of the teachers is not to instruct the children, but instead to assist, to ensure safety, to provide tools or resources to help them in their own journey.

Technical Schools offer young adults an educational experience that blends theoretical knowledge with real work application. Teachers are often professionals in their field, and when done right, students alternate classwork with on-the-job training at a real company. Those who learn at a technical school are usually ready to work in the field they were trained in, starting their professional life often earlier than others. Online schools offer all sorts of courses to all sorts of students. While most focus on higher education, today even middle schoolers start to learn online. This is because children from,

say, Cambodia can get an accredited degree from an online high school in the UK. Online schools are especially good for families who homeschool or unschool, as they can offer an inexpensive alternative path to college. If you want to learn more about alternative education, get our book. It includes a comprehensive overview of the most important alternative school movements and a list of the most common considerations for choosing the right education for you or your child. For more details read the description below!

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts.