---
video_title: "Why Hate The Good Guys  [Antisocial Punishment]"
video_id: BeK134Ftkq8
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BeK134Ftkq8
video_date: 2024-12-09
video_description: |
  Why do people punish altruism? Normal forms of penalty, aim to discipline free riders to ensure cooperation and growth. However antisocial punishment penalizes those who contribute to the welfare of the group. This counterintuitive twist on justice, where heroes are treated like villains, targets the cooperative and altruistic, creating an environment where generosity and selflessness are discouraged. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Constanza, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Ivan Muñoz, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, jun omar ebdane, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Kristina Potočnik, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Markus Fischbacher, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Nancy J, Nixie, Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, Solongo Ganbat, Stefan Gros, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, Tammy Frazier, The Wermat Productions, Thomas Aschan,  Veronica Powell, PhD, Warren Huang, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱, 강록 이 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS 
  A Toy’s Day Out - Shaun Frearson
  Badly Behaved - Shaun Frearson
  Cheeky Plum Fairy - Shaun Frearson
  
  On sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Introduction
  00:30 When norms punish altruism
  00:51 Misjudging generosity
  01:09 Status and sabotaging altruists
  01:33 Threatened by kindness
  01:57 The burden of reciprocity
  02:23 Global insights
  02:43 The harm of punishing good behavior
  02:59 What do you think?
  03:17 Sprouts book promo
  03:48 Ending
  04:04 Patrons credits
  
  #psychology #altruism #injustice #sproutsschools
---
Unlike normal forms of penalty, which aim to discipline free riders and those who break the rules, antisocial punishment penalizes those who contribute to the welfare of the group. This counterintuitive twist on justice, where heroes are treated like villains, targets the cooperative and altruistic, creating an environment where generosity and selflessness are discouraged. It often happens for five reasons. Social norms define the type of behavior that is accepted in society, and that which is not. Those who deviate too much from these norms, even if they are just trying to help, end up being disliked. This is because we tend to see

those who conform as “safe” and those who don’t as potentially dangerous. Misinterpretation of intentions can occur when we learn through experience that people who appear nice, often end up hurting us, for example through scams or betrayal. And so, as a response, we may distrust those who exhibit an unusual level of generosity. Then, there is the desire for status. If someone is virtuous and kind, they may indirectly aim to increase their status. In groups this tends to

happen at the expense of others, especially those who seem to be more selfish. And so, antisocial punishment becomes a strategy to sabotage the altruists and advance oneself. Then there is the threatened self-image. We tend to see ourselves in the best possible light, but when someone around us acts unusually generous, this self-image is threatened, and we may become resentful. For example, When people who eat meat discredit vegetarians it may stem from their perception of being judged, even without any interaction.

Lastly, we have an inherent need for reciprocity. Being on the receiving end of altruism can create feelings of shame and guilt that we then project onto those who were helpful. Which is why well-meaning therapists who offer their services free of charge may see their patients leave unhappy, while those who charge at least a token fee can build successful long-term relationships. A study published in Science in 2008 observed antisocial punishment in 15 countries. Results showed that antisocial punishment is stronger in cultures where selfishness is encouraged, in places with high social inequality, and where governments exhibit higher levels of corruption.

Now even if it may be in our instinct to punish the altruists, the collective impact of the phenomenon can create a culture of mediocrity, suppress innovation, and ultimately harm the collective well-being. What are your thoughts? Have you ever been a victim of your good deeds or felt the urge to punish someone who tries to be a better human being? Share your experience in the comments below. We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book!

The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below. If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises

or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.