---
video_title: "Living with Bipolar Disorder: Signs, Symptoms & Everyday Life"
video_id: MOkip7IamH0
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MOkip7IamH0
video_date: 2025-03-18
video_description: |
  If you experience intense fluctuations in mood and energy, you may suffer from what’s known as Bipolar disorder. These ups and downs, called manic or depressive episodes, deeply affect the lives of those who suffer from the disorder, and may even lead to self-harm or death. This video sheds light on the different forms of the condition, its challenges, and the hope that comes with treatment. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Kristina Potočnik, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Markus Fischbacher, Marwa Atteya, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, SleepyS|0th, Stefan Gros, Taka Kondo, Tammy Frazier, The Wermat Productions, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  This video is dedicated to Minal, a girl who suffered from this disorder.
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Cheeky Plum Fairy - Shuan Frearson
  Badly Behaved - Shuan Frearson
  Alone in Montmartre - Studio Le Bus
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Bipolar disorder explained
  00:47 Ben's story
  01:01 Manic Episodes
  01:37 Depressive Episodes
  02:08 3 Types of bipolar disorder
  03:11 Treatment options
  03:49 Share your thoughts
  04:09 Sprouts book promo
  04:40 Ending
  04:55 Patrons credits
  
  #bipolar #neurodivergence #neuroscience #psychology #sproutsschools #disorder
---
If your emotions are like an intense roller coaster, where you feel energized and invincible during the highs, and exhausted and hopeless during the lows, you may have what’s known as Bipolar disorder.

A bipolar brain experiences severe fluctuations in mood, energy, and ability to function. It affects around 1 in 40 adults at some point in their lives and is often passed down through generations. Previously also known as manic depression, it often goes hand in hand with other issues, like anxiety, which make it difficult to identify. To learn more about it, let’s look at Ben, a teenager with a deep love for music who is living with this neuroatypical trait. Ben, like many other boys his age, goes to school, has a group of friends, and plays music with his band. One day,

after coming back from practice, something changes: he enters his first manic episode. During mania, Ben feels invincible and euphoric without a particular reason. Thousands of thoughts are racing through his mind, and just as many future plans—not all of them realistic. He works tirelessly for days and hardly gets any sleep. Full of excitement he calls his friends and talks for hours, switching topics so fast that even he can’t keep up. After Ben

impulsively buys lots of stuff with his mother’s credit card, she confronts him, but instead of being remorseful, he gets furious. Then, after a week, everything suddenly changes. Ben enters depression. Now he feels exhausted and lays in bed all day. When he does get up he finds nothing worth living for. Even the simple thought of getting dressed

seems meaningless. He also has no appetite, and often skips meals. Since Ben has also lost all interest in music, he doesn't show up for practice and later he feels guilty about it—telling himself he’s a worthless friend. This is when he feels the lowest and starts to have dark thoughts. The symptoms of bipolar disorder look different in each case, which is why the condition is so difficult to diagnose and like all mental disorders, can only be defined on a spectrum.

Traditionally, three types are recognized: Bipolar 1, Bipolar 2, and Cyclothymia. Bipolar 1 is characterized by intense manic episodes that can last a week or more, and sometimes ends with a trip to the hospital due to risky decisions. These are followed by a depressive episode. Bipolar 2 is characterized by less intense hypomanic episodes that can last 3 or 4 days, but deep depressive phases with dark ideas and self-harm. Cyclothymia is characterized by mood swings between episodes of hypomania and mild depression. While emotional changes of Bipolar 1 and 2 can spread over weeks, the ups and

downs of cyclothymia often happen spontaneously over shorter periods—even within the same day. The condition is often treated with antipsychotics, and mood stabilizers, that dampen the intensity and frequency of the episodes. The medications are often combined with psychotherapy or psychoeducation to help stabilize daily activities and reduce substance abuse and relapse. People like Ben can often feel helpless when they are first diagnosed, but eventually may realize that they can live fulfilling lives, have families, and have successful careers. Some feel as if their atypical brain makes them more creative, and choose to pursue a career in the arts.

What do you know about bipolar? Do you have, or know someone with the disorder? If so, what do you know about supporting those coping with it? Tell us your experiences and thoughts in the comments below!

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.