---
video_title: "The Innovator’s Dilemma Explained: Why Great Companies Fail"
video_id: _82oEAUquJc
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_82oEAUquJc
video_date: 2025-09-22T11:30:28+00:00
video_description: |
  The Innovator’s Dilemma reveals an astonishing paradox in business: successful companies tend to fail not because they do anything wrong, but because they do everything right. The theory explains why giants like Blockbuster collapse while disruptors like Netflix rise, showing how the S-curve of innovation and seemingly inferior technologies can reshape entire industries—an idea first introduced by professor Clayton Christensen.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Abigail Bossio, abril!!, Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Binoy Pillai, Bradley Kilmovitch, Braincuriosities, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, deanme9, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jessica Ng Wun, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, MzE, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Rajko Damjanac, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, Super Mario, The Wermat Productions, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Sasalux
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Tarantella - Adieu Adieu 
  Quite Quaint - Jack Pierce
  Midnight Mischief - Jonathan Boyle
  A Toy's Day Out - Shaun Frearson
  Music Monetization ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  Chapters
  00:00 The paradox
  00:20 Blockbuster's blindspot
  01:20 Netflix's breakthrough
  01:44 Why leaders fail
  02:40 The S-curve
  03:25 Disruptive jump
  03:46 What do you think?
  04:11 Ending
  04:25 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #innovatorsdilemma #disruptiveinnovation #businessstrategy #claytonchristensen #blockbuster #netflix #scurve
---
The Innovator's Dilemma explains a paradox whereby successful companies fail precisely because their leaders improve products, meet customer expectations, and focus on maximizing profits. The fall of Blockbuster is a classic example of such a tale. At its peak in 2004, Blockbuster operated over 9,000 stores in the U.S., profiting handsomely from in-store rentals and especially late fees. The

CEO and other directors thought they were doing everything right. But it turns out they weren’t… Seven years earlier, in 1997, Reed Hastings, frustrated by Blockbuster's late fees, had founded Netflix, a subscription video rental service with delivery and no late charges. The service had a relatively small selection of films and orders took a while to arrive, but it appealed to rural customers who lived far from Blockbuster stores. Studying the competitor, the managers at Blockbuster concluded that Netflix was irrelevant to its customers, who enjoyed browsing shelves for a movie they could watch the same night. So, they dismissed Hastings’s startup, and instead focussed on adding more stores, expanding inventory, and squeezing even more profit from existing customers.

Netflix, meanwhile, quietly gained ground by serving people nobody else did. Then, in 2007, it pivoted to streaming on the internet— a move that was guided by the S-curve of innovation, which illustrates slow progress at first with rapid acceleration as costs fall and technology improves. Three years later, Blockbuster declared bankruptcy. According to Harvard professor Clayton Christensen, who introduced the concept of “The Innovator’s Dilemma” in 1997, powerful companies keep failing precisely because their managers, employees, and shareholders chase short-term results—overlooking disruptive innovations. Ironically, disruptive innovations are often simpler, cheaper, and inferior to their competitors, and have a tendency to create entirely new markets or appeal to neglected customers. But since they look unappealing at first,

no one in big established firms can be convinced to invest time or money. For their leaders, the dilemma is this: stick with proven products or risk everything on untested, disruptive innovations which may cannibalize the existing business model and upset employees and shareholders. The S-Curve of innovation explains how progress happens over time. In its early stages, it's slow. Then improvements accelerate, costs drop, and performance increases.

Finally, the technology matures and advancements become incremental. Take fuel-powered cars, which have been at the top of their S-curve for decades with only marginal improvements in fuel efficiency, performance, and safety. Electric vehicles, on the other hand, started out as inferior—offering limited range and high prices—but today, they’re rapidly climbing their own S-curve. When to jump from one curve to another is the essence of the innovator’s dilemma. Even the savviest CEOs often get it wrong.

Reed Hastings didn’t miss this opportunity. By the mid-2000s, his DVD rental business was highly profitable. But inspired by Christensen’s insights, Hastings leaped forward into streaming. “Companies rarely die from moving too fast,” he later said, “but they frequently die from moving too slowly. What do you think about the theory? Are disruptive

innovations behind the downfall of all former giants? And applying the theory, what’s the next new thing that will render seemingly invincible enterprises irrelevant in the near future? Tell us your thoughts and experiences in the comments below! If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts.

For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,