---
video_title: "The Magic of Prices Explained by Milton Friedman (Full Speech)"
video_id: _RgaUUFnYdg
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RgaUUFnYdg
video_date: 2025-08-25T11:30:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Nobel Prize–winning economist Milton Friedman explains the power of the free market using the “pencil” analogy—inspired by the original 1958 essay I, Pencil by Leonard E. Read.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Abigail Bossio, abril!!, Alfred Holzheu, Anca Ilea, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Binoy Pillai, Bradley Kilmovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, deanme9, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jessica Ng Wun, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, MzE, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Rajko Damjanac, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, Super Mario, The Wermat Productions, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  On http://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
---
The basic principles of free market as Adam Smith taught them to his students in this university are really very simple. Look at this lead pencil. There is not a single person in the world who could make this pencil. Remarkable statement? Not at all.

The wood from which it’s made, for all I know, comes from a tree that was cut down in the state of Washington. To cut down that tree, it took a saw. To make the saw, it took steel. To make the steel, it took iron ore. This black center, we call it "lead," but it’s really graphite, compressed graphite. I’m not

sure where it comes from, but I think it comes from some mines in South America. This red top up here, the eraser, bit of rubber, probably comes from Malaya– Where the rubber tree isn’t even native. It was imported from South America by some businessmen, with the help of the British government. This brass ferrule, I haven’t the slightest idea where it came from or the yellow paint or the paint that made the black lines, or the glue that holds it together. Literally thousands of people cooperated to make this pencil. People who don't speak the

same language, who practice different religions, who might hate one another if they ever met. When you go down to the store and buy this pencil, You are in effect trading a few minutes of your time for a few seconds– of the time of all those thousands of people. What brought them together and induced them to cooperate to make this pencil? There was no commissar sending out offices from sending out orders from some central office. It was the magic of the price system, the impersonal operation of prices that brought them together– And got them to cooperate to Make this pencil so that you could have it for a trifling sum.

That is why the operation of the free market is so essential Not only to promote productive efficiency but even more To foster harmony and peace among the peoples of the world.