---
video_title: "Inherited Pain: The Science of Generational Trauma"
video_id: N7Vh99lFG7s
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N7Vh99lFG7s
video_date: 2025-06-16
video_description: |
  Some experiences are so powerful, they shape not only our lives, but also those of our children and grandchildren. This intergenerational transmission of deep stress is known as generational trauma.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alfred Holzheu, Anca Ilea, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, bars, Bradley Kilmovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Julia, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, MzE, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, Super Mario, susan gatt, Taka Kondo, The Wermat Productions, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 표고김, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Alone in Montmartre - Studio Le Bus 
  ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent mind)
  
  Chapters
  00:00 Defining generational trauma
  00:17 Behavioral transmission
  01:10 Sociological and collective trauma
  02:10 Epigenetics inheritance
  02:54 Addiction cycle
  03:18 A complex web
  03:49 Breaking the cycle
  04:15 What do you think?
  04:33 Sprouts Book promo
  05:05 Ending
  05:20 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #psychology #trauma #mentalhealth #epigenetics
---
When a traumatic experience travels from one generation to the next and affects those who had no direct involvement with the original incident, it’s called transgenerational trauma. There are three main theories about how this happens. When a parent suffers from trauma they often develop heightened emotional sensitivity, anxiety, and emotional detachment. These reactions then shape how they interact with their children, and that’s how the trauma travels to the next generation. For example, if you are raised by a traumatized mother, you might pick up on her fears and absorb her insecurities, which then influence how you perceive and handle risks.

When this becomes part of your daily life during your most formative years, it can lead to a deep distrust of anything unfamiliar. As an adult, you may end up passing those insecurities on to your own children. Researchers suggest that these emotional imprints can affect emotional regulation, risk perception, and educational performance for generations. Devastating historical events and their impact on sociological structures can trap multiple generations in cycles of collective trauma. Canadian residential schools, which were designed to assimilate Indigenous children, are one example.

For a century, these schools stripped young native kids of their cultural identity and forced them to adopt Western traditions, often exposing them to physical and emotional abuse. Later, the children found it difficult to reintegrate into society, facing broken relationships, loss of cultural identity, poverty, and substance abuse - Ultimately passing their trauma on to their own children, continuing the cycle. Over time, these behaviors become so deeply ingrained into social norms, that it’s almost impossible to distinguish between what’s cultural, and what stems from a traumatic response.

More recent studies suggest that genes can be affected by bad experiences. Trauma can leave molecular "tags" on genes, and these tags can be passed down to future generations. Later on, they can alter how genes are expressed and how they control the body —possibly to prepare the next generation for a stressful life. In one example, researchers have found that Holocaust survivors carry epigenetic markers linked to anxiety, which can then be passed on to their offspring. Their children showed heightened sensitivity to stress and were more prone to developing anxiety, depression, and PTSD themselves—even if they didn’t experience any trauma firsthand.

Substance abuse - often used as a coping mechanism by those suffering emotional wounds - can further reinforce epigenetic changes. Children of parents who struggled with drugs and alcohol often have inherent predispositions that make them more vulnerable to addiction—a vicious cycle rooted in raw biological effects. So which of the three is it? Well, it's complicated. Take, for instance, a man who survives war.

The initial trauma changes his character and that of the generation of men around him. The man’s daughter, who is still young when he returns from war, is affected by his emotional coping mechanisms—leading to stress-related tags on her own genes. When the daughter herself becomes a parent, her boy inherits some of these epigenetic markers and later copies some of his grandfather's behavior without ever meeting the man in person. One way to break the cycle of transgenerational trauma is to face our own history, developing a deep understanding of our parents’ pain and the scars they inherited during childhood. The Hoffman Process is one approach that aims to guide people through this.

Once we understand our roots, we might be able to weed out some of the rotten parts and help the next generation to grow up strong and healthy. What are your thoughts? Do you feel the weight of a burden that was never yours? And if so, what are your coping mechanisms? Tell us your thoughts and experiences in the comments below!

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,