---
video_title: "How New Ideas Spread: Innovators, Early Adopters & the Adoption Curve"
video_id: cWri1FI2wTM
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cWri1FI2wTM
video_date: 2025-11-17T11:30:44+00:00
video_description: |
  The Diffusion of Innovations Theory explains how new ideas, products, and trends spread through a community in a predictable pattern. Introduced by sociologist Everett M. Rogers in 1962, it classifies people into five adopter categories: Innovators, Early Adopters, Early Majority, Late Majority, and Laggards.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Binoy Pillai, Bradley Kilmovitch, Braincuriosities, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Quick Buyun, Rajko Damjanac, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sergio Correia Freitas, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, The Wermat Productions, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Badly Behaved - Shaun Frearson
  Music ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTER
  00:00 Innovation path
  00:13 Diffusion of innovations theory
  00:23 The innovators
  00:41 Early adopters
  01:01 Early majority
  01:18 Late majority
  01:35 The laggards
  01:51 Speed of diffusion
  02:01 Roger’s definition
  02:15 Adoption factors
  03:12 What do you think?
  03:34 Ending
  03:48 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #diffusionofinnovations #socialscience #technology #innovationtheory #everettrogers #adoptioncurve #marketing #econ
---
This is the pattern new trends and inventions tend to follow on their path to dominance. Understanding it allows you to join the innovators instead of the laggards. The diffusion of innovations theory explains how new products and ideas spread across five groups of people—eventually reaching all of us. Innovators, around 2.5% of us, are the first to buy into something new.

They’re curious, love trying new things, are often well off, and can take risks like spending $4,000 on a cell phone back in 1983. Early Adopters follow the innovators. They are respected, serve as opinion leaders, and carefully consider anything new before buying into it. Once they do, early adopters like to share their advice. Many of them got a $1,000 cell phone by 1996.

People from the Early Majority wait until early adopters have paved the way. They’re all about innovation but want to see real-world proof before making a move. Think of them as the ones who picked up $300 phones around the turn of the century. People from the Late Majority are skeptical and cautious. Often more traditional, these folks wait until a majority has embraced something before they do. They

finally got a $100 cell phone in 2008, long after everyone else. Laggards are last to pick up new trends, often due to aversion to change or lack of resources. They rely heavily on traditional methods and may adopt new things only when it’s unavoidable. Research by Nicholas Felton suggests that as communication speeds up, innovators and early adopters can share new things faster with everyone else. Everett M. Rogers, the sociologist who introduced the theory back in 1962,

defined diffusion as: “The process by which an innovation spreads through a community over time using different channels.” He also describes five characteristics that we evaluate when deciding whether to adopt an innovation. Does it fit with our existing values or habits? Can you try it before you buy it? Is it actually better? Can we see the benefits? And, is it easy to use? For example,

an innovation might be incompatible, complex, and impossible to try out, all of which reduces its likelihood of being adopted. But if it has a huge edge over current options innovators might be all over it, and early adopters spread the word fast. And once the price drops, which usually happens when production ramps up —see solar cells— more people jump on board. Although Rogers himself once noted: "Getting a new idea adopted, even when it has obvious advantages, is often very difficult." So, where do you see yourself on this spectrum? And what’s your take on this

theory? Do you think it also explains how ideas, beliefs, or even social movements spread? Leave your thoughts in the comments below!

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,