---
video_title: "Optical Illusions & the WEIRD Brain: Why We See Things Differently"
video_id: IxTwMUFzWo8
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxTwMUFzWo8
video_date: 2025-02-27
video_description: |
  Seeing isn’t always believing. The Müller-Lyer illusion is such an example. This optical trick highlights how our brains can be shaped by the spaces we grow up in. But some people aren’t fooled at all, raising questions about how culture, environment, and early life experiences change the way we see the world. Will you fall for it?
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Kristina Potočnik, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Markus Fischbacher, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Oweeda Newton, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, Stefan Gros, Taka Kondo, Tammy Frazier, The Wermat Productions, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  Special thanks to Lalo, our patron who make appearance in this video!
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  On Eggshells - Richard Canavan 
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Introduction to illusions
  00:20 The Müller-Lyer effect
  00:34 3D Perception and illusions
  00:59 Culture and visual perception
  01:58 How childhood shapes sight
  02:16 Neural development and perception
  02:48 Other illusions
  03:00 Share your thought
  03:16 Sprouts book promo
  03:47 Ending
  04:01 Patrons credits
  
  #opticalillusion #illusion #sproutsschools #neuroscience
---
Where do you see the midpoint of this line? Most people see the center of the line left of the actual midpoint. While those who get tricked, wonder how much they can trust their own eyes, it is those who don’t see the optical illusion, that is science's real mystery. But first things first. The Müller-Lyer illusion, in its most famous form, features two lines, each flanked by a set of opposing arrows which tricks you into thinking that one line looks shorter because the other appears further away—when in fact they are exactly the same.

The effect is the result of our perception of three-dimensional space where the inward-pointing arrows are perceived as further away while outward-pointing ones seem closer—and shorter. And because you probably grew up in three-dimensional spaces full of right angles, your brain, in an attempt to make sense of these cues, can get fooled by a two-dimensional illustration. But what about people who don’t see it? Like most social science, the research was mostly conducted with people who are WEIRD: Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and from a Democratic country—that is. And so some scientists wondered whether it would work on people who were raised in environments with no rectangular architecture.

The question: Would the illusion also trick them? And so, in the 1960s two researchers and one of their students began investigating the illusions’ effect on people from all over the world—seventeen different cultures in total. This is what they found. People who grew up in spaces with clear corners were fooled most of the time, whereas bushmen from southern Africa, tribespeople from Angola, and Kalahari hunter-gatherers almost always perceived the lines as identical. The researchers concluded that our perception is not a reflection of reality, but a construction shaped by minds who experienced growing up in a particular culture.

This makes sense, since it’s during the early years of life, that our brains are highly receptive to environmental stimuli and capable of forming new neural connections at a rapid pace. This part of our life is known as the critical period because the most relevant cognitive functions develop right then. If we look, for example, at a child’s rate of synaptic formation over the first 11 months and the following years, we can see that the speed at which each new connection for vision and hearing is created peaks at around 3 to 4 months of age. For language that’s around month 8 and higher cognitive functions, like decision making, at age 2 to 3. In other words, the experiences children have during the first years of life can significantly impact the construction of their brains—all up to the point that they literally see the world differently.

But some questions remain. What explains the Ebbinghaus Illusion? And what’s behind the Checker Shadow Trick, where two squares appear to be different shades of gray, but are exactly the same? Or don’t you see that? And if not, is that because you aren’t WEIRD?

Tell us your thoughts and experiences in the comments below. We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,