---
video_title: "Motherhood and Mental Health: Postpartum Emotions Explained"
video_id: jjuu_0aywg0
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jjuu_0aywg0
video_date: 2025-01-20
video_description: |
  Having a baby is a profoundly transformative experience. For new mothers, it involves significant changes in both the body and the brain. These range from hormonal fluctuations that affect mood to societal pressures that can contribute to serious mental health challenges. Here’s what you need to know about navigating life as a new mom. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, Angela Flores, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, Bradley Klimovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Constanza, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Kristina Potočnik, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Markus Fischbacher, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Nancy J, Oweeda Newton, Pantea Fard, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, Stefan Gros, Taka Kondo, Takashi HIROSE, The Wermat Productions, Warren Huang, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱, 강록 이 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Mithril
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  As Flowers -  Tenacious Orchestra
  Nice Toys - Studio Le Bus
  Alone in Montmartre - Studio Le Bus
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Becoming a mother
  00:45 Physical transformations
  01:12 Hormonal impact
  01:35 Baby needs
  02:04 Identity loss
  02:32 Pressure to perform
  02:47 Maternal mental stress
  03:16 Mental health spectrum
  04:33 Support and solutions
  05:22 Share your thought
  05:46 Sprouts Book Promo
  06:18 Ending
  06:32 Patrons credits
  
  
  
  #psychology #maternalmentalhealth #mother #sproutsschools
---
When you become pregnant, carry a baby, and give birth, you undergo what is likely to be the most transformative experience in your adult life—you become a mother. For thousands of years, this metamorphosis occurred within the tribe of the extended family, where other women, who have had that experience, were able to provide physical care and offer mental support. There was a village to raise the child. Today, you may embark on this journey alone. As a result, you may feel lonely, anxious, or severely stressed. Five factors can make your journey to motherhood miserable.

First, and most obviously, pregnancy alters the female physique — your body changes. Your feet may grow, your eyesight might deteriorate and the child’s birth can painfully damage your body. While some discover a deeper love for themselves or develop a new connection to their femininity, for others these changes can be hard to accept and recover from. Your mind is affected by hormonal fluctuations. Your estrogen levels, which act like a mood stabilizer, tend to increase tenfold during pregnancy. Then,

right after delivery, they drop sharply and return to pre-conception levels only three days later. This often results in intense mood swings and may even trigger depressions. Then there is your baby, a tiny human being you must protect and nurture, often day and night, for years to come. The ongoing crying might push you to your limits. And if the baby falls sick, you may feel worried and helpless. And while many mothers also feel an

overwhelming amount of unconditional love for their newborn, others need more time for these feelings to develop—a realization that can be deeply disturbing. Then there is the loss of your old self. You might have had a thriving career or a vivid social life before your pregnancy, but with childbirth, all of that comes to an end. For those who feel unhappy in their new role, the loss of their old identity can be daunting. You may wonder if you'll ever lead a normal life again. And if you do return to your former life you may be labeled as a bad mother.

Lastly, there are overwhelming expectations. New mothers are expected to instantly bond with their baby, master breastfeeding, take care of their partners, regain their pre-pregnancy bodies, and seamlessly balance work and family life. The societal pressure to do all of that can lead to intense feelings of inadequacy. Add to these factors the severe lack of sleep, constant nighttime feedings, diaper changes, and hours spent soothing a baby, and it’s not surprising that you may, at times, wish you could go back to your old life. Some mothers may also develop dark thoughts, often accompanied by feelings of shame and guilt.

This maternal mental stress can range from mild forms of baby blues to postpartum depression, up until postpartum psychosis. Baby blues refers to light mood swings and feelings of sadness within the first few days to weeks after childbirth, that typically resolve on their own. It’s often the direct result of changing hormones and affects up to 4 in 5 new mothers. Postpartum depression (PPD) is a severe and longer-lasting form of depression that occurs after childbirth. PPD may require medical intervention and can last for several months. Symptoms include overwhelming fatigue, persistent sadness,

and difficulty bonding with the baby. The condition affects close to 10% of new mothers. Postpartum psychosis (PPP) is a severe mental health emergency and affects about 1 of every 1,000 mothers. Symptoms can include hallucinations, extreme agitation, and insomnia—which when combined can threaten the life of both newborn and mother. In most modern societies, PPP is the leading cause of death for new mothers.

There are 4 ways to help: Clear protocols can ensure that medical professionals check their patients' mental well-being already during pregnancy and especially after child birth. The presence of a partner, family, friends, or an experienced midwife may work wonders. The best solution is often a support group where new mothers can share how they feel with those who have been through the same — this can also be online. If things get seriously bad, medication might be the only way to prevent a tragedy. And help matters! Because behind every baby we’re so warmly welcome to this world,

there may well be an adult who needs as much attention as the little one. As the philosopher Osho once said, “When a child is born, a mother is born.” But tell us, what do you know about this transformation? And if you are a mother, how did you handle it? Please share your thoughts about maternal mental stress and insights on how to support new mothers in the comments below.

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,