---
video_title: "Eating Disorders: Anorexia, Bulimia, and Binge Eating"
video_id: 1YK3ylD3HvQ
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1YK3ylD3HvQ
video_date: 2025-05-26
video_description: |
  Anorexia, bulimia, and binge eating are on the rise, with cases doubling between 2006 and 2018. Unrealistic body ideals promoted on social media contribute to distorted self-perceptions and unhealthy relationships with food leading to severe physical and mental health consequences. The most at risk are teenage girls.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Alfred Holzheu, Anca Ilea, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, bars, Bradley Kilmovitch, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Hugo Palma, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Julia, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Meo Chan, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, MzE, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, Super Mario, susan gatt, Taka Kondo, The Wermat Productions, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 표고김, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Nice Toys - Studio Le Bus 
  ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent mind)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Toxic body standards
  00:20 Rising body dissatisfaction
  00:44 Shame and pressure
  00:57 Understanding Anorexia
  01:39 What is Bulimia
  02:21 Binge eating
  02:52 Long-term effects
  03:01 Breaking the cycle
  03:24 Share your experience
  03:44 Sprouts Book Promo
  04:16 Ending
  04:33 Patrons credits
  
  #health #obesity #eatingdisorderawareness #mentalhealth #sproutsschools #learning #education
---
When you’re constantly bombarded with ads promoting rapid fat loss and posts from clinically underweight influencers showcasing unrealistic body ideals, you may start thinking that if your own body does not fit these criteria, it should not be shown; that it does not deserve likes, and eventually that you are unworthy of love or respect. In young people, this distorted view of themselves can lead to self-hatred and a complex and unhealthy relationship with food. In one study, researchers observing 180 teenagers found that 61% of girls and 25% of boys were actively trying to lose weight. Among them, 8 out of 10 believed they were fat, while only 2 actually were overweight. The constant social pressure to adhere to certain unrealistic beauty standards, paired with the shame of failing to do so, can eventually lead to anorexia, bulimia, or binge eating— ANOREXIA Anorexia is characterized by a distorted body image and an overwhelming fear of gaining weight.

The disorder often develops in people who see themselves as “too big” or who associate their worth with their weight. As a result, they may refuse to eat, be obsessed with calorie counting, make themself vomit, or misuse laxatives to get rid of the food they ate before the body can metabolize it. Some exercise so excessively that they end up hurting themselves. People with anorexia are usually underweight, and the lack of nutrients and constant deprivation leads to many health problems, such as weak muscles, sleep problems, or hair loss. BULIMIA People with Bulimia typically hate their bodies, fear being too fat, and compulsively control what they eat.

Eventually, they tend to lose control, and binge eat large amounts of food—often until their stomach hurts. Guilt and regret often follow, and they try to compensate for the loss of control with purging behaviors - like vomiting, or using laxatives —often hiding it from family and friends. Over time, the cycle of gorging and purging messes with the metabolism, it can create an electrolyte imbalance, damage the heart and kidneys, and lead to tooth decay.

BINGE EATING Binge Eating Disorder involves consuming large amounts of food within a short period of time while feeling a loss of control. The behavior is often used to cope with intense negative emotions such as anxiety, sadness, or loneliness. And comes with feelings of shame, disgust, and self-hate—all of which can exacerbate the cycle. Some studies show that up to 80% of people who are affected also have another mental condition—the most common one is anxiety disorder. Over the years, binge eating can lead to obesity, and associated health problems such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and sleep apnea.

To limit a further rise, we can learn to appreciate more natural body types, promote media literacy and critical thinking, and introduce a legal minimum age for the use of social media. Because children especially, deserve to develop love and respect for their own bodies—in particular, if they are born with genes that make an ideal Instagram look impossible. What about you? Have you ever had an eating disorder? And if so, was your trigger social media or perhaps parental pressure? Share your

experiences and what helped you overcome your challenges in the comments below! We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music,