---
video_title: "What Depression Feels Like"
video_id: qAN6iQyhlLk
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qAN6iQyhlLk
video_date: 2025-12-22T11:30:51+00:00
video_description: |
  Depression is more than just sadness—it affects your energy, sleep, body, and even your brain. This video explains key symptoms, why diagnosis is challenging, how both environmental and genetic factors contribute to it, and which treatments and habits can help. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏
  Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Bradley Kilmovitch, Braincuriosities, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sergio Correia Freitas, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stefan Gros, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  On Pictures - Tenacious Orchestra
  Alone in Montmartre - Studio Le Bus
  ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Recognizing depression 
  00:25 Physiological effects
  01:20 Understanding depression
  02:12 Diagnostic complexity
  03:03 Complex causes
  03:26 Trauma example
  04:03 Biology example 
  04:24 Who is affected 
  04:46 Treatment
  05:21 What do you think?
  05:39 Ending
  05:56 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #mentalhealth #depression #majordepressivedisorder #psychology #neuroscience #mentalhealthawareness
---
If you have depression, you may feel sad, empty, and numb —or irritable. You may also lose interest in activities you once loved or feel constantly tired. Other symptoms include lack of sleep or drastic changes in your weight. You might find it harder than usual to concentrate, feel worthless, and lose hope that things will ever change for the better. The impact is often physiological as well.

As the immune system weakens, you are more susceptible to migraines or chronic pain. Prolonged depression even leaves its mark on the mind. Studies suggest that it can lead to structural changes in the brain, including the shrinking of the hippocampus, a region critical for memory and emotional regulation. This can reinforce negative thought patterns, trapping you in cycles of pessimism. All of that can lead to withdrawal.

Meeting people—once fun—can feel like an obligation. Some start to think that they are a burden to others, and isolate themselves. Over time, it can escalate into profound indifference or a perceived inability to take any action potentially stirring the darkest of thoughts. Your mental health is not a switch that flips between “well” and “unwell” — it exists on a spectrum. At one end, we have temporary dips in mood, a bad day, or moments of grief. On the other

end, you feel so tired and hopeless–even basic things, like getting out of bed, feel impossible. Clinicians diagnose Major Depressive Disorder when symptoms persist for at least two weeks and significantly disrupt your daily life. But a diagnosis is far from straightforward. Unlike a broken bone, depression and other mental health disorders lack clear biological markers— no scan or blood work can confirm them. Without clear markers, diagnosis depends on structured interviews—an inherently subjective process that can lead to misdiagnosis.

One study found that 70% of patients diagnosed in primary care settings were classified as depressed, whereas bipolar would have been more appropriate. But even experienced psychologists may sometimes fail to distinguish between major depression, forms of anxiety, or other mental disorders. This is because most mental health conditions overlap—a phenomenon known as comorbidity. And there is an even bigger mystery the origins of depression itself. For years, the dominant narrative was that depression stemmed from a serotonin imbalance.

In response, pharmaceutical companies developed a range of antidepressants, known as selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors or SSRIs. However, recent studies challenge this explanation. Depression, it turns out, is far more complex and doesn’t stem from a simple chemical imbalance, but rather from complex mechanisms that involve genes, neurotransmitters, and environmental factors. History provides striking examples of how depression arrives from different roots in different people. Take Abraham Lincoln: at nine, he lost his mother.

His older sister, who became a maternal figure, died in childbirth. Later, two of his own four children perished before reaching adulthood. His melancholy became so pronounced that friends worried for his life. Today, Lincoln would have been diagnosed with Major Depressive Disorder that was triggered by childhood trauma and tragic life events—even though his reaction to what had happened was only natural and deeply human. Then there are people like neuroscientist Robert Sapolsky.

He was raised in a stable, supportive family, and yet still struggled with severe episodes of depression all his life. The cause of his suffering might be purely biological. Genetic studies estimate that depression is about 50% heritable. In any given 12-month period, around 5% of men and 10% of women experience major depressive disorder. Among children, prevalence is around 2.5%, but in adolescents,

it may rise to about 3–10%, depending on the study, population, or sex. So, how to help? Among the most effective interventions is cognitive behavioral therapy, which helps individuals recognize and reframe destructive thought patterns. Medications can also offer relief. But their long-term benefits remain unclear.

As health researcher Vinay Prasad wrote: “The trials last eight weeks; then people take them for years.” Some say, the best cures are sports, socializing—or better yet, both. Although, if you have no energy to leave the bed, this may seem like wishful thinking. But tell us, what do you know about depression, and what has helped you navigate difficult times? Share your thoughts in the comments below— conversation, too, can be part of the cure.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos. Join us on YouTube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises, or videos