---
video_title: "The Anchoring Bias: Why The First Offer Matters"
video_id: JLeyIdWv2Q8
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLeyIdWv2Q8
video_date: 2025-04-14
video_description: |
  Anchoring is a cognitive bias that skews your judgments based on the first piece of information you see. Whether in negotiations, medicine, or everyday choices, this bias influences even the smartest minds. 
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Adam Berry, Alfred Holzheu, ArkiTechy, Arlene Weston, azad bel, Badrah, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, Coach Moteib, Cory McAbee, Delandric Webb, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Elias Reuss, Eva Marie Koblin, F J V Souza Fh, George TY, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, Granson, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Kamran Razvan, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Kristina Potočnik, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Linda Kinkead, Lorena, Louricha Opina-Tan, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Marwa Atteya, Mathias Hemetsberger, Mezes.Macko, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, MzE, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, SleepyS|0th, Stefan Gros, Super Mario, susan gatt, Taka Kondo, The Wermat Productions, Yassine Hamza, Yvonne Clapham, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Friendly Phantom - Shaun Frearson
  Midnight Mischief - Jonathan Boyle
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com/the-anchoring-bias, you'll soon also find:
  -All our sources
  -Ideas for a classroom project on the topic
  -The full script, core graphics, and additional resources
  -The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 The psychological trick
  00:16 What is anchoring?
  00:30 Anchoring effect and impact
  01:09 Rigged wheel experiment
  01:40 Morris’ MBA experiment
  02:20 The hidden influence
  02:51 What do you think?
  03:11 Sprouts book promo
  03:43 Ending
  03:57 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #psychology #anchoringeffect #cognitivebias
---
Let’s do a simple psychological test: Do you think the average German car costs more than $90,000? That’s the question professor Michael Morris of Columbia University asked his class of MBA students in order to trick them using a phenomenon known as anchoring. Anchoring is a cognitive bias that makes you rely too heavily on the first piece of information presented: the “anchor”. No matter how arbitrary it may seem, it pulls your thoughts, judgements, and decisions towards it. In negotiations, for example, priming the other party with an initial offer, sets an anchor that can heavily influence the final outcome. Even if both parties know that

the initial offer is absurd, the final agreement often gravitates towards that first figure. In medicine, studies show that doctors are often overly influenced by the initial information they receive, which can lead to screening errors, a false diagnosis, and the wrong treatment plan. Even the smartest among us, who are trying to arrive at a logical conclusion, have an intuition that has already been swayed by the anchor, which pulls our thoughts towards a biased conclusion. A fascinating experiment by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman first introduced the idea in 1971. The two psychologists asked people to spin a rigged wheel with numbers ranging from 1 to 100.

Afterward, participants were asked to estimate how many African countries were members of the United Nations. The result? Those who saw a high number on the spinning wheel gave much higher estimates than those who saw a low number. But does this work on Morris’ smart MBA students? Before Professor Morris ran his experiment, he separated his students into two groups.

One group was asked if they thought that the average German car from last year cost more than $90,000, while the other was asked if it costs more than $30,000. After doing this for many years, Professor Morris found that his students who were anchored by the $90,000 figure estimated the average price to be between $45,000 and $50,000, while those anchored by the $30,000 figure estimated it to be between $35,000 and $40,000. The anchors, regardless of the number, had pulled their judgments in that direction. Now, here’s the kicker. When Morris asked his students to explain how they arrived at their conclusions, they claimed that they used their knowledge to make a rational estimate. Only when

the professor dug deeper did one group mention high-end brands like Mercedes, while the other thought of more affordable cars, like Volkswagen. It is as if the pictures that arrive in the students' heads when they are primed by the anchor, decide where they land with their estimates. “Intuition drives more than 90% of our thinking and behavior,” Morris concluded. How did you answer? Were you influenced by our anchor at the beginning of the video to give estimates closer to $90,000, like the MBA students? Share your experiences with anchoring in the comments below!

We relentlessly researched education for the past decade, read plenty of peer-reviewed papers, visited all sorts of schools, created hundreds of videos on the topic, and even set up our very own kindergarten for project-based learning. And now, we also made a book! The Unschoolers Educational Dictionary covers everything we know about learning, unveils the unintended consequences of compulsory education, and includes a complete guide to the alternative school movement. Order your copy now. Just visit your favorite book shop or check the links in the description below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.