---
video_title: "Correlation vs Causation Explained: Why Patterns Can Mislead Us"
video_id: ofweqU0Lz4I
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ofweqU0Lz4I
video_date: 2026-03-23T11:30:43+00:00
video_description: |
  This video explains why correlation does not imply causation, using real-world examples like ice-cream sales and shark attacks. You’ll learn about common statistical pitfalls such as confounding variables, reverse causality, and spurious correlations, and how researchers test causal relationships using randomized controlled trials, natural experiments, and longitudinal studies. Understanding these concepts helps you critically evaluate claims in science, media, and everyday data.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, azad bel, bgirl2938, Braincuriosities, Bunnybro4!, Carin gleason, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leo Almazan, Leonel, Liam Dalling, Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, Sergio Correia Freitas, SleepySl0th, Stan Lambert, Stefan Gros, Tiffany Venasse, Willie E Williams, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt
  Coloring: Nalin
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Ghibli Station - The Mini Vandals
  Standoff - Density & Time
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  #sproutsschools #correlationvscausation #correlation #socialscience #causation #statistics #dataliteracy 
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Correlation vs Causation
  00:10 Key Differences
  00:25 Types of Correlation
  00:53 Causation Basics
  01:05 Common Mistakes
  01:22 Confounding Factors
  01:32 Reverse Causality
  01:44 Spurious Correlation
  01:57 Example Analysis
  02:29 Research Methods
  4:06 Try It Yourself
---
There is a famous graph that shows ice‑cream sales and shark attacks. But… does the first cause the latter? In statistics, we must differ between correlation and causation. Correlation means two things move together at the same time. Causation means one thing causes a change in the other. But there is more to it.

Correlations can be positive, negative, or zero. Think of: Ice cream sales and shark attacks; Ice cream and raincoat sales; and ice cream and the number of pirates worldwide. They can be weak, strong, or even perfect. Like: Hours playing video games and slices of pizza eaten; time spent studying vs test scores; the number of left and right socks produced. Causations exist if one thing affects others—often multiple things.

The effect can be strong, or weak—and between effects we often see correlations. But there is one problem. Our brains love simple stories, such as X causes Y. This is why when we see a strong correlation, say kids’ shoe size and reading ability, we may think of causation. But three solutions help us avoid these errors.

As kids grow, they need larger shoes and get better at reading. If a third factor drives correlating results, we call it confounding. Then there is reversed causality. We may think that ice cream makes people happy, but maybe happy people just have more reasons to buy ice cream? It's not that clear.

Spurious correlation exists when patterns appear by chance. For example: as the number of pirates decreased, we recorded increasingly hotter days—but there’s no plausible common cause. There are three questions to test a causal claim: Did A happen before B? What could cause both? Is there a plausible path from A to B?

Suppose someone claims that students who sleep more get better grades. 1. Does longer sleep come before better grades? 2. Do organized students maybe do both: sleep more and study more? 3. Sleep may boost attention

and memory—but can it explain better grades? To look for a real causal link, serious social scientists typically turn to three methods. In Randomized Controlled Trials, people are randomly put into two different situations—say, school classes with 15 students and classes with 25. Scientists then look at what happens and may find that one group learns faster than the other—ideally, that experiment then gets replicated. RCTs are considered the gold standard of research.

Natural Experiments are real‑world events that create “as if random” groups —the Mariel Boatlift is such an example. In 1980, 125,000 Cuban refugees arrived in Miami almost overnight. With all these new workers, local employees feared for their jobs. But economists later compared the situation in Miami to similar cities and found wages were hardly affected. Longitudinal Studies track the same people over many years to check time order. The Grant Study,

for example, tracked 268 Harvard-educated men since 1938. It found that alcoholism was the main cause of a divorce and that men who earned more typically had "warm" childhood relationships with their mothers —those who earned less, didn’t. To help us find a causal link, it's useful to compare apples with apples—such as grouping people by age, income, or lifestyle—when we study them.. Now it's your turn! Imagine you see this headline:“Kids with more books at home do

better in school.” First ask yourself the three questions to test the causal claim and then design a test to find out. Share your findings in the comments below.

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.