---
video_title: "5 Developmental Windows That Shape Your Life Forever"
video_id: RKtG70DFXU4
channel_name: "Sprouts"
channel_id: UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RKtG70DFXU4
video_date: 2026-01-26T11:30:20+00:00
video_description: |
  In early life, the human brain goes through critical periods—brief “golden windows” when sleep, vision, hearing, attachment, and language are wired for life. Drawing on the pioneering work of Nobel laureate Konrad Lorenz and contemporary neuroscience, we explore some of the most famous experiments and human case studies that illustrate how crucial certain experiences are during early childhood.
  
  JOIN us as a Youtube member for special perks: ❤️
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-RKpEc4eE9PwJaupN91xYQ/join 
  
  SUPPORT our mission to create free video lessons on Patreon: ❤️
  https://www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  FOLLOW us on facebook: 👍
  https://www.facebook.com/sprouts.schools/
  
  DISCOVER more Sprouts Channels and our other projects here: ✨
  https://bio.link/sprouts
  
  1,000 THANKS to our patrons and members who made this video possible: 🙏 
  Alfred Holzheu, Andreea Manolica, ArkiTechy, azad bel, Bradley Kilmovitch, Braincuriosities, Carmina Marinca, Cedric.Wang, Christoph Becker, deanme9, Digital Innovators, Dr. Matthias Müller-Mellin, Duane Bemister, Ellie Simon, Eva Marie Koblin, Frank Fox, Gerardo Enrique Nieto, glenys, Granson, Heart of Texas Play Therapy, LLC, Izzy, Jeffrey Cassianna, Jennifer Chua, Jim Pilgrim, Joanne Doyle, Jose Manuel Rodrigues, Karen Byrne, Kevin Deasy, Leo Almazan, Leonel, Liam Dalling,Lorena, Lucia Simone Winston, Marcel, Mathias Hemetsberger, Michael Paradis, Michel Kuhne, Muhammad Humayun, Natasha Donovan, Oweeda Newton, Pablo, Patson_Lim, Quick Buyun, Raúl, Raymond Fujioka, sameerr M, scripz, SDA VIDEO PREVIEW, self shakthi coach | sandhya, Sergio Correia Freitas, Sigrid, SleepySl0th, Stan Lambert, Stefan Gros, The Wermat Productions, Willie E Williams, Yvonne Rivers, 헤롱 헤롱 and all the others.Thank you! To join them visit www.patreon.com/sprouts
  
  COLLABORATORS
  Script: Jonas Koblin and Ludovico Saint Amour di Chanaz, PhD
  Cartoon artist: Pascal Gaggelli
  Producer: Selina Bador
  Voice artist: Matt Abbott
  Coloring: Sasalux
  Editing: Peera Lertsukittipongsa
  Sound Design: Miguel Ojeda
  Publishing: Vijyada Songrienchai
  
  SOUNDTRACKS
  Embarrassing Moment - Jack Pierce 
  ID: Z2P1P4KFI0MZSKFY
  
  On https://sproutsschools.com, you will also find:
  - Links to all our sources
  - Ideas for a classroom projects for each video
  - The full script, core graphics and additional resources
  - The video without background music (good for divergent minds)
  
  CHAPTERS
  00:00 Brain development
  00:29 Critical periods
  01:18 Development windows
  01:25 Prenatal sleep
  01:42 Vision development
  02:09 Attachment development
  02:32 Hearing and speech
  02:46 Language development
  03:16 Puberty brain
  03:37 Lifelong effects
  03:54 Ending
  04:08 Patrons credits
  
  #sproutsschools #braindevelopment #criticalperiods #neuroscience #childdevelopment #attachmenttheory
---
When builders pour the foundation of a house, there is a brief moment when the concrete is soft enough to shape—then it hardens into stone. Brains work in much the same way. Throughout childhood, there are critical periods during which certain experiences shape our minds in ways that are essential for healthy development. The quality of your sleep, vision, hearing, language, and trust in others were governed by such golden time windows. Konrad Lorenz, a Nobel Prize–winning zoologist, was the first to demonstrate the phenomenon in a famous 1939 experiment.

Goslings that first saw him, rather than their mother, imprinted on him and followed Lorenz everywhere. But this bond only formed reliably within 12 to 17 hours after hatching—after that, it no longer worked. In the 1960s, two neuroscientists discovered that when they sewed one eye of newborn kittens shut for several weeks and then reopened it, the previously closed eye was effectively blind: the visual cortex had rewired itself to favor the open eye. Their Nobel Prize-winning work revealed that parts of the brain may operate on a “use-it-or-lose-it” deadline. For us humans, five notable development windows open and shut during early childhood.

Good sleep, it seems, is something we learn while we’re still in the womb. If a developing child’s sleep–wake cycles during pregnancy get disrupted because their mother regularly drinks alcohol, the child will likely experience sleep issues for the rest of their lives. Within weeks after birth, full vision develops. If a baby is born with a cataract, and the cloudy lens gets removed, the child will see normally. Delay surgery beyond the fifth birthday, and the damage becomes permanent.

And if kids have too much screen time and primarily focus on things right in front of their eyes, their vision doesn’t develop properly—they instead develop myopia and will likely need glasses. During the first 24 months of life, children need to be well nourished and receive lots of love to develop a trusting relationship with their primary caregiver—often the mother. If they learn to question the person they most depend on, they become insecurely attached, can develop a lifelong mistrust of others, and tend to be pessimistic or anxious. Children born deaf who receive a cochlear implant before the age of three tend to develop near-typical speech, whereas those who have it implanted after the age of seven often face ongoing difficulties. The tragic case of Genie Wiley, a girl deprived of speech until age 13, demonstrated how hard it is to learn language later in life.

Even with lots of help, she only learned to speak in short, broken sentences, like “Father hit arm. Big wood. Genie cry.” Studies of Chinese- and Korean-born immigrants found that grammar scores declined the later children arrived in the United States, flattening out around puberty. Most critical periods end by the age of 7, although during puberty our brains remain highly sensitive to social feedback, risks, and rewards.

During this period, exposure to excessive amounts of drugs, alcohol, medications, or chronic stress can harm our brains for life. Konrad Lorenz concluded: “I consider early childhood events as most essential to a man's scientific and philosophical development.”

If you found this helpful, check out our other videos, join us on youtube or on patreon.com/sprouts. For more information, classroom exercises or videos without background music, visit sproutsschools.com.