---
video_title: "How to improve your singing | Think Like A Musician"
video_id: QUQyf_irWlw
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QUQyf_irWlw
video_date: 2025-09-16T15:02:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Opera singer Denyce Graves-Montgomery shares how to find your voice, range, breath, and, ultimately, your truth.
  
  --
  
  "Think Like A Musician" connects you with working musicians who want to help the music-curious and music-passionate hone and share the gift of music with the world. Part interview, part animated course, our first season "Think Like A Performer" features artists sharing their insight on the ins and outs of fine-tuning your instrument and crafting a great performance. 
  
  Each episode features free supplemental learning materials developed by Education Through Music (https://etmonline.org) — a nonprofit with over 30 years of experience developing classroom-adaptable curriculum for music educators.
  
  Directed by Kozmonot Animation Studio.
  
  A special thanks to Denyce Graves-Montgomery who provided her insights and expertise for this video. You can check out her page here: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4IGqi6jnpDTct8_ij6LBag 
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-to-find-your-singing-voice-think-like-a-musician
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-to-find-your-singing-voice-think-like-a-musician/digdeeper
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Matthew Neal, Denis Chon, Julian Oberhofer, Monte Carroll, Eddy, Jay M, Constantino Victor Delgado, Andrea Galvagni, Andrew Tweddle, Laurel-Ann Rice, Fernando A. Endo, Helen Lee, pam morgan, sarim haq, Gerardo Castro, Michel-Ange Hortegat, Enes Kirimi, Amaury BISIAUX, ND, Samyogita Hardikar, Vanessa Graulich, Vandana Gunwani, Abdulmohsin Almadi, AJ Lyon, Geoffrey Bultitude, Mi Mi, Thomas Rothert, Brian Elieson, Oge O, Weronika Falkowska, Nevin Spoljaric, Sid Chanpuriya, Anoop Varghese, David Yastremski, Noah Webb, Roberto Chena, Oliver Koo, Luke Pisano, Andrea Gordon, Aleksandar Donev, Nicole Klau Ibarra, Jesse Lira, Ezekiel Raui, Petr Vacek, Dennis, Olivia Fu, Kari Teffeau, Cindy Lai, Rajath Durgada Manjunath, and Dan Nguyen.
---
I heard this woman singing classical music and everything for me changed. It was that profound. It was such an incredibly impactful happening, that that day I knew that my life changed. That day, it gave my life a whole direction and I thought whatever this is, this is what I want to do.

Hey you! Yes, you. What's that light inside of you? Is it a dream? A beat? A beautiful sound?

A heartbreaking song? Whatever it is, we're here with working musicians to help you grow and share that gift with this wild, wonderful world.

My name is Denyce Graves-Montgomery, and I have spent more than 45 years on the stage as an opera singer. Parallel to that, I have all always been in education and have also taught voice. Even if you're a natural singer and you know how to sing very, very well, some kind of training is going to be necessary. It will involve having some external ears, who can listen to your voice and say: your instrument is suited in this range. So in terms of finding your specific voice type, you would go to a teacher or to a coach, and they would give you different vocal exercises up and down the scale to see what's comfortable, and where the voice also shines and where the voice is at its most beautiful.

I'm considered a mezzo soprano. We have the coloratura soprano, which is the highest soprano. Then you have soprano, and then you've got the mezzo sopranos, the altos, the contraltos. Then you have the tenors, the countertenors, the light tenors, dramatic tenors, the heldentenors, all the different classifications, baritones, and then the bases, right? There's a lot to learn about your voice and what your voice is suited for.

There are some young people who come to me, for example, who might start out as mezzos, who might start out as altos, and then we discover that they, in fact, have this incredible range. And that they, you know, are sopranos. It takes time for the voice itself to ripen and to grow, and to be able to get to that point where you're able to cut across a really, really big orchestra. There has to be a certain amount of heft, there has to be a certain amount of steel in the sound to be able to reach to the person sitting in the top balcony in the last row. I am a person who has a big, old honking voice, right?

My forehead and my cheekbones and my nose and all of these incredible resonating cavities which creates great resonance that's able to cut. And when you first start studying, there's the technical part, but that continues throughout the whole of your life. The vocal technique of singing is what we call chiaroscuro. Chiaro, clear, and scuro, which is darker, to create a balanced sound. And to be able to do that, you have to be able to come in contact with what your body is able to do, and that is being able to use your body as the microphone.

And the most important thing is technique, technique, technique, technique. And that would be fundamentally the breath and understanding what that is. And then understanding how to support that in your body, and with your diaphragm and in your rib cage and in the back and in your lower abdomen support. Being able to create that wonderful hollow sound, where you're able to use those resonators, and then the articulators, the tongue and the teeth, and all those different things. If, for example, if you blow up a balloon, you blow the balloon up.

And you fill the balloon with air. If you don't hold on to the mouth of the balloon, all the air will come out and the balloon will fly all over the place. And with singing, what you want to do is make sure that you hold on to the mouth of the balloon. So you create air and you've got to use that air, and then you've got to spend that air, but you got to make sure that you don't use it all up. And so that's the hand on the mouth of the balloon, so that you are able to dole that air out evenly.

So you don't let it all go out on the first phrase, but you're able to gauge that breath and spend that breath throughout the different phrases. The bottom line, the bottom, bottom, bottom line: if it isn't real, we know. It has to be real, it has to be honest. That is the thing that is transformative for people when they go to the theater. People come and they're riveted because they're seeing something in real time happen that is authentic.

And that's the thing that changes people's lives. The truth. The truth.