---
video_title: "Inside the mind of a drummer | Think Like A Musician"
video_id: yYPnos84NDY
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yYPnos84NDY
video_date: 2025-10-09T15:01:56+00:00
video_description: |
  Drummers Tony Succar, Matt Flynn, Matt Tong, and Matt Johnson share what it takes to improve your skills and find your rhythm.
  
  --
  
  "Think Like A Musician" connects you with working musicians who want to help the music-curious and music-passionate hone and share the gift of music with the world. Part interview, part animated course, our first season "Think Like A Performer" features artists sharing their insight on the ins and outs of fine-tuning your instrument and crafting a great performance. 
  
  Each episode features free supplemental learning materials developed by Education Through Music (https://etmonline.org) — a nonprofit with over 30 years of experience developing classroom-adaptable curriculum for music educators.
  
  Directed by Kozmonot Animation Studio.
  
  A special thanks to the musicians who provided their insights and expertise for this video. You can check out their pages here: 
  https://www.youtube.com/@TonySuccar
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/inside-the-mind-of-a-drummer-think-like-a-musician
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/inside-the-mind-of-a-drummer-think-like-a-musician/digdeeper
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Carsten Tobehn, Katie Dean, Ezgi Yersu, Gerald Onyango, alessandra tasso, Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, Phyllis Dubrow, Ophelia Gibson Best, Paul Schneider, Joichiro Yamada, Henrique Cassús, Karthik Cherala, Clarence E. Harper Jr., Vignan Velivela, Ana Maria, Exal Enrique Cisneros Tuch, Tejas Dc, Khalifa Alhulail, Martin Stephen, Jose Henrique Leopoldo e Silva, Mandeep Singh, Abhijit Kiran Valluri, Morgan Williams, Devin Harris, Pavel Zalevskiy, Karen Goepen-Wee, Filip Dabrowski, Barbara Smalley, Megan Douglas, Tim Leistikow, Ka-Hei Law, Hiroshi Uchiyama, Mark Morris, Misaki Sato, EdoKun, SookKwan Loong, Bev Millar, Lex Azevedo, Michael Aquilina, Jason A Saslow, Yansong Li, Cristóbal Moenne, Dawn Jordan, Prasanth Mathialagan, Samuel Doerle, David Rosario, and Dominik Kugelmann - they-them.
---
My first teacher sat me down, and the very first beat I ever played was: boom bap, boom bap. I’m Matt Johnson— groove number two for TED. And he’s like, that’s the simplest beat, basically in the world. But you will never master it. And he was right.

Hey, you! Yes, you. Is there music inside of you? We’ve recruited working musicians from throughout the industry to help you hear it, hold it, and share it with this wild and wonderful world. I got started playing music at a very young age because of my parents.

We had a family band, so at age 13 I started to play drums with the family band. I remember hearing KC and The Sunshine Band when I was five. It's one of my earliest memories, actually, and I was like, what is that? And knew kind of instantly that I wanted to pursue drumming. I really liked watching footage of Jerry Lee Lewis and Little Richard as a kid, whenever they came on TV, I was always very excited by the flamboyance and the showmanship and what have you.

And I kind of just wanted to be a piano player playing loud music. I was a very mediocre piano player, but it was definitely a great entry into other instruments subsequently then. I got my first drum lesson when I was about 10 years old, and I remember going home with my dad in the car and saying, well he told me to practice, I think, for 20 minutes a day, and I was like, well I’m going to practice for 40 minutes a day! You know, I'm going to double the time and get, you know, twice as good. I remember feeling very inspired at the end of the lesson.

The role of the drummer in the band is basically the heartbeat of the band. Spinal cord of the entire body and keeping everybody together. It’s basically teaming up with the bass players to form, almost the sort of bedrock of a song and create a foundation upon which the other stuff is added— the melodic stuff, the guitars, keys, singing, et cetera, et cetera. If you have somebody that's a little wishy washy on the drums, the band does not sound good at all. And everybody’s kind of tentative.

It’s hard to dig in when you don’t have a consistent timekeeper. If you're a drummer, that's the thing that keeps you up at night. And that’s the thing that, if you screw it up, everyone can hear. And you have to make sure that you are perfectly on time and you’re keeping that time and your emotions are not forcing you to speed up or slow down. Because everybody in the band will be performing to you.

I’ve always had a tendency to pick up the pace a little bit, or play a bit more frenetically during an exciting moment in the song. I think I would be disingenuous as a performer if I didn’t allow what was happening to affect me in some way. The reason that there are all these great rock bands back then is really attributed a lot to the drummer’s style. Like John Bonham with Led Zeppelin has his style, and that’s why Zeppelin sounds like Zeppelin. And then you have Keith Moon and The Who— he’s crazy and wild.

It's not just about hitting the drum and playing a pattern. It’s connecting with it as if it was a part of your soul.

Rudiments are sort of like the periodic chart of drumming. There’s a, I mean, a gazillion rudiments. They’re sticking patterns, essentially. So, a five stroke roll is a left, left, right, right, left, right, right, left, left, right. It’s almost like kung fu: right, left, right, right, left, left.

Usually the next thing you learn is foundational grooves. Groove is basically like a rhythmic signature of a piece of music.

That’s it— right? So that’s the groove. Just a four bar groove is— you could just loop it, loop it, loop it, and it will make people dance.

Unbelievably primal groove— that’s a rock groove that will sound different with every single drummer that plays it.

You really just need the hi-hat, snare, and the kick for most grooves. Then you can add tom-toms— those are for fills and for accents. And you can do a million things with drums. The drumming world is an endless world of possibilities because there’s just so many types of drums. You have the traditional drum set, and then you have the classical percussion world, the Latin percussion world: timbales, the congas, the bongo.

So many different things. But it’s all based on one principle: rhythm. I think it's important to learn the basic stuff, but it’s just as important to practice and to play with people. Don’t play just in your bedroom— you need to play with people. That's the most important thing.

The sooner you can get out, play with people. Because that really informs your playing better than anything else. I believe a good drum instructor will strongly advise any new musician or new drummer to actually practice with a metronome.

You’re just like, oh my god, this is not inspirational. But, the more you practice with it, is the more you’re going to internalize how to keep time. I just make sure every day that I go in and play for at least a half an hour, just to keep the signals between my brain and my limbs open. At the end of the day, yes, it can be mathematical because one bar has eight beats. You know, you could keep subdividing it: 8, 16, 32.

Just subdividing it more. But you have to be able to feel it, it’s about the feel. It’s about this cadence that sometimes is not a 100% squared. It just takes you. What seems like something that might be good on paper doesn’t necessarily translate once you’re actually trying to do it in the room.

So you’re continually listening and just trying to trust your own judgment and actually how it just makes you feel.

Somehow my algorithm figured out I'm a drummer and I get a lot of clips of people who are amazing, the best drummer you’ve ever seen, but then there’s another one is even better. And it's easy to get discouraged. For your own peace of mind, you have to try and filter out that stuff and just focus on whatever it is you’re doing and try to figure out what your strengths are and further develop whatever voice it is you have. It's about doing it over and over and over again. So it doesn’t matter who you play with, as long as you play.

You’re never too cool for anything. Just play, play, play, play.