---
video_title: "Your phone’s camera isn’t as good as you think - Rachel Yang"
video_id: 7dm2AsJ3-E8
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7dm2AsJ3-E8
video_date: 2025-10-02T15:00:59+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn more at https://brilliant.org/TedEd
  
  --
  
  When the Visualphone VP210 hit the market in 1999, it advertised a never-before-seen feature: a camera. With only .11 megapixels, the Visualphone is a relic compared to modern devices. But while this technology has improved dramatically, engineers are rapidly approaching a hard limit on phone camera quality. So, what's limiting them? Rachel Yang shares a snapshot of how digital cameras work.
  
  Lesson by Rachel Yang, directed by Vicente Numpaque, Hernando Bahamon, Globizco Studios.
  
  This video made possible in collaboration with Brilliant
  Learn more about how TED-Ed partnerships work: https://bit.ly/TEDEdPartner
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-do-smartphones-need-multiple-cameras-rachel-yang
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-do-smartphones-need-multiple-cameras-rachel-yang/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.globizcostudios.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Michel-Ange Hortegat, Enes Kirimi, Amaury BISIAUX, ND, Samyogita Hardikar, Vanessa Graulich, Vandana Gunwani, Abdulmohsin Almadi, AJ Lyon, Geoffrey Bultitude, Mi Mi, Thomas Rothert, Brian Elieson, Oge O, Weronika Falkowska, Nevin Spoljaric, Sid Chanpuriya, Anoop Varghese, David Yastremski, Noah Webb, Roberto Chena, Oliver Koo, Luke Pisano, Andrea Gordon, Aleksandar Donev, Nicole Klau Ibarra, Jesse Lira, Ezekiel Raui, Petr Vacek, Dennis, Olivia Fu, Kari Teffeau, Cindy Lai, Rajath Durgada Manjunath, Dan Nguyen, Chin Beng Tan, Tom Boman, Karen Warner, Iryna Panasiuk, Aaron Torres, Eric Braun, Sonja Worzewski, Michael Clement, Adam Berry, Ghaith Tarawneh, Nathan Milford, Tomas Beckett, Alice Ice, Eric Berman, and Kurt Paolo Sevillano.
---
When the Visualphone VP210 hit the market in 1999, it advertised a never-before-seen feature: a camera. With only 0.11 megapixels and storage for 20 photos, the Visualphone is a relic compared to modern devices sporting three distinct cameras, each with up to 100 times more resolution. But while this technology has improved dramatically in the 21st century, engineers are rapidly approaching a hard limit on phone camera quality. To understand this limit, we first need to know how phone cameras work.

Just like any other digital camera, when your phone takes a picture, light enters through its lens. This lens focuses the light onto an image sensor covered in a grid of photosites— microscopic light sensors roughly 100 times smaller than a grain of sand. There are millions of these sensors, and each one is covered by a red, green, or blue filter, allowing it to measure how much of that color is in the light hitting its location. Then these measurements are simplified, rounding them to less detailed numbers. This step sacrifices some data, thus lowering the final images’ quality, but it’s essential for the camera’s processor.

This computer can only handle so much information as it decrypts the three sets of color data to assemble a digital recreation of the image. While the quality of this final photo depends on every part of the camera, nothing determines the look of a digital picture more than the image sensor. And engineers judge the quality of image sensors based on their performance in three areas. The first is resolution, or level of detail. Sensors with higher numbers of photosites offer better resolution, as the camera can collect more granular light data.

Second and third are dynamic range and noise. Dynamic range is the span from light to dark within a single photo, and noise is the graininess that can come from poor lighting, long exposure times, or an overheating camera. Both these factors can be improved by using larger photosites, which can capture more light overall. This wider range of data helps processors better measure the intensity of the incoming light, adding contrast and reducing noise. Simply put, to make better digital cameras, you need image sensors with higher numbers of larger photosites.

Engineers know this. In fact, it’s basically how they’ve made the best cameras humanity have: giant telescopes that take photos of deep space. But phones don't even have as much sensor space as a standard DSLR camera, let alone the surface area of a massive telescope. In fact, most phone camera sensors are no larger than a pea. Fortunately, these devices have a technological trick to compensate for their cameras’ tiny size: powerful processors.

When you snap a picture on your phone, this pocket-computer starts running complex algorithms, which often begin by secretly taking a string of photos in rapid succession. The algorithms then manipulate these pictures, using math to perfectly align them and identify their best parts before combining the images into one high-quality photo. The end result is an image with less noise, wider dynamic range, and higher resolution than its sensors should be able to achieve. This approach is known as computational photography, and advances here are likely how phone companies will continue to advertise increasingly better cameras without improving their image sensors. Today, these algorithms often leverage machine learning, where phones learn to improve your shots based on patterns found in massive photo databases.

For example, night mode prioritizes dynamic range and noise reduction, while portrait mode tells your phone to focus on a central subject and blur the background. Machine learning also allows our phones to do the opposite, unblurring faces to grab quick candid shots. And newer programs can even help you remove unwanted elements altogether. So, with the help of software, even phones with the smallest cameras can snap crisp, detailed photos of loved ones, spectacular views, and of course, lots and lots of food.