---
video_title: "Japan's most famous ghost story - Jeffrey Angles"
video_id: 56F0Y33QZnQ
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=56F0Y33QZnQ
video_date: 2025-10-28T15:00:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Get to know the Japanese legend of Hōichi the earless, a monk summoned by a mysterious samurai to perform songs of past battles.
  
  --
  
  Long ago, a temple was built near the site of a naval battle that concluded the long and gruesome conflict known as the Genpei Wars. For centuries after, performers throughout the country honored this tragic past in beautiful, haunting performances. But the most skilled storyteller of all was a monk from this very temple. Jeffrey Angles digs into the Japanese legend of Hōichi the earless.
  
  Lesson by Jeffrey Angles, directed by Masayoshi Nakamura, Good General.
  Music and sound design by Zak Engel.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/the-japanese-legend-of-the-phantom-samurai-jeffrey-angles
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/the-japanese-legend-of-the-phantom-samurai-jeffrey-angles/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://goodgeneral.com
  Music and sound design: https://www.zakengel.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Doug Henry, Keven Webb, Mihai Sandu, Deepak Iyer, Javid Gozalov, Kyanta Yap, Rebecca Reineke, William Biersdorf, Patricia Alves Panagides, Yvette Mocete, Cyrus Garay, Samuel Barbas, LadyGeek, Marin Kovachev, Penelope Misquitta, Hans Peng, Gaurav Mathur, Erik Biemans, Tony, Michelle, Katie and Josh Pedretti, Hoai Nam Tran, Kack-Kyun Kim, Michael Braun-Boghos, zjweele13, Anna-Pitschna Kunz, Edla Paniguel, Thomas Mungavan, Jaron Blackburn, Venkat Venkatakrishnan, ReuniteKorea, Aaron Henson, Rohan Gupta, Begum Tutuncu, Brian Richards, Jørgen Østerpart, Tyron Jung, Carsten Tobehn, Katie Dean, Ezgi Yersu, Gerald Onyango, alessandra tasso, Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, Phyllis Dubrow, Ophelia Gibson Best, Paul Schneider, Joichiro Yamada, Henrique Cassús, and Karthik Cherala.
---
Long ago, on the shores of southern Japan, a temple was built near the site of a naval battle that concluded a long and gruesome conflict. The Genpei Wars, fought in the 12th century between the rebellious Minamoto warriors and the ruling Taira clan, had taken countless lives. And for centuries after, performers throughout the country honored this tragic past in beautiful, haunting performances. But legend has it the most skilled storyteller of all is a monk from this very temple. Hōichi was a biwa-hōshi— a blind performer who sang songs of battle while playing an instrument called the biwa.

When he told the temple's tale, his voice rose and fell like soldiers in battle, his instrument becoming one with the crashing waves and crashing blades. One night, a samurai pounded at the temple doors, demanding the biwa-hōshi’s presence. When Hōichi answered, the samurai said he'd been sent to bring the monk to his master, a nobleman eager to hear Hōichi’s performance. The monk agreed to follow the samurai. However, as they walked, the ground seemed to twist and turn beneath his feet.

Hōichi lost all sense of where and how long he had traveled, when suddenly, they arrived at an imposing building. Stepping into the hall, Hōichi felt countless eyes watching him from the shadows. Then a voice boomed from the depths of the room, demanding he recount the tale of the Taira clan's horrific end. Hōichi trembled. But then he cleared his throat and plucked his first note.

He sang of a war so terrible it had torn Japan apart. He sang of the Minamoto clan, who staged a bloodthirsty rebellion against the Taira. He sang about the endless battles, and how as the Taira’s losses mounted, they fled to the southern shores to protect their emperor— a child only six years old. Finally, he sang of their defeat. How when they were trapped and overwhelmed by their rival’s forces, the emperor’s grandmother threw herself and her grandson into the sea.

When Hōichi finished, sounds of weeping filled the air. The nobleman's voice rang out, commanding Hōichi to return and retell his tale for six more nights. In exchange, he would be rewarded handsomely— so long as he kept those visits secret. The monk agreed, and for several nights Hōichi walked with the samurai through the shadows. While he said nothing of this to the other monks, one evening the head priest noticed Hōichi’s absence.

He ordered his servants to watch the young musician, and that night they saw Hōichi rise from his bed and creep outside the temple walls. To their astonishment, he settled in the nearby graveyard and began performing while surrounded by floating balls of ghostly fire. The terrified servants dragged Hōichi to the head priest, and upon hearing their story, their leader was filled with dread. He announced that Hōichi had been summoned by the ghosts of the Taira themselves. And if he appeared before them again, he would surely perish.

To protect the biwa-hōshi, the head priest painted Buddhist sutras all over Hōichi’s body as a form of mystical protection. He also told the monk that no matter who he encountered that night, he must remain completely still and silent. That evening, when the phantom samurai arrived to collect Hōichi, the sutras rendered the monk’s body invisible to the specter. The samurai was about to lash out in a furious rage when he spotted two floating ears. In his haste, the head priest had forgotten to protect Hōichi’s ears, and screeching with anger, the samurai cut them from the monk's body.

But despite the pain, Hōichi remained still and silent. The biwa-hōshi’s blood-curdling experience became known far and wide. People rushed to hear him recount the trials of the Taira and his encounter with their souls. And while Hōichi was never visited by ghosts again, his performances reminded listeners of their sacrifices and suffering. Today, Hōichi’s tale is one of Japan’s best-known ghost stories.

His statue can be found among stones commemorating the fallen Taira warriors, reminding us to both honor the past and avoid getting trapped in the cycles of history.