---
video_title: "Are vampire bats dangerous? - Imran Razik"
video_id: H5DhD5Nwl_0
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H5DhD5Nwl_0
video_date: 2025-10-14T15:00:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Follow the nighttime routine of a vampire bat as it hunts for prey, and find out how these unique creatures work together to survive.
  
  --
  
  Vampire bats are the only mammals to subsist on blood alone. Their ancient ancestors might have eaten parasites and insects off larger animals until vampire bats began feeding directly from those animals themselves. So, how do these nocturnal creatures find their sustenance? And what animals do they most commonly target? Imran Razik follows the nighttime routine of a vampire bat as she hunts.
  
  Lesson by Imran Razik, directed by Sharon Colman.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-vampire-bats-drink-your-blood-without-you-noticing-imran-razik
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/how-vampire-bats-drink-your-blood-without-you-noticing-imran-razik/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.sharoncolman.com
  Music: https://soundgoods.tv
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Siamak Hajizadeh, Ryohky Araya, Mayank Kaul, Christophe Dessalles, Heather Slater, Sandra Tersluisen, Zhexi Shan, Bárbara Nazaré, Andrea Feliz, Victor E Karhel, Sydney Evans, Latora, Noel Situ, emily lam, Sid, Niccolò Frassetto, Mana, I'm here because of Knowledge Fight Facebook group., Linda Freedman, Edgardo Cuellar, Jaspar Carmichael-Jack, Michael Burton, VIVIANA A GARCIA BESNE, The Vernon's, Olha Bahatiuk, Jesús Bíquez Talayero, Chels Raknrl, Sai Pranavi Jonnalagadda, Stuart Rice, Jing Chen, Vector-Dopamine math, Jasper Song, Giorgio Bugnatelli, Chardon, Eddy Trochez, OnlineBookClub.org, Eric Shear, Leith Salem, Omar Hicham, Adrian Rotaru, Brad Sullivan, Karen Ho, Niklas Frimberger, Hunter Manhart, Nathan Nguyen, Igor Stavchanskiy, James R DeVries, Grace Huo, Diana Huang, and Chau Hong Diem.
---
As dawn settles on the Amazon, a bat opens wide and vomits blood into its companion's mouth. And it’s not the first time they’ve shared a meal. Vampire bats are the only mammals to subsist on blood alone. Their ancient ancestors might have eaten parasites and insects off larger animals till vampire bats began feeding directly from those larger animals themselves. There are three vampire bat species, all of which inhabit the warmer regions of Central and South America.

Two of the three species— hairy-legged and white-winged vampire bats— more often prey on birds, quietly creeping up tree branches while they roost. But the most abundant vampire bat species is the aptly named common vampire bat. Following the nighttime routine of one such bat, we see that she sets out in pitch black, mapping her surroundings with ultrasonic sound waves. Common vampire bats are opportunistic hunters that have been observed to feed from snakes, sea lions, and pelicans, but they mostly take their meals from land mammals. And with the spread of agricultural areas, they increasingly target livestock.

They've also been known to prey on humans, which carries dangers beyond just their bite. Bats are highly effective at dodging infections themselves, but they still carry pathogens. Vampire bats can transmit the rabies virus, making it all the more important that people living around them are protected, with measures like bat-proof sleeping shelters and vaccines. This night, the vampire bat homes in on a dozing pig. She cautiously swoops down and hops around to assess the situation's riskiness.

With powerful, long forelimbs and thumbs, she can stand, jump, and even run on all fours. In fact, the vampire bats’ forelimb-powered bounding gait is wholly unique among animals. She uses specialized heat-sensing receptors to detect the warm blood running beneath the skin’s surface. And she finds a spot where she’s less likely to get caught, protecting herself from possible reprisal— and from starvation as she races the clock. She delicately pierces the pig’s skin with her curved, razor-sharp incisors.

They have less protective enamel than most mammal teeth, and the friction between the upper incisors and lower canines helps keep them particularly pointy. In fact, vampire bats may have the animal kingdom’s sharpest incisors. Her saliva also contains a cocktail of proteins secreted from six glands in her neck. It keeps the blood flowing by preventing platelets from clumping and plasma proteins from turning solid, while also dilating the pig’s vessels and dissolving existing blood clots. She laps the flowing blood, the notch in her lower jaw shunting the liquid into two channels underneath her tongue.

While blood is relatively nutrient poor, consisting mostly of water and some protein, her body and microbiome eke out what it offers. But she also has a fast metabolism and needs to replenish her energy stores quickly. A common vampire bat will perish without food for more than two nights. Ideally, she would stay stealth long enough to take in a little over a tablespoon of the pig’s blood. Then she’d be in good shape.

But the pig starts suddenly, throwing her off. Dodging its trampling hooves, the vampire bat propels herself back into the night air. She tries to feed again, but each interruption puts her at greater risk. Thankfully, she doesn't live alone, and even though it's a considerable sacrifice, one of her companions throws her a lifeline— coughing up the hard-won results of her own high-stakes hunting heist and making it dinner for two. This isn’t uncommon.

Vampire bats under two years old tend to miss a meal as much as once every three nights as they learn the ropes. So, their colonies rely on these rather extreme acts of cooperation to survive; without them, it’s thought their mortality rates would increase dramatically. Vampire bat colonies are networks of intimate grooming and food-sharing bonds— that go beyond blood, so to speak. A strong history of reciprocal food sharing and grooming can be even more important than relatedness when a vampire bat is deciding whether to donate a meal or respond to a contact call. So, thanks to her community, the bat survives, primed to regurgitate the favor in the future.