---
video_title: "Is it really that bad to eat cookie dough? - Emma Bryce"
video_id: nQf-lystVn4
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQf-lystVn4
video_date: 2025-09-25T15:03:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore how Salmonella spreads from chickens to humans, and learn how this crafty microscopic pathogen makes us sick.
  
  --
  
  Salmonella infects millions worldwide each year, causing fever, stomach cramps, and diarrhea. And these effects can be extreme: Salmonella is the leading cause of hospitalizations and deaths from food poisoning. So, how does it spread from chickens to humans? And how does it make us sick? Emma Bryce follows the journey of this crafty pathogen from farm to plate.
  
  Lesson by Emma Bryce, directed by Denys Spolitak.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/is-it-really-that-bad-to-eat-cookie-dough-emma-bryce
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/is-it-really-that-bad-to-eat-cookie-dough-emma-bryce/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://vimeo.com/denysspolitak
  Music: https://www.campstudio.co
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Kack-Kyun Kim, Michael Braun-Boghos, zjweele13, Anna-Pitschna Kunz, Edla Paniguel, Thomas Mungavan, Jaron Blackburn, Venkat Venkatakrishnan, ReuniteKorea, Aaron Henson, Rohan Gupta, Begum Tutuncu, Brian Richards, Jørgen Østerpart, Tyron Jung, Carsten Tobehn, Katie Dean, Ezgi Yersu, Gerald Onyango, alessandra tasso, Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, Phyllis Dubrow, Ophelia Gibson Best, Paul Schneider, Joichiro Yamada, Henrique Cassús, Karthik Cherala, Clarence E. Harper Jr., Vignan Velivela, Ana Maria, Exal Enrique Cisneros Tuch, Tejas Dc, Khalifa Alhulail, Martin Stephen, Jose Henrique Leopoldo e Silva, Mandeep Singh, Abhijit Kiran Valluri, Morgan Williams, Devin Harris, Pavel Zalevskiy, Karen Goepen-Wee, Filip Dabrowski, Barbara Smalley, Megan Douglas, Tim Leistikow, Ka-Hei Law, and Hiroshi Uchiyama.
---
Somewhere on a farm in Iowa in 2010, a hen lays an egg. In just a few short weeks, this egg will be part of a massive infection event: thousands of people will fall ill, millions of eggs will be recalled, and several egg industry titans will ultimately land in jail, all thanks to a microscopic but mighty bacterium. Salmonella infects millions worldwide each year, causing fever, stomach cramps, and diarrhea. And these effects can be extreme: Salmonella is the leading cause of hospitalizations and deaths from food poisoning. So, let’s follow this microbe to find out how it makes so many people sick.

We begin in the chicken's digestive tract, a major source of all Salmonella infections. In chickens, Salmonella bacteria often go undetected, allowing them to spread to eggs either through the developing yolk or by passing through feces, which can then contaminate shells. Under unhygienic farming conditions, this Salmonella-laden feces may also infect or contaminate other animals and crops, causing various food-linked outbreaks. Meanwhile, chicken meat can be exposed to intestinal Salmonella during processing. On its journey from farm to plate, the microbe can survive extreme cold, wet, and dry conditions.

However, once it moves into a human body, Salmonella reveals its true talents for survival. The first hurdle is the stomach. Here, most bacterial invaders are killed off by stomach acid. But Salmonella cells can detect acidic conditions, which triggers the production of acid shock proteins. These molecules shield the bacteria from damage just long enough for it to pass into the intestines.

Salmonella then faces the next gauntlet, as intestinal cells swiftly unleash microbe-destroying immune cells. But once again, the bacteria detect these changes with inbuilt sensors. And embedded within Salmonella’s genome are pathogenicity islands, clusters of adaptive genes that launch the next phase of attack. They signal the construction of a specialized system that resembles a needle and syringe. Within seconds, it injects molecules called effector proteins into the intestinal cells, causing them to change their structure and swallow up the Salmonella.

Once inside, Salmonella can then exploit the cell machinery to replicate and spread. But these invaded intestinal cells don’t go down without a fight— as soon as this breach begins, they release cytokines, chemical messengers that prompt the immune system to launch into action. Fleets of white blood cells seek out and destroy Salmonella microbes and infected cells. This inflammatory response is also what leads to symptoms like abdominal pains and fever. And it further damages the breached intestinal cells, limiting their usual ability to absorb water.

So, whatever’s in the digestive tract gets released in watery diarrhea. While this inflammatory response may feel unpleasant, it effectively purges Salmonella from the body within 2 to 7 days for most people, without the need for antibiotics. But there are times when a Salmonella infection may require more treatment. It can lead to severe dehydration, particularly in children and older patients. And in some unusual cases, Salmonella can continue to spread through the body, hiding inside immune cells, invading other organs and tissues, and even poisoning the blood.

These cases occur if a person is infected by a rare but powerful type of Salmonella called S. typhi. Unlike other strains, S. typhi doesn’t infect chickens— It spreads from person to person, mainly via poor sanitation and untreated drinking water. Although it’s uncommon in many parts of the world, typhoid fever, the disease that S. typhi causes, still kills over 100,000 people yearly.

Thankfully, there are vaccines to prevent infection by S. typhi. To avoid milder variants, there are steps that everyone can take, like washing your hands, avoiding unpasteurized milk, and cooking meat and eggs thoroughly. Cookie dough should be off limits: raw eggs and flour both carry a Salmonella risk. And there are ways to stop Salmonella at its source.

Investigations into the outbreak in 2010 revealed one company's dark history of unhygienic farming conditions, bribery of health officials, and mislabeled eggs. Since then, the United States has taken steps to put stricter regulations in place. In Europe, many countries have successfully reduced Salmonella by requiring testing on farms and before products reach shelves. But there's still work to be done if we want to stop the spread of this incredibly crafty pathogen.