---
video_title: "Scientists still don't know the answer to this infamous question - Charles Wallace & Dan Kwartler"
video_id: 3ezPMAoxSbw
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ezPMAoxSbw
video_date: 2025-12-09T16:01:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn more at https://brilliant.org/TedEd
  
  --
  
  In 1980, philosopher John Searle developed a thought experiment in response to AI advancement at the time. His aim was to interrogate whether a programmed computer has cognitive states, and asked: if a computer looks like it understands something, does that mean it actually understands the way a human does? Charles Wallace and Dan Kwartler explore whether or not AI could have a mind like ours.
  
  Lesson by Charles Wallace and Dan Kwartler, directed by Hernando Bahamon, Vicente Numpaque, Globizco Studios.
  
  This video made possible in collaboration with Brilliant
  Learn more about how TED-Ed partnerships work: https://bit.ly/TEDEdPartner
  
  The AI-generated animation at 3:24 and 5:23 were created using ChatGPT, Gemini, MidJourney, Sora, and Kling.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/scientists-still-dont-know-the-answer-to-this-infamous-question-charles-wallace-dan-kwartler
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/scientists-still-dont-know-the-answer-to-this-infamous-question-charles-wallace-dan-kwartler/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.globizcostudios.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Liz Candee, Ugur Doga Sezgin, Karmi Nguyen, John C. Vesey, Yelena Baykova, Nick Johnson, Carlos H. Costa, Jennifer Kurkoski, Ryan B Harvey, Akinola Emmanuel, Jose Arcadio Valdes Franco, Sebastiaan Vleugels, Karl Laius, JY Kang, Abhishek Goel, Heidi Stolt, Nicole Sund, Karlee Finch, Mario Mejia, Denise A Pitts, Doug Henry, Keven Webb, Mihai Sandu, Deepak Iyer, Javid Gozalov, Kyanta Yap, Rebecca Reineke, William Biersdorf, Patricia Alves Panagides, Yvette Mocete, Cyrus Garay, Samuel Barbas, LadyGeek, Marin Kovachev, Penelope Misquitta, Hans Peng, Gaurav Mathur, Erik Biemans, Tony, Michelle, Katie and Josh Pedretti, Hoai Nam Tran, Kack-Kyun Kim, Michael Braun-Boghos, zjweele13, Anna-Pitschna Kunz, Edla Paniguel, Thomas Mungavan, Jaron Blackburn, Venkat Venkatakrishnan, ReuniteKorea, and Aaron Henson.
---
After waking up alone in a locked room, two documents are slipped under your door: a note in an alien language and a detailed instruction manual in your language. The manual explains that for each alien character in the note, you should write an indicated corresponding symbol. Following this chart, you write a response that you slip out the door. And for the next several days, this exchange continues. Outside the room, alien scientists are thrilled because they believe you’re conversing with them.

But you still have no idea what these characters mean. This scenario isn’t just a bizarre misunderstanding— it’s a valuable thought experiment for understanding artificial intelligence. Philosopher John Searle developed the original version of this premise in 1980, as a response to some of the AI work being done at the time. But while modern AI models don't work like those outdated machines or the prisoner in Searle’s hypothetical, the question motivating his thought experiment is still relevant. To quote Searle, he wanted to interrogate whether an “appropriately programmed computer literally has cognitive states.”

In other words, if a computer looks like it understands something, does that mean it actually understands the way a human does? Searle’s question falls into a long tradition of exploring whether or not AI could have a mind like ours. But answering these inquiries is incredibly difficult because, as philosophers and cognitive scientists will tell you, we still don’t know how our minds work. Even our fundamental definitions are slippery! Theorists generally agree that concepts like understanding, sentience, and consciousness are all different, but also that they’re related, and we don’t know how.

Worse still, our usual scientific tools struggle to help us understand these experiences. Consider drinking a cup of coffee. Scientists can observe the physical process of ingesting the coffee, and we can measure the chemical impacts of caffeine on your body. These things are objective realities. But your collective sensation of smelling, sipping, evaluating, and experiencing a morning routine is more than the sum of its parts.

This is consciousness— your subjective experience of being alive. And despite major leaps in psychology, cognitive science, and neurology, researchers still don’t know how various firing neurons bring about this experience. So if we can't define consciousness and understanding or identify what's uniquely human about them, how can we possibly test for these states in computers? Assessments like the Turing Test propose that if a human can't tell they're conversing with a computer, that computer could be seen as having some internal cognition. But this scenario is exactly what Searle was criticizing!

This computer might just have the appearance of understanding. And just like cognitive scientists struggling to map consciousness onto brain activity, today’s AI researchers know how they trained their creations, but not how AIs reach their exact conclusions. There are some ways in which modern machine learning models are less mysterious than their predecessors. Approaches like neural networks and deep learning are designed to mimic known elements of human cognition. Like us, these models excel at pattern recognition— they learn by becoming familiar with information and forming connections across data sets.

This kind of processing arguably approaches Searle’s definition of understanding— but it also reveals a bias in his original question. Since humans learn through pattern recognition and we believe ourselves to be conscious, we might also be predisposed to think other beings who learn the same way are somehow closer to consciousness as well. To combat this bias, some theorists have developed a different metric; specifically, that a fully conscious AI could draw connections beyond the information in its data set. For example, one lab’s “artificial consciousness test” probes AIs that have no data about consciousness for information they could only acquire from being conscious. This might involve asking an AI if it understands dreaming, or can report having had dreams itself.

Can it understand a story about body swapping, where consciousnesses are shuffled between physical forms? It’s unclear when or if an AI will be able to understand us the way we understand each other. But whatever happens, it’s up to us already conscious creatures to chart the path forward.