---
video_title: "How to become a great singer | Think Like A Musician"
video_id: YtCpZnBhWZ0
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtCpZnBhWZ0
video_date: 2025-10-30T15:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Professional vocalists share how to give a great vocal performance by experimenting with styles, training, and taking care of your voice.
  
  --
  
  "Think Like A Musician" connects you with working musicians who want to help the music-curious and music-passionate hone and share the gift of music with the world. Part interview, part animated course, our first season "Think Like A Performer" features artists sharing their insight on the ins and outs of fine-tuning your instrument and crafting a great performance. 
  
  Each episode features free supplemental learning materials developed by Education Through Music (https://etmonline.org) — a nonprofit with over 30 years of experience developing classroom-adaptable curriculum for music educators.
  
  Directed by Kozmonot Animation Studio.
  
  A special thanks to the musicians who provided their insights and expertise for this video. You can check out their pages here: 
  https://www.youtube.com/@Breland
  https://www.youtube.com/user/benharper
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMZsFzIPvqSsOL_ta-zZq2g
  https://www.youtube.com/@davidarchie
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZOWzC1SZPiIRRr52fdabvw
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4IGqi6jnpDTct8_ij6LBag 
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/what-makes-someone-a-good-singer-think-like-a-musician
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/what-makes-someone-a-good-singer-think-like-a-musician/digdeeper
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Clarence E. Harper Jr., Vignan Velivela, Ana Maria, Exal Enrique Cisneros Tuch, Tejas Dc, Khalifa Alhulail, Martin Stephen, Jose Henrique Leopoldo e Silva, Mandeep Singh, Abhijit Kiran Valluri, Morgan Williams, Devin Harris, Pavel Zalevskiy, Karen Goepen-Wee, Filip Dabrowski, Barbara Smalley, Megan Douglas, Tim Leistikow, Ka-Hei Law, Hiroshi Uchiyama, Mark Morris, Misaki Sato, EdoKun, SookKwan Loong, Bev Millar, Lex Azevedo, Michael Aquilina, Jason A Saslow, Yansong Li, Cristóbal Moenne, Dawn Jordan, Prasanth Mathialagan, Samuel Doerle, David Rosario, Dominik Kugelmann - they-them, Siamak Hajizadeh, Ryohky Araya, Mayank Kaul, Christophe Dessalles, Heather Slater, Sandra Tersluisen, Zhexi Shan, Bárbara Nazaré, Andrea Feliz, Victor E Karhel, Sydney Evans, Latora, Noel Situ, emily lam, and Sid.
---
Not only am I humming on an airplane, I’m also the friend you’ll be walking with and I’ll be like, (singing) voo-zhhh. The instruments on your body; you just play it all day, you know what I mean? Hey, you! Yes, you. Is there music inside of you?

We’ve recruited working musicians from throughout the industry to help you hear it, hold it, and share it with this wild and wonderful world. My parents met in a gospel choir, they’re both gospel singers. And they always joke that, in the Breland family, if you can't sing, you'll get sent back. My dad showed me a tape of a musical called “Les Miserables,” and I got hooked. I was the new girl at a lot of schools, and I would just take my guitar to some beautiful location and sing myself into being okay.

The way that I came to singing was through school choir, and it didn't hurt that I was also surrounded by some of the most eccentric singer-songwriters on the planet through my family’s music shop. A great vocal performance is first and foremost feeling. Louis Armstrong does not have a huge range. Nat King Cole— not a huge range. No acrobatics, but you could feel the emotion in the words.

Oftentimes, it’s not the best vocalist that’s going to win on a song. It’s whoever’s voice is able to best convey whatever story it is that they’re telling and whatever emotion it is that they’re trying to convey. Like Alison Krauss, I feel like she's not singing notes. The notes of existence are emanating from her. Someone like a Zach Bryan, who maybe isn’t the best vocalist in the world— and he would tell you that— but he’s telling these stories and you believe him.

And I love Leonard Cohen, who's got this baritone speaking, melodic spoken delivery. And then you get to your Ella Fitzgeralds, who had all the range and they had feeling. So I try to look at other, more acrobatic vocalists like Aretha Franklin, Celine Dion, Beyoncé, Stevie Wonder. I like to hear vocalists reach and explore in real time. I'm so attracted to Brazilian music because there's a certain style of singing in bossa nova, specifically, that’s very intimate.

And it’s like the singers basically whispering into the microphone. I think I was attracted to that because my voice suited it, and also because I didn’t always want to perform loudly, I wanted to write for myself.

The way that I’ve come into singing, and going from learning how to sing as a kid to singing every night on stage, is, for one, I’ve trusted my voice and trusting your range and bravely exploring where your voice can go. Because we’re all born with an instrument. Let’s figure it out, let’s put it through the paces, right. We can all sing “Happy Birthday,” right? But what’s going to make your singing it different from the way I sing it?

It’s how we color it. It's how we phrase it. And there are a myriad of choices that one can make. And that’s why I say you have to be curious and you have to be interested. You have to be excited about all of the many choices that you can have in the way that you tell a story.

Chest voice is the part of your voice that is most natural to speech. So I'm talking here in this chest voice. That’s the voice from your chest, literally. Falsetto is thin and high. So, (singing) heyyyy.

You can hear a flip into falsetto if I go: (singing) ahhhh-ahhh-oooh. You’re kind of thinning out the air. Head voice is when you go high and you mix. So it’s like a, (singing) meee-eaah-eaah. There's a word called squillo in Italian.

It's bringing chest voice up into your upper register. You can project very loudly like, (singing) haaaa! Or you can do something more breathy like, (singing softly) haaaa. Riffs— (singing) mmhmm. All the melismas, I think is the technical word, but not to be used ad nauseam.

You know when someone’s doing too much of that and it’s really annoying, right? Great singers give you the melody and then once in a while— I’m talking to myself— we’ll add a little moment. It's experimentation. Experimentation is a really big part of getting familiar with your instrument. I decide what part of my voice I'm using based on the song.

Based on the moment, based on the lyric, based on the feeling I’m trying to emote, or the intensity I’m trying to put into it. Am I trying to be intimate? Am I trying to be a little sexy? Then I'll use a little bit more of my breathiness in my voice. But if I'm trying to be more energetic and more excited, or more even frustrated, then I’ll get in my higher register and go (singing) naaa-naaa-d-daa-daaa.

And you develop your voice by finding yourself and finding where singing feels natural. I might like singing coloratura mezzo-soprano, but that’s not what my voice likes, and that’s not what my personality likes. My personality likes the fiery, sort of femme fatale women, those bad, bad, bad girls. My dad specifically was like, hmm, I think you should take some voice lessons to hone in your skills and not wear yourself out so quickly. When you practice and your voice cracks, realize that that’s your voice getting stronger.

So it’s important to practice off stage. Because anytime your voice cracks, anytime you make a mistake and you go over it again and it sounds right, that’s actually, the mistake is good. It boils down to: are you comfortable and are you singing and using your vocal muscle in the most natural way possible so that it's not creating damage? I have a really soft voice, and I really like the tone that I hit when I’m soft. And the reason that I like the tone is my vocal folds are barely touching.

But it’s really hard to be accurate with pitch when you’re singing all soft and quiet and cute. When you’re singing all hard and vocal folds touching and strong, you can actually hit the note much easier. And so I learned that I have to actually train in strength, with the vocal folds completely touching. When I train like that constantly, when I go back to singing in this way, with the vocal folds barely touching, I can actually be a lot more accurate with pitch because I’m stronger. So some of the ones that’ll help loosen up your vocal cords can be things like, (rolling lips).

A lip roll or a tongue roll: (rolling tongue). (Vocal exercises) veee-eeeoo, or ooo-ooooh. (Vocal exercises) vvvhhhh. Zzzzhhhh. (Vocal exercises) eee-iii-aaahh, or, ney-ney-ney-ney-ney-ney-ney-ney.

(Vocal exercises) Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-aaahh. Haa-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-aaahhh. And kind of warm my way up. (Vocal exercises) Yeee-eee-eehh-eee. And try to get rid of the little break between the falsetto and the chest voice.

Singing, especially doing a 90-minute set, is a marathon exercise, so you got to treat it as such. The term vocal cord is a misnomer. They're actually folds of muscle. So if you put a lot of pressure or strain on that musculature, you can develop nodes, and nodes will make it painful to sing. They'll limit how malleable and flexible those folds can be.

You want to avoid strain because obviously, like any athlete, if you strain a muscle, you have to take time off. I know that my voice sings better when it's rested. I know that the quality of my voice is better when it stays hydrated. The thing is, I sing every day. So, the daily practice of singing is, in and of itself, a caretaking method because you’re saying to your voice, hey, build up to this stamina.

When I’m on stage and I’m starting to feel the nerves, your voice doesn’t work the same way. So that’s where practice and repetition becomes really important, because I may feel a little nervous, but my voice, for the most part, knows what it needs to do, even in a moment of stress. Your body changes and your voice changes as you continue to grow and to mature. The scariest part to me, though, about exploring one's voice for a lifetime, is that I do feel strongly that, having sung since I was— professionally— since I was 20 years old, to now, I’m 55, I feel like I'm just coming into my voice.