---
video_title: "One big reason that life on Earth exists - Elise Cutts"
video_id: vCbx5jtZ_qI
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCbx5jtZ_qI
video_date: 2025-08-12
video_description: |
  Explore the Big Whack theory, and how the event could have created the Moon and given Earth its all-important axial tilt.
  
  --
  
  4.5 billion years ago, Earth was struck by a rock the size of Mars flying 9 kilometers a second. The force of this collision temporarily turned Earth’s surface into an ocean of molten magma. Today, some scientists call this cosmic crash the Big Whack, and we’re still dealing with the impacts of this impact. Elise Cutts explores the pivotal role Earth’s obliquity plays in our planet's processes.
  
  Lesson by Elise Cutts, directed by Igor Ćorić, Artrake Studio.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-is-earths-tilt-so-important-elise-cutts
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-is-earths-tilt-so-important-elise-cutts/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.artrake.com
  Music: https://www.workplaywork.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, Phyllis Dubrow, Ophelia Gibson Best, Paul Schneider, Joichiro Yamada, Henrique Cassús, Karthik Cherala, Clarence E. Harper Jr., Vignan Velivela, Ana Maria, Exal Enrique Cisneros Tuch, Tejas Dc, Khalifa Alhulail, Martin Stephen, Jose Henrique Leopoldo e Silva, Mandeep Singh, Abhijit Kiran Valluri, Morgan Williams, Devin Harris, Pavel Zalevskiy, Karen Goepen-Wee, Filip Dabrowski, Barbara Smalley, Megan Douglas, Tim Leistikow, Ka-Hei Law, Hiroshi Uchiyama, Mark Morris, Misaki Sato, EdoKun, SookKwan Loong, Bev Millar, Lex Azevedo, Michael Aquilina, Jason A Saslow, Yansong Li, Cristóbal Moenne, Dawn Jordan, Prasanth Mathialagan, Samuel Doerle, David Rosario, Dominik Kugelmann - they-them, Siamak Hajizadeh, Ryohky Araya, Mayank Kaul, Christophe Dessalles, and Heather Slater.
---
4.5 billion years ago, Earth had barely even formed when it was struck by a rock the size of Mars, flying roughly nine kilometers a second. The force of this collision partially vaporized both celestial bodies, temporarily turning the Earth's surface into an ocean of molten magma. Today, some scientists call this cosmic crash the Big Whack. And while our planet has long since cooled off, we’re still dealing with the impacts of this impact.

Not only did the Earth’s moon form from Big Whack debris, this collision quite literally knocked our world off-kilter. Like practically everything in our solar system, the Earth is constantly spinning, and anything that spins does so around a line called an axis. Earth's axis runs between the planet's poles, and our globe completes a rotation around it once a day. However, instead of standing straight up, the Earth does all this at an angle of about 23.5°.

While this axial tilt— also known as Earth’s obliquity— changes slightly over time, it’s largely kept stable by the moon’s gravitational pull. And while this angle might sound small, it has significant effects on our planet. For one thing, obliquity is why Earth has its annual cycle of seasons. To understand this, it helps to imagine a light hitting a flat surface. When the beam strikes the surface head-on, the light is concentrated in one spot.

But when it hits the surface at an angle, the light gets spread out. On a spherical surface, the light will always be hitting some spots more directly than others. Now let's give this sphere a tilt and put it into orbit around the light. As Earth orbits the Sun, the north pole of its axis is always oriented towards the same point in space. So during part of the year, the Northern Hemisphere angles towards the Sun, and light strikes it more directly.

People living in this region experience this as summer. Half a year later, the Northern Hemisphere angles away, bringing the long shadows and colder temperatures of winter. Given the pivotal role obliquity plays in our seasons, it should be no surprise that changes to this tilt would impact Earth’s climate. And scientists have determined that our tilt does change slightly over time, creating long-term climate cycles. Every 41,000 years or so, the Earth’s axial tilt wobbles between 24.5° and 22.1°,

and this tiny shift has huge consequences. Higher axial tilt makes seasons more extreme and the climate less variable with latitude, whereas lower tilt brings milder seasons and more extreme variations in climate. So as the Earth's tilt decreases, polar summers become milder, allowing ice to build up until it eventually triggers a glacial period. In fact, for a long time, the freeze and thaw cycles of Earth’s Ice Ages lined up with this 41,000-year rhythm. Over the past million years or so, changes to ice sheets in the Northern Hemisphere have extended these ice age cycles.

But Earth's obliquity has remained in this small range, which is good, because if the Earth were to somehow lose its axial tilt entirely, things could get very, very bad. With no seasons, direct sunlight would beat down on the tropics all year while the poles receive only a few glancing rays. While it’s hard to predict exactly what this would mean for Earth, one speculative scenario is rather chilling. We already know lowering Earth’s obliquity by two degrees can set off an ice age. But with no tilt, there’d be no summer melt at all.

Year after seasonless year, the ice sheets could grow, reflecting more and more sunlight to further cool the Earth until the entire planet gets encased in ice. This is just one possibility of course— our planet’s tilt is involved in so many planetary processes that it’s impossible to say precisely what Earth would look like without it. But it is safe to say that this acute angle and the seasons it maintains are essential for maintaining the Earth just the way our species likes it. So let’s all be grateful for the stray rock that inadvertently whacked the world as we know it into existence.