---
video_title: "What should you do if you accidentally cut off your finger? - Jason Hoellwarth"
video_id: wpWm87SfASQ
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wpWm87SfASQ
video_date: 2025-08-07
video_description: |
  Dig into what circumstances allow for an accidentally amputated limb to be reattached, and what options you have when it can't be.
  
  --
  
  In order to reattach a severed limb after an accident, a number of things need to go right— and quickly. A clean cut, properly preserving the limb, and getting it to a skilled surgeon in time are just a few of these challenges. And unfortunately, there are countless complications that come up with most accidental amputations. So, when is limb reattachment possible? Jason Hoellwarth investigates.
  
  Lesson by Jason Hoellwarth, directed by Denys Spolitak.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/can-you-reattach-a-severed-limb-jason-hoellwarth
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/can-you-reattach-a-severed-limb-jason-hoellwarth/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://vimeo.com/denysspolitak
  Music: https://www.workplaywork.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Brad Sullivan, Karen Ho, Niklas Frimberger, Hunter Manhart, Nathan Nguyen, Igor Stavchanskiy, James R DeVries, Grace Huo, Diana Huang, Chau Hong Diem, Orlellys Torre, Corheu, Thomas Mee, Maryann H McCrory, Blas Borde, John Hellmann, Poompak Meephian, Chuck Wofford, Adam Pagan, Wes Winn, Conder Shou, ntiger, Noname, Hansan Hu, David D, Mac Hyney, Keith Ellison, robin valero walters, Lynne Truesdale, Gatsby Dkdc, Matthew Neal, Denis Chon, Julian Oberhofer, Monte Carroll, Eddy, Jay M, Constantino Victor Delgado, Andrea Galvagni, Andrew Tweddle, Laurel-Ann Rice, Fernando A. Endo, Helen Lee, pam morgan, sarim haq, Gerardo Castro, Michel-Ange Hortegat, Enes Kirimi, Amaury BISIAUX, ND, and Samyogita Hardikar.
---
After a long day helping patients in the emergency room, Priya is prepping dinner when her knife slips and neatly severs her finger. Fortunately, being an ER doctor, she knows exactly what to do. First, she cleans the wound with a wet paper towel and bandages her finger— careful not to wrap the wound too tightly. To manage the pain. she knows not to take ibuprofen, which would prevent the wound from clotting, and instead opts for acetaminophen.

Then she rinses off the severed finger, wraps it in a clean, moist towel, and puts it in a cooler while avoiding direct contact with ice. Finally, she rushes to the hospital, where luckily, a skilled hand surgeon is on staff. Thanks to the clean cut and Priya's rapid response, the surgeon can get to work. They set the bones and fix them in place with wires before repairing the tendons, nerves, blood vessels, and finally, the skin. The entire incident is finished in about eight hours, and after a few months of occupational therapy, Priya's hand is back in action.

This is the ideal outcome for reattaching a body part. Unfortunately, it’s also incredibly unlikely— and not just because most people aren’t as prepared as Priya. In reality, there are countless complications that come up with most accidental amputations. First, there's the accident. Unlike Priya's clean cut, most traumatic amputations occur in car crashes or industrial accidents that cause extensive, uneven tissue damage and dirty the wound in a way that prevents reattachment.

Plus, more than half of all limb amputations in the United States are due to disease, and limbs removed for medical reasons obviously aren’t safe to reattach. Then, there’s preserving the limb. When a body part is severed, its blood circulation is cut off, stopping the influx of oxygen and other nutrients. Surprisingly, severed tissues can survive for a few hours without these resources. And keeping them cool further slows the rate of tissue death, generally giving surgeons a 6-to-12-hour window for reattachment.

But once the tissues die, reconnecting them won’t bring them back to life. This tight timeline is especially challenging for surgeons. Due to the issues we’ve already mentioned, reattachment operations are fairly uncommon. So most hospitals don’t have the tools and expertise required to tackle these time-sensitive procedures. And even if they do, nerve repair is extremely tricky.

With perfectly clean cuts, surgeons can attempt to stitch nerves back together directly. And when a cut is ragged, they may try to create nerve conduits— tunnels between nerve ends that can allow the nerves to reconnect over time. But neither these, nor any other surgical options, reliably restore movement and sensation. All these obstacles make it highly unlikely that a lost limb can be reattached. However, medical technology has developed another dependable solution for amputation: prosthetics.

Today, prostheses come in countless forms to replace numerous body parts. Prosthetic legs are excellent for walking and running. Prosthetic arms have historically struggled to replicate our hands’ fine motor movements. However, new myoelectric prostheses can detect electrical activity in nearby muscles and then translate those signals into relatively precise movements. But perhaps the most dramatic development in prosthetic technology is transcutaneous osseointegration.

First successfully performed in 1990, this procedure surgically anchors a metal implant into the bone of the remaining limb. The bone then grows into the crevices of the metal, creating a permanent connection. These implants extend through a portal in the skin, and can be attached to any prosthesis, which solves a handful of common prosthetic issues. Where traditional prosthetics can be heavy, providing a direct skeletal connection makes their weight feel more natural. Osseointegrated prosthetics are also less likely to irritate the skin where they attach, and they can offer more sensation by transmitting forces like vibration through the implant to the bone.

Even with all these new technologies, not everyone wants to replace or reattach a lost limb. After an amputation, some people opt to rely on their remaining limbs, with or without the help of mobility aids and other adaptive equipment.