---
video_title: "Can you figure out the savanna mystery? - Cella Wright"
video_id: XGH8C1rl7kk
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XGH8C1rl7kk
video_date: 2025-08-26T15:00:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore how big-headed ants have changed an entire ecosystem in Kenya, from its insects and plants to its biggest predators.
  
  --
  
  In the early 2000s, one of the world’s most widespread invasive species landed in Kenya’s Laikipia Plateau: big-headed ants. They expanded rapidly into super-colonies, preying on other insects, spiders, and even small birds. Their presence has wreaked havoc on the ecosystem and significantly changed the landscape. So, how did these tiny creatures have such a huge impact? Cella Wright investigates.
  
  Lesson by Cella Wright, directed by Steve West, Lazy Chief.
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/can-you-solve-the-savanna-mystery-cella-wright
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/can-you-solve-the-savanna-mystery-cella-wright/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.lazychief.com
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Roberto Chena, Oliver Koo, Luke Pisano, Andrea Gordon, Aleksandar Donev, Nicole Klau Ibarra, Jesse Lira, Ezekiel Raui, Petr Vacek, Dennis, Olivia Fu, Kari Teffeau, Cindy Lai, Rajath Durgada Manjunath, Dan Nguyen, Chin Beng Tan, Tom Boman, Karen Warner, Iryna Panasiuk, Aaron Torres, Eric Braun, Sonja Worzewski, Michael Clement, Adam Berry, Ghaith Tarawneh, Nathan Milford, Tomas Beckett, Alice Ice, Eric Berman, Kurt Paolo Sevillano, Jennifer Heald, Megulo Abebe, isolwi, Kate Sem, Ujjwal Dasu, Angel Alberici, Minh Quan Dinh, Sylvain, Terran Gimpel, Talia Sari, Katie McDowell, Allen, Mahina Knuckles, Charmaine Hanson, Thawsitt, Jezabel, Abdullah Abdulaziz, Xiao Yu, Melissa Suarez, and Brian A. Dunn.
---
Something strange happened here. Two decades after some ants arrived on this Kenyan savanna, lions were killing many more buffalo and far fewer zebras. But how do these seemingly disparate events relate? Well, let’s rewind. Around the early 2000s, a species called big-headed ants landed in Kenya’s Laikipia Plateau, probably hitching rides on imported produce.

Since their suspected origins on an island in the Indian Ocean, big-headed ants have become among the world’s most widespread invasive species. Their colonies can have multiple queens and reproduce year round, expanding rapidly into extensive super-colonies sustained by voracious foraging and hunting. They prey on other insects, spiders, and even small birds. This all spells trouble for many of their new neighbors. And in Laikipia, perhaps most notably, lots of native acacia ants are nearby.

Their existence is closely entwined to the area’s whistling-thorn acacia trees, which are clad in spiky armor. But this isn’t enough to defend the trees against savanna herbivores that could eat them to death. And that’s where acacia ants come in. Acacia trees are myrmecophytes— one of around 700 plant species that have evolved mutualistic relationships with ants. In Laikipia, some acacia ant species claim specific whistling-thorn trees and live within them, boring holes and nesting in the bulbous, hollow structures at the base of the tree’s modified thorns.

The acacias provide the ants shelter, nectar, and other nutritious secretions, often in return for fierce defense. When the ants sense certain vibrations, they secrete alarm pheromones from their mandibular glands and swarm out of their nests in droves, poised to sting and bite intruders— be it invading insects or the tender trunks and mouthparts of grazing herbivores. Whistling-thorn acacias and their associated ants have historically dominated hundreds of thousands of square kilometers in East Africa. But researchers observed significant changes to the landscape as whistling-thorn trees dropped by over 70% in some areas between 2000 and 2020. Something was going on here.

These changes seemed to lead back to the introduction of those tiny, ferocious big-headed ants. They threaten competitors, attacking in swarms, killing adult acacia ants, eating their eggs and young, and essentially decimating their populations. And without their usual militant ant residents, acacias then become especially vulnerable to defoliation, breaking, and toppling by large herbivores like elephants.

Big-headed ants also nest in the ground, tunneling near tree roots, and can cause water stress among acacia trees and limit their ability to photosynthesize and store sugars. And this is where lions, zebras, and buffalo come in. Zebras are among Laikipia lions’ main prey, while water buffalo are less ideal because they pose more of a threat. To up the odds of a zebra hunt, East African lions tend to rely on the art of ambushing, covertly stalking their prey before finally pouncing. For that, they require cover.

Lions in Laikipia are three times more likely to catch zebras in tree-heavy areas than in open grasslands, where zebras can better spot them with time to escape. But because of how big-headed ants threaten acacia trees, their presence has been shown to increase the visibility across a savannah landscape almost threefold within just three years. So, between 2003 and 2020, as big-headed ant activity led to more and more acacia trees collapsing, grasslands spread, and lion kills went from being 67% to 42% zebra and 0 to 42% water buffalo. It seems lions switched to their second, more dangerous choice of prey. So: big-headed ants threatened acacia ants, leaving acacia trees defenseless against herbivores like elephants, which altered the landscape, leaving less cover for lions, which made zebras tougher targets, so lions started going for water buffalo.

Putting these ecological pieces together, scientists realized this also probably wouldn’t be the chain reaction’s end. The impact switching prey will have on local lion life remains to be seen. Plus, other animals, like superb starlings and endangered black rhinos, also rely on acacias. And all of it began with tiny ants sending ripples through an ecosystem long stabilized by an intricate web of relationships, its underpinnings exposed through total disruption— no matter how small the start.