---
video_title: "Introducing TED Summer School!"
video_id: mnLVpkkQVRU
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnLVpkkQVRU
video_date: 2026-02-04T16:10:17+00:00
video_description: |
  Announcing TED Summer School! A two-week summer program for students aged 15-18 to discover and share their best ideas with expert tutors.
  
  --
  
  What if your summer could change how you see yourself? In partnership with Immerse Education, TED is introducing TED Summer School: a transformative two-week summer program for students aged 15-18 to discover, shape, and share their best ideas under the guidance of expert tutors. Students will have the opportunity to join either remotely or in-person in New York, London, or Singapore.
  
  Learn more about TED Summer School and how you can sign up for either the remote program or the in-person program: https://www.ted.com/summerschool
  
  This video made possible in collaboration with @ImmerseEducation 
  Learn more about how TED-Ed partnerships work: https://bit.ly/TEDEdPartner
---
How can you shape the future? At TED, we believe it's by shaping the future of ideas. And that future is in the hands of young people, sharing their vision to make an impact. That's why we created TED-Ed Student Talks, empowering over a million students to develop and share their ideas with the world. And now we're taking it further: proudly announcing TED Summer School, a transformative journey guiding curious young minds to become the thought leaders of tomorrow.

Ambitious students from around the world will work with TED-trained tutors to develop original ideas and gain expert storytelling skills, culminating in a standout moment showcasing the power and potential of your voice. We're partnering with Immerse Education, a trusted leader in academic enrichment, to offer a safe, supportive experience, in person around the world, and virtually with the same live, small group mentorship— 100% remote. We're empowering young thinkers to share their ideas with clarity, purpose, and impact. Sign up now to apply and learn more about merit and need-based scholarships. TED Summer School. Find your voice and take the world stage.