---
video_title: "4 ways to tell a great story"
video_id: JOs-q7rXqdk
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOs-q7rXqdk
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Episode 7: Discover the 4 components of what makes a great storyteller, and the important role that stories play in audience connection.
  
  --
  
  This is episode 7 of the animated series, “Public Speaking 101.” Ideas change everything — and since language lets us share our ideas, learning how to use it well gives speakers the power to inspire people and even change how they think. This 11-episode course will teach you how to identify, develop, and share your best ideas, while mastering essential communication skills along the way.
  
  Directed by Tolga Yıldız, Kozmonot Animation Studio.
  
  The TED-Ed Student Talks program provides free, customizable activities for educators to support their students in identifying, developing and sharing their ideas with each other and the world. Learn more at https://ed.ted.com/student_talks
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/4-ways-to-tell-a-great-story
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/4-ways-to-tell-a-great-story/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://www.kozmonot.tv
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Heidi Stolt, Nicole Sund, Karlee Finch, Mario Mejia, Denise A Pitts, Doug Henry, Keven Webb, Mihai Sandu, Deepak Iyer, Javid Gozalov, Kyanta Yap, Rebecca Reineke, William Biersdorf, Patricia Alves Panagides, Yvette Mocete, Cyrus Garay, Samuel Barbas, LadyGeek, Marin Kovachev, Penelope Misquitta, Hans Peng, Gaurav Mathur, Erik Biemans, Tony, Michelle, Katie and Josh Pedretti, Hoai Nam Tran, Kack-Kyun Kim, Michael Braun-Boghos, zjweele13, Anna-Pitschna Kunz, Edla Paniguel, Thomas Mungavan, Jaron Blackburn, Venkat Venkatakrishnan, ReuniteKorea, Aaron Henson, Rohan Gupta, Begum Tutuncu, Brian Richards, Jørgen Østerpart, Tyron Jung, Carsten Tobehn, Katie Dean, Ezgi Yersu, Gerald Onyango, alessandra tasso, Doreen Reynolds-Consolati, Manognya Chakrapani, Ayala Ron, Eunsun Kim, and Phyllis Dubrow.
---
Your first job as a speaker is to build a trusting human bond with your audience. One excellent way to connect to an audience is to tell a story. Stories helped make us who we are. Really — evidence left behind from our ancient ancestors suggests that the human mind developed alongside human storytelling. Fire created a new magnet for bonding.

Its warmth and flickering light drew people together after dark. This seems to have happened in every ancient culture over the last 300,000 years. And what did our ancestors do with this time together? In many cultures, one type of communal activity became very important: storytelling. Stories brought people from faraway places to the fireside.

Stories about people who were alive and people who were dead, nearby and in distant lands. Stories sparked laughter, tension, and amazement. Stories also played an important role in helping expand people’s ability to imagine and to dream, and to understand the minds of others. Storytellers became important people within a community, and their listeners took information from the stories that changed how they behaved in the world. It's not just that we all love hearing stories.

Stories probably helped shape how our minds share and receive information. So it's no surprise that many of the best talks are built around a story. The most basic way of breaking down a story is this: a character with a goal meets an unexpected obstacle. She tries to overcome that obstacle, which builds to a peak in the action. Finally, there’s some kind of resolution to the conflict.

When it comes to sharing a story from the stage, remember four key things: 1. Base the story around a character your audience can empathize with. 2. Build tension, either through curiosity, relationship with other characters, or actual danger. 3. Offer the right level of detail.

If there's not enough, the story won't come to life. If there's too much, it will get bogged down. And, 4. End with a satisfying conclusion, whether it’s funny, moving, or surprising. Some great talks are built around a single story.

This can be really helpful for a speaker. The throughline is simply the plot of the story. If the story is about you, it can even create empathy in the audience. If your journey is exciting and easy to follow, this type of talk can work really well. But there's a trap here too.

Remember, the goal is to give. Personal stories may entertain or interest an audience, or make the speaker feel really good about themselves, but they don’t necessarily give the audience something they can walk away with; a new way of understanding things, actionable information, context, hope. And that’s a real shame. The key is to link together the important moments of your story in a way that can be meaningful to someone else. Otherwise, it may sound like you're just rambling or speaking for the sake of hearing yourself talk.

But, if the journey reveals something powerful you have learned, and if each step in your journey is revealed with humility and honesty and vulnerability, it is a journey we will gladly take with you. There is one other piece that is absolutely essential if you’re going to tell your own story: it has to be true. This may seem obvious, but sometimes speakers are tempted to exaggerate or even make a story up entirely. Stories can have such a big impact that some speakers are tempted to bend the truth. But even small exaggerations can quickly destroy your reputation.

It's not worth the risk. When you combine a truthful story with a desire to benefit others, you can give your listeners an extraordinary gift. A story can affect people deeply. Use it, and you can greatly increase your connection with an audience. But please, let it mean something.