---
video_title: "Plato’s infamous Ship of State thought experiment - Michael Vazquez"
video_id: QyRqlTV60zM
channel_name: "TED-Ed"
channel_id: UCsooa4yRKGN_zEE8iknghZA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QyRqlTV60zM
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  Dig into Plato’s infamous Ship of State thought experiment, which explores how democratic societies handle leadership and power.
  
  --
  
  Imagine a ship struggling in an endless storm. Its captain, though strong and commanding, is a terrible navigator. Neither he nor his crew have been trained to sail, yet they tirelessly vie for control through bribery, flattery, and mutiny, and ignore those with real navigation knowledge. This dysfunctional vessel is Plato's Ship of State. Michael Vazquez explores the infamous thought experiment.
  
  Lesson by Michael Vazquez, directed by Luis Torres, Mr. Flama.
  
  This video was produced in collaboration with the Parr Center for Ethics, housed within the renowned Philosophy Department at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The Parr Center is committed to integrating abstract work in ethical theory with the informed discussion of practical ethical issues, and prides itself on the development of innovative and inclusive approaches to moral and civic education.
  
  Learn more about how TED-Ed partnerships work: https://bit.ly/TEDEdPartner
  
  Support Our Non-Profit Mission
  ----------------------------------------------
  Support us on Patreon: http://bit.ly/TEDEdPatreon
  Check out our merch: http://bit.ly/TEDEDShop
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Connect With Us
  ----------------------------------------------
  Sign up for our newsletter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdNewsletter
  Follow us on Facebook: http://bit.ly/TEDEdFacebook
  Find us on Twitter: http://bit.ly/TEDEdTwitter
  Peep us on Instagram: http://bit.ly/TEDEdInstagram
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Keep Learning
  ----------------------------------------------
  View full lesson: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/platos-infamous-ship-of-state-thought-experiment-michael-vazquez
  Dig deeper with additional resources: https://ed.ted.com/lessons/platos-infamous-ship-of-state-thought-experiment-michael-vazquez/digdeeper
  
  Animator's website: https://mrflama.com
  Music: https://soundcloud.com/aim-music
  ----------------------------------------------
  
  Thank you so much to our patrons for your support! Without you this video would not be possible! Katie McDowell, Allen, Mahina Knuckles, Charmaine Hanson, Thawsitt, Jezabel, Abdullah Abdulaziz, Xiao Yu, Melissa Suarez, Brian A. Dunn, Francisco Amaya, Daisuke Goto, Matt Switzler, Peng, Tzu-Hsiang, Bethany Connor, Jeremy Shimanek, Mark Byers, Avinash Amarnath, Xuebicoco, Rayo, Po Foon Kwong, Boffin, Jesse Jurman, Scott Markley, Elija Peterson, Ovidiu Mrd, paul g mohney, Steven Razey, Nathan Giusti, Helen Lee, Anthony Benedict, Karthik Balsubramanian, Annastasshia Ames, Amy Lopez, Vinh-Thuy Nguyen, Liz Candee, Ugur Doga Sezgin, Karmi Nguyen, John C. Vesey, Yelena Baykova, Nick Johnson, Carlos H. Costa, Jennifer Kurkoski, Ryan B Harvey, Akinola Emmanuel, Jose Arcadio Valdes Franco, Sebastiaan Vleugels, Karl Laius, JY Kang, and Abhishek Goel.
---
Imagine a ship struggling in an endless storm. Its captain, though strong and commanding, is a terrible navigator. Neither he nor his crew have been trained to sail, yet they relentlessly vie for control through bribery, flattery, and even mutiny. In the crow's nest sits a true navigator. But her knowledge of the stars, winds, and seasons is dismissed by the crew below.

This dysfunctional vessel is the Ship of State— a thought experiment devised by Plato to illustrate his frustration with democracy. Specifically, the kind of democracy practiced in Athens from the 5th to 4th centuries BCE. Unlike the forms of representative democracy practiced today, where voters elect representatives to enact legislation on their behalf, Athenians used a type of direct democracy. While Athenian jurors and most officials were selected by lottery rather than election, every law was voted on directly by the citizens of Athens. Specifically, free men born to Athenian parents— women, foreigners, and enslaved individuals had no voting power.

Plato thought this system was destined for ruin. And despite the many differences between Athens’ government and modern representative democracies, many of his fears still ring true today. One of Plato’s two major concerns with direct democracy was its vulnerability to charismatic public speakers. Since laws were voted on in the Assembly, confident orators could sway public opinion for their own benefit. In fact, this kind of speech was considered so powerful a class of paid tutors called sophists emerged to educate wealthy families in the art of persuasion.

As a result, Plato felt democracy rewarded the strongest speakers, not those with true political expertise aimed at public welfare. His second concern was democracy's obsession with freedom. In the “Republic,” he outlined how the “license to do whatever one wants” would lead people to prioritize their own desires over the common good. In the short term, Plato believed this would weaken societal cohesion and erode respect for the rule of law. But in the long term, he worried this ever-increasing chaos would lead to a backlash— a yearning for order that would make people vulnerable to a charismatic leader promising stability at the cost of liberty.

In Plato’s opinion, all democratic systems were doomed to eventually elect a silver-tongued tyrant who exploits the very freedoms that made democracy possible. Plato’s early solutions to these problems— including handing power to elite philosopher kings— leave much to be desired. But in his final work, “The Laws,” Plato combined democracy and monarchy into a new system he hoped would be stable and enduring. To explain his idea, Plato docked his unruly Ship of State and created a new model: the city of Magnesia. In this imaginary land, everything is designed to counteract the issues of direct democracy, while empowering citizens to be morally and politically engaged.

Instead of leaving citizens vulnerable to smooth talkers, Magnesia weaves persuasion directly into its laws. Each law is paired with a “prelude” that outlines the logic behind the law and connects it to shared societal values. For example, Plato feared that false beliefs about the gods would undermine justice. So in Magnesia, atheism and impiety are illegal. But rather than relying solely on the fear of punishment to prevent these crimes, the laws against them contain philosophical arguments designed to convince citizens to adhere to Magnesia’s official religion.

Moral education is everywhere in Magnesia, and it’s designed to instill shared responsibility. This way, citizens can retain the individual freedom they value under democracy, but their personal goals are more likely to align with the common good. Even so, Plato still recommends safeguards against corruption. Many of Magnesia’s most powerful positions are held collectively rather than individually. And strict regulations on buying and selling land prevent wealth from pooling in the pockets of an elite minority.

Obviously, Magnesia is far from perfect. Plato’s educational regime is borderline cultish, and its constitution requires extremely time-consuming civic engagement from every citizen. Then again, creating an ideal society probably would take time, attention, and education. Your perfect world might not look like Plato’s, but it will likely require a serious commitment from its citizens to guide their Ship of State to a brighter horizon.