---
video_title: "How ex-Meta CTO Spots Breakout Tech Early"
video_id: rytvigNQp_c
channel_name: "EO"
channel_id: UClWTCPVi-AU9TeCN6FkGARg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rytvigNQp_c
video_date: 2025-12-26T14:01:29+00:00
video_description: |
  EO stands for Entrepreneur& Opportunities. As we're looking to feature more inspiring stories of entrepreneurs all over the world, don't hesitate to contact us at partner@eoeoeo.net
  
  LinkedIn | @EO STUDIO 
  X | @eostudi0
---
So if I'm looking at a new technology trying to decide whether this is something that might be a transformative technology, I think there's three core things I'm looking for. The first and most important question is sort of understanding the light speed test. As far as we know in experimental physics, you can't go faster than the speed of light. If I was building spacecraft, you know, and I was at 99.9% the speed of light, there's not a lot of room for me to get faster. And you say,

I'm going to make it twice as fast. Like that's really, really, really, really hard. You know, if I'm at 0.001 0 oh 1 the speed of light. I got a lot of room to go before I've hit any theoretical limits. And so for most technologies, my

first question is how far away from theoretical maximum is the current version of the thing? Like how much headroom do you have to scale it and improvement? Is it thousands of times? Is it 1%. Then question number two is are there tailwinds? Are there things

that are happening that make this technology better that you are not working on? And usually this means that there's some input that improves year-over-year without your work. In the AI world, the idea of getting more compute power was happening without our effort because the entire chip ecosystem was developing faster, more powerful chips year-over-year. So I didn't need to do any work. I didn't need to go build a chip team and go to design chips. It's just like every year I got

more computation. And then number three, which is the hardest, is what problem are you solving and how important is it to your customer? Your customer could be a consumer, could be a company, but there are plenty of amazing technologies that have [music] made great advances that don't actually solve a problem for people. The biggest example of this is 3D TVs. For a long time, everyone's like 3D, it's the next step forward from 2D.

It's more immersive. It turns out people don't want to put like special glasses on. So 3D TVs were a technological leap that didn't solve a problem for consumers that they cared about. So it's been mostly a failure. What we do with advanced technologies is you try to mock them up and say like, "Okay, I haven't built the thing yet. What's the best

sort of proxy of the thing that I can use to show people to get a sense of if I built this thing, would you like it? Because ultimately, someone has to buy that technology. Some business model have to pay for it. Someone has to buy it. And if there isn't some loop of money there somewhere, it'll eventually