---
video_title: "How Prompt Engineering Inventor Built $1.5B in 3 Years | You.com, Richard Socher"
video_id: LgewaIpQVko
channel_name: "EO"
channel_id: UClWTCPVi-AU9TeCN6FkGARg
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LgewaIpQVko
video_date: 2026-01-22T14:30:29+00:00
video_description: |
  We met Richard Socher, the founder of You.com.
  
  Richard spent 17 years proving that AI could understand human language back when the world dismissed it as a "crazy idea." After serving as the Chief Scientist at Salesforce, he walked away from the top to reinvent the search engine.
  
  From inventing Prompt Engineering to building a $1.5B unicorn in just 3 years, Richard reveals why he bet everything on Deep Learning, why AI giants like OpenAI now pay for his tech, and how to stay "stubborn" enough to win in the agentic era.
  
  00:00 Intro
  01:39 How the Inventor of Prompt Engineering Built a $1.5B Unicorn
  02:39 Why Linguistics is the Operating System of Intelligence
  04:15 The Moment We Had to Scale Up
  05:27 Solving for Impact When Everyone Said No
  06:50 The Beginning of You.com: Challenging Google
  08:04 Build What People Will Actually Pay For
  09:27 Are You Moving Fast Enough to Lead the AI Era?
  
  🔗  Read the full transcription of Richard's interview: https://www.eomag.io/article/you.com-richard-socher?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=description
  
  EO stands for Entrepreneur& Opportunities. As we're looking to feature more inspiring stories of entrepreneurs all over the world, don't hesitate to contact us at partner@eoeoeo.net
  
  X | @eostudi0
  LinkedIn | @EO STUDIO 
  Newsletter | https://www.eomag.io/subscribe?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=description
---
had the crazy idea in 2010 to use neural networks for natural language processing, which was a very controversial idea at the time. A lot of people in the field said, "Oh, neural networks, they've never worked. They won't ever work." Most of my papers got rejected cuz people hated neural nets for NLP. MIT, and especially Berkeley here in the Bay Area, they hated neural networks for natural language processing, too. We had invented prompt

engineering, and so we thought people should get access to this. We felt like, "Well, someone's got to do it." In 2020, when we started you.com, a lot of people said, "Search is dead. Nothing you can do." But I don't really generally care

about what's popular. I just care about what's meaningful. When you once you really love an idea, and you feel like that idea makes sense from first principles, you have to have a little bit of that belief inside of you that you can make it, prevail through a lot of rejection, and still keep on going. Hi, everyone. I'm Richard Socher. I'm

the founder and CEO of you.com, and the founder and partner at AI Ventures. you.com is AI search infrastructure. In order to make an LM not hallucinate, you actually need to have a good search infrastructure to inform that LM. People

searched on Google, AI and LMs and agents search on you.com. Companies like OpenAI, Amazon, Alibaba, Telegraph, Windsurf, Harvey use our API infrastructure to make their LMs up-to-date, accurate, and have citations so you can actually verify that the facts are correct. It's amazing to become a unicorn, and in many ways it also just feels like, "Okay, this is what's next? What's the next step?"

I originally from Germany. I thought a lot about sort of the meaning of life when I was younger. In high school already, I loved natural languages. You know, I studied English. I'm originally from Germany and French and Chinese and but I also loved math. And so, math and

languages don't intersect often, right? They're very different fields of study, but they do intersect in a computer where you try to use math to understand language. And so, I ended up deciding study linguistic computer science in 2003. It was definitely not famous or or popular in Germany. Linguistic computer science, as it was called then, was very much a niche or good type of subject that very few people were studying.

Still remember my my dad thinking, "Ah, what what will become of my son?" Cuz this linguistic computer science thing doesn't sound like anything useful forever like for a long time. And but I don't really generally care about what's popular. I just care about what's meaningful. And then it felt to me like, if we could really get that to work on the research side, it would have amazing impact. Ultimately, language is the most

interesting manifestation of human intelligence. Several civilizations were able to create written language, too. Not all of them, right? And the ones that didn't were falling behind. And we're saying similar things.

Civilizations that don't use AI now are falling behind. And so, ultimately, I think it's very meaningful to help us understand language, which is it helps us understand who we are as humans. And then it also actually helps in on the journey to understanding intelligence, it helps to create it. It's anything we can create, we can engineer, we understand a lot better afterwards. Your brain and mind are jam-packed full of neurons that are tightly connected to and that talk to each other. In a

computer, we can therefore build what's called an artificial neural network. The other The other technical term is a sparse learning algorithm. But we can build a neural network that simulates all of these neurons being connected to and talking to each other. And then I was very fortunate at Stanford to hear Andrew Ng talk about deep learning and neural nets for computer vision. It made sense to me from first principles that neural networks would be right because a lot of the research actually was about feature engineering that were people were doing at the time. Like in sentiment analysis,

you might say, "Oh, these are positive words, and this is how negation works, and here's like all these like linguists would come up with features." And that clearly wouldn't scale to more complex things like translation. I wanted to unify also the field, and that eventually led us to prompt engineering and inventing that. But then after the PhD, I was like, "Now we have the main ingredients. We know how to make it work. We need large neural networks. We

need a lot of data." And I showed that in all my research papers. And now we need to actually scale it up. We need to like take those ideas and apply them into real applications for real people. And I think a lot of the papers that came out in the last couple of years, they made everything a little bit better, but those main ideas of end-to-end trainable neural networks on large data sets, that is the main idea that's that those those ingredients are the main ideas that pushed the field forward. And I felt like it made more

sense now to majorly scale that. And then in academia, you just don't have the resources to really scale. And then while I was excited about scaling it, I should have scaled it even more. You know, I thought, "Oh, I raised like 10 20 million dollars, but I should have raised 200 million or a billion dollars to really scale it more." So, it was clear to me that to really scale it, you had to do it in industry. And that the

technology was ready now to move out of academic research into the real world. And then when you maximize impact, you realize, "Well, the main ideas have we've been researched. Now it's time to really apply them in the real world." And so, startup felt like it made sense.

So, I graduated in 2014, then started MetaMind. MetaMind was basically an AI platform that made it very easy to train neural networks. We had started selling it, too. But for selling, you have to be very very focused on one small niche, but we had built this very powerful platform. And so, felt like in the hands of a no pun intended sales force that is very large, we could actually have much much more impact. And the impact within

Salesforce was much much larger for the way we had built that company. And then I thought for a long time like, "I'll just be very happy." Cuz Salesforce was going to do amazing research and improve a lot of the products. We did not just prompt engineering, but we also built the largest language model for proteins, for instance, in biology. And then we had invented prompt engineering. And so,

we trained this one neural network that can give you all different kinds of answers. And so, we thought clearly people should get access to this. And we published a paper, and you know, the paper got cited by other people at OpenAI and Aleph Alpha and AI. They said, "Oh, this is an interesting idea." And they extended it. And and so on. But

we felt like, "Well, they're also research labs, so we needed to bring this to real people." And Google was just not doing anything cuz they're a monopoly. They're making money and more and more money just selling advertisement. And so, they didn't see a reason and weren't making any interesting sort of modifications to fundamentally how we search. And so, we felt like, "Well, someone's got to do it." And so, we we started you.com, and

we felt like it had to be a new company to have the impact to really become a better way of finding information online. And eventually, we became the first to put an LM into a search engine. Imagine, you know, Google Gemini, like people also ask and you get like answers from AI. We did those kinds of things, but in 2021. So, it is different because it was No No one It didn't exist.

You know, a research background where you the whole idea of being a PhD is to do things that don't exist, right? To create new ideas and and new models. And and then you can often think about what kinds of new ideas and models should you build? The kinds of things that are useful for people. And when you ask like, "Oh, how do I write a Fibonacci function? Or how do I write an HTML page

that does something?" It's just obvious that it's better to just get an answer from an LM than to get get a list of blue links where you then have to click on 10 open tabs and open them up and then kind of find the answer somewhere else. And so, that just seems like from first principles, it's better to get an answer than lists of links that may have the answer or not. So, that's how we invented that one.

I think the biggest thing for us was the pivot into enterprise. That was a really good focus. A lot of folks now realize they need AI, but only the experts realize that in order to make AI accurate, in order to make an LM not hallucinate, you actually need to have a good search infrastructure to inform that LM. So, we built that infrastructure layer cuz we've been added since 2022. What we found is more and more companies actually want to use the underlying infrastructure for their own solutions inside their own products. I guess, you

know, there are sort of different pivots in the world, right? You can say, "Oh, we're make cameras, and now we sell soft drinks." Right? That's a big pivot. But we gave people answers, and now we give people answers. But how we're selling

those answers is different. And it's good to follow the revenue. Here are a bunch of people who want to use the product for free, and then here a bunch of people who want to use and get really good answers over their own custom data sets, and they're willing to pay. You follow the people that pay. Follow real revenue, not like, "Okay, hype. Some

people say, 'Oh, I want to use this product for free.'" And you're like, "Okay, that's great." But if you built something that companies are willing to pay for, you know you've built something of value.

Some people think we should like slow down. I think we should accelerate more. I think we should accelerate everything a lot more. It's kind of interesting. It's hard to navigate AI because on the one hand, there's real impact, right?

Our customers have built over 100,000 agents that are automating real tasks for their work, right? And they're telling us and they're paying us for it because it's valuable and it's it works. At the same time, there's a lot of hype and around AI. Like how quickly and how far are we on super intelligence? Are we on the right track for that? How much

could a browser automate complete tasks without knowing enough about me and things like that? And sometimes the timelines are a little bit off, you know, maybe it will take a little bit longer, but the field moves so quickly, you have to mostly think of like two to four week cycles to try to move quickly. And so it's important to think about what are the right applications where you can create ideally virtuous data cycles where you do something manually, you collect data, and then you make that decision process a little bit better, and then at some point you've made it good enough that you can automate it. And so I for instance didn't want to invest in a bunch of self-driving car companies that said, "We don't even need a steering wheel. We just need to like have a full self-driving car." And I was

like, "Oh man, you can't sell that car until you're perfect." And so that's not generally good. AI is not right away perfect. Humans aren't perfect, right? Humans still make uh driving mistakes, and so on. The AI will make some driving

mistakes, too. And so it's good to have a steering wheel. And so the companies that were able to eventually get to a full self-driving were either the really clever ones like Tesla, you buy the car, you pay for the product, you use the product, you're now creating training data by using the product, and then the AI can use that training data and eventually automate the process. When you see small but continuous improvements, that's when you you can you know, be very motivated to. So it's one of my mottos, it's better better never done. And you can always improve

yourself, your company, your processes. Overall, I would summarize it as excitement. I love AI, I love AI in all of its facets from foundational research and thinking about the upper bounds of super intelligence all the way down to like how do we make it really work now and get it into the hands of more companies and people to like do make their lives better.