---
video_title: "NO EXCUSES #ai #tech #careeradvice"
video_id: bho4shHi498
channel_name: "EO"
channel_id: UClWTCPVi-AU9TeCN6FkGARg
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bho4shHi498
video_date: 2026-03-01T08:00:44+00:00
video_description: |
  What do you do when you want to learn a world-changing skill but have zero time and no computer? 
  
  In this video, we share the incredible story of a father who mastered GPU programming under the most difficult circumstances. While his newborn daughter struggled to sleep, he spent six months—every single day from 2:00 AM to 7:00 AM—walking the floor and reading Nvidia documentation and textbooks.
  
  Because he couldn't sit at a computer, he had to visualize the code and "run" the programs in his mind. This "mental coding" became the foundation for his success. When the pressure is at its highest—finances, stress, and lack of sleep—that is often when you are forced to perform your best.
  
  Key takeaways from this Short:
  Learning Without Tools: How to use visualization to master complex technical subjects like Nvidia GPU programming.
  The "Worst" Time is the Best Time: Why high-stress environments can be the ultimate catalyst for a career breakthrough.
  Parenting & Ambition: Balancing the demands of a new baby with the drive to build a future in tech.
  Deep Work: The power of consistent, 5-hour daily study blocks over a long period.
  If you’ve been making excuses about why you can’t start your next project, this story is the wake-up call you need. 
  
  EO stands for Entrepreneur& Opportunities. As we're looking to feature more inspiring stories of entrepreneurs all over the world, don't hesitate to contact us at partner@eoeoeo.net
  
  LinkedIn | @EO STUDIO 
  X | @eostudi0
---
Minha filha não dormia bem e ficava acordada o tempo todo. Na verdade, era o pior momento possível para tentar uma injeção e fazer essas coisas. Foi aí que aprendi sobre GPUs. Todas as manhãs eu prendia minha filha a essas correias e caminhava pela sala de estar do Brian, no andar de baixo. Eu lia a documentação, tudo o que a Nvidia tinha sobre como programar para GPUs, lia livros didáticos sem fazer os exercícios porque eu não tinha computador, então eu fazia tudo de cabeça, das 2h às 7h da manhã, todos os dias, durante 6 meses. Então sentei

e simplesmente comecei a programar para GPU. Foi a pior época para ir, que é a melhor época para mim. Finanças, estresse, tempo.