---
video_title: "Some Things Just Don't Make Sense | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: LvVsdonDVkg
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LvVsdonDVkg
video_date: 2024-10-08
video_description: |
  That USB drive will ALWAYS go in the wrong way...
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
this drives me crazy okay I analyze this every time I go to plug in a USB device it's upside down every time it's upside down it can only go in two different ways 50% of the time but no it's never right and sometimes I stop myself I'm like wait it's going to be upside down turn it still upside down so I I did it a thousand times it is upside down 78.2% of the time it's correct 3.6 and it's upside down either way 18.2% there's a gyroscope in there you turn it turns some things just don't make sense as an engineer cuz I analyze everything when I first got married nothing made sense I wandered around the house never lived with a woman until I got married I like why why do we have little bitty pillows in our bag we had like 30 littleit by the way they're horrible pills never try to sleep they will put an indent in your face if you try to sleep with them and we don't sleep on them you know what we do every night we take them off and put them back on in the morning why why are White and the Seven Dwarves sleeping on the bed during the day it makes no sense why why is there a curtain around the bottom of her bed all of a sudden is there a play going on I'm right there are the dwarves doing Death of a Salesman when I'm not there what's happening how how many hair products does one human need my wife had like shampoo pre-shampoo operation conditioner DEC conditioner tangler revitalizer Dev vitalizer unv italized I on the other hand had one bottle it was that tall I got it at Costco in 1993 comes in a 53 gallon jug it's amazing and it's not even shampoo it's hair cleaner they can't call it shampoo but I love it I have and I better cuz I have eight more it came in a nine pack that's true