---
video_title: "Testing New Jokes | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: LLDIuoIeJUw
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLDIuoIeJUw
video_date: 2025-07-15
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedian #comedy
---
So, here are some of my newer jokes. Joke number one. Joke. Test joke number one. Uh, how do you get an engineer out of a tree? Uh, turn off the Wi-Fi.

Okay, that's pretty good. I think the model works. Okay, for that joke to work, you have to uh you don't ask why is an engineer even in a tree and like dumb jokes. And that's uh that's I think the model was off. I think we're about 50% there. So, the model's a

little creaky tonight. Okay. All right. Joke number two. Test joke number two.

Uh, I set my Sleep Number bed to pie. Now I have a round bed. Really? All right. This crowd is brighter than I'm giving it credit. Cuz

in my model, this joke did not do that well. For that for this joke to work, you have to know have a sleep number bed and know that pi is the ratio of the circumference of a circle to the diameter. And I thought that would top out at about 52. So you have now exceeded uh that joke. This crowd, this crowd may uh get advanced placement into the next comedian. So,

uh, test joke number three. Test joke. I think I got six of these tonight. Uh, what what is the favorite cologne of men who drive a Tesla? Uh, Elon Musk.

Yeah, that that joke used to get a better laugh. I have to be honest. For that joke to work, it's funny. You you must know Musk as a cologne and and you can laugh about Elon Musk and that that's down to 33%. So that used to be up about 50 or 60% but it's down to 12.

>> Down to 12. I think I'll just eliminate it at this point. Test joke number four. Uh did >> did you hear about the trigonometry professor who had dyslexia? Uh when he lectured he often went off on co-angents.

All right. That's about right. That's about right. For that joke to work that you have to have scored over 600 on your SATs and like bad puns. And that tops out about 26. You guys are doing very

well. Can I tell you this next one's a really hard one. I I did this this one I did for the uh I wrote this joke for the uh enrolled actuaries convention. Did you hear Yeah. Great dream crowd for comedians.

Did you hear about the impatient actuary who committed suicide? He uh calculated the exact day he would die uh naturally and he just couldn't wait. See this that's why this is a hard joke for that joke to work. It's three. It's three. You know what an actuary does.

You have to know that. Okay. You don't have a ADHD and you can laugh about suicide and that's maybe 12%. The model's pretty good. All right. Last

one. Last one. This is my favorite joke. That's hard. H hard. You don't get the

joke. Don't feel bad. Hard. Uh if Schroinger owned a cat. Would it be an indoor and outdoor cat at the same time?

>> There is no way that many people got that joke. No. That is a really hard joke. No way. You're faking it right now. I know. I

know. Faking it when I see it. For that joke to work, for that joke to work, you have to have a cat, understand the paradox of quantum superp position, and have a sense of humor. And that is tops 1%. [Applause] Or big >> Yeah, you know, somebody told me they they did a whole thing about Schroinger's cat. Maybe that's why

people All right, you've explained my joke away, sir. Thank you. I hate having a smart crowd.