---
video_title: "Geek Style vs Nerd Style | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: ExHoEyxGvDk
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExHoEyxGvDk
video_date: 2025-07-22
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedian #comedy #geek #nerd
---
So this year I added a new thing to this. I people ask me all the time, well I'm a geek or I'm a nerd or am I an engineer? Because the engineers have I never knew there were that many engineers in the world that would go out to a comedy club. But this year engineers come up all the time and they go, "This is a great show. I enjoyed it.

[Applause] I'm going to share several of those jokes tomorrow. I'll be the funniest one in the lab.

So, it was sometimes we're geeky, sometimes we're nerdy, and there's a difference. And you can tell where you fall by what you do every day. The products you choose give your way. For example, when it comes to phones and geeks, iPhone people, you are very social. You're always talking about your iPhone. iPhone's out. Let's go to the

iPhone store. Let's go to the Apple store and talk to a genius. [Laughter] I'm sorry. I've been to the Apple store. They are not. They're smart, but they

are not geniuses. You now you can tell if they were geniuses, they'd be working at Apple, not the Apple store. And I know firsthand cuz my wife has a has an iPhone. And we went in and she was looking at a new one. And the guy goes, "Yeah, this one comes with 128 megabytes." And I go, "Really? Can we

get 129?" He goes, "Yeah, sure enough." I'm like, "No, no, you can't. Mr. G, you still can't get 129 megabytes."

kind of base system you working off of? I'm base 5.6. What the hell is that? >> Nerds, we love the android, right, nerds?

>> Yeah. Yeah. What a great crowd. They're applauding the Android. Apparently, a big robot uh crowd is here tonight. We love the Android phones.

So, I think nerds love the Androids cuz we can change everything. Everything's open, right? Think we can go change all the settings, redo the BIOS, you pop the back, void the warranty, and claim we have no idea how it happened. No, I bought it with a Kirkland battery. I swear it came that way.

And then engineers, we have several of both all in our belt. That's we think we're Batman. Fitness uh geeks again, Apple products, the Apple Watch, Nerds, the Fitbit, and there's no fitness for engineers. There's a I can type I am in shape. I don't know what you're saying.

Social media geeks are very social. They're on Facebook, Instagram, T. They're on all of they're very social. Uh engineers interesting. It's got to be email. You got and only the subject

line. That's all I'm reading. And then uh nerds. That's a radio telescope. They only want to talk to intelligent life. No humans

style. There's a thing called geek chic. There truly is. You know, geeks have like the sweater and the hat and they look cool. They dress cool. They they

they care about we engineers nerds. We don't care about this functionality. So like which is why I love the cargo pants. I got my car. And engineers, by the way, cargo shorts. You don't need

the bottom of here. I got the pocket here. I can reach it. I don't need anything below the pocket. That's how an engineer thinks.

I have cargo pants. I have cargo shorts. I have cargo underwear. I love them. I want pockets and everything.

And my poor poor wife, she's uh she puts up with me. We went to a wedding the other day. I had a jacket and cargo pants. I call it engineering formal. And uh so I did a I did a cargo pant analysis to prove to my cargo pants are superior. We should all be wearing cargo

pants. Okay, this is a regular pair of pants. Okay, that much is functional right there. That totally useless wasted material. That That is a great pair of pants. Look at that

pocket. Pocket. Pocket. Pocket. You could carry everything you own in your pants.

And believe me, most guys, everything that matters to them is in their pants. I'm just saying. And engineers love redundancy. You could keep an extra pair of pants in a pocket of your pants. I blew up my pants. Don't worry. I have

an extra pair right now. How about color? Geeks. I noticed geeks comic book geeks green is their color. There's green lantern, green arrow, green hornet. The Hulk is green. Nerds,

it's not one, it's a plaid. We love plaid.

Two reasons why we wear plaid. Number one, uh I don't have to iron it. You would have no idea if I ironed this. Second reason, if I have to graph anything, I just look down. Okay. Okay.

And uh engineers, it's uh plat on plat. Oh, that's a good look. I'm sorry. I'll take that off. I noticed you didn't go oh on that one.