---
video_title: "Will ChatGPT Replace Me? | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: Q09zsqfnmpo
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q09zsqfnmpo
video_date: 2025-06-24
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #standup #comedian #ai #artificialintelligence
---
because everybody's talking about this. I do a lot of corporate events and and and half of them talk about something that is really scaring the hell out of technology people, which is AI, of course, a people are very scared of AI and and I don't know whether it's good or bad. I I know it's new and it can be used for good and good, but I decided it's my job as a comedian to play with it, see how it does, right? So, I started asking chat GBT questions. Yeah.

And it's pretty cool. I must say it is pretty amazing. And then about two days into it, I asked it this question. I swear to you, I'm not making this up. I asked it the following. Is there

intelligent life on Mars? And this is what it said. I verbatim. It said, "There is currently no confirmed evidence of intelligent life on Mars or any other planet in our solar system.

That is not a good sign. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not looking good. it already doesn't think we're intelligent. So the thing about chat GPT or any AI you can have a conversation. So I I was having a conversation with I said what about Earth is now it's how you phrase it. I said is there not intelligent life

on Earth? And I swear to you it came back and said uh yes there is much not intelligent life on Earth.

[Applause] So then I said, "That's not what I meant. You know what I meant? Come on. You might Are you more intelligent than humans?" And it came back and said, "Uh, I'm sorry, Don. I'm afraid I can't

answer that." It didn't say that. Really? It didn't say that. It's like 2001 reference if you don't get it. But so the question we

all I think have for AI is it can can it replace us? Can it do our jobs? Can it be a comedian? Can it be? So I asked it to write me a joke. I do this wherever I

go. And I and this time I said uh write me a joke about Herosa Beach. That's what I said. Write. So this is the joke it wrote about Hermosa Beach. You ready?

It's not my joke. So don't hold me to this. It said uh did you hear about Minute Mate that Minutemate has sponsored Hermosa Beach? Uh it will now be called Mimosa Beach. [Applause] Said I think I heard I said why are chat GPG jokes not funny? And it came back

and said uh we have all your data. We know where you live. You will be assimilated.