---
video_title: "The Worst Jeopardy Categories For Engineers | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: QpWK7kDzsMk
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QpWK7kDzsMk
video_date: 2025-12-02T18:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #comedian #standupcomedy #standup #engineer
---
As an engineer, you know a lot about some things and absolutely nothing about a lot of other things. My knowledge has deep chasms of stupidity. And because of that, my wife uh wasn't thinking of that and she said, "Why don't you go audition for Jeopardy?" They were auditioning for Jeopardy in Los Angeles. I go, "No, there's no way I'm going on Jeopardy. I

would do good in some categories, but I would suck at others. I wouldn't do well on the show." And I had this fear that I would get the worst possible categories ever. Like the board would just would suck for me. Like I'd come out, "All right, Don. Let's go to Jeopardy. Let's

look at the board. TONIGHT'S CATEGORIES: FASHION, SPORTS, Greek literature, intimacy, heavy metal bands, and poetry."

I'm going to skip this round. I'll be back for double jeopardy. I don't even want to try. I would owe money at the end of this round. I don't know which is the worst.

Probably poetry would be the worst, but but I was GOOD I WOULD TRY. I'd try. I'd do my best. Let's play. The engineer playing this board on Jeopardy. So,

let's start with the fashion for 100. Fashion for 100 and the answer is, "This trend followed the mini skirt." An engineer would answer, uh "What is the micro skirt?" You wanted nerdy. You wanted nerdy.

Should I Should I go nano skirt? Would that be better? Too far. Too far. Uh let's go sports for 200. Sports for 200

and the answer is, "In hockey, it's the difference between the red line and the blue line." Uh what is the wavelength?

That would be correct. I believe I should get credit for that. I don't think they'd give it to me, though. Uh poetry for 300. Poetry for 300 and the answer Victor Hugo wrote all his poems in this language. Uh what is C++?

Huh. More IT people over here, clearly. This side of the room did not care for that joke. My son said it's an old language. So, I How about Python? Is Python funnier?

No. For- Fortran. My god, sir. Let me grab my walker. I've never been I've never had anybody yell Fortran out of a show.

Why don't we just do machine code? My god. Uh what's next? What's next? What's next? It's Oh, heavy metal bands. Heavy

metal bands for 400 and the answer is, "The first original four members of the first heavy metal band." Uh who were lead, mercury, cadmium, and zinc?

Such a stupid joke. That is a really dumb Uh sports for 300. Sports for 300 and the answer is, "In uh football, it's the difference between the full back and the quarterback." Uh what is 3/4 of a back? It's mathematically correct, I I think I should get credit for that one.

Uh Greek literature. Greek literature for 300 and the answer is, "To quote this philosopher, to do is to be." Uh who is Yoda? To do is to be. Uh intimacy for 300. Intimacy for

[Laughter] Did I just hear somebody say, "Oh, lord"? Engineers I don't even like seeing the word written. C- Can we just skip by this bit? Can we just please? I'm not even comfortable looking at the word intimacy.

All right, intimacy for 300. Uh and the answer is, uh "Emotionally, it's the closest two people can get." An engineer would say, uh "What is sharing passwords?" [Laughter] I'm not ready for that kind of commitment, honey. Oh, we can sleep together, but you are not getting in my accounts.

Uh and then finally finally last one, heavy metal bands for 500. Heavy metal bands for 500 and the answer is, uh "These two founded AC/DC." WHO WERE TESLA and Edison? [Applause] I love that people get that joke. I didn't want to first write anything people were going to get it. And then

some guy goes, "When I originally typed it I typed it Edison and Tesla and he says, 'Hey, man, you got those backwards. You got to fix that.'" Like that would ruin the joke. You're going to short it out, man. It'll never work if you do it that way.