---
video_title: "How We Really Spend Our Time on the Internet | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: MV8oWKUhLFw
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MV8oWKUhLFw
video_date: 2025-03-25
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian
---
Now sometimes jokes are just handed to me. This came to me in a USA Today graph and this was a real graph. They asked people how you spend time uh on the internet at work. And in this survey people answered uh reading email 30%, browsing 23%, social networking 21. And I looked at that and my very first thought was people are not being honest.

Clearly they've left a couple major internet uses out. So I thought it's my job as a comedian to bring some truth to this chart. So I reabeled it because I thought the numbers are probably right. But de So I think 3% of the time on the internet at work is spent uh working. That's rounded up from roughly uh zero. I think uh 6% of the time is spent

uh trying to remember

passwords. I don't know about you, my brain got full about eight years ago. I just I have no clue. I'm like, "Honey, what was the cat's name?" No, the password cat. What the

hell was his name? That's right. Somebody hacked that account. We had to rename the cat. Now the cat's name is C9 capital KL back

slash5. I hate I hate it too. The rules are so tough now. I I hate it when you open a new account and it comes and it goes, "No, that's not hard enough." You know, your password is not hard enough. I'm like, "How much harder

does it need to be? I'll never remember it. Or this one. That password's weak. You're weak. You're a That's a

password. You call that a password. Just go back to bed. It's insulting. That's weak. You

know what I do when I see that? I just take my hand on the keyboard and I go and it comes back. Oh, that's a good one. You're a stud. And I have no idea what it is I don't I just reset it every time. I know

my security questions. Let's get back to the chart. Real time on the internet. 8% of the time on the internet at work is spent uh downloading Adobe updates. I am so annoyed. I go to the

CEO of Adobe's house every day for like a month and just every day go knock. Hey, I got something new for you. Got something new for you. Oh, am I waking you up? Got something new for you. It's just annoying. It's

annoying. 12% of the time on the internet at work is spent uh deleting emails from wealthy Nigerians. I hear from Prince Ben Aagadoo almost every day. Dear esteemed sir, he's always so nice. 21% of the time is spent uh watching porn. 23% of

the time is searching for porn. and 30% of the time deleting porn from your history. That's more accurate. I rush my case.