---
video_title: "Rain man ruined this joke for me. | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: XYd984VOp3c
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XYd984VOp3c
video_date: 20251010
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian
---
I remember the day I got this email. Came in an email. Guide seen my show. This is what he wrote on slide 34. You assert that one out of six babies born on Earth are Chinese. This assumes

a constant birth rate over all time. This is obviously false. Please correct your analysis. Now, when I saw this, I immediately knew I was in trouble. First of all, he's right. It was slide

34, which was amazing to me cuz I don't number my slides. You see any numbers? I don't number my slides. He was counting my slides. I was being hackled by Rainman. That's

what was happening. So, I knew he was going to be right when I went to slide 34. And sure enough, here's the bit. I don't do it anymore. It was about statistics. And I can make

statistics say whatever you want. There are 1.4 billion people in China. That's true. There are 8 billion people on Earth. Therefore, I said you could

assert. Hence, one out of every six babies born on Earth are Chinese. Therefore, you could conclude if you've got five kids, you're expecting a six, they won't be. It's a pretty funny joke. I used to like that joke.

He ruined that joke for me completely. He did. Cuz he's absolutely right. He's right. One out of six babies born on Earth are not Chinese. Over the last 100

years, that has been the case. That's why they're a quarter of the one six of the population now. But right now, their birth rate is much lower. So that's wrong. Which means that's wrong. Which

means they don't drive work anymore. So I'm not telling it >> except when I explain it like this. But I tried to fix it because I'm an engineer. So here's my fix. 1.4 billion

people China, 8 billion people on Earth. Therefore, if you randomly adopt six people of any age from anywhere in the world, one of them will be changed. Are you happy now? You happy? [Applause]