---
video_title: "Living By the Laws of Physics | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: HKneNvWHEW0
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HKneNvWHEW0
video_date: 2025-06-03
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
I I I was into physics. I was into physics and math. And um I I thought when I was younger, I would since I understood physics very well, I would try to apply it to different areas of life and because we're all trying to understand life and how it works. And what if the laws of physics work? Does it apply to everyday life? So, you're

going to learn for the laws of physics tonight. Four of them. And I'm using PowerPoint. So, I think technically you can write off tonight's show as continuing education credit. I'm pretty sure. Keep your ticket stubs.

So the first law of uh of physics I'm going to use is the conservation of matter which says matter cannot be created nor destroyed. Matter cannot be created nor destroyed. Now does this hold true in real life? My answer is no. No it does not. And I have two examples.

The first one is babies. Babies. When my son was little, he could drink 4 ounces of milk and poop 8 ounces. How is that possible? Look at that diaper. He's

creating matter in that diaper. He's got double his body weight in poop. They're little matter creators. That's what babies are. The second example of matter cannot be that does not hold true is toothpaste tubes, right? Tooth. You ever been you

had a toothpaste tube, right? You think it's empty. You squeeze it and another day comes out. You're like, "Oh, wow. I didn't think." And then the next day it happens

again. Then it's like a week later and you're like, "Oh my god." And then at some point you're you don't want to give up on it. You're trying. You're like squeezing. You get

the pliers out. I'm not giving up on this toothpay. The conservation of momentum. The conservation of moment. This is a new one. Hope hopefully this one's

funny. Some some of these jokes engineers are alpha test. If they fail, I've learned something in the failure. Conservation of momentum says for collision occurring between object one and object two, the total momentum of the two objects before the collision is equal to the total momentum of the two objects after the collision. And physicists always use balls colliding. I

don't know why. It's some sexual thing, I'm sure. But if a ball of m1 and velocity one strikes ball of m2 and they hit, they will go in opposite directions in this case and the smaller ball will move faster and the bigger ball will move slower. Conservation of momentum given by this little formula here. Now, how could this possibly uh apply to regular life? Well, I used this to get out of

playing football when I was in high school. My dad wanted me to play football because I was big. I you should play football. I said, "No, because I understand the conservation of momentum, Dad." Okay, I weighed 190 pounds. If

this guy who weighs 380, which is a normal size for a football player, if he hits me going 10 miles an hour, I will fly that way going 20 m an hour. And that's assuming he doesn't knock my head off. If he knocks my head off, my head weighs about 12 lbs. He hits me, my body moves at 9 miles. My head flies off at 181 miles an hour. My head could kill

someone. So for everybody else's safety, I am not playing football. The law of motion, your third law of physics says for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. For every action there is equal and you know this law. This is a pretty obvious one. Wait like a balloon for example.

Okay. The the the air comes out of the balloon that way. So the balloon goes that way, right? Equal and opposite reaction. A cannon is a perfect example of this. Cannonball is really heavy. So

when the cannonball goes that way, the cannon will actually go back that way. Which is why in early days of canon uses a lot of guys got run over. It was not pretty. So I don't know why but I decided to apply this to something very important to me and that was uh my marriage. I wanted to see an equal and opposite reaction applied. So if my wife

says to me, "Have you gained a few pounds?" I will say probably. Very small reaction. Now let's flip it around. If I say to my wife, "Have you gained a few pounds?" she will shoot me with a

cannonball. That is not an equal and opposite reaction. And then finally, this is I have to read this one. This is the nerdiest thing I've ever tried. So, here we go. uh Newton's law of gravity says

every particle attracts every other particle with a force which is proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between their centers given by this magical formula right here. Okay, mass one, mass two. There's a gravitational force. The G is the gravitational constant. Does not change. Mass one, mass two. And the

closer things get, the larger, smaller that number gets, the bigger the gravitational force is. Now, when you think about what is that exactly, that is the law of attraction. So, you could apply that to couples. It's the law of attraction. So, if person of mass one and person of mass 2 are actually attracted by this formula, that's an attraction. Does this work? Well, that

would say if that were the case, as that person gains weight, they become more attractive. No. In my experience, that does not hold true. But it does explain one phenomenon I always wondered about. Yeah, everybody knows what I'm talking about. I'm not

trying to put But if you ever seen a couple where one person is much larger than the other person, I think as that person approached that, they actually got caught in their gravitational pull. And I'm not sure whether it's love or gravity. We're not really positive.