---
video_title: "How to Beat California Traffic | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: sZT90CdDOlQ
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sZT90CdDOlQ
video_date: 20251104
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
So, I live in Santa Clarita. And I drove here. Yeah. Say who said it's far. Somebody said it's far. That That is the other

side of the earth from here, okay? It's not Texas far. Well, that's that's another decade. Perhaps another century, but we won't get into that. So, I drove here tonight. Uh I left

Santa Clarita. I put into the Google Maps I put into Google Maps I was going to the Irvine improv. It says it's a 73.5 miles and it's a 1 hour and and that is that's I'm sorry. That's ridiculous.

That's Maybe if you owned a helicopter, maybe. That's the only way. That's what it said. I'm not lying. I typed in it 1 hour and 14 minutes. Okay, today today

the actual time on a normal day 7 hours and 26 minutes. But today was an incredibly special day, okay? If you throw in rain in there, now it becomes 16 hours and 32 minutes. And throw on top of that, oh my god, a natural disaster the I-10 is shut down. It's 2 days, 14 hours, and 19 minutes.

I left Monday morning, got here like 10 minutes ago.

Only only in California when a highway breaks down is it a state of emergency? Holy people are freaking out. The 10 is shut down. People are going to die. So, next time I have to come here on any kind of day like this, I am not going to drive here. I am going to drive to Las

Vegas. Cuz I happen to know it is only 4 hours and 12 minutes. Cuz you can go 99 miles an hour and people will be passing you. I will then board a Southwest Airlines flight and fly to John Wayne Airport. That takes me 1 hour. I will then rent a

car and drive 14 minutes for a total time of 5 hours and 26 minutes.

Faster than I could have got here today. If you've never seen my show before, this is the kind of analysis that's going to happen for the next hour. I've never had anybody cheer analysis before. Go analysis. E to the U to U to X, come on. E to the

X to Y. Cosine, secant, tangent, sine, 3.14159. Binary, octal, decimal, hex, we think math is better than sex. Go team.

That's as nerdy as I get, dude. That was just for you. That was my math team cheer. I don't do that for just anybody. So, as I'm sitting there in traffic, I realize there is, in fact, a a math to LA traffic. If you take the traffic on

the 10 at the traffic on the 60 plus traffic on the 5 plus traffic on the 57 plus traffic on the 55 now in the traffic on the 90 plus the 91 plus traffic on the 15 plus traffic on the 22, you get the traffic on 405. Thank you. Thank you. My math. Thank you.

I know all my nerd fans are checking my math, but I know it is correct. And for you super nerds, I've done the checksum. I know it is correct. Checksum, that is very That is like if you didn't get that joke, feel good about your life. Checksum is like an 11 on the nerd scale. That is

Here's the other thing I feel about traffic. I think traffic should be mathematically correct. For example, right here right here like right over there where the 405 merges with the 5, that should become the 410.

Right little north of here where the 605 meets the 405, that should become the 1105. And this, I just thought of this today, the 73 where it becomes a toll road right there right there, it should actually they should just change to that. It should be

I I came up with that today. I think that's kind of clever. And then in Santa Monica where the 405 meets the 10 right there, that's infinity cuz you can't get there. It's not happening. Just turn around and go home. That's