---
video_title: "What a strange heckle | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: gYXscMgWhcg
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYXscMgWhcg
video_date: 2025-02-25
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
---
but here's my question here here's how you know you're an engineer it takes three things to be an engineer you have to be smart socially awkward and curious smart socially awkward and curious and if we all three of those things you're in fact an engineer okay that's what it takes smart socially awkward and curious now Rock if if you're what was that rocket rocket dine thank you very much for yelling Aerospace company out do you want me to interview is that why you yelled at I you know of all the things to Heckle rocket dine what am I going to yell back at Nur

Grumman Boeing do you do you work at Rocket dine is that what you're saying your dad does thank you again for making me feel very old my dad worked at rockety back when Engineers were alive so okay let's move past the engineer so if you're a smart social awkward and curious uh you're an engineer was your dad all those three things yeah now if if if if you're not socially awkward and you're smart and curious you're an entrepreneur right you start a startup company because you're good with people makes perfect sense right now over here if you're socially awkward and curious you're a

stalker it's amazing how close those three things are and then if you're smart and socially awkward but you're not at all curious uh you're basically a proctologist is what you are why would anybody become a proctologist I'm not curious at all but I'm smart I can go to medical school and I I I like to stick my hand up people's butts I should be a proctologist