---
video_title: "Overlooked Signs You Might Be an Engineer | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: K3OmGLZRgg4
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3OmGLZRgg4
video_date: 20250909
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
I always celebrate my engineering uh brothers and sisters because people don't respect engineers as much as they should because everything now if you think about it is technology. Everything's got a chip in it. Everything got software. If something breaks, an engineer is involved in fixing it. And nobody ever stops to thank us. So next time you meet an

engineer, hug him or her. They won't like it, but hug him anyway. We don't like to be touched, but go hug them. So this is for you. Some signs you might be an engineer. Some signs you

might be. At the end of every weekend, three things that were broken are now fixed. Yes, I'm on fire. But but six things that were working are now broken. [Applause] I thought I could make that work better and now it doesn't work at all. I tried.

I tried. >> You know, you're an engineer. If uh your biggest fear is public speaking, not unusual. A lot of people are very afraid of public speaking. But as an engineer, your second biggest fear is private speaking. Oh.

We really just don't want to speak. That's what it is. You know, you're an engineer. If on the SATs you scored uh 760 math, 200 verbal, just me. Me talk, not good. Number fun.

Uh you know you're an engineer if you know you're an engineer if uh you proudly describe your love making ability as efficient. It's efficient. I get in, I get out, I get the job done. >> You know you're an engineer if when a bank sign gives you the temperature in Celsius, uh, you don't bother to wait for the Fahrenheit. No, I know. I'm good. I'm good with the

Celsius. I find it interesting that banks are the only business that find it their duty to give you the time and the temperature. No other business does that. Like, that's essential to banking. Like you'd be walking by a bank going, "Wow, it's 12:46, 73°, perfect conditions for a deposit. I'm going in."

You know you're an engineer. If uh when asked your favorite color, here's a little nerd test for you right now. When asked your favorite color, you answer uh 55 251 166. [Applause] All right, we have it people right here and right there. The rest of you people are going, "Why are there numbers for the colors?

Why are there It's RGB numbers. That's That's a very nerdy joke. I just learned a lot about this crowd. The nerdy group there. There's a nerdy group." We're always overlooked.

Engineers are always overlooked. I feel often overlooked. Uh so so here's here's the thing. Have you know have you seen this new share with Coke thing? >> Yeah. Where it says share a Coke with

Kyle and Ryan and Abby and Shelby and Scott. And I've been looking. It's been running. It ran years ago and I couldn't find it then and I can't find it now. I never ever Look, they have everybody by the way. They But there's never a Don.

I've never met a Don. Don is a forgotten name. It's not. And look at some of the names. Gus. They gave Gus a

can. Esther. Esther. Flint. Why the hell is Flint get a can? That one's right

there. Uh Kaden. Kaden. I've never met a Kaden in my life. But there's no Don.

Okay. In other countries, they have Jan and Jay and Eric. And in in India, they have Niha. In Japan, they have different languages, but there's no dot. They have, look, in this country, they have Christy with a CH and a K and a C and a R and Christy with an IE E and an E and a Christy with a heart and a Christy with a heart at the end, and then Christy with two hearts, but no Don.

There's no Don. No, here's what I here's I'd like to say. I'd say, don't share a Coke. Don't share a Coke. Don't share a Coke with Putin. Don't share a Coke with Putin or

Elon or a diabetic. That's a good idea. That would be a helpful can. If kids, do share a Coke with half rum. That'd be a cool coke. Uh the CEO of Pepsi.

Or of course, no tariffs. Should