---
video_title: "Nerds Can Be Sexy Too | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: RC7at-VgtvA
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RC7at-VgtvA
video_date: 2025-06-18
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedian #standup #nerd #geek
---
contraception. My wife says she she can't believe I'm talking about this, but I am because I'm an engineer and I'm taking it as a technical analysis. Geeks are very social. They're using they have sex all the time. They're using all the forms, IUDs, uh condoms, uh everything, the diaphragm, everything, everything. They're having

sex. Uh nerds, uh it's got to be a birth control. And here's why. When I was a nerd, uh I never expected to have sex. So, you better be prepared.

I had no idea this was going to happen. This this comes as a total shock to me cuz up to now my form of birth control has worked perfectly, which has been my personality.

I really hate that that joke works that well. But it's so easy to believe that of me that it does work and and is is in fact true. So there we go. Who do we look up to? Who are icons? When it comes to

females and geeks, it's got to be Wonder Woman. Galados, I'm sorry. She's Wonder Woman. She's Wonder Woman. She's hot.

Yeah, she's great. Geeks. Uh, nerds. Interesting. I liked Velma from Scooby-Doo.

When I was a kid, forget Daffany. Velma was the hot one. She solved the crimes. And I love this sweater. And then engineers, uh, Alexa. Oh, I love Alexa.

She is my dream girl, Alexa. She's She answers all of my questions. Never asks me even one. I want to marry Alexa. I really do. And

we got to do men. I think geeks I think Star Trek geeks were really the first geeks. They're they're What was that? Star Trek geeks have no shame. Did you know that even I would have slept with Captain Kirk? Frankly,

uh nerds is I think it's generational. When I was a kid, it was the professor from Gilling Town. I think he was the first nerd on television. He was amazing. He's amazing. They were on this

desert island. He could make anything out of a coconut and a palm frog. He'd make he made a car, a little taxi once. He made a record player, but he couldn't fix a sixft hole in a boat. I'm like, what?

Made no s. I was eight and I'm like, this makes no sense. Then uh Robert Keran came along. Revenge of the nerds. Remember that? Yeah. Nerds

started getting cool, right? Then we went backwards. We had Urkl. Those weren't good days. And then Jim Parsons brought us back into the lights. Thank you, Jim. uh

engineers. I think uh Scotty, he was the engineer. He was engineers on the map. I always wanted to be Scotty. Then uh we had MacGyver who totally my dad my dad loved MacGyver. And then up until uh

this year actually uh it was Elon Musk but uh he has sadly been jettisoned. So I'm thinking why not me? Why not me? That's what I'm saying. Come on.