---
video_title: "Ranting Against LAX and the 405 | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: bsG5Gb_uEFg
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsG5Gb_uEFg
video_date: 2025-08-19
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedian #standup #comedy #comedian #losangeles
---
Let let's talk about something really important here in the Los greater Los Angeles area and that is of course the weather and the traffic which I think I find it very hysterical that in LA they lead the news with the weather in the traffic. The weather never changes and the traffic always sucks and that's what leads the news every night and that's what they think is important. So let's let's go to the weather. This is this is Hermosha beast weather. Okay. Uh Sunday and 72. Now

that was Sunday. Monday 72 Tuesday 70 70 oh heat wave by Saturday I'm an engineer why don't we just go to this we could just do this every day the recursive it's C day before C day before C day it's the recursive weather forecast

that's how an engineer thinks now let's talk about the 405 because I found the greatest chart on the 405. This is the average speed on the 405 by hour. Okay? And it totally makes sense if you spend a lot of time, which we've all spent a lot of time on the 405. Uh, okay. Here's rush hour 7. The average

speed is like below 10 miles an hour. 7 8 9. Then we get a little break at lunch. You ever run out lunch going the traffic's not bad. Quick, grab some food. Get back. Oh, it's going to run

out. And then it gets better. And then this is my favorite time. About 2 a.m.

You can do like 90 miles an hour. And you think to yourself, why can't it be like this all the time? And uh by the way, the average speed works out to be about 32 miles an hour across the day. Yeah, that's that's I I I thought it would be lower, but what's interesting is that that's for zero accidents. I I do deeper analysis. I'm

an engineer. Okay, here's here's one accident. It immediately drops. Okay, instead of 65, it's now 22 because everybody if you have an accident, okay, if there's two accidents, now you're down to like 15 miles an hour. Okay. Uh

if if there's road work, which there always is. Now you're down to like eight. And if it's raining, forget it. You're actually so screwed. Yeah. You can actually end up behind

where you started. You're going backwards at certain points during the day. And the average speed on a rainy day works out to be two, but that's 65 ft per minute. That's the difference. It just changes the units.

And my favorite thing to pick on now is LAX, which I call the horseshoe of hell. This better be the best damn monor rail ever. I better get sex on that monor rail cuz what I've been through in the last four years, I don't there's like four guys working on it. That's how long it's been. I've met them. They're very nice men, but

they are taking forever. And what that has created is the worst engineering in in the in the world has happened. Okay, let's I I did an engineering analysis of LAX. Okay, there's the LAX horseshoe fell. There are three lanes that come in and three lanes that go out. There are 74,878

passengers every day. I looked that up. That is a disaster. That is not happening. That is wrong.

Okay, let let's break it down just a little bit. Okay, there's 37,554 that fly out of LAX. There's 37,324 that fly in. Do you notice a gap there? You know what that says right there? There

are 23 30 people never make it out of the airport. They are stuck at LAX. There are pe people raising families inside of LAX. I'm going to Terminal 2 Junior High School this year.