---
video_title: "Comedy Math | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: Lwvy4JLLRgY
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lwvy4JLLRgY
video_date: 2025-05-13
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #engineer
---
And you can't stop doing math when you're an engineer. You just can't. I love math. I just I'm constantly doing math. And uh when my son was little, I realized we we need kids. Mike was

talking about being a teacher. We need kids to to get into math and science again. So you got to make it fun. So when my son was little, I teach him math using pictures and images because he was into video games. And now he's in computer science. He's he's studying

computer science in college and he's he's a total nerd. God knows why. But um but when I taught him math using pictures, I realized it's a good comedy bit because what does math do? But it breaks things down so you see the truth behind things. Right? So for example, if

you take eBay, eBay, and subtract out the internet, you are left with a garage sale. It's a garage sale on the internet. That's all it is. On the other hand, e-harmony minus the internet and you have a pimp. Is that not what they are doing?

They're putting people together and taking a percentage. That is a pimp. I'm sorry. They're e- pimps. That's all they are. They're e-

pimps. And uh Twitter. Oh, I'm sorry. It's not Twitter. It's the artist formerly known as Twitter. Minus the

internet. And you have uh junior high school. That's what it is. It is totally junior high school. It is. I got an A in math. You're ugly. No

one likes you. That is junior high school. I flash back to junior high school when I go on Twitter. Or X, I'm sorry. X. Uh, AARP, the American I

always wonder where store names come from. AARP, the American Association of Retired Persons, plus the Department of Defense, and you get Old Navy. All right, don't overthink this part of my act. Okay, this is the stupid part of my act, but it's math. It's got to be fun. Uh,

sir, to the mattress people plus cola, the faucet people plus religion, and you get Bed Bath and Beyond. Bed Bath and Beyond. Wikipedia. Wikipedia minus depends. And you get Wikileaks. Of

course. Of course. [Applause]

Wikileaks. I like your laugh, sir. It was great. That that you laugh and that people laugh at you laughing and I don't even have to tell any more jokes if I get you going. I get a harmonic frequency going and I can just leave.

Uh YouTube, YouTube plus add this already happened and we got Tik Tok. That's what Tik Tok is. It Tik Tok is horrible for your brain. It really is. If you ever want to shoot a whole day, look up, flip up a couple times, look up. Eight hours gone.

Gone. What? This one's just amazing. Miley Cyrus. Miley who I love. Miley

Cyrus minus. If you remove her makeup, you get Justin Bieber. Look at that. Look at that. I I wrote this as a joke, but I'm not sure it's not true. I have never seen

them perform together. Never seen them together ever. I think there's one person and two acts. I'm pretty sure. Anybody ever seen They've never been photographed together. Uh Tesla, bad bad joke

warning. I just This This is bad. Sometimes I write bad jokes and I just What? Oh, you'll see. Tesla Tesla plus men's cologne. Where's he going with

this one? And you get uh Elon Musk. [Applause] I just I I'm sorry. When I hear Elon Musk, I think, "Wow, I wonder what that would smell like. I smell like a new electric car." That's what it smells

like. Now, I got to do all the guys now. Mark Zuckerberg. Mark Zuckerberg mine his brains. If you pulled out his brains, you'd get the scarecrow from the Wizard of Oz. I can prove it. Watch. You got the

hat. Got Okay, there you go. I'll do it backwards. Look, I can do it backwards. Watch. Boom. Boom. Boom.

This is what happens when an engineer learns how to use Photoshop. And then finally, Jeff Bezos. Jeff Bezos plus uh space travel. He does that now. And you get uh Dr.

Evil. That's what he is. Dr. Evil. Look, look, look. It's perfect. Look.