---
video_title: "Let's talk about something truly important | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: s27JRm5wfs0
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s27JRm5wfs0
video_date: 2025-03-07
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian #standup
---
it needs to be discussed and that is uh uh Taylor and Travis I know we're all sick of it I know it I know I just want to explain it okay I'm an I'm an engineer I'm good at explaining stuff so I'm going to explain why they are so famous and I'm going to do it using ven diagrams yeah what else would I use really Ben diagrams are great for explaining stuff and it's all about social media followers okay uh Taylor Swift amazing 520 million social media followers across all her platforms 520 million Travis Kelsey if you include the NFL 422 million the overlap before they started dating was three three people knew both there was Zero overlap so when they started dating suddenly they were 942 million people this is why it struck a court but we could do better watch this if Cristiano Ronaldo if you're a soccer fan he has the biggest social media following in the world almost a billion people 876 million if he would date Selena Gomez who has 685 way more than and Taylor Swift they as a power couple would actually reach 1.56 billion but we could even do better if Cristiano Ronaldo would somehow they Elon Musk now now we're

talking Elon come on Elon he wants followers but I'm sorry I'm a Swifty I am a Swifty now I am officially a Swifty and uh I I can't help but I and if you if you don't like it shake it off that's all I have to say and Taylor you know if if it doesn't work out she's going to she'll be fine she's going to write an album about the breakup with Taylor Swift and she'll be a bazillionaire then but here's a better idea if she ever if she she has 20 if we talk about total followers not just social media she has 520 million social if she would somehow date the pope who has 1.4 billion followers now we're talking that is almost two billion people