---
video_title: "Going Way Back with Yakov Smirnoff | Don McMillan"
video_id: ZjHPkFYY0aM
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZjHPkFYY0aM
video_date: 2025-01-14
video_description: |
  FULL VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UxkwZe0dv1A
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #podcast #comedy #relationship
---
Welcome. Thanks. Yeah, it's good to see you, Yakov. Nice to see you. We We'll go back. We'll

go way back. Yeah, back I met you at the Comedy Magic Club many, many years ago, which is we were saying is the greatest club in LA with the best crowd. Wonderful place. Yeah. Uh Jay Leno plays there. And uh

Still every Sunday night. The man is every Sunday night taking spots from us young comics. That's right. That's right. We just We just talking about Jay.

Um uh Don was there when I graduated I got my doctor degree at Pepperdine and I came in this full regalia. And Came in this gold robe as I remember it. That's the gold uh color. That's right cuz that that was your degree. Yeah, that's right. I remember

that. So and You came out with the graduation music. That was really cool. That was cool. It was really cool.

But but Jay uh bless his heart he just kind of goes "Yakov, what are you doing?" I go, "Well, I got my doctor degree." And he goes, "Why you Why Why are you doing that? Why Why? You're a comedian. Comedian does three

things. You write a joke, you tell a joke, you pick up a check." And I go, "Yeah, but I have certain desire to help humanity." He goes, "You don't get it. You write the joke So Jay likes to keep it simple.

Simple. Great. I mean I I I love he does some polite things and been doing this for Oh man. Yeah, I But you're more like my wife. My I was telling you before my my wife has got four degrees and she's her life is constantly you know searching for new knowledge. She's She works at the

Hearst Castle right now giving tours cuz she wanted to learn about the Hearst Castle. She just That's Well, in my case I think it was a little bit reversed because I I not remember myself being very smart in school. You know, I I would tell jokes uh to friend you know, but and I would get in trouble, but I was not academically smart and my mom was really worried about me and I think I might have been dyslexic because Oh, that's interesting. might have in Soviet Union they didn't diagnose Have you seen their language? It looks dyslexic.

That's why it happened. You would never know if you were dyslexic. But it was an interesting turnaround. Uh I went to Tony Robbins um one of these uh events and he mentioned that there's three ways of learning and I didn't know that. So it's a visual, auditory, or kinesthetic.

And he said that some people just don't know that there different kind of learners. Huh. And I realized that I'm auditory. So all of my Yeah. So all of the sudden I became smart because I could listen to books.

And that's how and then I I kept listening so much Because of dyslexia you know. I I don't know if I'm because I know that when I'm reading I'll last about two pages. Mhm. And then I want to fall asleep, right? So I guess that's what it is. I don't

know what I'm very visual. I can't read either. I fall asleep in like two pages, too. I just bores me. I need my whatever whatever is in my head like all my charts and graphs in my power point.

I'm a I'm a visual thinker.