---
video_title: "Comedy Math Returns | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: F-uPlpHsdnE
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-uPlpHsdnE
video_date: 20251216
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedian #enginner
---
And you can't stop doing math. I didn't do this last summer. It's one of my older bits, but I I forgot I have a couple of new parts to it. So, if you've seen it before, hang in there. There's some new parts.

But, I love math. That's my I mentioned math skills, that was my big thing. And when I got into comedy, I wanted to use math uh uh to make math fun cuz we need kids to get into math. And I used it to teach my son math, and he's really good at math now cuz I used pictures, images, made it like a game, and I taught him math. And it turned into a good comedy bit cuz what does math do but it breaks things down, so you then you see the truth behind things. So, for example, if you

take eBay eBay and you subtract out the internet, you're left with a garage sale. See, that's how that works. It's the same crap, it's just on the internet. On the other hand, if you take eHarmony and you remove the internet, you have a pimp. That's what you have.

Are Is that what they're hooking people up and taking a percentage? I believe that's a pimp. They're providing a service, but they're e-pimps. I'm sorry. Uh Twitter minus the I'm sorry, it's not Twitter. It's the artist formerly known

as Twitter. X minus the internet AND YOU HAVE JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL. THAT'S what it is. It is junior high school. I got an A in math, you're ugly, no one likes you.

That is junior high school. We've gone back to seventh grade. Uh AARP, watch this. See what's your name? AARP AARP plus the Department of Defense and you get Old Navy. See what I

mean?

This This This is the stupid part of my act. Uh Serta the mattress people plus Kohler the faucet people plus religion and you get Bed Bath & Beyond. Bed Bath & Beyond. Bed I feel bad. I love this joke and Bed Bath & Beyond went bankrupt. Can you

believe that? They went bankrupt. They owed like $400 million, but they had a 20% off coupon, so they only owed $320 million. Uh Wikipedia Wikipedia minus depends and you have WikiLeaks. How about that one?

All right. All right. This one's just amazing. WATCH THIS. MILEY CYRUS MILEY CYRUS minus makeup and you've got Justin Bieber. Look at that.

Could they not be the same person? They could. I think it's one person in two acts. It's genius. All right. You were groaning before,

you're going to groan now. Okay. Uh Tesla Tesla plus men's cologne and you've got Elon Musk. How about that? I just slap a little Elon Musk on.

Uh Mark Zuckerberg, I'm going to do all the new rich guys. Mark Zuckerberg minus brains, you'd have the Scarecrow from The Wizard of Oz. Watch, I can prove it. Watch. Hat, Scarecrow. Come on.

If I only had a brain. And then finally, uh Jeff Bezos Jeff Bezos plus space travel, which he's doing, and he has become Dr. Evil. He is Dr. Evil. Look at that tool.