---
video_title: "Not Smart Technology | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: rEml24FPZiQ
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rEml24FPZiQ
video_date: 2025-08-12
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
Okay. Every time I went to plug in those USB devices, the US, whoever invented the USB USBC device needs to get the Nobel Prize because they solved the problem. Yes. I hated those old You'd go to put it in would never be right. And you'd always do this. You would always

go.

I felt like the monkey in 200. I did it a thousand times. It's upside down 782% of the time. It's correct 3.6 6 and it's upside down. Either way,

18.2%. They They put a gyroscope in there. You turn, it turns. That's how it works.

Can we stop the password, Jamie? I'm trying to come up with a hard password. Your Your password is weak. Very weak. You're pathetic. You You're barely a

man. Do you even have a penis?

And the security questions, I'm sick of them. They're stupid and don't answer them correctly. Okay? There's always your favorite color, your pet's name, your favorite food. If you answer correctly, somebody can guess it. Make

up. That's what you do. Like, for example, what's the name of your favorite pet peeve? Nobody's going to answer that. Okay. What's your favorite hobby? Lobby.

Hobby Lobby. Uh, where did your parents meet? Prison. Who's going to guess that one? Uh, what is your mother's maiden name?

Iron. Iron Maiden. That's what her name. What street did you go up on? in the 405.

What's your favorite state? Gashes. I know it's mine. It's my wife's least favorite, but it's my favorite. Uh, what's your favorite color? 5525

166. And finally, uh, what is your favorite purchase? Uh, Louisiana. Louis. [Applause] All right. I'm tired of proving I'm not

a robot. Come on. This is proof that AI has taken over. Who's asking you to prove you're not? A robot is asking you to prove you're not a robot.

And and a robot figure out how to check a box. That's simple. We have to outsmart the robot to say I'm not a human. When it checks it, aha, we caught you. You are a robot.

And that's not enough. Now you have to type the letters you see in the box. I've been reading most of my life. I'm sorry. I don't see any letters.

No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's ridiculous. If you're on if you're on like acid, you can get right into that. You just And that's the worst. Look at that.

That's not even close. Right now, a scientist come up and say, "Having trouble seeing letters, optometry center. I'm tired of everything being smart. Not everything needs to be smart." Okay, we got smart phones and smart TVs and smart watches and smart cars. There's smart

water for God's sake. It's Fortnite. You want to see smarter water? That is smarter water right there. I am outsmarting the smarter water people. Okay? There's a smart

thermostat. It's kind of cool. Wouldn't you see even smarter thermostat? It would say this. I've detected your wife entering the room. I will now raise the

temperature to 86°. That would save a lot of marriages. And a really, really smart thermostat after age 50 it would say, "I've detected your wife in the room. I will now lower the temperature to 46°." And if you don't get that joke, you will someday. You will.

Just give it time. You'll get there. Okay. They're smart shoes, right? The shoes have a chip in them. They're smart

socks. What? They're smart socks. Why? Oh, the shoes break down. I got a

backup. My socks are smart. They're smart underwear. Why? What? This is

real. What is smart underway? Oh, it's two days. Change alert. Skin mark detected.

Pretty girl spotted. Pop-up blocker activated. That actually might be a good thing. And then finally, I want to dry my hands. Please don't give me the stupid hot air blowers anymore. It's a jet

engine to dry your hands. It's inefficient and it doesn't make your hands dry. It makes your feet wet. That's all it does. Horrible engineering design. These are terrible. The

spring-loaded ones cuz your fingers are wet. So, that's what happens. I hate those. These bother me. I put my hands in I feel like it's going to bite my hands off. I don't like those. These

are disgusting. I don't know if you ever seen those. If you've never seen one, it's a blue cloth towel. Comes out of the box, goes back. What could be happening in that box?

Is there a whole laundry room back by? What is going on? And I think what happens is that towel comes out of the box, goes into the box, goes through the wall into the ladies room, and then back around again. That's all. They just twist it once. It's a Mobius

towel. Goes on forever. I don't like those. I don't like the sensors cuz they never work. You spend like 20 minutes you're like, "Please recognize my existence. I am here."

But that doesn't matter anyway. your own eye cuz that sensor never works. You put your hand under, you pull it away, the water comes out. You put it back in, it's gone. But what makes it even worse is that sensor. That is the best sensor

in the world. JPL made that sensor right there. You walk in, it flushes. You sit down, it flushes. A rabbit moves at 50 yards and your ass is drenched.

And until they fix this, I am peeing in the sink and washing my hand in the toilet.