---
video_title: "My Engineer Lightbulb Joke | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: m4BdAu1e7TQ
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4BdAu1e7TQ
video_date: 20251021
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #standupcomedy #donmcmillan #standup #comedy #comedian #engineer
---
I am thankful for all the types. No, I don't want to do this bit. Okay. Should I do this bit? >> All right. I don't have I really don't

have time to do Okay. No, I I don't have time. It's too long. >> All right. I'll do it. All right.

>> So, what I did is I I've written a joke for every kind of engineer there is because I love engineers and I'm thankful there's so because engineers love to pick on each other, right? So, I I use light bulb jokes as perfect example of a light bulb. How many electrical engineers that generate a light bulb? How many? Uh, none. Uh, we

get a techation to JJ. All right, this is a really nerdy bit, but you guys wanted it. So, okay. How many mechanical engineers? Any mechanical engineers in the room? Yeah.

Uh, the answer is two. Uh, one to do it and one to buy the six pack of beer. Enemies are always drinking. How many civil engineers? Civil change light bulbs. Six. Uh, one to do it and five to

do the environmental impact study. It's a pretty hip crowd. Okay. How many aerospace engineers? A lot of aerospace companies in Oregon. How many aerospace

engineers? Uh, I have the answer, but I can't tell you. You don't have the clearance to access that information. All right, this bit's working better than I thought. Okay, that's good.

How many industrial engineers? I have no idea what they do, but the answer is currently is one, but we think we can get it down to 76 in 4 to 6 months. I don't even know what it This is what I I want to be a systems engineer. They have the best job. It's the easiest job.

How many systems engineer change a light bulb? None. Uh, we simply redefine the standard as dark. Easiest job in the world. This is This is not that funny. Not that

funny. But what happened when I posted it is the funny. So, this is what How many software engineers I can't read it. So, I'll just show you. How many software engineers to change a light bulb? Uh, that many.

Clever, right? Clever. So, I posted this on my Facebook page. within seconds everybody every software person out there was like ding that is the worst code I have ever that's a piece of that won't even compile you didn't define your parameters correctly you got way too many brackets they were people were sending me code that's true and this is my favorite network security engine is the highest pay engineer the most sought after engine, network security. How many network security engineers to change a light bulb? Well,

first you have to enter your username and password. Then you have to answer three uh security questions. Then you have to type the letters you see into the box. Then how many of those pictures have signs in it? Then you have to prove you're not a robot. Oh, sorry. Secure

connection failed. Sorry.