---
video_title: "People are obsessed with Apple products. | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: V0HVALTkdSM
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0HVALTkdSM
video_date: 2026-02-06T18:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #apple  #engineer
---
So you probably ask, is one of my daughter, my geek, and my nerd, maybe you're a really big nerd, right? And you can tell by the way you live your life, right? What you do every day, the products you choose, give you away. So when it comes to geeks, I think, and it phones, it's iPhones. Geeks, you iPhone people are geeks. You're very social. You're always hanging out together. Well, let's go to the iPhone store, talk to a genius. Ooh! Genius, I hate that. I've been in there, they are not geniuses. I'm an engineer I wanderer. They're trying to sell my wife this phone. She goes, yeah, it comes with 64 gigabytes of them. But really, I'd like to get 65, is that a problem? Oh no, no, we can do that. No, you can't. 65. And this is how they actually recruit. iPhone people, you recruit. I have an Android phone. They come up, is that an iPhone? Has anybody talked to you? Has anybody talked to you about the iPhone? You're the Jehovah's Witnesses of the 21st century. Have you accepted Stephen Jobs as your Lord and Savior? Have you? He's coming back, you know, he's coming back. We love the Android, don't we, nerds? Yeah. I love the Android, yeah. We get in there, change all the settings, redo the adversary right, put in code, you know, pop the back, void the warranty, and claim we have no idea how that happens. You know, it came with a Kirkland battery, I swear. And really big nerds have several of both on their belt. That's... I think we're bad, man. Why did you point it? This crowd is outing other people. He is the biggest nerd ever. Are you a belt, guy, sturdy, where everything on your belt? You were at one time. It's moved down, is that what it would move up? If you're a nerd, it's up here. Now it's not even a belt. It's more like a necklace now if you're a big nerd. What kind of engineer are you, sir? I was a man, a big guy, a electrical engineer. Yeah. You speak very much like most engineers I know, sir. Me talk good not, number phone.