---
video_title: "Taking a Look at Some of the Weirdest Olympic Sports | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: vJgo5y-0MQ8
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vJgo5y-0MQ8
video_date: 2026-02-17T18:00:57+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #olympics
---
Let's talk about it. Let's really talk. I want to talk just a little bit about the work. Have you been watching the Winter Olympics? Yeah. Yeah, it's been fun. It's been cool. And there's just three points I want to make, which strike me funny. And I'm doing it this way. I probably won't do it this week, but I never get it off my chest. So the first one is watch. And a lot of great athletes. And then you look at the curlers. And although I enjoy watching in the sport, I don't think they're professional athletes. I'm sorry. What are their major skills? Shuffle boards, sweeping, and sliding on ice. And I swear some of them are a holding beer while they're actually competing. And where would the trading brown be for these three incredible skills? Where would you find the best curlers? I believe retired janitors living in retirement homes in the Arctic have all three of those skills. Then the silliest of all the Winter Olympic sports is, in fact, two-person luge. What? Why? Why is this guy laying on top of that guy? He doesn't serve any purpose by what I can tell. This guy can't even see. He wants to see. This guy's blocking his way. Why? Why did they even? Why? Why? And if you're going to do that, why? Let's just go. Let's make the luge pile. Let's just do four. That'd be much more interesting. The winner would be, oh, they got to 15. They win. And then finally, the buy-out line, which, if you've never watched buy-out lines, pretty cool. They cross-country ski, and then they shoot, target, and then they shoot. And they shoot. They shoot, and they shoot. And fine. But I just got it. As I'm watching, I'm going, OK. If I'm this guy right here, OK? And this definition is like right here. And this guy's just a little bit ahead of me. And I've got a gun. And I can shoot that gun. I believe that guy is history. You do not want to be first at any point in that race until the very end.