---
video_title: "Physics vs Movies | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: UR7Bv157UwA
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UR7Bv157UwA
video_date: 2026-03-24T17:00:41+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #comedy #comedian #standupcomedy #engineer
---
You know your name's in your if, uh, when you watch a movie, you must say something when they get the science wrong. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. I swear I hit a nerve. I had no idea people do exactly. Yeah, that's right. I think it got dimmed. We're walking on, oh my god. The ice is actually sinking in the ocean. That is not how ice works. I'm out of here. This movie sucks. Everybody knows that ice floats. Mission Impossible is a great example of this. I like the movie, like Tom Cruise, I like Dead Red and it's great. But the whole premise of the movie is that they're trying to stop this advanced day. I and how they do it, they need the source code to write a virus so they can stop. No, you don't need the source code to write a virus. No, so it shouldn't be mission impossible. It should be mission. Eh, not that hard. Yeah. So these are just things that people sent to me on my son, gave me a couple. The first one, any explosion in space, just a quick example. It's wrong. Star Wars, but there's no air in space. It should be completely quiet. Shit flows up in you just go, well, what happened there? Is that that's wrong? If you have sound, it's wrong. You don't hear, no. No. Armageddon. There was so much wrong with this movie. It was made in 1998. It was about this meteor. It's hit towards the earth, right? And they send the space shuttle up. It's going to plant a nuclear device. They're going to explode the meteor. It's going to break into two and miss the earth. And just so many things wrong. But the worst scene when I finally said, that's it. I'm out of here. The space shuttle is headed towards the meteor. And at some point they say, we're going to hit, cut the engines, and they stop. That's not how space works. They should have kept going right into the meteor. You've got to reverse the engines. No, no, it's wrong. Pist me off. Okay. Point break. Okay. The movie, I love Keanu Reeves, Patrick Swasey. Okay. He jumped out of the plane, and they're having this conversation as they fall. And it's going on, and I'm like, wow. Where the hell did they jump from? Look at my watch. I'm going, oh my god. Because I know something. So I'm like, let's do the math. Let's just do the math real quickly. Okay. They jump from the distance. They said it beforehand where it 4,000 feet jumped. Okay. The scene, like, is three minutes and 50 seconds long. If their terminal velocity is 174 feet per second, they will hit the ground in 25 seconds. That's a flat. That whole scene should not happen. Wanted. The movie wanted. Yeah. It's from 2008. This is where these assassins, engine and girly and James McAvoy, they can curve the bullet. The whole movie, they have curving bullets. They can shoot around corners like they want like this with the gun. And they're amazing. They're amazingly coded. Right? And I'm watching this. I'm going, no way. Let's just do the math on this one. Let's just do the math. Okay. If your target is 20 feet away and the bullet leaves it 500 miles an hour and you want it to go 10 feet that way, your arm has to be going 250 miles an hour. Yeah. You'll shoot the guy but your arm will rip off your body. No. I don't think so. I do not think so. Independence Day. Okay. Love the movie until the very end. I'd love to wait till the end. How many stop the aliens? Jeff Goldblum puts a virus on the ship. Come on. This is an advanced alien civilization doesn't have macaphy preloaded. It's bullshit. You know they're running windows and they have macaphy. You can't avoid it. It's pathetic. It's pathetic. Anything in a fast and furious movie. Anything. Sorry. I've seen all the movies. But no. You can't jump between cars at 90 miles an hour. You can't drag a five ton safe with two cars. You can't have a car in space. And you can't stop a nuclear sub with five cars. No, no, no, no, no, no. No. To aliens out.