---
video_title: "Taylor and Travis are the world's most powerful couple. | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: PYitP3oAw7g
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PYitP3oAw7g
video_date: 2026-06-01T17:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #engineer
---
Some people are going to be upset that I'm talking about this, but it needs to be discussed. And that is Taylor and Travis. I know we're all sick of it. I know it. I just want to explain it. I'm an engineer. I'm good at explaining stuff. So I'm going to explain why they are so famous. I'm going to do it using Ben Dijkgrens. What else would I eat? Really? Ben Dijkgrens are great for explaining stuff. And it's all about social media followers. Okay. Taylor Swift. Amazing. A million social media followers across all her platforms. 520 million. Travis Kelsey, if you include the NFL, 422 million. The overlap before they started dating was three people in the book. There was zero overlap. So when they started dating suddenly, they were 542 million people. This is why it struck the core. But we can do better. Watch this. If Cristiano Ronaldo, if you're a soccer fan, he has the biggest social media following the world, almost a billion people in our 76 million. If he were dating Selena Gomez, who has 685 way more than Taylor Swift, they, as a power of couple, would actually reach 1.56 billion. But we could even do better. If Cristiano Ronaldo would somehow they Elon Musk. Now we're talking. Elon, come on, Elon. He wants followers. But I'm sorry. I'm a Swiftie. I'm officially a Swiftie. I can't help but I, if you don't like it, shake it off. That's all I have to say. And Taylor, if it doesn't work out, she's going to, it should be fine. She's going to write an album about the breakup with Taylor Swift. Then she'll be a Brazilian there. But here's a better idea. If she has 40, if we talk about total followers, not just social media. She has 520 million social media. If she would somehow date the Pope who has 1.4 billion followers, now we're talking. That is not almost 2 billion people. Just an idea.