---
video_title: "How did you propose? Was it by powerpoint? | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: -WKg6Anm9Sw
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-WKg6Anm9Sw
video_date: 2026-02-18T18:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #engineer
---
You know your engineer, when you proposed your wife and I've met now five people, five people now who have done it. When you approached your wife, you did it in PowerPoint. Can you believe that? Swear to God, five people come up to me, y'all I really did that. And she said yes, while that is a match made in heaven. But I'm wondering how I didn't do it. I said joke. I thought it was a joke and now I met five people who did it. And I'm like, what would that look like? What would that look, honey? Have a seat on the couch. All right, I've done a marriage analysis. Let's go to the bullet points. We'll start with the pros. We're both of marriage age. That seems obvious. We have compatibility two years of pre-marriage testing. Some call it dating. We have experienced multiple previous serious relationships. We've been through this. We know what we're doing. We have goal alignment, career, housing, financials all seem to be in order. We have family, brewery, many others family. We're in love. I probably should have listened to this first. I'll redo that in favor. Let's go to the cons. There are just a couple of cons. We need improved communication skills. Apparently you have not prepared a PowerPoint to answer mine. I'm a little disappointed. We have some expectation issues, mostly on your account. I don't expect anything, but apparently you do. And then finally we have some personal habit conflicts, but who doesn't? In conclusion, I think we should get married questions. Who would say no to that? Five people. Five people.