---
video_title: "Living By The Laws of Physics | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: B_1XPk7bUFA
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_1XPk7bUFA
video_date: 20260113
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #marriage #engineer
---
Saw Barbie and Oppenheimer on the same day. Anybody else do this? I did it. My wife and I did it. >> I saw Barbie.

>> You saw Barbie? That wasn't the question, man. I'm sorry. One more incorrect answer and you will have to leave. Joking. I wouldn't.

But don't see it. Don't see Barbie and Oppenheimer on the same day. It's not a good idea. It's like watching Schindler's List and then Dumb and Dumber. Not a good idea.

You will strip the gears in your brain. But me, because I'm such a nerd, I actually when I saw them at the same day, I actually I still found more flaws in Oppenheimer than in Barbie. There were a lot of physics problems in in Oenheimer, but Barbie, I could buy that. And that's when I started doing this bit. I lived by the laws of physics.

Now, this might be the nerdiest bit I have, and you're going to learn something here, whether you like it or not, but I tried to live by the laws of physics when I first got into the real world because physics was my thing. I loved physics and I thought if I the laws of physics can't be argued with so I'm going to apply them to real life and and have very mixed results. So the first one I'm you're actually going to learn some of the laws of physics. Uh if the law of motion says for every action there is equal and opposite reaction. Now you you know this whether you know it or not. A balloon for example a

balloon when the balloon when the air comes out and goes that way the balloon goes that way. Equal and opposite reaction. A cannon this is a great example. A cannon. Okay. When the

cannonball goes that way the cannon actually goes this way. Which is why a lot of guys in the early days of cannons got run over. They didn't know this. So I try to apply this to everyday life. Does this work in everyday life? So

okay, I've been married a long time. Let's go to the marriage case. Okay. So if my wife says to me, my wife says to me, "Have you gained a few pounds? Have you gained a few pounds?" My reaction

will be probably very small reaction. Now let's turn it around. [laughter] If I say to my wife, "Have you gained a few pounds?" She will shoot me with a cannonball. [laughter] That is not an equal and opposite reaction. [laughter]

New I can't believe I'm doing this. I really can't BELIEVE I'M DOING THIS. But because you're learning you're learning physics tonight. I have a PowerPoint presentation. Technically, you can write tonight's show off as continuing education credit.

[cheering and applause] >> Keep your keep your studs. You're learning physics. NEWTON'S LAW OF GRAVITY SAYS EVERY PARTICLE ATTRACTS EVERY other particle with a force which is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between their centers which is expressed by this formula which is the force of gravity. There's the G g constant. There's the two forces and then the f basically the closer you get the stronger gravity becomes like what?

Okay, I better make this funny real quick. You guys are staring at me. I tried to apply this because I saw attraction, right? I applied this to relationships. Okay. So when person one

person one with mass one sees person two of mass two they are attracted to each other uh by a force given this formula. Now is is that true? Okay. Well that would say if that was true that as this person gains weight they would become more attractive. That does not hold true.

However it does explain this. You ever seen a couple where one person is much larger than the other one? I think what happens is as a smaller one approaches they get caught in their gravitational pull. And it's not so much that they're a couple. They can't escape their orbits.

[laughter] So, is it love or is it gravity? I'm not sure.

That's the That's the best physics bit you're ever going to see. I'm sorry. Nobody else does physics bits.