---
video_title: "You Know You're An Engineer If... (Part 2) | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: 8qtCePhydAI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qtCePhydAI
video_date: 2026-03-10T17:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy  #standup #comedy #comedian #engineer
---
by the way, I hope you're in for a nerdy show. I planned a lot of nerdy stuff tonight. A nerdy stuff, okay. Woo! This, uh, my big family was into physics. You know, never think physics and fun. No, never think about it. You're getting, I'm gonna go through some of the loss of physics tonight. So you're gonna learn some of the loss of physics. And I'm doing PowerPoint. So technically, you can write off the entire show tonight as continuing education credit. Woo! How cool is that? Woo! So give your tickets to us. So the theory behind this is that, uh, these are basic laws of physics. And I thought, maybe I can understand light better if I apply them and see if they work in basic light. So the first one is the conservation of matter. It says, matter cannot be created nor destroyed. So the basics of this matter can't be created nor destroyed. That's not a whole truth in real life. But I have two examples where it does not hold true. The first one, the first one, is babies, okay. Babies are amazing. My son was a little, could drink four ounces of milk and poop eight ounces. It was amazing. He was creating matter in his, he could double his body weight in poop. He's creating matter in his diapers. The seventh case is toothpaste tubes. toothpaste tubes are made. You ever get, you think it's nothing in there, right? You squeeze it and it all comes out and you go home. You know that was in there. The next day, squeeze it, still someone. The next day, still, three weeks later, you're still toothpaste coming out of here. And at some point, you don't wanna give up on it. No, there's more in there, I know there is. Your fingers are bleeding and it's like four months. Two toothpaste tubes. Law of motion, I can't believe I'm doing this in a comedy show. I'm sure there's people in this room right now going, I did not know I was gonna get it and needed advanced degree to get it in the rally and profit. The law of motion says, for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. And we know this law, whether you realize it or not, you know this law. For example, a balloon, a balloon's a great example. If the air comes out of the balloon this way, the balloon goes that way, equal and opposite reaction. A cannon, a cannon's another great example. Cannon balls are a great hit. So when you shoot the cannon, the cannon balls goes this way and the cannon goes that way. And because the cannon balls are really heavy, the cannon rolled over a lot of people in the early days of cannons. Does this work in everyday life? I applied it to relationships. Okay, equal and opposite reaction, marriage. Okay, if my wife says to me, have you gained a few pounds? I will say, probably. Very small reaction. Probably. Now let's flip it around. Don't work ahead, stay with me on it. If I say, have you gained a few pounds, my wife will shoot me with a cannon ball. That is not an equal and opposite reaction. This, this, hang with me on this one, his twin sister. Newton's law of gravity says, every particle attracts, every other particle, well, the force is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square that it's doing their centers given by this old formula here, the force of gravity, G, the gravitational component, the two masses and then the closer the masses get, the smaller the number gets, the larger the force gets. So as you get closer to something, the two large objects, it's gravity is really, I applied this, I applied this again to relationships in couples, right? If there's person one of mass one and person two of mass two, they're attracted to each other by gravity. It's the law of attraction, but it doesn't work in relationships because that would say, if that's the case, right? As you gain weight, you become more attractive to that other person. No. It does not work in relationships. But it does explain one thing which I've always wondered about. You ever seen a couple where one person is much larger than the other person? I think what happens is the smaller person approached the larger person, they got caught in their gravitational pull. They're really not dating, they just can't escape the orbit of that person. So you have to ask yourself, isn't love, or is it gravity? We're really not. That will keep going by the way. Fought choice matters. I'm sure. This was been online for a while. A lot of people have seen this and do it. But I pick your fonts carefully. The font is really, you add or subtract from your message depending on the font you choose when you're doing a PowerPoint presentation or writing a letter. The font matters. The perfect example. OK, I was in Philadelphia at the Independence Center where the Declaration of Independence was sitting. And I looked at it, amazing document. We based our country on this document right here. That's its original font. But what happens if you change the font to curved? Not merely a few. We would not have our country if they'd type it in curved. If they put it in comic sands, I think we'd be Canada. That's my theory. We'd still report to the Queen, but we'd be ourselves. And I got on this kick because my sister found a poem that I'd written my wife. He used to write my wife these days. It's silly little poems. They were like, Dr. Susan, they were funny. But I was in with a heartfelt note at the end. But I wouldn't change my font. And she's like, you couldn't change the font. You couldn't just change to be a Roman. You could, like for example, into home on my font of choice that you will always be mine. I don't, you always. She goes, that's just change the font. If you change it to the miss you font, very romantic font. It was that you will always be mine. Way better. The only difference between this one and this one is the font choice. But what's going to happen is when you change it to something strange. You will always be mine. The font choice matters. Do I arrest my case? Same words. The only difference is a completely different meetic picture font to get complete. I warned you I was going to be nerdy tonight. So I do lots of shows at colleges and universities where I have every kind of engineer you can imagine. And I realized I can't leave any of them out. So I'm like, how can I pick on all the engineers? So what it has rather than write a joke for every kind of engineering, I came up with a matrix. I call it the how many engineers that take a change to matrix. I tried to cover every kind of engineering. I could just cover it off. Because there's a lot of different kinds. And I'm not going to get them all. In fact, last night I was in Huntsville last night. And I did this joke. And four people came up and went, you didn't do metal or trickle engineering. I'm like, shit. I got to do a metal or trickle engineering joke. I don't even know anything about metal or trickle engineering. So if I don't cover your engineering, send me an email. I'm going to try to cover it. I was in electrical engineering. How many electrical engineers in the crowd? Yeah. That is the sound of 4,000 electrical engineers. That's all the noise they make. That's a very good idea. How many electrical engineers did change the life? Oh, Mike, you like this one. This is a type of, it's not. We get a technician to change it. That's true. I thought we'd do. We don't do actually work. The technician is good then. How many mechanical engineers? Any mechanical engineers in the group? Yeah. That was four mechanical engineers, making more noise than 4,000 electrical engineers. My dad was an Emmy. My dad was an Emmy. How many Emmy? Two, one to do it, and one to buy the six back of your school. Here's the biggest drinking engineer. How many chemical engineers? Any chemical engineers in the crowd? Yeah, nobody likes chemical engineers. Here's why. How many chemical engineers did change the life? Four, one to analyze the mass transport, one to do the thermodynamic analysis, one to show the process is stable, and one to interview with an oil company, and brag about how much money they're going to make. That's why we don't like chemical engineers. How many civil engineers? Any civil engineers in the group? Yeah. Yeah, civil engineers. I think it's funny. Civil engineers. Is there an uncivil engineer somewhere? Move your dad's bridge and turn our way, that's all. This one's too true. The civil engineers will not think this is funny. The rest of us will, but they won't. Because they have to do it. How many civil engineers did change the life of six? One to do it, and five to the environmental impact study. LAUGHTER I've actually, I've actually heard a civil engineer over here. He actually dropped his plum bob, that's helping. He can't believe I did a plum bob reference. No. Thank you so many moments. How many, uh, what's the next? Biomedical engineers? Any biomedical engineers? I think just one, I would, yeah. Thank you for coming out. Is that yours at a clone? Because that's a point five. One to make a clone and the clone will change it. That's why it's point five, you have to divide by two. You get this one person, but there's two of them. I shouldn't have to explain my jokes. LAUGHTER How many aerospace engineers? Anyone? Yeah, how much I'm less than that? How many aerospace engineers? They won't tell you, because I have the answer to it, but I can't tell you, you don't have the clearance to access that information. LAUGHTER But I tell you, I'll have to kill you. How many industrial engineers? Anybody know what I'm doing? I have no idea what they do. Do you know what you do? I don't know, I know you work in industry. You make things better, I guess, yeah? Yeah. Apparently, it's currently at its one, but we think we can get it down to 0.76 and 4.6. LAUGHTER Kill them, I don't know what they do. This is the job I want. I want to be a systems engineer. I do. Easiest job in the world. If your system's engineer, you know, I'm going to blow the lid on your little scam. OK, all right? How many systems engineers to change the light bulb? None, we simply redefine the standard as dark. LAUGHTER How easy is that? APPLAUSE How easy is that? I'm done for today. They all see you next week. LAUGHTER Nothing's ever wrong, they just change the specs. LAUGHTER This might be my favorite one, only because I can't tell you it. I have to show it to you. But what was funny to this? Funny to that is when I posted on my Facebook page at the funny part. The funny software engineers to change the light bulb that many. LAUGHTER APPLAUSE That's code if you don't realize that it's code. LAUGHTER The funniest part about this, I posted this on my Facebook page. Within seconds, I was being trolled by every software person out there. They're like, that code is terrible code. They don't never compile you or have even the right number right hand brackets. LAUGHTER They were sending me, people were sending me a better code for the joke. LAUGHTER You swear to God that is a true story. LAUGHTER And then finally, how many network security engineers that change the light bulb? These are the people making the big bucks, the network security people. How many network security engineers that change the light bulb? Well, first you have to enter your username and password. Then you have to answer the following three questions. Then you have to type these letters into the box. Then you have to say, how many of these pictures have a sign in it? Then you have to prove you're not a robot. I'm sorry, so are communication fails. LAUGHTER No answer.