---
video_title: "Why Simon Cowell Didn't Like Me | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: PHRTJRmwAws
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHRTJRmwAws
video_date: 2026-02-03T18:00:22+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian #standup #engineer #agt
---
By the way, I analyzed, this bothered me that Simon didn't like me. It did. That's had engineers do it. Something could be 99.9% correct and you go, what's my other point? 1%. Why didn't Simon like me? So I did an analysis using Ben Diagrams. Here's why he didn't like me. You have to understand Ben Diagrams and have a sense of humor. And that overlap is about 72%. And Simon is over there. He had no clue. No clue. He did not know what a Ben Diagram. So why are there balls? Is he coming to juggle? Why are there balls on the screen? He didn't get it. I lost him. I lost him. But you're probably asking yourself, down one of my geek. I'm a nerd. I'm a really big nerd. And you can identify yourself by really the things you do. What you do every day, the products you buy, for example. When it comes to geeks, I think iPhone people are geeks. They're very social. They get together. They go camp out at an iPhone store when the new phone comes out. No. They recruit. I have an Android phone. Every day, some iPhone person comes and goes, oh, I see you have an Android. Anybody taught you about the iPhone? There's your hope as witnesses of the 21st century. Really, Steve Jobs is coming back. He's our savior. He is. He's only got one bar. If he gets two bars, he'll be back. He's OK to the new connectors, too. We all are the same connectors. That's the most exciting thing in my world. We all have the same connectors now. The world is coming together. When it comes to nerds and phones, we're Android people. I love the Android. Get in there. Yeah. You know why? You know why we like it? We can get changed stuff. We redo the code. We pop the back for the warranty and claim we have no idea how that happened. And then really, big nerds have several of those all in the room. We think we're Batman. Comes to fitness. Geeks tend to be Apple people, right? The Apple watch. Again, Apple products. Nerds, the fitbit, and really big nerds. There's no fitness for big nerds. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I need fitness for. I'm in shape. My fingers work. I'm in perfect shape. Formalware. There is a thing called Geeks sheet. Geeks address cool. That cool hat and cool sweater. They care about it. I don't care about how I like it. They care about one thing. And that is functionality. That's why I love cargo pants. They're great. And by the way, really big nerds, cargo shorts. I don't even need to buy out of the pants. It's pointless. I know. I know it's pointless because I did a cargo pant analysis. OK? There's a regular pair of pants right here. This one's as functional. That's useful. This one's totally useless part of the pants. From here down, what is this doing? Nothing. That. That is a great pair of pants. Look at that. That is head to toe. That is you can live in these pants. You can carry everything you own in these pants. There's the breakfast pocket. There's that outside that, they're tools. You can keep an extra pair of pants and a pocket of your pants. When it comes to transportation, Geeks again, you see someone need a test. That's a geek showing off. There is still show off. They didn't drive at my time. No, your nerds show off about one thing. It's cheapness and function out. So I love this mark. It has the word smart in it. I like that. And it's tiny. I can pick it up and put it in a pocket of my cargo pants. And really big nerds have their mom drive around. That's not true. That is so true. That kid right there, worth $5 billion. He has startup company. Who do we look up to? Who would like to go? Well, female nerds and geeks, especially geeks are into like comic books. So it's got to be a wonder woman. She is the icon for female geeks. Nerds, it's all about smart. So it's going to be aid in love with me. It's first program. Yeah. Yeah. She's hot. You hear that? No. She's hot. And really big nerds, Alexa. Alexa. Alexa. Man, she knows everything. And she never asked me any questions. I'm in love. And men, well, geeks, it's got to be. It's got to be Captain Kirk. It's got to be. Yeah. I was a Star Trek fan. Even I have to admit, women who like wound over Captain Kirk. He was hot. He was the sexist. He's the first geek sexist. Nerds, don't ask me why, but apparently me. Don't ask me why. LAUGHTER But big nerds named just this year has got to be a Silly and Murphy Oppenheimer. And I'll prove it, because somehow he got foreign to puke. How the hell did that happen? No physicist ever got a good looking girl like that before.