---
video_title: "How You Know You're an Engineer | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: hBxONI_xYiI
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hBxONI_xYiI
video_date: 2026-01-27T18:00:49+00:00
video_description: |
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #comedy #comedian #standup #engineer
---
So how do you know if you're an engineer? Here's how you can spot an engineer You know you're an engineer if you know you're an engineer if at the end of every weekend three things that we're broken are now fixed I am a stud it is working But six things that we're working are now broken I Perfect example, okay My fan in my bathroom was wobbling and it was drawing because it was wobbling and I wanted it to fix it and it Doesn't wobble anymore Doesn't work at all anymore, but the wobble is gone. I Consider that a victory the wobble's gone You know you're an engineer if on the SATs you scored a 760 math 200 verbal I Hated that verbal second remember the verbal section corn is to doorknob. Oh man. I need some numbers Car is to fish doily your wax rock. No, I am not doing this section You know you're an engineer you know you're an engineer if you don't know your son's age But you know he's born three versions of windows ago I Told that joke one night and some guy goes oh my god, I've got an ex-p child. Oh I said thank God it's not a vista kid sir think about that They are very unstable the visited children You know you're an engineer if you once broke up with someone because well you were Android and your partner was iPhone and neither one of you would convert How would we raise the children? You know you're an engineer if the bathroom code at your favorite Starbucks this really happened to me So I met my favorite Starbucks. It's in San Jose, California on El Camino right there not too far from Apple headquarters in Cupertino and it's a two-story Starbucks. It's amazing All the nerds hang out there for days right in code there cubby holes for sleeping and there's super good Wi-Fi and So I go up to the counter and I said to the kid. What's your bathroom code? And he says to me 314-15 Which I just love I go I am in the right place And I'm laughing when he said it and I go you know that's pie and he outnerded me goes no it was actually pie you would never get in That great Go ahead sir. It's pie Oh damn who said this thing? I peed my pants. I don't need the bathroom now That's how we keep the bathroom so clean No one gets in