---
video_title: "Going Up Against AI in the South | Don McMillan: Man vs Machine | Stand Up Comedy"
video_id: Y9tDBBJA1Vc
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9tDBBJA1Vc
video_date: 2026-07-28T17:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  See me live! https://technicallyfunny.com/
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian #ai #artificialintelligence
---
First, I'm going to do AI's jokes. I I asked it several questions, but I'm going to do mine. We'll see uh who wins. It's kind of man versus machine. What we really want to know is can AI replace me? Can it do my job? Can it be

a comedian? So, then I said one more time, how about an original joke? Cuz I kind of heard versions of that joke before. I want a completely original joke. Uh write me a completely original joke about Alabama. And it came back and

it said, "Why did the walrus go to the dentist in Alabama? Because he had a Tuscaloosa."

You Apparently, this crowd is is is divided on that one. Half of you like it, and half of you're like, "Oh my god, that is the worst joke." Cuz it's a pun. It writes puns. The original stuff it writes is puns. It's a

a uh a linguistics processor. So, it writes a lot of puns cuz there's a formula to puns, if you think about it. It's It's a It's a a word, and then you twist it. It can do that. So, for that joke to work, uh you have to know Tuscaloosa is in Alabama. You have to

know a walrus has tusks and uh like bad puns, and that's about six people. So, there we go. So, can I do better? Uh next joke. Uh how can you tell you're living in Huntsville? Uh

your Uber driver has a PhD. And your barista has top-secret security clearance. Really? What? All right.

I'm feeling better about my jokes right now. I did not know that was I thought that was a I put it early cuz I didn't think it was that funny. Cuz I could try to make it build, but apparently I might have misjudged. See, I learned something. Apparently, this is very true.

I kind of thought, well, how often does that happen? But now I'm thinking, wow, that happens a lot. Uh for that joke to work, you have to know Huntsville, you have a PhD, any top-secret and uh you've also been a barista and an Uber driver. I totally missed on that number. It should have been like 99.

I learned something. Can AI replace me? We all want to know that. Can it Can it do your job? Can it do my Can it be a comedian? So, please

write me a new joke about Northwest Arkansas. And it came back and said to me, "Why did the chicken cross the road in uh Bentonville? Uh to get to the other Walmart." That's a pretty good joke. I thought that was it I'm telling you it's starting to write better jokes.

For that joke to work, you have to know Northwest Arkansas, uh like why did the chicken cross the road jokes, and uh don't work at a Walmart and a Can I do better than AI? Here we go. I'm taking it on. Uh how does a lawyer from the University of Arkansas announce the filing of a civil case? Uh he said, "I am the suer and you ARE THE SUEEEEE."

SUCH A DUMB JOKE. THAT IS SUCH a dumb I wrote that joke and I went, "I can't tell that joke." And it gets it got a huge laugh all weekend. Can't even believe I did For that joke to work, you have to have be a Razorback fan, do the Hog Call daily. Which you apparently you all do.

And uh you can laugh about lawyers and that's 52% of you. But better than that though. Uh you know you're an engineer It's just for engineers in Northwest You know you're an engineer in Northwest Arkansas when you first heard the term Crystal Bridges you thought, "Seems like a poor choice of materials for a bridge."

That doesn't seem to be structurally stable if you ask me. And for that joke to work, you have to know Crystal Bridges and know the bridges should be made of steel and concrete and that's 85% Uh it said uh how is a flight attendant with a broom like the wind in Oklahoma? They both come sweeping down the plane. That's a pretty clever joke. And for that joke to get a laugh, for that joke you have to know the words to Oklahoma.

And I like that joke. Good night. Can I do better than that? Here we go. This is uh this is for the nerds. I'll

start with that anyway. Uh you know you're a nerd when you see a license plate that says Oklahoma is okay and you think 0 Kelvin, that's really cool.

All right, you got to love the common crowd. I wrote that joke today on the plane. I thought that was good. For that joke you have to know what an Oklahoma license plate is and I scored over 1,300 ON IT.

I THINK THIS CROWD IS MORE LIKE APPARENTLY HAVE A VERY HIGH scoring SAT score. You get better than 73%. Joke number one. Joke number one from AI. Not my joke. Don't hold this against

me. You shut your trap right now. Okay. I asked I said write me a joke about Oklahoma. Write me a joke. And it came

back and said why is Oklahoma so windy? Because Kansas sucks and Texas blows. It's an old joke. It's an old joke. It's a really And I didn't laugh. It's a

funny joke. But it's an old joke. THE FIRST THING IT does is it looks up old jokes that it It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke. It looks up old jokes. It

gave me an old joke. So so for that joke to work you have to you have to live in Oklahoma. You need to be not from Kansas and you're not from Texas. That drops 50%. That's about 50% of the audience left.

So the model the joke model works. I wrote a couple of new ones and one I'm really nervous about but I'll tell you when we get to it. Yeah, I'm a little nervous about it but it you know what let's see. Uh you think of Texas license plate you think Texas. Yeah, they do in Oklahoma.

the Texas license plate. What you could say, uh, Texas is not okay. That has to be a funny joke. I'm sorry. Maybe in Oklahoma license plate you say that Texas is not okay.

That is so funny. What a diss on Texas that Oklahoma would do that. Our new slogan is Texas is not okay. Okay, all right. You think This is the one I'm a little worried about.

You think it's hysterically funny that the word "Tulsa" spelled backwards is a That's a fair joke.

Did you realize that? I did. I immediately saw that. I have that weird brain that spells words backwards all the time. And I saw "Tulsa" and I'm like, "Whoa, that's backwards for a slut."

And that And that joke works because only if I realize I spelled "Tulsa" and you're not a Yeah, I apologize to the 25% of people who did not find that joke funny. I wrote a completely original joke about Chattanooga. A Chattanooga joke. I mean, completely original joke about Chattanooga. And this is what I wrote.

Uh, "How do you chase a cat away in Chattanooga? Uh, shoo shoo." Thank you. Thank you for not liking that joke. For that joke to work you have to know Chattanooga and sing the "shoo shoo" song and like that joke about 9%.

So, you can already see it doesn't write very good jokes. It knows the formula to write a joke, but it doesn't know what's funny. So, here we are. I'm going to go up against that. It did much better last night in Atlanta. It did. That was a cool little

joke. Here's my jokes. I won't even ask you guys about them today. So, I only picked a good four or five. So, here's my first one.

Where are the What are the seven states that you can actually see from the top of Lookout Mountain. >> Tennessee. Wait. Uh Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, uh solid, liquid, gas, and plasma.

That's a very nerdy joke. Okay, only the It's really the outskirts of the crowd got that joke. Nobody in the middle of the room got that joke. But that's a really hard joke. Don't feel bad. That For that joke to work,

check this out. You have to have been on the top of Lookout Mountain and scored over a 1,400 on your SAT. 70% baby. I wrote that joke today. I thought that was a really good joke.