---
video_title: "My Fans Are Smarter Than Me | Don McMillan Comedy"
video_id: kHNPJ3Ogau8
channel_name: "Don McMillan"
channel_id: UCpVE_i_6OOospMhcbRDrKbw
channel_category: "Comedy"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHNPJ3Ogau8
video_date: 2026-05-12T16:47:09+00:00
video_description: |
  COMING UP ON TOUR:
  Chicago, IL - May 12
  Milwaukee, WI - May 13
  Appleton, WI - May 14
  Minneapolis, MN - May 16
  Nashville, TN - June 2
  
  🌐Social Media🌐
  📶Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DonMcMillan
  📶Twitter: https://twitter.com/donmcmillan
  
  🤓Don’s Bio🤓
  America's #1 Nerdy Comedian
  What do you get when you cross an Engineer with a stand-up comedian? You get Don McMillan. This former chip designer has been doing his one-of-a-kind, PowerPoint-Driven comedy show for audiences for over 20 years. In his show packed with graphs & charts, Don will show you the funny side of your world that has been sitting right in front of you – you are just too busy working to notice. Don graduated from Stanford University with a Master’s Degree in Electrical Engineering. He then went to work at AT&T Bell Labs where he was part of the team that designed the world’s first 32-bit microprocessor. He then moved to Silicon Valley where he helped launch the start-up company, VLSI Technology. Then after 15 years in the tech world, Don quit his job to become a stand-up comedian. That year he won $100,000 as the Comedy Grand Champion on “Star Search”. Don’s been seen on “The Tonight Show”, “HBO”, and the “Comedy Central”. These days, Don spends most of his time writing and performing customized corporate comedy shows for companies like Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Ford Motors, and Exxon/Mobil. Don has performed more than 800 corporate shows in the last 20 years and he was named the #1 Corporate Comedian by the CBS Business Network.
  
  #donmcmillan #standupcomedy #standup #comedy #comedian
---
Now first one, uh, where's this a comedy show or a TED Talk? I think it's a little bit of both, friendship. Uh, I didn't laugh at the engineer next to me, took six pages of notes. Not a damn engineer stealing my material. Uh, I was just appointed, he only knew pie to five decimal places. That was pretty show. Some guy called me out, he goes, we put one for one for one, five nine, he starts going on. I go, I only know five, he goes, oh, I respected you until now. And why, that was embarrassing. Uh, I didn't find the content of this talk, apical to my current project. No idea what that person was expecting. Uh, his strobinger joke was both funny and not funny at the same time. That was great comment. He's not a good joke. I tell you, my fans are funnier than me, that's what I found out. Here's my strobinger joke, by the way, this is the joke that he commented on. I said, if we're errant strobing your own account, would it be an indoor and outdoor cat at the same time? I love that. The best strobinger cat joke ever. Uh, oh, by the way, for that, this is how hard this joke, for that joke to work, you have to have a cat understand the paradox of quantum superposition and have a sense of humor. And that is 1% tops. So that comment was like 0.5%. Uh, oh, on slide 34, I knew right there I was in a lot of trouble. He wrote, he started, he emailed me this on slide 30. I don't number my slides. Do you see any numbers? No. This guy was counting my slides. I did not stand a chance. I knew he was going to be a, I was being heckled by rainman at this point. This is real. On slide 34, you assert that one out of six babies born on Earth are Chinese. Although this is as soon as they constate birth rate over all times, this is obviously false. Please correct your analysis. It's a joke. But piss me off as it was right. And that's what made me mad. So much. And here's the joke. I'm not doing the big tonight. It was all about statistics and I can manipulate statistics to say whatever you want. Perfect example, by the way. You know, this is hoping Tylenol thing. I have this, maybe it's like 97% of people who take Tylenol have a high fever. I think Tylenol creates fever. That's how humanitulation takes it. That's all I'm saying. And this is an example, another example of how you can do that. These are all true facts. Watch. There are 1.4 billion people in China. That is true. Absolutely true. You can't argue with it. There are 8 billion people on Earth. Therefore, I said at the time one out of every six babies born on Earth are Chinese. One out of six. Therefore, you can conclude if you've got five kids you're expecting a six, it will be Chinese. I used to love this joke. I used to think it was really clever to like, got that goddamn email. And he ruined the joke for me for him. Because he's right. One out of six babies born on Earth are not Chinese today. It's been the case over the last 100 years, but the birth rates much lower. So that's the wrong, which means that wrong. Which means I can't tell my joke unless I tell this and kind of start it before him. So I tried to fix it because I'm a niche here. So let's start with the same facts. 1.4 billion people, 8 billion people. Therefore, if you randomly adopt six people from any age, from anywhere in the world, one of them may be Chinese. Maybe. Are you happy now? Who are you happy? My fans are very tough.