---
video_title: "Introducing the AG Grid Figma Design System"
video_id: Ymmm7wxLy7Y
channel_name: "AG Grid"
channel_id: UCerp9sZdHwofLTW8zG6Sxtw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ymmm7wxLy7Y
video_date: 2025-08-14
video_description: |
  Check out our blog post on the latest updates to our Figma design system.
  https://blog.ag-grid.com/whats-new-in-ag-grids-figma-design-system/
  
  Here is a quick overview of all the features within this design system in Figma for AG Grid.
  
  The design system implements our Quartz and Alpine themes in Figma. All of the core AG Grid components are fully built out and ready to use, with even more components arriving in future releases. 
  
  And when you're ready to make AG Grid your own we've got you covered. The Quartz and Alpine themes can be extended to create custom AG Grid themes that work with your brand. We even provide a sample style dictionary project so you can export your bespoke themes to json and quickly create custom AG Grid CSS themes.
  
  To get started you can download the new design system from our AG Grid design system documentation page. 
  
  Visit our Figma community page to use the AG Grid Figma Design System. 
  https://www.figma.com/community/file/1360600846643230092
  
  AG Grid works with React, Angular, Vue, and JavaScript. Available as a free community edition and commercially as an Enterprise product (full support and more features). 
  
  For more information about AG Grid please visit: https://ag-grid.com/
---
Welcome to the AG Grid design system. Let's have an overview of the pages within the system. Release notes will notify you of the updates in the current system. Getting started with AG grid will describe all of the pages and features within the system. The grid anatomy using the annotation tool within Figma itself will describe the component names in the system.

Ag grid template will describe the light and dark modes for both quartz and alpine that are available within our system. Build your own grid will describe to you how to build a grid from scratch yourself. Create your team will guide you through creating your own team with variables inside Figma. The team playground is a place where you can augment the values of the variables within Figma and see the updated grid in the background. Inside the features section, we have included pages to features of the grid.

Where available, you will also get links to the documentation on the AG grid website. Where available also you will see links to YouTube tutorials and overview videos. Under the features section of the pages, we also include a sticker sheet where we have created an instance print of every component within our system. In the template section, we provide a full representation of the grids. In the component section, we have all of the individual components that combine to make the grids.

Inside the icons, we have the full icon set used in our AG grid system. Under the miscellaneous page, you can find other UI elements such as pageionation and tabs used within our grid. [Music]