---
video_title: "Beyond the Prompt: \"Goodbye slop; welcome determinism\" David Khourshid"
video_id: uMvTAF280so
channel_name: "AG Grid"
channel_id: UCerp9sZdHwofLTW8zG6Sxtw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMvTAF280so
video_date: 2026-06-26T10:45:39+00:00
video_description: |
  This talk was a part of Beyond the Prompt conference, hosted by @agGrid and @Bryntum in London in 2026.
  
  🔥 Stay tuned for the next events:
  AG Grid on X:  https://x.com/ag_grid/
  AG Grid on Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/ag-grid.bsky.social/
  AG Grid on LinkedIn:  https://www.linkedin.com/company/ag-grid/
  Bryntum on X: https://x.com/bryntum/
  Bryntum on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/bryntum-ab/
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  🔷  Vibe coding feels productive until you have to maintain it. Behind the agent "thinking..." you ignore and the code you never opened lies a growing pile of wasted tokens, nondeterministic behavior, and compounding errors hiding in plain sight. This talk pushes back on the status quo: elaborate agent architectures, "prompting astrology", overnight automation loops burning through context windows and credit cards. Come for the critique, leave with a framework for using AI to build software you actually understand.
  
  🔷 David Khourshid is the founder of Stately.ai and creator of XState, the most popular open-source state machine & statecharts library. He's a longtime advocate for event-driven modeling and visual diagramming as the foundation for reliable UIs and, increasingly, AI agents. When he's not at a computer keyboard, he's at a piano keyboard.
  ➡️ Follow him on X: https://x.com/DavidKPiano
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  AG Grid brings you the building blocks for data applications: the grid that handles your data, the charts that visualise it, and the dashboard layer that puts it all in front of your users. Available in Community and Enterprise versions.
  
  🔗 https://www.ag-grid.com/
  
  #javascript #aiengineering  #webdevelopment #AGGrid  #aidevelopment
---
Hello, and thank you very much. And I'm very excited to be here in London. I'm sure you could tell by my accent that I'm not from here. I came from Florida where it's a lot warmer than here. But I'm here to say goodbye, Sloth, and welcome to Terminism. So before I get into it, I sort of want to qualify what I'm talking about. I'm not just one of those people who goes on Twitter or social media and says, this model changes everything and just talk about AI like it's some bad. I'm living this day-to-day. I'm David KPN, I'm pretty much everywhere online. And as was mentioned, I have been talking about state machines for a long time. I created this open-source library called X-Date, which is a library for making state machines and state charts. And that was about 10 years ago. Five years ago, I founded a company called Steatly.ai, where we allow you to make it easier to make state machines. And I will demonstrate a little bit of that later. But I have been really, really busy. So over the last few months, I've been working on a new version of our state-ly editor, the next version of X-Dates V6. And to give you an idea, X-Date has been a part of many critical systems. It's very useful for complex application logic. And if you live in the UK, then I can almost guarantee that you've interacted with something that relies on X-Date. I'm not allowed to see what that is, but you know, you can maybe guess. I've also been working on a couple of other open-source things like X-Date Store before, a graph library, an open-source, completely free state machine visualizer, which you could check out at stately.sched.ai, some other open-sourced, like with TAN-STEC, a couple of large projects that I'm not allowed to talk about. And I'm doing all of this while helping my wife take care of a three-month-old who is actually in the audience. So if you hear a crying baby, then that's either my son or Claude has gone down and someone is complaining about it. But yeah, needless to say, I'm tired, never as tired as my wife, but definitely tired. And I thought that having a baby was actually going to be, you know, not too bad. It's a tiny thing. How hard could it be? You know, it's crying, you feed it, it eats, when it's fed, it sleeps, and honestly, for the first couple of days, it was embarrassingly deterministic. This is all it was. But then we got home from the hospital and we soon realized that babies are a little bit more complicated than I realized. This is actually something that got me really interested in state machines and state charts, not having a baby, but like 10 years ago, where there's this thing called state- and transition explosion, where when things get complex, you see an explosion of transitions in states everywhere. And having a baby taught me about new types of explosions too, I won't get into that. There's also some unknown transitions where I'm crying along with a baby. But yeah, I realized that babies are actually, you know, pretty non-deterministic. Like things are getting harder and harder. I mean, we're at the three month mark, so we'll see what happens. But I wanted to define determinism because I feel like we throw these terms around a lot. Determinism in the simplest terms possible is given the same input, you have the same output. So conceptually, you can think about this like a pure function. It's not exactly a pure function because of course, this can be a sink, but the idea is that whatever you give in, you know exactly what the results is going to be. Non-determinism is different. Non-determinism means that given the exact same input, you don't exactly know what's going to come out. Now, this doesn't mean that it's going to be completely random. It could be a fixed set of choices, and it's not exclusive to LLMs. I learned about determinism and non-determinism through, you know, finite state machines. We have DFA's, which is deterministic finite automata and NFAs, which is non-deterministic finite automata. And interestingly enough, you could convert NFAs to DFA's, but what happens is that the state machine gets a lot more complex. So you're paying for that complexity in structure. And so that's where I got really interested in state charts because it sort of helps you contain and reduce that complexity and makes it really visual so that you could describe things like Cassia watches or microwaves or complex web apps, or as we're going to see soon, AI agents as well. So, you know, AI agents have changed the game and before AI, I was constantly working on a couple of side projects that, you know, it would be hard for me to finish them, but of course, AI came along. And now I have 15 to 20 unfinished side projects. And as you previously heard, going to a prototype is easy, but going to production is hard. And I think one of the main reasons for this is that AI has actually made it a lot easier to skip engineering and just goes straight to, you know, let's prompt, let's see what comes out, and then let's just work with that. And so this is the practice that, as I'm going to talk about, I sort of want to see eliminated. So my opinion in what the best way to build with AI is is actually the same way that we should build without AI. So if we go back a few years before LLMs came about, you know, the principles are the same. So in my opinion, model thoughtfully, so think about what is the structure of my program? What are the, what's the vocabulary, the shared language that we should use? And how can we best represent the blueprints of the app without building it first? Iterates efficiently. So, you know, just going back on the code and going from rough prototype to something that's a little bit more solid and realize what the gaps are, go back and keep iterating on it, and also make core logic explicit. This is something that I've been talking about for many years and it's also why I like state machines and state charts, make it so that it's very clear and not scattered all over your code base. Because the root problem, again, in my opinion, is it's not vibe coding. It's not AI is taking over everything. It's not even AI hallucinating. It actually starts from us. It's unstructured delegation. It's when we decide, you know what, let's throw everything over the wall and let's let the agents take care of judgment, take care of the structure and implementation, and sometimes even taste. I know, you know, some of you are guilty where it's like, I don't care how it looks, just clawed, make it look pretty. Codex cannot be trusted to do that yet, but clawed is pretty good at it. And out comes slop. But guess what? The slop works. So who cares? Spoiler alert, your users care when the code slowly rots from the inside out and it takes longer to maintain features or you have big security holes or things like that. So yes, we do need a care. And slop is not a new thing. It's not an AI exclusive thing. I'm sure you've seen PRs like this before. Maybe not a million lines of code added, but you've seen PRs like this and what is your first instinct? Looks good to me, right? Like, okay, let's just skim through it, let's accept it, and all of a sudden, you know, fun is rewritten and rust and you have to just deal with that. And of course, where we're even dealing with this when we work with AI, where it gives us this crazy bash command and you're like, okay, yeah, go for it, dude, I don't know what this does, but I'm sure it's fine and I'm definitely guilty of this. So what is slop code exactly? In my opinion, slop code is code without a reliable model. It is code that you can't fully understand, you can't fully explain its code where you're not sure whether all of the edge cases are covered, whether it works or not. It might look like it works on the surface, but you cannot be entirely sure. So it doesn't mean broken code. It might not even be bad code, but slop code does have a lot of properties like no clear domain boundaries. The invariants are, you know, are not explicit. You can't really inspect the states and the behavior is scattered throughout the app and there's really no safe way to change it. And like I was saying, this stuff existed even before LLMs, so, you know, but it works, right? And this is why we allow slop code to really permeate throughout our code base. But the problem is that this stuff's addicted. It's like a, this is sort of a triple pun, it's a state machine, slot machine, slop machine, and yeah, we just keep pulling that lever. If the code isn't exactly what we want or the behavior is not exactly what we want or it doesn't look exactly right, so we just pull that lever again and we see, you know, maybe we could get a bit of a better result. This is addicting and this is also what just, you know, makes the slop permeates throughout our entire code base and all of our projects. Now you might be saying, well, isn't AI better than me at coding? Like it has all of the knowledge everywhere, so surely it's going to make better decisions than me. And I'm going to argue that no, that's not exactly the case because LLMs weren't trained on good code, they were trained on all of our code. And so what that means is it's going to repeat our patterns. It's going to latch on to things that already exist in the code base and it's just going to keep rolling with those things. So in the industry, there's really two ways that I'm seeing right now that, that behavior and this structure is sort of represented, basically where this source of truth lives. The first is markdown files. We have things like skills, we have like cloud.md, agents.md, you know, we have all of our plans in here and markdown is just a natural language way of trying to describe intent. Now a lot of people might argue that the code is a source of truth too because of course this is where everything gets executed, but I would say that code is a noisy source of truth because sure we are encoding all of our intent, but we're mixing it with just architecture and boilerplate and just all sorts of different patterns. And it turns out that probably 90% of our code has nothing to do with the behavioral intents that we seek to explain in our markdown. So this really points to one hidden layer, which is the central theme of this talk, which is having an explicit model. So the difference is you could think of this as a combination of intent and execution, where a model is structured. You can still have natural language in the model. The code can map directly to the model and also everything that we intend to do in our app can map directly to the model as well and can demonstrate that later. But yeah, so first let me define what a model is. And I'm not talking about large language models. I'm talking about just modeling software. So in my mind, a model is an explicit representation of how the system should behave. And so this is why I like state machines so much, because with state machines, a very common way of describing the behavior is given when then statements. You might have heard of them as GERKIN or QCumber, but you could say, given I'm in this state, when this event happens, then I'm in this state. And so again, those maps to states, events, and transitions, and you could basically put that to a graph. State machines, though, are not the only way to model software. And they're not the only aspect of software that you can model. So logical flows, you could use state machines, BPMN, state charts, of course, flow charts even, just simple diagrams. You could also model your data. And domain driven design comes into play a lot here. And I'm sure Matt Pococ will talk about that later, but these things are becoming more and more relevant. Now, you might also be thinking, if models matter so much, and they're so important to making good software, why doesn't AI tend to go for them? And the answer is simple, actually, it's because agents are very obedient, but they ironically don't have much agency. You tell an agent build the feature, it's going to pretty much go straight to code, sure it has a thinking loop. But when you're refining, you're working with that noisy artifact, that noisy source of truth. So you're just having the agent mess around in the code, trying to iterate on it. However, if you do have knowledge of saying, I know exactly how I want to model this, then the agent will provide you that model. So I'm not saying that you have to create these models from scratch. Instead, you could have AI say, I'm going to help you create this model. And using that model that's shared understanding, we're going to work on the feature. And so when we need to make refinements and iterate on it, we can update the model and then reference that model in the code. So we still have this executable description of our code base without all of the noise of code. Now, I see a lot of failure modes where projects tend to exclude models. One of them is one shotting, and this is definitely popular in some of the earlier AI applications I've seen, where we think, okay, we could go straight from a prompt to the result. And I'll demonstrate basically what the opposite of this is. But the truth is, a lot of apps don't actually or shouldn't work this way because iteration and human input is still important. Another one is pros control flow. So, for example, skills are really popular. And skills are really useful for saying this is important knowledge that you should have when you're working in the code base. But if your skills say you must do this, you should never do this. You only do this when this happens. And then do step one, step two, step three. Then you're trying to represent control flow in natural language, and you're really hoping that the agent is going to follow it. And sometimes it won't. Also, agents has the system. So sometimes we think throwing more agents at the problem is going to fix everything. And again, that's just asking for more chaos if we don't constrain the system. There is a talk about this later AI and the AG studio that I'm looking forward to, which does talk about basically a multi-agent approach and having a structure for that. Or I hope it does. I can see the talk yet. Neither did you. And there's also entanglements of concerns. AI and agents are really good at just getting the job done. They want the software to work and then it will say goal complete. And the result of this is the same as if we go back to being junior developers and we're like, okay, forget about separation of concerns, forget about organization. We're just going to mix everything together and if it works, it works. And one solution that we might think will fix all of this is just larger context windows. But that's not always the case. More context does not mean more structure. You can't just keep shoving instructions into context and telling it you must do this or you must follow this workflow exactly. The context just gets noisier. And just because models can handle larger context doesn't mean that they're going to perform better. There's many, many studies on this. Another problem is that if we keep doing this, we have compounding slop. And so I've experienced this a lot where I would just let the code run the mock and let the agents do whatever they want. The problem is that agents make assumptions. They fill in the gaps with what they think is best and some of those assumptions are going to be wrong. And like AI cannot read your mind, so it's going to try to fill in the blanks. And these wrong assumptions are amplified throughout your code base. Again, AI is going to follow the existing patterns in your code base. And so that's just going to make the bad assumptions permeate and even get worse. So I like to describe a missing model of the code base as a missing blueprint. Imagine that you're building a house and you decide, okay, how do we start? Let's start with one wall. Okay, now we need to build a floor over here. Okay, there should probably be a wall on this side. And then you keep going and going and you're like, okay, I think we have four walls. So now let's try to put a roof on the thing. How do you think that house is going to look? And also, would you live in that house? Probably not. It might eventually look good from the outside, but structurally, you know, like this was not well designed or designed at all. We were just building things until it sort of looked right. So that's why a blueprint is so important. And one, one common thing I've seen in React Apps is like, I've given talks on use dates where, you know, you would start with just this pattern of using state for everything. And then it sort of expands and then you get apps that look like this. And again, AI is just following the patterns that already exist in your code base. So what is the inversion? What is the solution to all of this? Can Wheeler recently tweeted about this where he said, agent driven workflows with a sprinkling of deterministic tools are a full errand and I completely agree with this. He says to expect these deterministic workflows to be a sprinkling of AI instead of the other way around doing what they're actually good at. I saw another term in an article recently called the deterministic core agentic shell which sort of mirrors the functional core imperative shell statement by Kerry Bernard and I. I really like this and he actually called me out in this article. He said, you know, this wasn't enough to some of David Keep, you know, it definitely did, which is why I'm putting it on the screen. But I really like that framing, because I'm starting to see two types of apps now. One of them is LLens that call programs. So basically all of the workflow logic lives in the LLM. We trust the agents to say, you know what, you'll routes and you'll probably do the correcting. Your super smarts will let you be the traffic controller or the air traffic controller or whatever. And this is risky. It's also a little bit lazy. So I want to invert this and I want to encourage you to write programs that instead call LLens. Basically move the non-determinism to the edges and move the determinism to the core. Because like I mentioned, a lot of apps don't look like this or shouldn't look like this anymore. Instead, they require these steps in the middle where we're iterating. And this is where non-determinism and this deterministic structure fits. Because inside of that iteration step can be that structure, that those well-defined workflows where we have AI at the nodes at the edges. Matt is actually going to talk about the software development life cycle later. And I'm excited to see how he incorporates that into this flow. So this is also say that AI-driven apps are getting more complex and we do need that structure. Now we know that some of you might argue that, you know, some of this might seem like too much ceremony, but I will argue that modeling is not ceremony when it replaces confusion. So this means that you don't have to model absolutely everything in your app formally, really only the confusing parts. And I think this is where it's most useful. And also, AI is really good at helping you model things as well. So you don't have to physically write every single line out yourself. We've seen this a lot with rough prototyping when we're doing UX. You start with something rough and then you just keep iterating on that until it actually looks good. You don't have to make everything a very formalized specification at the beginning. So start rough and then iterate on it. Like I mentioned earlier, I've been working on the next version of the Stately Editor and it does have some AI parts. But it's also one of the most complex apps that, you know, that me and a bunch of others have worked on. And yeah, so I have a lot of battle scars here and I know that because we have a structure, I'll just freeze this real quick, but because we have a structure where the core logic is represented, in our case with state machines, it makes it really easy to let AI actually help with feature developments because AI is not going to mix concerns or do anything like that. AI has a clear picture of what the core logic is and how it interacts with the different parts of our app. So one of the engineering practices that I think is still relevant to this day is separation of concerns because AI will you know, prevent slopping up your code base and making a mess of it if your concerns are explicit and well separated. Now, I talk about state machines a lot, but I will say that you don't necessarily need state machines. The important thing is that you need structure. There's another talk about this later that I'm excited about where agents work well in structure. So you're not only helping yourself, but you're helping agents as well. And while I have a few minutes, I want to show you just really a quick demo of what exactly I'm talking about. So let's say that you are tasked with creating an AI app that has to draft emails. And so you would give it a prompt and the prompt would be, okay, I want to make an email about something. And typically, if we were going back a few years, we would just have the LLM take that prompt and spit out an email. But nowadays, the requirements, the bar is higher because we might want that email to be refined. We might want to make sure that that email is factually accurate and good to go and that nothing is missing. So this app becomes a little bit more complex. And so what I did was I used X states and I basically formulated this as a state machine so that we could say first work on the draft, or sorry, first work on requirements, see that we have all of the information and then once we have everything created draft and then iterate on that draft with the user and then when we're happy with it, send it. So instead of throwing this all to AI, I'm using a state machine and basically I'm having that formal model help me structure this work flow out. So for example, if I have a draft request, and I'm actually going to show you the state machine here, but if I have a draft request of talk or find me after my talk, that's very vague. And so it's actually going to navigate through the states and it's saying, hey, I need to know who the recipient is or what the subject is. So I'll add details. It's you at example .com and it's my talk on determinism. So it's going to be evaluating again. And I think that's enough detail. So we're going to go and draft anyway. And then it's going to draft an email. And then this looks really formal. So I'm just going to say, my name is David, make it less formal. And then it's going to draft again. I'm thankful that the internet works here. And let's see, this looks good. We have all of my information. So I'm just going to go ahead and send it. And so the biggest difference between this and your typical AI app is that we have a formal structure in a highly visual one, too, for how the agent works. And so we're not putting the agents in every single part of this workflow. The non deterministic parts are the fuzzy parts. Like is the email missing anything or even drafting the email, something that we cannot express fully in code. And the deterministic parts ensure that we're at the right state at the right time. So it should be impossible to send the email without approving a draft. And it should be impossible to create a draft without having all of the requirements satisfied. And this is pretty simple. Again, you don't need a state machine specifically. But the important thing is that you are keeping what should be explicit and deterministic as the core of your entire application. And then at the edges, using LLMs to actually execute and to do the fuzzy non deterministic things. And then you just continue the loop. And honestly, this structure works for most things. If you wanted to create your own cursor, then it's exactly this type of wild loop as well. So how do we transition to determinism? What I want you to do, maybe not today, maybe tomorrow or next week, look at your existing applications. Pick one confusing workflow in there. Could just be one. And model it explicitly. Think about how can you organize this to make more sense? Now this might look like decoupling UI from the core logic. Or maybe you have a workflow where you're just handing everything off to an AI agent instead of having that codified in your actual code. And there's many ways you could do this, but the guiding principles I like to do is ask yourself what can be deterministic in there. So don't let your AI agents do non deterministic things. Where is iteration useful? So what parts of it can we actually use a human in the loop to help refine the results? And of course, where can the logic be separate from the UI? Which is good advice whether you're working with AI or without AI. So in short, non determinism should be at the edges of your AI applications and determinism should be at the core. So we should prevent doing the things that we've been doing before. One-shotting, putting control flow in natural language, letting agents and sub agents run the muck and mixing concerns and making our code based messier. So going back to my baby or son, things are getting more and more non deterministic. However, we've had lots of help from friends, family, books, lots of resources. And that provides a model for understanding what do we do next? What do we do when when our baby reaches four months when the baby gets older? It doesn't make the complexity go away. It provides a framework so that the complexity of dealing with the baby is survivable. And your code base is your baby or at least your company's baby. I don't know how you feel about your code base. But the model is not just to be this random artifact. The model is for future U. The model is for your team. And the model is especially for your agents so that it gets stopped producing slop and actually produce good code. And I believe that the model is how collaboration survives the speed, like these 10x speeds that we're getting by building with AI. So in short, the best practices didn't change. AI, of course, made it easier for us to forget about the best practices. But I really feel like the best practices have become more important now than ever. So thank you so much, London, for having me.