---
video_title: "Clean This And Save Money!"
video_id: 6ChFNw9zM5o
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ChFNw9zM5o
video_date: 2026-06-24T16:10:50+00:00
video_description: |

---
If your refrigerator coils look dusty like this, it could be costing you money. So let me show you the best way to clean that up. Now I do know that the coils on this fridge are towards the back so we're going to have to move it out to get access to them. Sometimes it can be best to get a cleaning partner to help you with this part of the job. Before we start doing any cleaning it's always a good idea to unplug the refrigerator. Locate the back panel here, it's towards the bottom and we're going to remove all the screws there so we can get access to the coils themselves. The next step is to remove all the dust and debris from the coils. Now to do this I like to start with a vacuum. You can just use the vacuum you have at home with a brush attachment that does kind of get damp over time and just really likes to stick to the surface. So what you need to do is actually scrub it off of the coils. Now what I like to recommend is using a dryer vent brush. These work amazing. What I really like about these is they're bendable and so that way you can get into all those nooks and crannies and usually they're not super aggressive either. They're pretty soft so that way they can easily brush that dirt that's stuck to the surface there so then you can vacuum it up. Now you might be wondering Brandon is this job really all that important to do. I mean it's behind the fridge and no one's ever going to see the dust but the reason you want to do this is when the coils get full of dust and debris it essentially creates like a dust sweater around them and holds heat in place so then your refrigerator has to work so much harder to stay cold. Now a nice clean coil is going to easily dissipate all of that heat and then your compressor won't have to run as often or as long so then your refrigerator runs more efficient stays cold and ultimately saves you money.