---
video_title: "The Spot In Your Bedroom Everyone Forgets To Clean"
video_id: 3-h4Po4iJWU
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-h4Po4iJWU
video_date: 2026-04-30T14:30:04+00:00
video_description: |
  When is the last time you vacuumed underneath your bed? Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. 
  
  Today we are finishing up the bedroom by tackling one of the most overlooked cleaning tasks: vacuuming under furniture.
  
  Dust, hair, and debris build up quickly underneath beds, dressers, and nightstands. If left alone too long, that buildup can make your bedroom feel dusty and dirty much faster.
  
  Even if you vacuum the visible areas regularly, hidden spots under furniture still collect a surprising amount of dirt.
  
  I recommend vacuuming underneath large bedroom furniture at least once a year, and spring cleaning is the perfect time to get it done.
---
When's the last time you vacuumed underneath your bed? Welcome back to the spring cleaning spree. It's the last day in the bedroom, so let's finish up the checklist. Now for the walls, baseboard, trim and doors. I've talked a lot about how to clean these areas in weeks one and two, so definitely check out those videos for the process. Now when it comes to the floors in your bedroom, the one area that's often forgotten and not cleaned very often is underneath your bed, dresser, and nightstand. It's important to vacuum underneath these areas at least once a year, and spring cleaning is a great time to do that, because usually there's a ton of dust, hair, and all sorts of things underneath these areas that can really start to build up. And if we leave it just sit and don't vacuum it up, our bedrooms will get dirty fast. Now I vacuum the main walk areas in my bedroom every single week, but as you can see here, I still pulled out a ton of dust bunnies and dirt and debris from underneath my bed and furniture. And that's a wrap on our bedrooms. Give yourself a big high five. We'll see you next week when we start our living room.