---
video_title: "The Best Way to Clean Carpet and Rugs"
video_id: X_daKaQoPr0
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X_daKaQoPr0
video_date: 2026-05-11T13:01:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to the final week of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are deep cleaning carpet and rugs the right way.
  
  Always start by vacuuming thoroughly before wet cleaning. Carpet and rugs trap dust, dirt, pet hair, and debris deep in the fibers, and removing that first makes the cleaning process much more effective.
  
  Next, pretreat the carpet by spraying down your cleaning solution and allowing it to dwell for 10 to 15 minutes. This helps break down dirt and grime before extraction.
  
  When using a carpet cleaning machine, use water only in the tank when rinsing. This helps flush out dirt and leftover cleaner so no sticky residue is left behind.
  
  Using a machine with a dry only function is also a huge help because it removes extra moisture and speeds up dry time.
  
  To finish, use fans and open windows to help the carpet dry as quickly as possible. Faster dry times help prevent spots from returning, odors, and carpet buckling.
---
Let me show you the best way to clean your carpet and rugs. Welcome to the final week of the spring cleaning spree. This week is all about cleaning areas that are a little more specialty throughout the house. And the first one on the checklist is cleaning our carpet and rugs. The first step is to always vacuum your carpet or rugs first before you start spraying any cleaners down. They like to hold a lot of dry dust and debris and hair, especially if you have pets. And if you don't remove this first, it's just gonna make cleaning the carpets and rugs so much harder and it just is gonna help everything look amazing. The second tip is to pre-treat your carpet. And essentially that's just a fancy way of saying spray your cleaner down first. Now what I like to do is mix it up in a pump-up sprayer like this one here. By doing this, it allows the cleaner time to work and break down any sort of grime that is stuck to the carpet fiber. So that way when we come through in our next step, it's ready to be flushed out. Now what's the cleaner has sat on the carpet for about 10 to 15 minutes? It's time to rinse and flush. Usually this is the best part of the clean. But to do this, there are a few things I like to recommend. Now the machine that you're using, just put water only in the tank because our goal here is to rinse everything, not only the dirt and grime, but also the cleaner because if we leave any cleaner behind, it can dry sticky and attract more dirt. The second thing is use a carpet cleaning machine that has a dry only function because once everything's rinsed out, you wanna make sure to pull out as much of the moisture that you put down out of the carpet as well because we wanted to dry fast. Once you're done running the machine, it's always a good idea to turn a fan on, open some windows. The faster you get your carpets dry, the less chances any spots will come back or you'll have issues with the carpet buckling or anything like that. That's a wrap on day 20. We'll see you tomorrow for day 21.