---
video_title: "Lint Buildup in Your Dryer Vent Can Cause a Fire"
video_id: Fcw821FqZfw
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fcw821FqZfw
video_date: 2026-05-12T13:00:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Did you know lint buildup in your dryer vent can become a serious fire hazard?
  
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are cleaning the washing machine, dryer, and dryer vent.
  
  Start by deep cleaning your washing machine using a vinegar based cleaner to wipe down the detergent drawer, agitator, drum rim, and other buildup prone areas. Then run a full cleaning cycle with a washing machine cleaner tablet.
  
  If you need a full step by step tutorial on how to clean a front load or top load washing machine, be sure to check out my YouTube channel. I have dedicated videos walking you through both.
  
  For the dryer, remove the lint trap and use a vent brush to clean inside the lint trap housing. Then vacuum and wipe down the surrounding area.
  
  To clean the dryer vent, you can either blow it out using a leaf blower or use a dryer vent cleaning kit with drill attachments to brush out built up lint.
  
  Cleaning your dryer vent regularly helps improve dryer efficiency, reduce drying times, and most importantly lower fire risk.
---
Did you know that Lin build up in your dryer vent could cause a house fire? Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spree. On the checklist today is the Clean Air Wash Machine and dryer along with our dryer vent. For the washing machine, I start by coming through with the on-screen DIY vinegar mix and detail clean those nooks and crannies like the detergent drawer, agitator, and pay special attention to the outer rim of the drum. Once I'm done wiping the machine down, then I come through with a cleaning pack or a tablet and run a full wash cycle through the entire machine. For the dryer, I pull up the lint trap and grab a vent brush, give it a quick scrub and a few swipes to get rid of any lint that might be stuck, then vacuum and wipe down. Now, when you're cleaning your dryer vent, you can do this a few different ways. One way is to grab a leaf blower and just blow all of it out, but I do like to attach a pair of nylon to the vent outside that way I'm not blowing all the fuzz around my yard. Another thing you can do is buy a dryer vent cleaning kit that attaches to your drill. These do a great job to brush out the vents. That way they get rid of any lint that might be stuck inside. And that's a wrap for today. Everything cleaned up great. We'll see you tomorrow for day 22.