---
video_title: "Your Mattress Is Dirtier Than Your Think"
video_id: j47dE15jVjg
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j47dE15jVjg
video_date: 2026-04-27T21:00:47+00:00
video_description: |
  When is the last time you cleaned your mattress?
  
  Welcome to Week 3 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are starting in the bedroom by washing bedding and deep cleaning the mattress.
  
  The first step is to strip the bed and wash all bedding. I like to use a small amount of free and gentle detergent along with white vinegar to help keep bedding soft and fresh.
  
  Next, vacuum the mattress thoroughly. Over time, dust, debris, and dead skin cells build up in the fabric, so vacuuming is one of the easiest ways to freshen it up.
  
  If you have stains or spots, spot clean using hydrogen peroxide and a damp towel. This works especially well on sweat, drool, and other common mattress stains.
  
  Some mattresses also have removable covers that can be machine washed, so be sure to check before cleaning.
  
  If your mattress needs a deeper clean, scan the QR code on the Spring Cleaning Spree checklist for my full mattress deep cleaning tutorial.
  
  To finish, add a mattress protector to help prevent future spills and keep your mattress cleaner longer.
---
When's the last time you vacuumed your mattress? Welcome to week three of the spring cleaning spree. This week's all about the bedroom, and today we're gonna take care of the first two items on the checklist. Now I like to start with cleaning the mattress, but first we have to strip the bed, and I like to work as efficient as possible. So while we have all the sheets and everything off, let's give those a quick wash too. For my bedding, I like to use about two teaspoons of free and gentle detergent, and a half a cup of white vinegar to keep things soft and smelling great. Now for the mattress, the first thing we need to do is come through and give everything a really good vacuum. Because we shed about a pound and a half of dead skin cells every single year, and a lot of that builds up in our mattress. Now you might find a few spots and spills on the mattress, and there's a few ways that you can clean that up. The first is spot cleaning that area with some hydrogen peroxide and the damp towel. You can also use this to clean the entire mattress. It does a really good job to break down things like sweat, drool, and even blood. Now the other thing you can do is on some mattresses, you can zip the top off and wash it in the washing machine, which is great, or maybe your mattress needs a really good, deep clean while making sure to scan the QR code on the checklist, and you'll find my step-by-step video on how to do that, along with a ton of other helpful resources. Once your mattress is nice and clean and completely dry, I highly recommend putting on a mattress topper. These help prevent spots and spills from going to the mattress and keep it clean. And that's a wrap on the first two items on the checklist, join me tomorrow when we deep clean pillows.