---
video_title: "How to Deep Clean Your Couch"
video_id: wI5-Glq4zFc
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wI5-Glq4zFc
video_date: 2026-05-06T13:01:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are deep cleaning upholstery and furniture.
  
  Start by thoroughly vacuuming the couch or upholstered furniture to remove loose dust, hair, and debris before wet cleaning.
  
  Before applying any cleaner, always check the furniture cleaning code tag to make sure you are using the correct cleaning method for your upholstery.
  
  For water safe upholstery, I use my DIY alcohol cleaning mix along with a spotter machine to deep clean the fabric.
  
  My DIY upholstery cleaning mix is:
  1 cup isopropyl alcohol
  1 cup water
  1 teaspoon dish soap
  
  I like to spray the cleaner down first and let it sit briefly so it has time to work. Then I rinse and flush the upholstery using water only in the extraction machine. This helps remove dirt, grime, and leftover cleaning solution so no sticky residue is left behind.
  
  Drying the upholstery quickly after cleaning is key to preventing odors and ensuring the furniture is ready to use again as soon as possible.
---
If you can't remember the last time you cleaned your couch, this video is for you. Welcome back to day 18 of the spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is a cleaner repulstery and furniture. The first thing to do is give the piece a really good vacuum. We want to remove as much fuzz, hair and dust as we can before we start wet cleaning. Before you start spraying any cleaners down, it's always a good idea to check the clean coat on your piece. That way you know exactly how it needs to be cleaned. Now this piece can be cleaned with water, so I'm going to use my DIY alcohol mix, which you can find the recipe for down below and my spotter machine. Now I like to mix my cleaner up in a spray bottle and spray it down first. That way it has time to work, then come through with water only in the spotter machine and completely rinse and flush everything out. This is a similar process to what I use when I'm professionally cleaning upholstery. And this ensures that I'm pulling out not only the most dirt and grime, but you're also not leaving any soap residue behind that could potentially dry sticky and attract more dirt, which would make your couch get dirty faster. Once everything is nice and clean, the last step is to get it dry as quickly as possible before you put it back together. And that's a wrap on day 18. We'll see you tomorrow when we finish the living room.