---
video_title: "The EASY Way To Wash Walls"
video_id: O9wJUOMtI0Y
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O9wJUOMtI0Y
video_date: 2026-04-17T13:00:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 6 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. This is the last day in the kitchen, so let’s wrap up the checklist by cleaning your walls, baseboards, trim, doors, and floors.
  
  For walls, start by dusting first. Then mix a small amount of dish soap and water in a spray bottle. Lightly mist the wall and use a damp flat mop to clean from top to bottom, working in sections as you go. This is one of the easiest ways to clean walls without making a mess.
  
  For baseboards, trim, and doors, dust first, then use my three towel system. One towel to clean, one to rinse, and one to dry and buff. This helps prevent streaks and leaves everything looking fresh.
  
  To make baseboards easier, wrap a microfiber towel around a broom and secure it with a rubber band. This lets you clean standing up instead of getting down on your hands and knees.
  
  For floors, start with a good vacuum, then use a neutral pH floor cleaner. I like using one with a damp flat mop and cleaning with the grain to avoid streaks and buildup.
---
Let me show you the easiest way to wash your walls. Welcome back to the spring cleaning spree. It's the last day in the kitchen, so let's finish up the checklist. For the walls, I like to start by giving them a quick dust to then mix up about a teaspoon of dish soap and water in a spray bottle. Now, a quick pro tip is to never spray the cleaner directly at the wall, but instead spread an angle with a light mist. Then with a damp flat mop, go up and down across the wall, kind of like you're painting to clean everything up. And I do like to work in sections and just clean my way around the room. For the baseboard trim and doors, again, it's good to start by dusting first, then come through with my three towel systems. The first towel is dipped in the cleaning solution to clean. The second towel is dipped in water only to rinse. And the third dry clean microfiber towel is there to dry and buff the surface. To make cleaning the baseboards easier, I like to grab a broom, then place a towel over the top of the broom and a rubber band to hold it in place. This makes it so you can clean the baseboards standing up and you don't have to do it on your hands and knees. And for the floors, I like to come through and give them a good vacuum and then use a neutral pH floor cleaner. I really like the one from ZEP. Spray that down and come through with the damp flat mop and go with the grain of the floor back and forth, making sure it's nice and clean. You did it, give yourself a big high five. Week one is done and your kitchen is looking great. Make sure to tune in next week for week two of the spring cleaning spree when we clean our bathrooms.