---
video_title: "Are You Cleaning Your Oven Wrong?"
video_id: 6xRXRsgvnGk
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6xRXRsgvnGk
video_date: 2026-04-15T13:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 4 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are deep cleaning the oven.
  
  Start by removing your oven racks and soaking them in warm water with a dishwasher pod. This helps break down all that baked on grease and grime and makes them much easier to clean.
  
  When it comes to the inside of the oven, one of the biggest mistakes I see is not letting your cleaner sit long enough. You want to give it time to dwell so it can actually break down the grease. I recommend letting it sit for at least 30 minutes to an hour before wiping.
  
  For scrubbing, I like to use a Scrub Daddy or Scour Daddy. But if you run into anything that is really baked on, a razor blade scraper can make a huge difference. Just make sure you use a new blade, keep the surface lubricated, and let the blade do the work.
  
  Once everything is scrubbed, go back through and thoroughly rinse the oven so no cleaner is left behind.
  
  During spring cleaning, I also recommend pulling your oven out and cleaning behind and along the sides. This is an area where grease, crumbs, and debris build up over time and can even start to smell if left too long.
  
  Do not forget about the cooktop. Whether you have gas, glass, or electric, each one needs to be cleaned a little differently. If you check out the Spring Cleaning Spree checklist, you can scan the QR code to find a full playlist with step by step videos for your exact cooktop.
---
Let me show you the best way to get your oven sparkling clean. Welcome to day four of the Spring Cleaning Spray. On the checklist today is to deep cleaner ovens. The first tip is to remove your racks and soak them in your bathtub with some warm water and a dishwasher pod. This helps break down all the big down grease and grime making them easier to clean. The next tip is to let your cleaner sit and do the work. Now a lot of times people like to spray their oven cleaner down right away and just wipe, and this doesn't allow them time to dwell and break down all the grease and grime. You want to let it sit for a minimum of 30 minutes to an hour. When it comes to scrubbing, there are a few different tools I like to recommend. The first being just a classic scrub daddy or a scour daddy. Both of those do a great job to get rid of all the grease and grime build up. However, there are times when you'll run across something that's just baked on and you'll have to just scrub and scrub and scrub at it. So to speed that up, I do like to recommend using a razor blade scraper. These work amazing because it gets underneath the grease and grime and easily lifts it from the surface, making your clean so much faster. But remember, if you're going to use one of these, make sure you always use a new blade, lubricate the surface with cleaner and let the blade do the work. Don't push too hard. Once everything's nice and scrubbed, it's always a good idea to come through and thoroughly rinse the inside of the oven. That way we make sure no cleaner is left behind. I do like to recommend that you pull your oven out during spring cleaning. The reason being is you want to clean behind it and along the sides there because over time, food and things will get stuck in those areas and that only does it get greasy and grimey, but sometimes it can even start to stink. So by taking a few extra minutes to clean these areas, you prevent that leaving the area nice and clean. The last thing to clean on the oven is the cooktop and there are a variety of them out there, whether it's gas, glass or electric. Whatever you have, I got you covered. In fact, if you scan the QR code on the checklist here that will bring you to a playlist to find the exact one that you have at home and a step-by-step video on how to clean it. That's a wrap on day four. We'll see you tomorrow for day five.