---
video_title: "This Hidden Spot Is Making Your Bathroom Dirtier"
video_id: qMn2f5t_A9c
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qMn2f5t_A9c
video_date: 2026-04-23T13:01:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome back to Day 10 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree.
  
  There are a few reasons why this is so important. First, a clean vent helps pull out any lingering odors in your bathroom, and let’s be real, we all want that.
  
  Second, if it is clogged with dust and debris, it cannot remove moisture properly. So when you take a shower or bath and that steam builds up, it just sits in the room. That is when mold and mildew can start to grow, and your bathroom will get dirty faster.
  
  Third, if your vent is really dirty, it can actually become a fire hazard.
  
  When it comes to cleaning the cover, these can get sticky from things like hairspray and dry shampoo. I like to use a degreaser, give it a good scrub, and then rinse it off to fully remove that buildup.
  
  Once everything is clean and completely dry, put it back together and do the final toilet paper test.
  And just like that, your bathroom vent is clean.
  I will see you tomorrow as we finish up the bathroom.
---
If you take toilet paper and hold it up against your bathroom vent and it doesn't stay, it needs to be cleaned. Welcome back to day 10 of the Spring Cleaning Spree. Now there's a few reasons why this job is so important to do. The first is a nice clean vent is going to help pull out any stinky and lingering odors that might be in the bathroom and let's be real. We all want that. And the second is if it's clogged with dust and debris, it can pull out all the moisture that's in the bathroom. So when you take a bath, a shower, or really anything you do to steam up the bathroom, if that moisture sits in the bathroom and can't be sucked out by the vent, unfortunately mold and mildew will start to grow and your bathroom will get dirty faster. And third, if your vent is super dirty, it's a fire hazard. Now when it comes to cleaning the covers, sometimes these can be a little sticky from things like hairspray and dry shampoo so I do like to use a degreaser here and give it a really good scrub and rinse to make sure to fully remove that. Once everything is nice and dry and clean, it's time to put it all back together and do the final toilet paper test. And that's a wrap on the bathroom vent. We'll see you tomorrow when we finish Spring Cleaning the Bathroom.