---
video_title: "Why Is My House Always Dusty?"
video_id: QIyKM4xD0M8
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QIyKM4xD0M8
video_date: 2026-05-04T21:00:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Do you feel like your house is always dusty no matter how often you clean?
  
  Welcome back to the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree. Today we are tackling dust in the living room and going over simple ways to reduce dust buildup in your home.
  
  Dust in your house is made up of dead skin cells, pet dander, pollen, fabric fibers, and dirt tracked in from outside. Because of that, dust is constantly being created in your home.
  
  To reduce dust, start by doing a thorough deep dusting and removing buildup from shelves, ledges, trim, and other surfaces where dust collects.
  
  Use tools that actually trap dust, like microfiber cloths, Swiffers, or damp dusters. Avoid using dirty tools that just spread dust around.
  
  You can also help reduce dust by using an air purifier and changing your furnace or AC filter regularly.
  These simple habits can make a big difference in keeping your home cleaner for longer.
---
Do you ever feel like your house is always dusty? Let me show you a few ways to clean that up. Welcome back to the Spring Cleaning Spree. This week's All About Our Living Room. So let's take care of the first two items on the checklist. Now in most households, dust is actually made up of things like dead skin cells, pet dander, fabric fibers, pollen, and tiny bits of dirt that we track in from the outdoors. So if it feels like dust keeps coming back, no matter what you do, that's because our homes are well, constantly creating it. But there's a few things you can do to help keep the dust down. The first is giving the room a good, in-depth dust. Making sure to remove as much dust as possible from ledges and areas where it likes to collect. And Spring Cleaning is such a great time to reset our living space and really do this in-depth dusting. So then that only is it clean, but it's easier to keep clean in the weeks and months to come. The second is to use tools that actually lift the dust from the surface instead of just spreading it around. Tools like a swiffer, microfiber towels, or even the damp dust are from scrub daddy, work great. Now one super important thing to remember about your dusting tools is to make sure to keep them clean. If they get full of dust, unfortunately, they're just gonna start spreading it around and they can't pick any more up from the surface and make a bigger mess in your space won't be as clean. The third thing you can do to help keep the dust down in your space clean is to invest in an air purifier. But make sure you always keep the filter clean and changed at the regular interval and that the machine is rated for the size space that you're using it in. The other thing that's really gonna help keep the dust down in your home is to change your AC, your furnace filter, on a regular basis and Spring is a great time to get this done. That's a wrap on the first few items in our living room and make sure to join me tomorrow when we clean our TV screens.