---
video_title: "The Best Way To Clean Your Water Bottle"
video_id: pEE-0pCzQVE
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pEE-0pCzQVE
video_date: 2026-02-24T23:02:28+00:00
video_description: |

---
So a couple of years ago, I read a study that said your water bottle can be more dirty than a toilet seat. And ever since I learned that gross fact, I try to keep this as clean as possible and just clean it more often. Now, the easiest way to do this is to grab some of these right here. They're just denture cleaning tablets. You can get these at the dollar store. They're super cheap. But what's cool about these is not only do they do an awesome job cleaning, but they also disinfect and just get rid of any funky odors that can start to develop in your actual water bottle itself. All you do is just open one up here. You can use a full tab, but it's really dirty or even just a half tab to save it for another cleaned on the future. But drop it in like that. Grab some warm water here. We're just going to fill it up. It's going to start to bubble here. And then usually I just like to let this sit in the water bottle. I don't know, for anywhere from five to ten minutes. I'll just kind of set it in here and just walk away and do something else. I also grab the straw. Now if you have an awala, the other thing about these is this little rubber guy. It comes out like so. As you can see here, it is super grimy and dirty. So I'll pop that in there. Let this sit and do its thing and I'll be right back. Okay, now that everything has been sitting in here for about ten minutes, we're just going to dump everything out very carefully here. Rubber guy, don't want to lose that down the drain. I'll grab a little bit of soap and a scrub daddy. Scrub. And then I'll also give the mouthpiece here in the top, a quick scrub and rinse as well. Now I don't take this out every single time, but on the inside of the awala and many water bottles, there's also a little rubber gasket in there as well. If you scrub a butter knife, it pops out. It's a good idea to clean this, probably like every other time or every other other time because that way this doesn't get all nasty as well. You can also just take out and clean every time if you want to too. The last step is just to wait for everything to air dry completely before you put it back together. And then your water bottle is nice and clean and no longer as dirty as a toilet seat.