---
video_title: "3 Cabinet Cleaning Mistakes | Day 2 Spring Cleaning Spree"
video_id: tZ4phxfgcUg
channel_name: "Clean That Up"
channel_id: UC1GLDECMH83KqDn6hypodYw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tZ4phxfgcUg
video_date: 2026-04-13T13:01:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Welcome to Day 2 of the 2026 Spring Cleaning Spree.
  Today we are tackling kitchen cabinets, and I want to walk you through the best way to clean them without making a bigger mess or damaging the finish.
  
  One of the biggest mistakes I see is not dusting cabinets before wet cleaning. You always want to remove that dry dust and debris first so it does not turn into a sticky mess once you add your cleaner.
  
  The next mistake is using the wrong cleaner. If you have painted cabinets, I like to use a small amount of blue Dawn dish soap. For wood cabinets, I go with Murphy Oil Soap. Both are very concentrated, so a little goes a long way.
  Another big one is not rinsing and drying. This is where my three towel system comes in.
  
  First towel is for cleaning, second towel is for rinsing, and the third towel is for drying and buffing. This is what helps prevent streaks and leaves a really clean finish.
  You can use that same process on the inside of your cabinets and drawers too. Just take it one section at a time so it does not get overwhelming.
  
  If you run into any greasy buildup, grab a non scratch scrub sponge like a Scrub Daddy to help break it down safely.
  
  Get your checklist at cleanthatup.com
---
Three common mistakes that people make when cleaning their kitchen cabinets. Welcome to day two of the spring cleaning spree. On the checklist today is to clean our kitchen cabinets. The first mistake is not dusting your cabinets before you start wet cleaning. The reason this is so important is we want to remove all that dry, easy dust and debris that's on the surface there so we don't make a bigger mess when we come through with our cleaners. The second mistake is using the wrong cleaner. Now if you have painted cabinets, I like to use blue-donde dish soap, but for wood cabinets, I use murphy oil. I will say both of these are extremely concentrated so a little goes a long way. The third mistake I see is not rinsing and drying the surface of the cabinets. Now what I like to recommend is using my three towel system. The first towel is there to clean. The second towel is there to rinse. And the third release secret sauce towel is there to dry and buff the surface, making sure there's no moisture left behind, but most importantly, leaving a streak-free finish. I also like to use that same three towel system on the inside of the cabinets and drawers. But one word of caution here is if you pull everything out of all of your cabinets at once, it will become a bit overwhelming and kind of a mess, so I always like to clean one at a time and move on to the next. In my experience, you might find a few areas that are a bit greasy, so for this I suggest using a non-scratch scrub sponge like a scrub daddy. And that's a wrap for day two. We'll see you tomorrow for day three.