---
video_title: "The Dr. Berg Show LIVE - September 4, 2026"
video_id: NNQT3NDQiRk
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NNQT3NDQiRk
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  When it comes to your health, most people try to fix everything at once. But there are 10 biological signals that control how you feel every day, and only 1 of them matters most to your body.
  
  Take my free 2-minute quiz and discover which signal YOU need to fix first: https://www.drberg.com/health-lever-quiz?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=may_26_live_show&utm_content=description
  
  Talk to Dr. Berg LIVE ➜ ➜ https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  To be considered, click on the link below to fill out the application! If you’d like to join next week’s show, make sure you fill out the application by Tuesday night, the week of the live show. 
  
  Fill this out to be a part of the LIVE show! — https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  Participants will be selected on Wednesdays, and an invitation with the unique link to join the show will be sent out on Thursday afternoon before the Friday Live Show.
  
  Disclaimer: Dr. Eric Berg D.C. received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
---
Welcome back everyone. We're here with another Q&A. Anything that I say is not actually intended to bypass your medical doctor or cure any diseases. Check with your doc. This is just mainly for education for you to do more research and we want to just dive as through as many questions as possible because we are multi-channel uh show here. So Steve, let's get

started. >> We sure will. And speaking of education, we learned so much for the audience. So thank you all for joining us from around the world every uh every week. And let's start off with Vincent out there in YouTube land. What is the best way to

handle canker sores? Um, some people uh have said that llysine tends to work, which is to put that virus back in remission. So, that would be something I would recommend. Uh, versus L arginine will bring it out of remission, which of course you're not going to probably take that, but just so you know, um, L arginine is high in things like nuts and seeds and things like that. Um but that being said uh usually these are viral related and viruses come out of remission and back in the remission based on stress.

So if there is something that triggered that so see what you can do to bring yourself out of stress mode. >> All right, sounds great. Let's go to Jimmy from YouTube wants to know what's the best kind of soap to use for our hands uh and on the body in general. What do you use? And I'd also throw in so many of them called antibacterial.

Maybe you can mention about that too. Yeah, that comes with the package. You have microbiome um layer all over the body and if you overly sterilize kill everything on it, then you end up with rashes and redness. I would just find there's many different brands. I'm not going to recommend a specific brand, but just a a regular natural unscented uh soap would be fine.

There's a lot of people that make soap out of um tallow. I think that would be great. Um, they make it out of coconut oil, all sorts of things. So, I'd find something natural and use that. >> All right, sounds like great counsel.

Susan from YouTube, what can I take to heal my gut from taking antibiotics? >> Antibiotics create a massive destruction, usually if it's a full spectrum, um, in your microbiome, the good and bad. And people think that, oh, it'll just come right back after a period of time. Well, it never fully is the back to the original it was. So, has a lot of side effects. So, uh I

think the best thing to do is to then take a probiotic as you're taking this antibiotic and then continue on that probiotic. Find a really good one that you can take over a period of time to hopefully reestablish it. Um and of course uh you know be hesitant of taking antibiotics because um so many people abuse that and um they don't work for viruses, they don't work for fungus, they don't work for yeast, mold, candida, only for bacteria. So um I try to do other things first, but that's just me. >> All right, very good. Let's go to

Heretic as he calls himself or herself from YouTube. Is it possible to get rid of H pylori without taking antibiotics? Still on the antibiotic subject. >> So um well here's the thing. People 80% of the population has H pylori, but the relationship is not bad. In other words, it lives

with your system and it doesn't tend to bother you until your environment changes. maybe you ate more junk food or you um you have some weakness within the especially the stomach pH. So uh in other words um one of the survival mechanisms of H pylori coming out of remission is an alkaline environment. Now think about where the H pylori lives of all places it lives in the stomach. I mean the stomach is the most acidic. You're

talking about a pH that's normally between 1 and three. And if you can maintain that, everything is cool. But as soon as the pH goes up, um it it tends to come out and irritate you and create problems. So um one of the survival mechanisms of H. pylori is to uh alkalize the stomach so it could survive. So it produces a very

alkalizing ammonia. So, one of the things that can naturally deal with H pylori, and I think I might have done a video on this, uh, is sulfurophane, broccoli sprouts. Apparently, uh, that's one way to deal with it. I would research that area and see if that makes sense to you. >> All right, very good. Well, we've got an

interesting subject to bring up and is a video I watched recently about a gentleman whose family had a shared genetic mutation and they uh all died about 60 years old of the dreaded Alzheimer's disease. He has the same mutation and yet he's decades ahead of the rest of his family and showing very little cognitive decline. Here's the difference. Apparently, he was in the Navy and worked around boilers or hot equipment. so hot that they would hose down the crew periodically to keep them cool and he did that for decades. Now

retired and away from the heat. They have a feeling that heat shock proteins that develop during very high heat environments continue to be produced in his body and those keep the amaloid plaque from latching onto or destroying the neurons in his brain. They said they did an MRI and he has some signs of that in his brain but so little that it's not affecting his cognitive things. So the exciting thing at least for me and I think for much of the audience is that through uh years of public humiliation Dr. Burke has coerced me into some better habits. One of which is saunas at

least five times a week. I do it for about 18 to 20 minutes depending on what I feel like at about 190 or 200 degrees. By the way, I don't own a sauna, but there's plenty of health spas around that with a cheap monthly membership have one, and I take full advantage of that. So, Dr. Burke, what do you think about that? And uh how might this affect

us in terms of our habits around the world to prevent that horrifying disease? >> Well, Steve, I think I figured out your problem and that has been you've been way too comfortable for so many years at this even temperature. Um and I'm just being sarcastic because there's I think um if we look at um these rhythms light dark uh eating fasting uh you have exercise recovery you have hot cold and we live in a very comfortable environment. Our body temperature is 98.6. We like to kind of stay in that

area. Uh but when you our bodies have not evolved in perfect temperature. uh it's involved in super high heats, droughts, and super cold environments. So, what we have in ourselves right now is all sorts of really cool um genetic programs to uh protect us against cold and heat. And one is a heat heat shock protein. So

when you do regular saunas, you're basically mimicking environment that you used to be in a long time ago or our bodies have you've been in and you increase your survival and protection against disease. So then brings up the question uh what's better cold or heat? Well, they both do different things. Um, so but my thought is why not compound them? And so I I started looking into this and there's a fascinating research on animals, not humans. Um

that if you start out on the cold cold shower, cold plunge, and then you come out of it and you wait a period of time, maybe 20 minutes to dry off, allow that temperature to come down slowly, and then you go into either a sauna or a jacuzzi, whatever, or a hot shower. um you get the benefit of a lot of additional amazing survival things that kick in there. So, I'm always looking at let's uh yeah, go for a walk, be exposed to the sun, uh get out of your head, get away from the computer, do physical work all at the same time versus one specific thing. But I will say there's a lot of uh super um healthcreating effects when you put your body under certain stresses intermittently, not chronically. So I I think that's what he did is he uh um he basically um you know indirectly didn't know this, but he exposed himself to a sauna for periods of time and that caused his body to adapt and become stronger.

>> That's wonderful. Well, that's encouraging news for all of us. Don't go next to a ship boiler, but maybe something short of that. Let's go to Markham from Facebook. What do you know of organic nicotine tinctures? Are they

benefit to using them? I've heard some people say that nicotine out of a cigarette is really not that horrible. >> Well, it's a drug. It does stimulate certain things. Um, it it tends to be addicting. Um

I I I don't think it's the thing that someone should try. Um I think there's other things to do, but it's definitely an upgrade from also inhaling the smoke that's burnt nicotine, you know, burnt, you know, particles and all the chemicals that come along with that. But I think it might be a way to transition offuh smoking. Um, I looked at nicotinic acid uh and also B3 and nicotine and it doesn't just cross over uh it does not increase something called NAD which helps you transport electrons on the through the um the KB cycle. So um I'm not I'm not like I'm not a fan of it. Um but it's um there's other ways to

uh get healthy. All right. Very good. Well, I'm certainly not going to touch it. It was a long hard road for me to quit cigarettes and I ain't going to tickle that dragon again. Let's go to

quiz question number one for you to read, sir. >> Okay. True or false? Dopamine, you probably heard of that, uh, is a pleasure chemical in our brain. True or false?

>> Yay. Pleasure. Let's go to Norma from Rumble. Is it safe for a person who has heart issues to take benotamine or vitamin B? if that's something totally totally >> yeah benfotamine is a is a synthetic version fat soluble B B vitamin um I have not noticed or observed any side effects at all but it's um and then you have B1 very if I I recommend the natural version called called alathamine but those um actually support the heart because they support the autonomic nervous system that connects to the heart And one of the causes of heart problem is a deficiency of B1. Um, so

look it up. >> All right, very good. Let's go to Dehod from Rumble. During a prolonged fast, how do you take fat soluble vitamins like vitamin D without consuming fat? That sounds like a smart question.

>> A lot of these fats soluble nutrients, supplements come with a little bit of fat. Tiny bit of fat. So maybe you you take a tiny bit of fat, but but overall I wouldn't worry about it because you're still going to absorb. Maybe it's not 100%. Maybe it's 90% absorption. It's

not a big deal. So I I wouldn't really put too much attention on it. I mean, if you concerned, just add an eighth of a teaspoon of olive oil or coconut oil. >> All right. Very good. Let's go to Ashish

from YouTube. My 42-year-old wife has fibroids in the breast. She has started taking uh your estrogen support, seek help, iodine, vitamin D3, K2, and magnesium, glycinate, but it's a full round. Is there anything else you would recommend to support her breasts? So, of course, um I'm not recommending anything for any diseases, but you may want to research a really key uh eating plan to help um prevent things from growing in the body. And that would be,

are you sitting down right now? It's a low carb. Okay. A ketogenic diet because when you consume more carbs, you raise insulin. Insulin insulin actually make things get bigger. it's an anabolic hor

uh hormone. So, you'd want to um keep your carbs really low. And then out of the food, I would avoid things like dairy products because dairy, especially milk, does it's meant to what? U make a ca a calf get grow I mean fast, right? So, you wouldn't want to necessarily drink that if you're trying to get rid of fibroids or endometriosis or any growth in the body.

All right, let's go to Sarah from Facebook. What is the causes? What causes, excuse me, the body to shake when you get nervous or anxious? Is there any way to control it? What uh that response? That's

>> that's a normal physiological response when people get nervous or have severe even a panic attack. Um, I think we're going to be getting this in in one of the questions, but I'll tell you right now, um, the nervous system needs a sufficient amount of uh, vitamin B1 to be calm and steady. So, when it's deficient, it can trouble and things like that and you can go into a panic attack. So, B1, more B1 as well as magnesium, which actually calms the body down, but also breathing through the nose. Um, I was sitting uh in front of a patient uh who I was I I met for a lunchon and we're talking while we're eating and she was drinking some soup and there was something that got stuck in her throat. She's like, you

know, started uh I can see really closely that she was panicking and um I'm like, "Okay, Heimlick maneuver." Okay, so I do that. It didn't work. It didn't work. So I I can see she was in panic. So I just said,

"Just relax. Just relax." As her face was ready as a beat. And uh I started to uh massage the neck and she pulled out of it. But when you're in that panic attack, talk about trembling and constriction and nasal contraction.

Um breathe through the nose slowly. get a grip, you know, and you can start to get your body to respond. >> Sarah, we hope you feel better. Marcela from Facebook, what's the best way to support the condition of lymphocitic colitis? That sounds horrible.

>> So, we're dealing with an itis, an inflammation of in the colon, right? So, there's an infection. um when you go to a GI doctor to get diagnosed the the vast majority of the time in the US is not a food related remedy. It is going to be an antibiotic or a steroid. Okay?

Which then doesn't necessarily correct the real problem, does it? Um so um so then um what you need to do is you need to um find out when it started what did and what happened just before that. Usually it's going to related to something you're eating. So, anything related to inflammation in the colon um involves eliminating certain things. And this is why the carnivore diet would probably be the best bet to get on that to see if you could uh heal the gut with intermittent fasting. And plus, the

carnivore diet's a lot of meat, so you have a lot of glutamine that can actually help heal the gut. Um probably a probiotic would be very beneficial, too. Um but yeah, it's amazing how GI doctors, they don't look at the most obvious thing, which is the food because they're not trained in it. Uh but in Europe, um certain um like Crohn's, sorry about that. I'm going to uh that was a spam call. Um, so basically in

Europe they use uh different diets and uh and if you saw these diets you would be wow incredible. Uh these diets basically don't have a lot of good things in them but they but they work because they're eliminating a lot of the things that trigger a GI problem like emulsifiers um chemicals in the food uh but even fiber could irritate the stomach. All right, very good. Well, the audience has spoken on quiz question number one which asked of them true false dopamine is a pleasure chemical in our brain. Boy, I like pleasure when it comes uh the audience 50% say that it's true and 50% say it's false.

>> The answer is it's false. I mean I was taught that it was a pleasure uh chemical. It's not. It's not the thing that creates pleasure. What it does is it increases want.

So it drives as an impulse you towards certain things. So it's anticipating things like, "Oh, I can't wait to have that donut." You know, it drives you towards the donut. Now, in rats, um, they killed the center in the brain that controls dopamine and they no longer cared if they ate anything or not. Now once they ate something they would get pleasure from it but the driving towards that survival thing uh goes away without dopamine. So this is also behind

addictions because most addictions are super abnormal like you know alcohol it's not our bodies weren't designed to drink a lot of alcohol or drugs or gambling, pornography, junk food. Uh so we have this abnormal super triggering thing. Um it's going to elevate um you to want it more, anticipate it. But the problem is over time the the actual event itself once you take the drug whatever now becomes h yeah didn't really do much anymore. So then over time it becomes almost like if you don't give into that addiction you will be stressed out. You'll feel flat, kind of heavy,

kind of depressed and then that uh it's all about um that drug or whatever giving you a relief from the stress, the body stress. So then your your whole state of existence starts going down and down and down until the point where um now you're just coping as best as you can and you're you're stuck in it. So um anyway, I I recently did a video on addictions and um it's fascinating. >> That is fascinating. All right. And so

is quiz question number two for you to read, sir. >> Okay. What is considered the normal range of fasting insulin? I think people know blood sugar is it should be about 80 below 100 I think it should be closer to 80 but what about fasting insulin what's the ranges for normal fasting insulin all right climb on out audience in the meantime let's go to channel for Lynn from Rumble I've read that gallstones could develop by skipping breakfast what are your thoughts she wants breakfast >> well Kelloggs uh an employee from Kelloggs uh back in the invented the idea that breakfast was was the most important meal of the of the day. Um, but for someone to say skipping breakfast causes gallstones, this is basic on based on rumor. There's

no data none zero data to show that there's any causation between skipping breakfast. Um, now they might be associating, you know, a little piece of the data. Well, if you fast a long period of time, your gallbladder can concentrate and blah blah blah. But that's not skipping breakfast. So, it's again, it's one of those things where if if you if a person in front of me said that, the first question I would ask is, "Who told you?" And then their response

would probably be, "Oh, I saw it on the internet." I'm like, "Okay." Right. >> All right. Let's go to Vasset from Facebook. I watch your videos about

intermittent fasting. Could you tell me what's the recommended time of fasting, especially for someone with acid reflux? So, when you go 12 hours of fasting, so let's say your last meal was at 8:00 at night and then your first meal the next day is at 8 in the morning. Just to let you know, that's not really considered intermittent fasting, okay? It's not.

There's no benefit. It's like, yeah, you fast through the night. Yeah. Still, you're not going to get any benefit. you're not going to get benefit until you go maybe up to 16 hours fasting and then definitely 18 hours.

So, um, so that's that's that's what you need to define first of all is fasting. And I think the the solution they were trying to fix is was it something with the stomach? What was the condition? >> Uh, let's see. Acid reflux. She

>> acid reflux. >> Yeah. I I think I would just do 16 or even 18hour fasts for that to see if you can help take the stress off of it. But I would first take a little uh teaspoon of apple cider vinegar and some water and see if that makes you better or worse. If it doesn't worsen the situation, chances are you don't have like inflammation or an ulcer. In which

case now we need now we can actually use another remedy called betane hydrochloride which is an acidifier to help acidify the stomach and that's going to indirectly help keep that valve closed so the acid doesn't shoot up through the top of the stomach valve because both acid heartburn and acid reflux are more of a valve problem than a too much acid problem. >> Interesting. Okay, here's an oft girl from YouTube. If you have silver fillings in your teeth, would activated charcoal help to get rid of the toxins that come from those fillings? And are there toxins coming from those fillings?

I probably got a couple in the back of my mouth. >> Yeah, because silver um is connected with mercury and um unfortunately um that's what they used back in the day. I I had all that. So, I had it removed. Some people feel amazing, some people don't feel anything. I didn't feel much. Um, but

think about like you're chewing on these this mercury silver amalgam and vapors can come out and it can be a problem. Um, I I don't know if charcoal is going to be the the antidote to that. Maybe simply because it's probably going to be intermittent. Um, so I don't think that's going to be the thing. Uh, I think ideally you should find a biological dentist that really knows how to remove the mercury. Um, but again,

a lot a lot of this depends on if you're sensitive. Also, if you're um if you're very strong with your immune system, you might be able to tolerate it. Um there hasn't been a lot of research on if this creates a problem or not, but just the me the mechanism of itself just is probably not the best thing in the world. >> Yeah, I'm not sure that was the greatest invention ever conceived. By the way, let's go to a friend in India. His name

is Prrenav and he's got a question for you. Thank you, Prrenav. Get your qu your uh camera ready and go ahead with your one question for Dr. Berg. Oh. Prenab, I'm sorry your uh your audio

is off currently. I know we sort of struggle with that before. Try it again. >> Yes sir. Can you hear me?

>> There we can now. Go ahead with your question. >> First of all, uh Dr. B, I appreciate what you have done for humanity. Thank you very much, sir. Sir, my question is

I have bad acid reflux since 2 years. Sir my gastro says it's because of lacks alas. I have tried beta HCL and apple cider vinegar but it doesn't suit me sir. I had bad source in my throat sir. Please help me sir.

>> Okay. So yeah if you try to use betane hydrochloride or apple cider vinegar and it's worse. There's probably inflammation going on. So that's going to make it worse. So, it's almost like you have to kind of heal the stomach first for a while before you introduce that. But I will say there is something

else you can start to take to help that valve because the valve is all uh controlled by the nerves. And B1 is the thing you need. And I would take a very specific type of B1 uh called alathamine. You can also try benotamine, but you need that in therapeutic dosages. And again, I'm I'm not recommending it. I'm just telling you to

research it to see if it makes sense to you. Uh and then is to calm down that stomach. Um to kind of heal it, um I would use something like zinc carnosine that actually helps heal it. Do intermittent fasting and probably uh some chlorophyll to help uh soothe the stomach and heal it for a while because it's probably been very irritated. Great. Thank you so much, Prennav. I

hope that uh that u guides you somewhat. And uh let's go to quiz question number two. And I don't know uh Prennav if you were watching that, but let's see if you can come up with an answer too. It asks to the audience, what is considered the normal range of fasting insulin and 62% of respondents say it's 3 to five. 20% say it's between 14 and 16. 10% say it's

between one uh one to four and 8% say it's between 50 to 90. Thank you Terry for all that research. So the reason why it's all over the place is because there's no real agreement. One country will say one thing, another country says the next. Uh in America the normal is like 2.5 to

24.6. Okay. Now, this is the part that's going to shock you. Um, where are they getting these numbers? Well, they take an

average of 98% of the population because they cut out the the real high and low numbers and they take this average of 98 95% of the population and that's what they considered normal. So, you're basically comparing your so-called normal ranges to average people. So, it's kind of like you didn't probably ask the question, can you give me my um the average of the population uh range for insulin? Like that's not what you want to know. You want to know what is the healthy ranges, right? Well,

if you to get that, you have to look at some different data, but it's definitely not the thing you're going to see at this on the lab values uh or even what the doctor tells you because they're just there's no real consensus on what it should be. But there is data that shows that it needs to be under five. Okay? Because it's if it's a little higher, it's it's more insulin resistance. Higher it's insulin resistance. So, you want it under five.

Um, and I I'm I'm going to do a release a video on all the research behind that so you can understand that. But this is this is such a key area because if doctors would just not only test blood glucose but test fasting insulin, they could catch diabetes 15 years before it's it ends up as diabetes. Because the average amount of sugar that you have in your blood right now for a normal person and you got like a a gallon and a half is about one teaspoon of sugar. Diabetes is two teaspoons of sugar. Just a little bit more. But how can that

be since um the average person consumes well over 50 teaspoons of sugar a day? How how come everyone doesn't have diabetes? Because we're dumping all this sugar and starch into the bloodstream. It's because there's a silent worker behind the scenes called insulin that's clearing it out really fast and that's been working until it's becomes exhausted. So if they were able to look at that early on, they could pick things up. So, if you next time you

go to your doctor, ask for a fasting insulin test just to see where it's at. And if it's too high, guess what you do? You go on a low carb diet and do intermittent fasting. >> Yeah. I remember bragging to go said, "Dr. Burke, my blood sugar is 80." And

you say, "Well, that doesn't mean anything. You could be jamming stuff in your poor pancreas is doing everything to do to hold it down. Doesn't mean I'm not, you know, uh, heading toward trouble." So, I was really glad you told me that. So, I don't really pay much attention to that number anymore. and

instead look at the number of cupcakes that passes me. >> Well, e even A1, like if you're so reliant on A1C, which is an average of three months blood sugar, and it shows you how much sugar is, you know, attached to your protein hemoglobin that's unavailable to you. Now, um it's the same thing like it can be normal for many years because the body's clearing it out. So it doesn't it doesn't stay in the exposed to red blood cells very long. So this is why this time delay is really um the culprit. Um it doesn't

happen right away. >> Yes. The answer is to behave. All right. Let's go with quiz question number three and that's for you to ask sir.

>> True or false? Serotonin is a happy brain chemical. >> Oh here we go again. What is it? Happy desire. Uh, I sure I'm sure you'll know.

Audience, why don't we go to the exciting weekly mailbag, Dr. Bird? >> Okay, got it right here. And, uh, number one question is, what's the top thing top three most important changes someone should make to improve their health? Number one, and this might also surprise you, but this is very, very important.

Keep your wake up time and your sleep time consistent. the more you rotate it, it's like rotational shifts. Wow, it can really throw everything off. But there's a lot of data that shows that that out of everything is like super important. Number two, no snacks after dinner. The

clothes the kitchen is closed after dinner. In fact, brush your teeth right after dinner. That way, it'll kind of signal and you're not going to want to mess that up by eating. Three, morning. sun exposure without sunglasses, okay, for a half hour. Number two, what causes high

diastolic blood pressure. Um, so you have the systolic, which is the top number. The bottom is the diastolic. It's you're measuring the contraction and relaxation of your vascular system. So it's really um insulin resistance.

It's the carbs again, right? And also frequent eating and also low potassium and high sodium. So, we need more potassium for that. Number three, are there any natural remedies or supplements for slow transit constipation? Um, probably you need to have uh more bile salts like ox bile that can help um because it it lubricates the colon, fermented foods, and also vitamin B1 and some magnesium is too as well. Um,

and I'm going to well, I'll hold off because this relates to the question I just asked you. Okay. Number four. What can someone do about iron overload if they're not able to eliminate it properly? Donate blood, um, maybe some copper. Eliminate the

foods that have iron, especially the iron skillets, maybe even red meats and supplements. You have to really watch it. Number four, if frozen shoulder is not related to the gallbladder, let's say you ruled that out, usually the right side, how can the healing process be sped up? Um, myofascial stretching. So, if you have a frozen shoulder either side, what you do is you you bring it to the point where at the end of the range of motion, okay? And

then you contract it against against some some stationary thing for a period of like 10 to 20 seconds. And then you contract it the other way for a period of 10 to 20 seconds. And and then you can do contraction into a towards and away from that range of motion. And you'll find it'll keep getting higher and higher as you're doing myofascial stretching. I did a whole video on that.

Uh okay. So um what can be done for a sluggish bile flow uh along with low stomach acid and itchy skin? So itchy skin is low bile. So you need um ox bile and then hydrochloric acid betain hydrochlorain hydrochloride to help your stomach which will actually then indirectly increase the amount of bile production from the liver. 16. What does the term nervous

breakdown really mean and how can you prevent it? Well, it's an overwhelming um situation to the nervous system where there's not a lot of tolerance. So, usually the person um their autonomic nervous system is just been triggered too time too much and maybe they're not getting enough sleep. Usually, they're low in vitamin B1. So, more sleep, more walking, more breathing through the nose, not the mouth, slowly. and more B1.

Um, that's what I would recommend. Uh, in 17, the last question or actually the next question, what is the best steps to support healing um, someone from a fibrootic liver? It really depends on how far it's gone because you can have a fatty liver, inflamed liver, hepatitis, and then cerosis. So, it really depends on, you know, once it's set in there pretty deep, it's it's really hard to reverse it. But I always take the viewpoint of let's see what can be done. So

tocotatrininals a good amount of toatrinos it's a vitamin E complex spectrum. Uh get the alpha beta delta gamma and then start doing that. That's been known to help and maybe even a serapeptase enzyme as well. Both of those um maybe can help you with the liver. But there's also some data I found on tatka helping cerosis. Now,

will any of this do anything? I have no idea, but try it and see what happens. >> All right, very good. Let's go to answering quiz question number three, which asked of our astute audience. True, false. Serotonin is a happy brain

chemical. Yay. And 65% of the respondents say it's true. That's very hopeful. 35% say it's false. Any winners

today? >> It's false. Um, recently they finally found out after yours that the SSRI, the serotonin selective rein re-uptake inhibitor drugs for depression don't really um improve your serotonin. And they also found that serotonin uh increasing serotonin doesn't actually do anything for depression of any type of corrective measure at all. So um in fact they don't even know how it works as this rise because it's it's not blocking or doing anything with the receptor. It has everything to do with

what's called a transporter which is completely different. But the point is that serotonin is more of an amplifier and a regulator of emotions. So it tends to kind of keep things from going too high or too low. That's what it does. Now 90 95% of all the serotonin of the body is made by your own microbes in your gut. And

that's a different function that has more to do with paristtoalsis and pumping action which can actually help eliminate but that's different because it doesn't cross the bloodb brain barrier. So there's a certain part of your brain that produces serotonin that's more of a regulator. Um so that's really interesting because we always consider oh yeah it's like it's going to uh it's really part of happiness. No it's not. There's other hormones that affect that. Okay. So, what's

paristalsis and pumping stuff? >> That means that your your colon is is pumping to push stuff through the pipe. And if you don't have peristalsis, then things kind of get stuck in there, aka constipation. >> Ah, okay. Here's qu question number four for you to ask, sir.

>> Okay. Infrared light performs one big deeper process in the body. What is it? What does it do? >> All right, can't wait to hear. Audience,

Vincent from Rumble, is it more effective to wash our veggies with uh hypocchlorinous acid or hydrogen peroxide? Do you need to use either of those things for your veggies? >> I mean, you can. You can do uh vinegar, diluted vinegar, you can do baking soda, a little bit of hydrogen peroxide. I think it'll be fine. Um,

if you're concerned, I I have my own garden and I know that if I just rinse it off, I'm going to retain a lot of the microbiome. I'm not concerned with pathogens in my garden. U, some people are, but I'm just giving you my viewpoint on it. And uh um you know unfortunately when you go to the grocery store uh there's all sorts of stuff they put on the surface of that vegetable and uh unfortunately a lot of it's hydroponic so it doesn't even come from soil or it might come from a uh coconut fiber where they just grow it in there and then they just so so really the I think what's really important is the microbiome involved in our food, growing food, because that's what our bodies were designed to be exposed more to and we become more exposed to a sterile environment and I don't think that has helped us as much. >> Okay, let's go to Juan with an interesting condition from Facebook.

Please discuss how to support someone dealing with proctatitis. I think inflammation of the lining of the rectum. Doesn't sound fun. Again, I would look at what you're eating, okay? There could be something that you're eating that's irritating that tissue. Um, there's chlorophyll,

that's a healer for that. Do intermittent fasting. It's going to be really important. There's a lot of natural remedies that you can use for that. Uh, is, you know, the question is, is there a hemorrhoid involved? Um

there's a whole protocol in that if you want that, but typically it's going to be a nutritional deficiency of some sort because you're eating something that you probably shouldn't be eating. Uh and then there's could be a crack or a fissure or irritation. I will say um more vitamin D would be very beneficial too because out of all the things they tested to help things um stabilize in the colon between the cells and other tissues, vitamin um D is at the top of the list. >> Interesting. K from Facebook. What's the

best foods to eat for someone with arthritis? We've been told not to eat certain oils, but we've also been told that a lack of oil can be can contribute to development of Alzheimer's. What do you think? So, other we should be drinking more oil to get rid of Alzheimer's. Um so I think um again I I would go on a diet that supports uh the nutrients in the body. Okay. So,

we have nutrient-dense foods, animal meats, fish, shellfish, seafood, yogurt, and then fermented foods, kefir, sauerkraut, um um kimchi, pickles, things like that, things out of the garden, and then do intermittent fasting. That's what I would do. Um as kind of a stable principle. >> All right. You started to mention yogurt, I Is there any good yogurt? And

is that fermented? >> Um, yeah. Yeah. Um, I I think I have a video on this, but I'm selective of my yogurts. I want something from A2 milk and uh, which is actually going to be easier on the system. I like the

Bulgarian yogurt the the best, but there's all these, if you go to certain stores, health food store, they have these very sour yogurts, whole whole milk yogurts. I get them all and I test them. I like them. I don't remember the names, but um I don't have the the traditional typical yogurts. I mean, I don't like them. So, um if you can find

something um that is from a farm that really cares about it and they're spending the time and they ferment it longer, I think that would be better. >> Wonderful. Let's go to quiz question number four which asked to the audience infrared light performs one big deeper process in the body. Well, what is it? And the audience thinks they know. 72%

say it stimulates collagen. 20% say it stimulates the uh mitochondria and eight excuse me 8% say it reduces inflammation. Any geniuses among them? >> Yes, we do. We have a winner. Um so so

there's on social media you'll see that infrared cures everything. Um but if you look at the research on it not to say that they maybe they didn't do research on it. There are certain things that are really effective with infrared more than a lot of other things. Uh hair loss if you have androgenic alopecia seems to be at the top of the list. Um, also knee pain, chronic knee pain, especially arthritis, really effective. But if you take a look

at and understand what red light actually does and realize half the sun is red light, it's it it can it can penetrate through the body. There's two different waveforms. Uh, superficial and a little bit deeper. Okay? can go into the body a little bit deeper and it actually gets absorbed by the last step in the machinery in your mitochondria increasing the efficiency in production of ATP. So it actually

helps you make more energy. Now since most chronic illness really has to do with the mitochondria not making enough energy. Now we know why infrared works. It gives more energy to help chronic problems, especially blood sugar things. And there's even data that shows that it can help your thyroid. So um I'm

releasing a video on it. It also uh helps increase nitric oxide for blood pressure and other things and then also reduces oxidative stress. Um, so but the main thing it does, it's the last step in that mitochondrial factory chain to help help you make ATP. Uh, that last step is an enzyme protein that absorbs light. Um, and that specific spectrum of red light. Um, it came from bacteria

originally, by the way. And plants have have the same protein as well. So that's why plants can absorb light and but so so can humans. So, this is why when you go out in the sun, you might just feel a little bit more energetic or better. >> All right. Very good. By the way, before

I go to our final question of the day, I want to let the audience know that if you want to participate in the mailbag that is on Dr. Berg's Facebook page, and there's some areas for comment on that. So, don't forget to go there to have an extra avenue to get your question to Dr. Berg. And here, speaking of questions, is the final one for the day.

>> True or false? For most people, by the time you are thirsty, it's already too late. You're dehydrated. >> Bummer. True or false? Audience,

Bernardet from YouTube, can you please explain the importance of humic and fulvic processes when it comes to enriching our planting soil? Speaking of soils, >> so when you deal with um microbes, probiotic, the microbiome, and then prebiotic, which has to do with fiber, you also have other factors involved in the microbiome, humic acid, fulvic acid, which can greatly support the environment that these microbes live in. And people swear by them and they love them. It's it's a great way to add additional factors to what I like um to focus on is change your environment. So if the environment I mean check this out they have they found that you can actually change your microbes by consuming dead microbes sterilized microbes because obviously there's something there that will help to change the environment. Same thing with yogurt.

Most yogurt don't those microbes never really end up alive through the stomach but it does change the environment by uh lactic acid. So, these other compounds, we just mentioned them, are also beneficial for your gut. Uh, but they really mainly support the microbiome. And since we're on the topic of environments, this is my new book that's coming out in two weeks, you can pre-order it at Amazon, but change your environments. I think you're going to really, really like this because it's the best way to diagnose any health problem. looking at

your environment and then comparing it to what our ancestors environment and you can quickly see what specific environment is the problem and then what to do about it to fix it and that way you don't have to rely on willpower and discipline because you are setting up your environment so you can actually get healthy. >> Well, I'm worried to show that to Laura. She'll probably leave me when she reads that. So, um enough of that. Yeah, I know. Marilyn from Facebook,

what are your thoughts on the benefits of betane hydrochloride? >> I like it. I think it's one of the um no-brainer quick remedies for especially for anything that even gets close to low stomach acid or weaker stomach acid, which is very common as we get older. So, indigestion, hands down the best thing. You eat something and it just sits there, doesn't doesn't break down.

Oh my gosh, you need betane hydrochloride. Uh gas, bloating, acid reflux, gird, heartburn, all those uh conditions would probably benefit from getting the uh betane hydrochloride. >> Wonderful. Okay, audience, thank you so much for sticking with us, making our show great by participating in the last question and all of them. And it asked, "For most people, by the time you are thirsty, it's already too late. You're

already dehydrated." 55% of respondents say it's false. 45% say it's true. What do you think, Doc? >> So, Steve, do you actually know when you're hungry? Can you actually know

when you're hungry? >> Well, I mean, I don't know whether just force a habit and desire, dopamine, or whether I really am. I I don't think I've ever really been hungry. I'm I'm blessed, but I don't think I've ever really been hungry. >> So, have you I mean, even as a kid, you ever remember being hungry, having an appetite?

>> Yeah, I'm I I do. >> Okay. So, can you sense the cold when you walk outside? Can you tell if it's cold out? >> I can.

>> Yeah. Now, can you tell when you're thirsty or not? >> No, I I don't think so. Just a quick anecdote. I used to be in this little forced march thing, little fun thing to get in fitness. And I drank some Diet

Coke, you know, half of one of those on the thing. And then halfway through this rucks sack, I started to fall. And a guy took my stuff off, started giving me water and said a half a Diet Coke's not going to work. And he, by the way, which was former military, said, "You got to start hydrating the day before. You can't come out here and take a sip out of a hose and imagine it's going to help you." So that's my experience. So, if I

stuck you in a desert island without water, there'll probably be some point where you're going to get thirsty, right? >> Yeah. >> So, um the sensation, the perception that you have of thirst is a real thing. We do have it. Yes, we can ignore it. We

do get a lot of water uh uh from food for sure. Um but not everyone is dehydrated. Um, and so the this idea that we have to drink before we're thirsty, it's not really 100% valid. Now, do people need to drink more water? Maybe. But the

point is that um there is also a on the flip side another problem. When you drink water and especially with people pushing the water too much, it starts diluting electrolytes, especially salt. And if you definitely go on a low carb diet and you get rid of your glycogen and your electrolytes and you don't have enough salt and you drink more water without the salt, now you're in you're going to be more dehydrated. So in other words, water isn't necessarily the whole thing that hydrates people. Um it's the combination of electrolytes and liquid.

Um, but I do think that um, if we pay attention to our perceptions, we can know when we're thirsty or not. There isn't any data to show that you need water every hour or you need it in the early part of the day. Uh, I I think a good rule of thumb is to have at least two and a half uh, liters a day, but drink when you're thirsty. >> Yeah. Interesting thing. When I was a

teenager, I'd get up 3:00 a.m., go down to the refrigerator, and chug right out of the milk carton. Don't tell mom. really had an interesting wonderful sense of thirst. I don't have that

anymore. It's really true. I rarely kind of know. I don't get up in the middle of the night and chug anything. >> It's interesting too because our bodies will adapt uh where our bodies have been designed to go periods of time without water. We have all sorts of dehydration

protection. In fact, um there's even just like when you do intermittent fasting, like you you have a health improvements, um there's also intermittent uh dehydration which also can actually support um certain health properties or stimulate certain health properties. But I know there's someone listening right now that's literally going to put something on the comments and said, "Oh my gosh, that recommendation is just going to kill everyone because they're like been programmed. We must hydrate. The water bottling companies are are behind that. But out of all the things

we need to do, we need to drink gallons of water. Well, >> I don't know if that's 100% true, Steve. >> No, I I agree with you. I I really did like your urine color thing. If you're if you're, you know, peeing coffee out, something's dehydrated, but if it's not, then you get enough water.

>> Ex Exactly. Like the And this is what people say, well, the water needs to be your your urine has to be clear. No, it doesn't. It needs to be straw colored. >> Yeah, no kidding. Okay, how about Deeper

Still from YouTube? Given the choice to make one permanent, which would impact our circadian rhythms less, standard time or daylight savings time? Here's that argument again. >> I never even thought about it and I I don't think there's a big difference. I know there's a it's going to be an adaptation process. It throws people off, but um

I I don't really know. >> Yeah, that's a big question. That's all right. It's a a well-debated question. Adrianne from Facebook, is it better to consume chia seeds whole and soaked or ground? Make any difference?

Well, if you soak them, that probably be better because it'll gel up. Um, and um, but I don't know if you grind them, it's going to be better. As soon as you grind them, you expose it to air and you oxidize them. So, probably want to grind them and consume them immediately. >> All right. It sounds like she's trying

to be healthy. So, that's great. Uh uh Andress from Facebook is potassium bicarbonate a good option to take our daily dosage of potassium. I mean that's one form. There's potassium citrate uh is another form especially if you have kidney stones that might be a little bit better because people are deficient in citrates. So you can do

yeah you can do potassium bicarbonate that's that's fine. All right, let's go to USKX from YouTube. From watching your video on edema, if someone has lympade lympadeema, should they be taking citrine uh every day? >> There is a little bit of information on that that that could potentially help you, but really what's going to help you more is if you change your diet. And if you look at watch my video I released on that, I go into that heavily. So there are certain

supplements that can help you. Um, but that's probably not the absolute top of the list remedy. >> All right, very good. Let's go to Abdul uh Abdi from YouTube. I'm 17 and had a hip replacement. Boy, that's a young man

for that. Is it possible for me to continue Oh, to normally grow taller. So, I guess he might have a couple of inches left in him. >> It's definitely possible. Yeah. Uh defin um one thing that might

be beneficial is to support the pituitary with a product called pituiten. It's from standard process. And I remember when I was in clinic, I could be a coincidence, but I would certain children that should be growing a little taller would take that and they would I mean literally it could have been my might have been hallucinating, but they would just shoot right up. It's called pitu pituitroof and PMG stand process. >> Wow. Okay, let's go to more time. We got

some more time. Jean from YouTube, would you please make a video on nidto nidto? You know what it is? >> Nattokynise. >> Thank you. And here we go. Go. Bromelain

uh can impact uh long co >> NATO. It works um just like a statin, but um I would um now it doesn't. It's the red yeast works like a statin. The NATO kindness is an anti-coagul and so you don't want to take that if you're taking couadin. So um I think what I would do is um something like that you just have to be careful because you don't want to like thin the blood too much. Um but then

again it's a natural anti- clott. Um so it it's one of those things I think supervision would be helpful if you're going to start doing that. >> All right. Mama K from YouTube. What do you recommend to support carpal tunnel?

It's hard even to bend my fingers sometimes. Ouch. >> B6 has been known to help carpal tunnel. So, you might want to take some more B6, but make sure you take the P5P version, not the the synthetic version. You want the active form because if you take the synthetic version, it'll block the active version sometimes and create a problem.

>> All right. So, uh let's all watch for Dr. Berg's great new book. Why don't you hold that up again? It's going to be on Amazon in a couple of weeks. Is that

correct? So, >> it's on Amazon right now. You can pre-order it, but it's change your environments with an S. Uh I walk people through each environment. There's nine different environments and uh step by step of what you need to do. But it's

actually um it's a great uh new thing. It's it's it's I kind of combined um ancestral mismatch which is a lot of research with practical things that you should be doing for your environments. Now, I right now, Steve, am doing almost everything in this book and uh it's working because I wanted to really um make sure all my habits, my environments are just optimized. And so, I want to be like the um the poster child uh to be able to show people that yes, it's therapeutic because there's this like even the grocery store, we we're under this illusion that we have choice. like 30,000 items in the grocery store. No, you don't. It's actually most

of them are like three ingredients. Sugar, starches, and seed oils. So, corn, wheat, and soy. So, we really um don't have much choice. And you walk through there and it's a landmine because everything from the music to the smell to where things are positioned setting you up to uh buy the wrong foods. And so this is

about changing your environments um to the point where it puts you back in control over all of these things that you're not in control of, including this right here. It's called the cell phone. >> Interesting. Okay. Any words you can give us to guide us through the week until next Friday's show? have a

wonderful weekend and uh go out for a long hike this weekend and uh up hills down hills without your cell phone looking at things and uh I will see you next week. Have a good one.