---
video_title: "The Dr. Berg Show LIVE - August 21, 2026"
video_id: ZtQAGIXDdy8
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZtQAGIXDdy8
video_date: 2026-08-21
video_description: |
  When it comes to your health, most people try to fix everything at once. But there are 10 biological signals that control how you feel every day, and only 1 of them matters most to your body.
  
  Take my free 2-minute quiz and discover which signal YOU need to fix first: https://www.drberg.com/health-lever-quiz?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=may_26_live_show&utm_content=description
  
  Talk to Dr. Berg LIVE ➜ ➜ https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  To be considered, click on the link below to fill out the application! If you’d like to join next week’s show, make sure you fill out the application by Tuesday night, the week of the live show. 
  
  Fill this out to be a part of the LIVE show! — https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  Participants will be selected on Wednesdays, and an invitation with the unique link to join the show will be sent out on Thursday afternoon before the Friday Live Show.
  
  5:36 What’s the best way to slow down or reverse cataracts? 
  7:05 What’s the best way to address obsessive behavior in an autistic teen?
  8:43 What lifestyle changes would you recommend for an 85-year-old woman who’s had colon cancer, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and gallbladder removal? 
  10:02 What should a woman in her 70s do about osteoporosis?
  11:52 Quiz question #1
  12:06 What is the best approach for dealing with small intestinal fungal overgrowth?
  14:10 What would you do if you were diagnosed with mycobacterium avium complex?
  20:24 Quiz answer #1
  21:42 Quiz question #2 
  21:55 What’s the best way to identify SIBO symptoms? 
  22:34 What’s the best way to lower LDL and total cholesterol?
  23:24 What is your opinion on the NMN protocol? 
  25:51 Quiz answer #2
  27:00 What is the best way to deal with severe asthma? 
  28:11 What tips do you have for staying active after retirement? 
  29:19 How much protein do I need? 
  30:20 What causes dry skin and cracked lips on keto? 
  30:39 Are acidic foods with an alkaline ash good for preventing parasites?
  31:46 Can children with autism benefit from vitamin B1? 
  32:08 Can ox bile help someone with low stomach acid and thick bile?
  32:45 What can help with bone spurs? 
  33:50 Quiz question #3
  34:02 What is the best solution for elevated liver enzymes? 
  34:47 Can a borax and baking soda bath support the lymphatic system?
  35:43 What could cause pressure, redness, and shaking in the hands after moderate exercise? 
  36:46 How can I avoid the urge to drink alcohol? How can I remove visceral fat after quitting alcohol? 
  39:02 Quiz answer #3 
  40:56 What’s the best way to lower blood pressure? 
  43:21 Quiz question #4
  43:35 What’s the best way to transition a child to a healthy keto diet? 
  44:40 What’s the best way to transition residents of a senior home to a healthy keto diet?
  46:23 What supplements would you suggest for someone with pelvic lymphagomas who is also on dialysis? 
  48:50 Quiz answer #4 
  50:25 Quiz question #5
  50:39 Could I still have high cortisol levels with only one adrenal gland? 
  52:38 What do you recommend for someone diagnosed with early onset Parkinson’s? 
  53:58 Quiz answer #5
  55:07 Why would my fingertips prune up even if they haven’t been near water?
  55:27 Can keto cause gout in my wrist? 
  56:30 Can a wet cough after eating indicate poor bile production? 
  58:16 Can I consume clove on an empty stomach or will it spike cortisol/blood sugar? 
  58:48 Can I take vitamin D3, K2, magnesium glycinate, B12, and B1 all at the same time? 
  59:00 How can I naturally get rid of psoriasis of the scalp? 
  59:47 If you take clove, black walnut, and wormwood to eradicate toxins, should you also take charcoal? 
  1:00:40 Please share your thoughts about fruit sugars. 
  1:01:58 What advice do you have for someone with pulsatile tinnitus?
  1:03:10 What do you recommend for dry eyes? 
  1:03:40 What’s the best way to distinguish IBS from SIBO based on symptoms? 
  1:05:18 What’s the best way to address ulcerative colitis? 
  Thanks for watching!
  
  Disclaimer: Dr. Eric Berg D.C. received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
---
[music]

Welcome back uh here with another show and today we're going to answer your questions as fast as possible because there's a lot of people. Just realize we're not going to diagnose or claim to cure you. Check with your doctor before implementing any of the suggestions that we're about to share with you. Steve, over to you. Let's dive right in.

>> All right. Sounds terrific. Hello world audience. Thanks so much for joining us. We can't wait to hear all your terrific questions and let's get right to them.

Let's start off with uh Violeta from YouTube. What's the best way to slow down or reverse uh cataracts? Can you do that? >> So, I would do it primarily with diet. Um there is a remedy that you should know about. I did a video on this and it's

called acetal carnosine and there's drops. You got to search there. Like you probably are only going to find it on uh on Amazon for dogs because it works in dogs. But if you go off Amazon, you'll be able to find it. But um acetal carnosine is a good drops. But if you're consuming

healthy foods without sugar and junk food and things like that, that's the best way to preserve it. foods with a lot of um um whole foods without being refined will support it. There's there's a lot of uh natural compounds in our foods like even natural vitamin C and vitamin E that actually protect it, but you're getting a probably u a lot of oxidative stress and damage from either, you know, could be refined seed oils or junk foods in the past. Um, but yeah, you want to just follow what I share and also do periodic prolonged fasting to beef up the antioxidant networks to protect um your eyes. >> All right, here's a tough one for a lot of folks around the world. AR20 from

YouTube, I desperately need advice on how to address obsessive behavior in a 15-year-old boy that's on the autism spectrum. Uh, what can we do for folks like that? You want to support um everything to do with the brain with with a combination of things. The diet [clears throat] is number one. You start you have to start eating real food, sufficient amounts of protein, foods high in the B, vitamin B1. I would

highly recommend taking supplements uh B natural B1, magnesium glycinate, and trace minerals to support the brain, but it doesn't work unless the diet is good. uh usually uh especially children with autism their their diet needs to be worked on. So probably the most important thing is getting rid of any junk out of your house so that way it's not there. So um there's no other option than just what you have in there which should be healthy. Start to turn that around. It's like not emphasized at all.

The diet is not emphasized in autism unfortunately but um you can change things around. There is I would also order probably subscription service you could order um silica water that tends to be very good for autism especially if there's um uh aluminum involved which there's some data that shows that it is. So silica water over a period of months can help uh chelate or bind and pull that out. That would be another powerful thing I would recommend. All right, very good. Glenda, one of our friends from

YouTube, she's 85. Uh, she has a history of colon cancer three times, non-hodkins lymphoma, um, you know, no gallbladder and so on. But she's a lot of high-risisk lady. Is there any sort of lifestyle change she might uh undertake that maybe make her uh possibility of staying healthy in the future more likely? Non-hodkkins lymphoma is definitely correlated with more glyphosate. So you

need to do organic foods. Um make sure you don't have, you know, that Roundup ready in any environmental exposure anywhere. So you be good to probably test yourself on that. But I would I would do periodic uh prolong fasting. I would do one meal a day. And I would do

um um research all my videos on cancer just so you can start to um design your life around um doing everything to prevent it. Stay as super healthy as possible. That's the way to counter it because unfortunately uh this cancer tends to uh keep coming back over and over again. So you have to keep your immune system super super healthy and actively and aggressively uh prevent it. Uh, don't wait for it to happen, but do things to counter it. And

I have a lot of videos on this. >> Excellent. Okay, let's go to King Pleasant is their handle from YouTube. Aside from D3 and K2, what should a woman in her 70s do with osteopherosis or be doing to help support that issue? Is there calcium she should take or, you know, if so, what would be the best thing?

>> I would there there's there's I would not take calcium carbonate. are certain types of calcium that are more bone building type of calcium. So, there's even a supplement that actually is bone itself. I would highly recommend that. Get your calcium from taking bone supplements. Of course, you don't have

to chew the bone. It's already ground down. But also, magnesium is super important in bone. Trace minerals are important. High quality uh protein, collagen, super important in bone. All

of those things with weightbearing exercises are going to be what you need to do. I there's also data that shows that those uh vi um standing on the vibration plates are very beneficial to counter osteoporosis. But also realize uh this um not too long ago they changed the normals for osteoporosis and instantly put millions of people in the state of having osteopenia or osteoporosis just by changing what normal is. And I don't know if I trust that 100%. So some people that are suddenly diagnosed uh might maybe might not actually be having that condition.

That's I'm just not convinced that uh um those values are correct. But still um especially as you get past menopause, you need to be doing um you know slowly work into it but doing uh weightbearing exercises. U I would highly recommend that. >> All right. Very good. Let's go to our

first quiz question of the day which is for you to ask sir. >> True or false? Tatka cannot help you digest fat. >> Oh, that sounds very sad. Okay, let's go to Gary from Rumble. What are your

thoughts about the approach for SFO, which is small intestinal fungal overgrowth? I knew that, of course, or maybe it's because Terry typed it out. Small intestinal fungal overgrowth. I I would do the same thing that you would do for small intestinal um bacterial overgrowth, which is um do stop snacking. Okay? You

have to do intermittent fasting. I would do one meal a day because that will give your system a chance to really reset. Realize there's microbes that are growing or in the wrong place. fungus is overgrowing in the small intestine. That's you don't want that there because it's gonna it's going to rob and steal and compete for your your nutrition, but you can starve it by doing fasting and your cells can easily handle it, but they can't. Uh, one food that you have

to completely eliminate down to zero is something called what's that called? Um, sugar. Uh, sugar and starches. Bread, pasta, cereal, crackers, biscuits. Because that that's what they live on.

So if you just starve them, they will die. Um the other thing I would take is I would take uh taka on an empty stomach twice a day. That bile salt is antibacterial. So, I think there could be um with a lot of people a problem with a lack of bile because the bile is supposed to be released in the small intestine and then travel all through the small intestine down to the bottom part and get recycled just to make sure that those microbes can't grow in that environment. So, other than that, watch my videos on it, but it's going to be the same protocol as um the small intestinal bacteria overgrowth.

>> All right, very good. Boy, we have a packed show today with a full greenhouse, all highly intelligent uh contributors. And so I'm going to bring up our first one who is Gina and she's calling from I forget where. Where you calling from, Gina? >> Alurn, Alabama.

>> Congratulations. Go ahead with your one question for Dr. Berg, please. >> Okay, Dr. Um, I have recently in the past few weeks been diagnosed with mcoacterium AVM complex.

So, um, it's really thrown me for a loop because, uh, I from what I've read um, in the traditional medical field, um, the three antibiotics or protocol is what I'm looking at. Um, I have a broncoscopy scheduled for next week and so I just want to go into that um with knowledge of how I can fight this disease without having to do the antibiotics. My question to you is, >> yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. >> If it were you or your wife, what would you do? What what are the

symptoms that you're experiencing from this? >> Unfortunately, I have no symptoms and it was very random that I even found out that I had nodules in my lungs. Um I only mild symptoms for about two years from an upper respiratory infection that I had in January of 24. and I couldn't really shake the the side effects of um the um nasal and so you know I was contributing that to a cough that I've had for a couple of years now but other than that I have zero symptoms but I have a very progressed it's very progressed like 10 millimeters and above size nodules in both lungs. So, so, so this is my answer because um uh you know one of these things um this is a hard question for me to give you advice especially I can't give you medical advice but I'm just going to tell you where to educate yourself on because um I there's so many people out there for example that has been oh you go to the doctor and you're diagnosed with um you have this is different H pylori okay so we need to treat it antibiotics immediately like no symptoms, nothing. You're diagnosed. Um

so um and then they get treated and then they have side effects, complications, blah blah blah. So um I'm always my question is um I would research like even like for that gentleman I I told him H. pylori 80% of the population has it. So um but it's not creating problems. So the point is um I would do research on this um alternatively but the problem you're going to run into when you do research even with AI is it's going to look at randomized control trials which there's probably no alternatives that have rand randomized control trials. So I would look at ways

of building the immune system. Are there other ways to shrink the cyst? can we can you do high vitamin D and do go that route because unfortunately uh there's a filter on a lot of these search engines that will not let you find these alternatives which there's a lot of people trying things that actually work just have them in research but let's say you you you run into a dead end where you have to take these antibiotics well then I would uh highly recommend at the same time build up your um friendly bacteria like take microbes like probiotics at the exact same time during the time you're taking antibiotics so you can actually counter that because that's not going to add in any pathogenic effect. Um I'm very suspect of taking antibiotics in general because of what it does to your body and and the question you want to start asking is what's the side effect? Is this going to cure me? Is it going to come back? What

happens to my good bacteria? Um, why are these microbes creating these cysts? And I would just I think you need to go deeper into all these questions. And that's really all I can give you because I can't tell you what to what to do. I can just tell you where to educate yourself.

>> Can I tell you what I'm doing and what I Well, when I first found out that I had the cyst, okay, I'm thinking lung cancer. So immediately I went to your five diets that you had on the lung cancers. So I've I've been on all five of them for the past few weeks just because I wasn't real sure. But then last week it was um the pulomenologist said 90% sure it's not cancer but the the Mac disease. So um of course being on those diets has has been very beneficial for but then I started um I got the vitamin D protocol from you ordered your vitamin D now I uh started taking 10,000 um at that point in time um and of course I'm doing the magnesium but uh should I up the vitamin D? I think it

would be really good. There's only four doctors in the United States that have been trained by Dr. Cornbre. I would uh find one of them, work with them remotely to help you uh get the dosage right because you probably need a lot more, but they can actually do the blood test or set up the blood test to be able to make sure that you're you're not having problems with this. And there's a lot of other things part as a part of that they can monitor to make sure you do it correctly.

>> All right, Gina, thank you so much for that um that question. We're all pulling for you and uh you know hope you find great relief from that and Gina this next question is for you too if you were watching and it asked of the you and the audience true false tka cannot help you digest fat. 98% of respondents say that's false and 2% say yeah bummer can't do it. What's fascinating about tucka tucka is very very different than regular bile salts. It's mostly water soluble. It's not fat

soluble, which means it's not something that's going to help you digest fats at all. Interesting, isn't it? So, um you wouldn't want to take that after a meal to help your your uh your fat digestion because it's not going to work. What it is good for is everything else. It can actually go systemically through the entire body, across the bloodb brain barrier, go into your eyes. It can go

into your liver. It goes into the joints. Uh it actually does help you thin the bile to prevent stones and in your bile ducts. Um so there's a lot of cool benefits and I think you should find that recent video I did on the difference between oxile and tudka. If you haven't seen that, watch that because it's super important uh related to everyone's health. And I

mean, the more I studied, I'm like, "Wow, more people need to know about this." >> All right, very good. Let's go with more people need to know about question number two. And there it is. Dr. Berg,

>> true or false? Sleep apnea can put you at risk for a stroke. >> Ouch. All right, let's go to Riku from Facebook. What's the best way to distinguish from SIBO based symptoms?

Um, what do you think? >> So, when you have small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, uh, you're going to get bloating. That's the biggest symptom right after eating. Why? Because you got microbes in your small intestine and they're going to create fermentation. So, you're going to feel

pregnant all the time when you eat and then you feel better when you don't eat. And also, you're going to start showing signs of nutritional deficiencies eventually. And uh because you have the microbes competing for your nutrients, they're going to eat it and not give it to you. >> All right, very good. Let's see. Let's

go to Margot, I think, from Facebook. What's the best way to lower LDLs and total cholesterol? Omega-3 fish oils don't seem to be helping. That's because uh the single biggest factor um in LDL is consuming excessive refined carbohydrates. So you must lower that because the excess of that turns into triglycerides and then that converts into a couple other things that ends up high LDL, the bad kind. So, yeah, you want to just cut

down um refined sugars and starches. >> All right, very good. Let's go to our next guest. We got four of them today, folks. And this nice gentleman's named Eric. And Eric, I think you got some

background noise. If you can >> I don't know if that's something going on. >> Go ahead for Dr. B. >> Hi, Dr. Burke. Um, I've been hearing a

lot about on on social media and various outlets uh regarding a product called NMN, how it uh boosts NAD on a cellular level and has all kinds of great benefits like anti-aging, uh slows down the aging process, uh boosts your recovery from from ri rigorous exercise, better sleep, and overall mitochondria health. And um so just obviously I value your knowledge and your opinion and um would just like to get your take on on this product. >> Yeah, good question. There's a lot of different new products coming out that are versions of typical just B3 NASIN and that's one of them. And in fact um um one one of the drug companies just bought the rights to for like I don't know how many millions of dollars and they didn't they found the research was kind of iffy. So all of these new fancy

uh versions of nascin B3 uh may increase the absorption a little bit but I don't think they're worth the excess expense. I think you can get very regular niacsin pills that create the flush and get the benefits and there's some massive benefits um for increasing your HDL and all sorts of things. Uh but the mitochondria um needs [clears throat] these various co-actors to allow things to to create ATP. uh B3 is one of them, nasin, that's the one I um that you're you're asking about, but also B2 and uh co-enzyme Q10 and magnesium and copper, but I I do know uh as people get older, um B3 becomes more more important. So, I would just take like a you know, if you don't mind the flush, I would take maybe um a 500 milligram niacin each day. I

think that will give you everything you need to build keep your NAD uh optimized. Um if you don't like the flush, start off with 50 and then work up to 500. And some people are comfortable at 250. >> Great. Thank you.

>> Great. [clears throat] Thanks so much, Eric. Appreciate you taking your time for making the show better. Let's uh and Eric, once again for you, why don't we get you back on the questions with the rest of the audience. In quiz question number two asked of you and others, true false, sleep apnea can put you at risk of a stroke. And in 95% of respondents

say it's true, that's very scary. 5% said no, you're just fine. Who's right? >> There's some interesting hardcore data that shows that it does increase risk of heart attack and stroke, sleep apnea. So there's something about not getting enough of oxygen that's not good for you, especially poor sleep. Poor sleep

is devastating. So, uh, I'm going to be releasing a video on sleep apnnea, um, just showing you exercises to the back of your throat, um, the muscles around the tongue can dramatically open up your airways to the point where you cannot have sleep apnea anymore. And um, also one of those exercises involving helping people uh, get rid of snoring. If you if you have if you know anyone like that that's sleeping in your bed, have them do the exercise because I know it's probably not you. >> Okay, let's go to um handles, excuse me.

Here we go. Debbie from Facebook, can you please discuss how to handle severe asthma and how to to uh support it in a hot dusty climate? Boy, there's a lot of that going around the country now. >> Having sufficient exposure to sunlight is super super important for asthma. In fact, you'll probably notice you it goes goes away. Uh and then also a sufficient

amount of vitamin D. Um you that will also be beneficial to reduce the risk. But don't forget about magnesium. Um nose breathing also has been known to help um decrease uh asthma because you know it creates this stress response and you actually even though the nose might feel like you're getting less air that CO2 that you're getting that restriction allows more oxygen to really get deeper into the cells. So nose breathing gives you more oxygen even though it feels like you're getting less and that will take the stress off the lungs.

>> All right. Very good. Dr. Dr. Burke, are you support or are you ready for the uh mailbag?

>> Yes. >> Okay. And by the way, just briefly, if you folks want to also join in that, it's on our Facebook page, Dr. Burke's Facebook page, and you can ask these questions. We'll sort through them and hopefully get yours on the air with the rest of them. Go.

>> Number number one, I retired July. Uh any tips on staying active um to change um my mental and physical state? Yeah. Um here's the thing. as you get older, um, longevity becomes more important. And, uh, I mean, I would

follow in what I'm doing. I'm I'm like active. I'm like so active right now and doing so many types of, um, walking, hiking, exercising, weight training, eating healthy. Uh, I'm going to be releasing a book in about a week, change your environments. you should get that book and read it because um this is about changing your environments and optimizing your lifestyle to the point where you can uh uh live a long healthy life and uh have everything in there. Um

but uh the the the big thing the takeaway is going to be you want to get healthier as you get older to build up a health reserve that gives you the buffer to counter all the things that are going to be happening as you get older. Okay. Number two, uh there's conflicting data on how much protein do I need? I'm a 55year-old female. You can't you can't give someone the exact amount that they need based on age, height. It's impossible because you

have too many variables. You have your ability to digest, you have your activity level, and no one really knows exactly. So, I I would highly recommend playing around with different amounts until you hit the ideal amount of protein. For some people, you know, you just have to go on how you feel and and like when you eat protein, like, okay, I had enough, you know, and I don't feel good if I have too much. And other people need to they're not having enough because they're feeling weak. So, as you

get older, especially female, the requirement does go up, but just play around with uh the amounts. It could be, you know, 6 ounces, could be eight ounces. If you're doing one meal a day, it could be more than that, but I would highly recommend animal protein. um because that's the highest quality. Number three, doing keto, lost 70 pounds, but now I have cracked lips and I'm dry. Um typically that could be

vitamin A deficiency. So egg, more egg yolks, more omega-3 fatty acids. Avoid seed oils. Even B vitamin deficiency can create crack lips. Number four, do you consider um acid foods that leave an alkaline ash? So they're talking about

like lemons, limes, citrate that then you eat eat it, it's acid, but then it turns alkaline in the body. Uh to be a good thing with an alkaline diet, preventing parasites. I wouldn't go on an alkaline diet. I would just eat healthy and not worry about eating acids or alkaline foods because there's no real data that shows that you can dramatically alter your pH by just I'm just now going to start eating more acids because the body is constantly buffering and things like that. Just eat healthy. Your body will end up whatever

pH it needs. There's different tissues in the body that have different pHes. You have the blood is slightly alkaline, very slightly. You have the stomach, super acid, large intestine, acid, small intestine, alkaline. So, would you want to alkalize the entire body? Um, I

wouldn't use that as your way of getting rid of parasites. I think wormwood extract, uh, black walnut halls would be best for getting rid of parasites. And then just eat healthy. Number five, could kids with with autism benefit from B1? Massively. I would highly recommend

that. B1 is um everything to do with brain and ner nerve um and also with autism. Silica water on a regular basis for probably a year would be very beneficial. Number six, struggling um with uh low stomach acid, thick bile, should I take ox bile to or and what's going to happen to my stomach acid? Yes, it is true that um ox bile is alkaline.

So that can neutralize the stomach acid. So you may want to start out with betane hydrochloride, acidify the stomach and see if that doesn't fix everything because if you have enough stomach acid that will actually tell your liver to make more bile. So and if that doesn't work then you just take one bile or ox bile right after you eat. And and last question, any any thought on um anything that works on bone spurs, making bone spurs go away? That's a tough one. Um I don't know. I think

you're going to have to find out. You know, sometimes people develop stones. I'm I'm sorry. Spurs just if it's in your heel just because you're walking a certain way and it's pulling on the tendon more or in your back because you you haven't um you're in a certain posture because it's it's trying to stabilize things. So, I would highly recommend doing full range of motion exercises because when you have a spur, especially if it's in in the spine, you're going to avoid going in that direction and then people and then it gets worse. So, you want to slowly start

to go into the motion where you can't go into to get that full range as a way to get the body to naturally get rid of the spurring. Um, that's it, Steve. >> All right. Well, that was wonderful. We all learned a lot from that. Let's go to

uh quiz question number three for you to ask, sir. >> Regarding migraine headaches, what is the deeper real cause of all migraines? Boy, a lot of people would like to know that. Is Moralda from YouTube? What can we do for higher liver enzymes? She

says, "Help." >> Well, obviously you got to look at what what's causing them. Are you drinking every night? I don't know. Are you eating really bad foods? Uh are you

eating junk foods? Look at that. Um and find the root cause versus just to try to treat it. There's something going on with liver and uh something causing it. So, you have to kind of go into the history and when did it start, what did you do just just before that. And as far

as liver remedies, um NAC is a really good one. Milk thistle is another good one. Uh eating cruciferous is another way to help the liver. >> All right, very good. Let's go to Bernardet from YouTube. Is it safe to

add borax and good-grade baking soda to your bath to help kickstart the lymph system? Well, I love baths, but what about all the other stuff? >> You know, um when you start combining different uh chemicals um together, especially in a bath, um I I would just double check and make sure there's no excess gas produced from that that can be toxic. I don't I don't know, but there are certain combinations of uh things that could create a chemical reaction. So, just do your research, see if there's any problem with that. I don't I know u

baking soda has certain um benefits. I do know that uh magnesium um Epsom salts has certain benefits, but when you're starting to add diff different things together, I don't have all that figured out, so just do your research on that. >> All right, very good. Let's go to BRLP from Rumble. My 21-year-old daughter gets pressure, redness, and shaking in her hands after mile running and dancing exercises. any ideas what could be

causing that reaction? >> Yeah, I'd probably have to get more data on that, but if it looks like there's excessive vasoddilation on things from physical activity, it could be an autonomic nervous system problem. So, research in that area a lot of times um that can be improved with more high doses of vitamin B1. The same thing with like a condition called POTS where people will stand up and they get really dizzy or they just like do a little little bit of climbing stairs and they break out and they'll sweat. That's an autonomic nervous system thing. Uh, and

I think the antidote could involve taking more [clears throat] B1, but again, I'm not making any claims. >> All right, very good. Well, good luck with that. I hope that works out. Let's go to our next guest. Nice fellow Dwayne

from uh Dallas. And there he is with one question for you, Dr. Bur. Go ahead, Dwayne. >> Well, good to speak with you, Dr. Berg.

Um, I have a question that, um, on a topic I don't hear you talk about very much, but, um, I was a daily drinker for over 20 years, and, um, I've I've been, uh, completely off alcohol for over three weeks now. I think I'm doing well. Um, but what what do I need to uh know about to to avoid the um the urges plus um how would I get rid of the uh all the visceral fat and stuff trim? >> Yeah. So, there's a couple really good points there. I did a video a couple

videos on addictions that you should watch because there's some practical simple things you can do if you catch yourself like craving and things like that. But I think the most important thing is to make sure your environment is uh is changed in a way that there's nothing available for you during times of stress, you know, decrease sleep or cravings. So that way you're adding friction. Don't make it available like you can't find you'd have to drive somewhere to try to get get some alcohol. Um, also I think it's going to be really important to do um exactly the diet that I recommend low carb, maybe even carnivore if it's simple, but low carb with intermittent fasting because that's going to give your brain so many ketones that you're going to be able to have more uh resistance and tolerance and uh more mental clarity and then also get rid of all that belly fat and support the liver as well. Um, so but definitely start

with those videos I've done because there are a whole bunch of things that you should be taking now too to get your body back in balance. So those um addictions, unfortunately um our environment has been so designed for addictions. It's like for food, alcohol, everything. So this is why the new book I'm releasing, change your environments. >> All right. Very good, Dwayne.

um pulling for you. It sounds like a great start. Uh and let's see. Let's go to quiz question number three and we're going to answer this thing. And it asked of our audience regarding regarding migraine headaches. What is the real

cause? Uh and the audience had all sorts of opinions. 35% say that it's a magnesium deficiency. 20% say it's a potassium deficiency. 20% say it's sodium deficiency. 15% say it's

dehydration. And 10% say it's hormonal changes or fluctuations. Terry, thank you for that huge list. That's a lot of research from the audience and for your fingers to type. What do you >> I wonder I wonder, Steve, did I just release that video on this because boy, everyone's correct, but there's something a little bit deeper which actually then allows these answers to be correct. Um the real deeper cause is a

what's very unique about migraine sufferers is they have a problem with making energy in the brain cells yet the demand is so high in the brain. So we have this energy imbalance and magnesium is key in the uh production of energy and also sodium and potassium are key in the production of energy. you have sodium potassium pumps. So, right there, like even if you drink more water and you dilute your sodium and potassium, uh there's a higher risk of getting migraines. So, uh in the video that I I apparently must have released it already, um magnesium is going to be important, potassium, and more sea salt.

There's also, just as a side note, a wonderful herb that I stumbled on that has hardcore research on migraines. It's called butter burr um herb. Check it out if you have migraines. It might be something that can help. >> Apparently, somebody's been watching your videos. That's terrific. All right,

let's move on to uh Kard from YouTube. Thanks for helping me lower my blood sugar. Now, what advice would you share to support lower blood pressure? It's currently 140 over 84. Is is that a bad blood pressure?

>> So, when you look at blood pressure, the body is usually compensating by increasing more pressure to penetrate deeper into the tissues to get more oxygen. And so, what typically people do is try to lower the blood sugar I'm the blood pressure. and then you're you think you're solving the problem, but you you're just solving the compensation. So, I would I would kind of want to do a history on like why is your blood pressure high? Do you have a history of damaging the blood vessels that creating this problem in the first place? Which would be high carb, refined

carbs damage the inside of the vessels. What allows the arteries to be very very u vasoddilated and relaxed is uh nitric oxide. Nitric oxide as we age it does go down but the biggest killer of that is too much glucose flowing through that those blood vessels. It'll just wipe out the nitric oxide. So how do you get that back? Getting the diet low carb. Okay.

Doing a lot of exercise. Exercise is hands down the most potent way of increasing nitric oxide weight training primarily and resistance training with effort. So that means doing a workout to a point of failure. So we create this compensation and this increase in nitric oxide. The food that has the most nitric oxide would be arugula.

Uh and then you can also do cacao and then um um beet beetroot uh juice powder also has it. But nitric oxide is a gas that is uh is made on demand through the body and I'm I'm going to create another u another video on this and I'll release it soon. But um your microbes do make it. And this is why like mouthwash really kills off the microbes that help you make nitric oxide uh as one one thing. But I I list a bunch of other things. But anyway, I don't I don't mean

to give you a a seminar right now, but that's that's all I'm going to say, Steve. >> Wow. That's what we're here for. Here is a question rather than a seminar. Go ahead, sir.

>> What gets depleted when someone takes a statin? Boy, statins don't have a very high um opinion rating, I think, overall. But anyway, I can't wait to hear that. T from YouTube. What's the best way to transition children to a healthy keto diet?

>> I think the best way is to teach them, get them involved in making recipes that are uh keto junk foods like um you can do pizza, you can do uh crackers, and I have an entire channel on this. uh start getting them to help make these these foods while you talk about and educate them about sugar and stuff like that and then or breads and stuff like that. So start making it and then slowly create the substitutions and then get to a point where there is no junk food in your house anymore. And then when they search for it, they're like, "Mom, I can't find this. Oh, sorry. We don't have any. Eat what we

have." and then that way it's not there for them to uh give into. So it's really don't have it in the house and then with your next child don't give them access to it when they're very young so that way they don't even know about junk food when they get older. >> All right, very good. Let's go to Mary Moore from YouTube. What are your

recommendations for adapt adop excuse me adapting residents of a senior home to healthy keto? Here we go with keto again and changing them over from a lifetime of eating carbs in hospitals and nursing homes. I don't think they they have canned vegetables and so on. >> It's called institutional foods, hospitals, nursing homes, military, but they're changing that right now hopefully. Um but uh yeah, there's um there's a gentleman I know has assisted living homes in Arizona that I did a video on and they're they're like it's amazing. Like there's people in hospice

that go there that all of a sudden they they go home, they're getting healthy, uh they're coming off some of their medications, they're getting back their mental state because they're finally feeding the brain versus a typical home where they just are literally giving you snacks every hour and a half and because it's all part of a standard of care. So, um, if you if it's like the environment, I don't know, it's really hard if that's all the food they have, but I would highly recommend going um keto or carnivore if you're in that state because in his home, the first week when these people come in, they're like, "Where's my there's no food. I can't because they're so used to these chips and stuff like that." And then they start to get used to it and they start feeling better. So, um, I'll have to put the link on that video down below for that person who is searching for someone for a home.

>> Okay, very good. Let's go to our final wonderful, intelligent guest, and this is Jacone Har uh, Harrison, I think. Go ahead with your one question, dear. Oops, I think your audio is muted. Go ahead and get your mic on, please.

>> Sorry. Hi, Dr. Berg. >> Hello. What would you suggest uh or what supplements rather would you suggest for someone with pelvic lymphus?

I think I pronounced that right who is also on diialysis. >> Pelvic lymph lympadeema or lympha what? >> Lymphatus. I think that's pel fat around the pelvis. >> Okay. Fat around the pelvis.

>> Um and also kidney failure. Right. >> Yeah. And that's in that and situation you got to work with the doc because if it's a stage five uh then they can't really uh just take the regular nutrients because it could be uh a problem because the kidney is damaged. But let's say it's a grade grade grade two or three then they can it's actually okay. I I think um and this is again

check with the doctor before this but potassium um is only dangerous to the kidney for advanced kidney disease but but it's actually preventative it supports the kidney having enough potassium having enough nutrients vitamin D especially because uh that last stage of conversion of vitamin D to the active form requires a good kidney so if you don't have a good kidney then some of these patients need to consume um a version of vitamin that's already in the active form, but that has to be monitored. So, magnesium, I think, could be really, really important for those people. Um, trace minerals, very important. Going low carb, especially if there's fat in the pelvis, super important. So, I don't see any problem with doing the ketogenic diet. Why? Because out of all of the

parts of the kidney, the nefron actually uses ketones as its primary fuel. It doesn't like glucose. Yet, people are feeding it glucose all day long and that's what destroys the kidney. So, believe it or not, the kidney loves ketones. Thus, the low carb diet.

>> Chone, thank you for that call. We're all pulling for you as usual. That's why we're all here to hear these interesting uh conditions. And let's go to quiz question number four, which asked of our great audience, what gets depleted when someone is on statins? 85% of respondents say it's CoQ10, 10% say it's vitamin B12, and 5% say it's essential minerals. How smart is the audience

today, doctor? >> They're pretty smart because it is co-enzyme Q10. It blocks co-enzyme Q10. So, um, this is why if someone is on a statin, they better be taking co-enzyme Q10. Why? Because that's going to be

necessary for your heart to work. Um, you need it for the mitochondria and to make energy. So, here you are taking a statin to help the heart while it's depleting you of a key nutrient that helps the heart. And uh unfortunately even in the American Heart Association uh the also the American College of Cardiac uh cardiology they don't even recommend it. I mean I'm like why?

That's crazy. Uh so there therefore they're operating off of outdated information and a person is going to start developing muscle problems with statins if they're not uh if they're deficient in co co-enzyme Q10 and then creating all sorts of fatigue and um all sorts of issues and uh when you when you take the co-enq Q10 at least for that can actually satisfy that deficiency and help a person. >> All right. Very good. Well, I love it when we have true false questions because I can just roll the dice and have a 50% chance of looking absolutely brilliant, but I think our audience is more thoughtful for that. So, here's the

question. Last one for the day. >> True or false? Taking more potassium has been shown to decrease the risk of a stroke. >> What do you think, audience?

Educate us, please. Let's go to Mary Joe from Facebook. I have only one adrenal gland. Can I still have high cortisol levels? That's interesting, isn't it?

>> Well, if you have only one, it'll compensate. It'll get bigger. And uh there's a lot of people that do fine just with one, so you have an extra. Same thing with a kidney. It just gets bigger and you can compensate. Um, if

you when you measure cortisol, I highly recommend doing a saliva test and then measure it every like 3 hours through a 24-hour period because [clears throat] you want to catch what's happening. It's on a circadian rhythm. You want it at the very lowest at 2:00 in the middle of the night, 2:00 a.m. Okay.

And it should be the highest at 8:00 am. And that circadian wave is highly influenced by your blood sugars. So why would it be up? Why would it be high in the middle of the night? Probably because your blood sugars are low because you ate sugar the day before and your body's trying to raise that blood sugar up. Another name for cortisol is

glucocorticoid. So, it is a uh a glucose releasing hormone. >> Wow. Well, we hear all the bad things about it. Is it necessary? What What's

good about cortisol? If we got something that makes it, >> it's really beneficial because it's a thing that actually helps wake you up when you go out on the blue sky in the morning. Um, it wakes you up. It gets the circadian waves going. It It has survival benefits. It's the stress hormone that

helps you during times of stress. Without it, we wouldn't survive. So, it's not a bad thing. We just don't want too much of it. >> All right. Very good. Let's go to Ash

from YouTube. Any suggestions to support someone who has been diagnosed with early onset Parkinson's? How can you try to stay healthy? >> When you're dealing with Parkinson's, you're dealing with again a brain energy problem. So the the door that gives that neuron fuel is broken.

It even though there's fuel around, it's broken. There's a back door though that you can use if you know about it. It's a secret back door that will feed that neuron directly even though there's damage on the front door. And that uh fuel that feeds it is called uh ketones. Okay. So if you start taking ketones as

a supplement and also you go low carb to increase your ketones then um that potentially could support the neuron and help you. In addition, I would highly recommend uh eating nutrient-dense foods, high quality protein, the complete B vitamins, especially vitamin B3 and B2. Um, apparently those are the things that can uh been shown to actually support that mitochondria um to help get more energy into the brain cell. >> Very good. Let's go with our final question which asked true false. taking

more potassium has been shown to reduce reduce excuse me the risk of a stroke and a 100% of respondents say that's true. That's some confidence right there. Yes, potassium is fascinating. It actually helps keep your arteries flexible. Okay. It it's

involved in a sodium potassium pump in your nerves and your muscles. So it helps the transmission of nerve impulses and also in the in the muscles in your blood vessels too. So it's super important and uh the question is are you getting enough potassium? I think you should do an experiment. I think you should and you can do this probably with AI just type in all the foods you eat in one day and then say tell me roughly estimate how much potassium did I get?

If it's 48, if it's at least 4,700, then you're good to go. But you're probably gonna find it's going to be not even half that. So, you want to start beefing up your potassium levels. >> All right. Well, this is an interesting one. DM Michelle from Facebook. Why

would my fingertips prune up when they haven't been near any water? She could probably stick to glass with those things. >> I don't know. I just don't know. >> Wow, that's interesting. Well, D report

back in. I hope hope that's not a troublesome issue for you. Let's go to Porter from YouTube. I had to stop the keto diet because I was getting gout in my wrist. I never had it there before, only in my toe. Well, you had it. Uh,

could be the cause? >> It's highly unlikely. But I'm not saying you don't have it, but but what happens when you start keto? You get into ketosis. There is going to be a temporary spike in uric acid. Uric acid

is not all bad. It's a very powerful antioxidant, even more powerful than vitamin C in your blood. So, probably what's happening, you had this little spike of uric acid and then it hurt your joint. I think if you just push through it, that will go away um because that uric acid will go down. But there is definitely that spike, especially when you start it. And then there's other

things you can do as well to minimize the uric acid effect in this process. So you can watch my videos on that because I have quite a few. >> Wonderful. Okay. I like it when people really try to kind of dig down on health. That's what this show is all

about. And Vincent is one of them from Rumble. At the end of my meals, I often have a little fleg or a wet cough. Could that indicate poor bile production? Also, how do we know when we should take bile salts or betain hydrochloride or milk thistle? So, he's sort of all over

the place, but what that flim about? Usually not. Usually, it's something in the food that h you could be um it's kind of like either can create some more immune reaction. Could be dairy. It you can even be foods that um are increasing your histamines to a certain level.

There's a whole you can look into the do research on foods that could because you might have a a low tolerance to histamine. So then you're going to have to avoid certain fermented foods or else it creates more mucus. Yeah. So you can look that up. I'll have to do a video on that. Uh but typically um how do you

know if you need more hydrochloric acid? Probably the big clue is indigestion. Like food just sits there. Um especially protein, you can't digest it. Get gas.

that's indication you need more hydrochloric acid. And then also acid reflux, that's indication you need more acid in the stomach. Now, the bile thing, if your stool is light colored and it floats, definitely need more bile. If you have constipation, you need more bile. If you have a full sensation underneath the right rib cage or that refers maybe even to your upper shoulder, you probably need more bile salt. But they both work together.

hydrochloric acid, pine hydrochloride, and ox bile together can help you um because they a lot of times you could just be low stomach acid and that could be what's keeping your bile from being uh released or produced. >> Boy, complicated system. Mystic flow. >> Yeah, it is. >> Yeah. Mystic Flo from YouTube, can I eat

clothes on an empty stomach or will it interfere with my morning cortisol levels? See, she knew cortisol is good. >> Did she say clove? Yes. Cloves on an empty stomach.

>> Clove. >> Yeah. Like a clove you stick in an orange. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Don't worry about

that. That's not going to spike your blood sugars. Um, no. It's It's totally fine. >> Okay. Gulp them down, Mystic. Have fun

with that. Mo Moana from YouTube. Can I take D3, K2, Magnesium, glycinate, B12, and B1 all at the same time? That's a big handful of pills. >> Not a problem. I do it all the time.

>> Wonderful. Scoon from Rumble. How do I naturally get rid of psoriasis of the scalp? [snorts] >> So, there's a connection between um certain triggers like um grains and especially wheat that could be triggering it, especially there's a gut thing. Um also, there's a connection between autoimmune. So then more vitamin

D might help you greatly or even being out in the sun. Um, but then there's also another uh valid therapy using UVB uh lights and that's been shown to dramatically get rid of psoriasis. You just shoot a light on it. I like that approach. So you you can research those areas.

>> Very good. Good luck with that. Say Bellarosce or something. That's their handle from YouTube. If you take black walnut, wormwood, cloves to eradicate toxins. Should you also add some

charcoal? And what kind of charcoal, doc, if you recommend it, >> not the type that you're cooking in your barbecue in the backyard. Okay. Don't use that charcoal. Uh use it's called activated charcoal. You get it in

supplements, but that uh it works by greatly reducing toxicity in your body. Uh, also bentonite clay can help you. But activate activated charcoal is a great thing to have around the house, especially if there's any accidental poisoning because it's it helps neutralize poisons. Yes. So, um, keep it around the house just in case you need it, um, here and there.

>> All right, keep your supply up. Surrender from Facebook, please share your thoughts about fruit sugars. I think this is interesting. Are there any fruits that we should avoid altogether? >> Fruits tend to be really really high in sugar. Um I think you have to have a

pretty good flexible metabolic system to handle um a lot of fruit. I think kids can handle a lot more. Um I I would have it fruits as your dessert. Um yeah, because they've been hybrid to be super high in sugar. Uh especially like pineapple and um uh even some of these uh honey crisp apples like versus you know apples used to be more like indigenous kind of sour and not that sweet. Even like indigenous uh pears are

like not that sweet and even peaches are certain are not that sweet but they've been bred for more sugar which gives you more fructose. Um, but again, it's different than drinking your high fructose corn syrup. It's a lot better because it has the fire fiber and the phytonutrients in there. Um, I think the safer bet for most people because they have they've overdone it with sugar is to do more berries. >> All right, very good. Here's um one that

bugs a lot of people. Nick from Rumble. I'm dealing with pulsatile tonitis uh and all MRIs and angiograms are normal. any advice for that horrible annoyance? If that's an understatement, I'm sure.

>> Yeah. Um I I have several videos on this. I think I need to do an upgraded one. Uh but there's some interesting data on the inner ear um not having enough energy that then is overcompensating for periodic pulsing, ringing, and things like that. A lot of times um ringing the ear has occurred um from old loud sounds or explosions that could have damaged the ear that now it's showing up. Um there's a couple

techniques to use to try to get rid of it to cancel it out. Um, but I needed up I need to do an updated video on that because I have I found some information, but it it takes another half hour. We don't have that. But I will I'll produce another one very soon. >> All right. Very good. Let's go to Cindy

from Facebook. What do you recommend for dry eyes? >> That's a vitamin A deficiency, but vitamin A only works if you have enough zinc. So, if you combine those two, so let's say you had egg yolks, that'll give you vitamin A or or actual beef liver and then you add uh oysters for the zinc and then that should actually help you or just take the supplement. All right, very good. This is sort of

interesting. Reu uh not that other questions are not interesting from Facebook. What's the best way to distinguish between IBS from SIBO based on symptoms? Can you kind of tell them apart? So, we're talking about small intestinal bacterial overgrowth versus irritable >> bowel syndrome, which is a broad term that just you have your bowel is irritated and that could be anywhere.

So, it's like >> it's kind of a classification of like, oh, I got stomach pain down here because there's inflammation that could come from an ulcer. Um, so there's a lot of different classifi classifications of digestive disorders that are just labels to that make it sound like it's a scientific disease when in fact it's just a symptom of something that you're eating that is irritating the tissue. And so they put into a with a a diagnosis code and they made it a thing. I mean when in reality the most important thing for all of these different diagnosises whether it's diverticulitis or colitis or irritable bowel syndrome or collic whatever just check the foods what are you eating oh wow you're eating junk food or you're eating grains or too much nut butter that's irritating it in which case you need to cut that out and not snack so often all of a sudden those symptoms go away. So, I'm hesitant about, oh, this this disease is a certain thing that you need to then treat it with a something a drug. I'm like, no, that doesn't work.

>> All right. Well, we're out of time, but I'm I'm worried about Maria and her daughter. Maria from YouTube, what's the best way to address ulcerative colitis? My daughter's in extreme pain. That's no fun.

>> It's completely food related. Uh, I would take zinc carnosine uh to help you uh with irritation. And there's uh you know you know ginger tea and things like that but no more snacks. Cut the grains, cut the nuts. Um Bulgarian yogurt would be good.

Fermented foods would be good. Animal protein and don't give anything else right now and that will help the stomach pain. In that note, I'm going to be releasing a book in about a week, but you can look it up on on Amazon right now. It's called Change Your Environments. I think you're going to like this book because it's completely different than anything else you've ever uh saw before, but it'll help you integrate all nine of your environments.

Um all these inject good habits, get rid of the bad habits, uh your food environment, your work environment, the toxicity environment, the microbiome environment. Um it's really simple, but it's very powerful. So check it out and I will see you next week.