---
video_title: "Lymphedema: What Doctors Don't Tell You (Diet Connection)"
video_id: LbjBfoMsTLI
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LbjBfoMsTLI
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  What’s the difference between lymphedema and ordinary leg swelling? Discover the underlying causes of lymphedema, the connection between lymphedema and diet, and how supporting your metabolic health may help reduce chronic leg swelling and lymphedema symptoms.
  
  0:00 Lymphedema diet connection 
  0:12 Lymphatic drainage explained 
  1:08 Edema vs. lymphedema
  1:59 The lymphatic system 
  2:48 Lymphedema causes
  5:30 Lymphedema and metabolic health
  7:05 Strength training for lymphedema
  7:43 More lymphedema solutions
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg’s Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/4bWgcgy
  
  Learn more about the underlying causes of leg swelling. Watch these next: 
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/TBSGhpG8yfE
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/uu3N_mSwJHw
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/0pEjjaaFaVs
  
  Learn more about your lymphatic system in this article: https://drbrg.co/3U5LSdp
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  Most people think lymphedema is trapped water, similar to edema, but it’s not that simple.
  It’s a normal occurrence for protein and water to leak out of the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues. A healthy lymphatic system removes this excess fluid from the tissues and returns it to the bloodstream.
  
  When the lymphatic system fails, protein can become trapped in the limbs. This trapped protein is what separates lymphedema from general leg swelling or edema. Lymphedema occurs when lymphatic drainage isn’t working properly, typically due to a blockage or inadequate pumping of the lymphatic system.
  
  Lymphedema is often worse in one leg than the other, while edema involves more equal swelling on both sides. Diuretics aren’t typically effective for lymphedema because they remove water but not the trapped protein.
  
  To address chronic leg swelling and lymphedema symptoms, it’s important to understand what’s interfering with the lymphatic system’s ability to pump and drain properly. Metabolic health is often linked to the severity of lymphedema.
  
  DATA:
  https://www.mskcc.org/news/mutations-same-gene-create-different-paths-breast-cancer-drug-resistance 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5953194/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9810350/ 
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, Bio:
  Dr. Berg, DC, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the author of the best-selling book "The Healthy Keto Plan" and is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals. He no longer practices but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me on Social Media:
  YouTube: https://drbrg.co/drberg 
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergshorts
  
  Keto Recipe: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer:
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope this increases your understanding of lymphedema. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
Lymphedema, what doctors don't tell you, the diet connection. Most people have this idea that lymphedema is just trapped water. That is so far from the truth. Every single day about 4 L of fluid leaks out of your blood vessels into the surrounding tissues, and that is completely normal. And then your lymphatic system comes in. It goes in

there and collects all this extra water and returns it back to the bloodstream. And here is the key part, it's not just water leaking out, there's protein that's leaking out, too. And the only system that carries protein back out of the tissues is your lymphatic system. Nothing else can do it. So, if you have lymphedema, I know you've been told compression stockings are going to be key, do your exercises, elevate your legs, but there's some critical things missing that I want to help you understand. So, today we're going to

cover four main things. What actually is happening inside your tissues, what every single past skin infection does to your lymphatic system, and why water pills for lymphedema could actually make things worse. When the lymphatic system fails, protein gets trapped in your limbs. And protein is why lymphedema is completely different than ordinary swelling. So, let's take a look at this.

If you have edema in your body, which is swelling, you have water that accumulates interstitial, like in between the cells. Whereas lymphedema is a little bit different. You have water plus protein. And the protein is trapped simply because the lymphatic system is not draining. The drainage system is blocked. Over time that protein can

trigger inflammation. And that inflammation can then cause scar tissue, and then create more dysfunction in the lymphatic system. And this is why when you first get lymphedema, it's soft and squishy, and then over time it becomes firm, permanent kind of hard tissues. And I remember studying about the lymphatic system in school. And the way that we were taught is that the lymphatic system it doesn't have a pump. So, you're only

going to be able to push fluid if you actually move because lymphatic system is not hooked up to the heart, whereas the arterial system is. And so, unless you move, the lymphatic system is not going to pump. That's actually not true. Your larger lymphatic vessels are wrapped in smooth muscle that actually fires on their own rhythm. Researchers have studied lymph transport in the human leg during standing, and they found that the majority of fluid that was traveling through the lymphatic system was coming from the vessel's own contractions.

So, yes, movement does help, but that's not at all the main engine. And so, when we're dealing with lymphedema, we're dealing with a broken pump. So, then the question is, what destroys the pump? Number one, chronic inflammation. The vessel lining, the very inside of that lining, releases something called nitric oxide. When the tissue becomes

inflamed, the signal gets flooded with too much nitric oxide, and then it becomes dysfunctional. The next thing that destroys the lymphatic system is infection. Now, think about what the lymphatic system does during an infection, okay? You got the lymph nodes that swell up. A lot of people when they get sick, they have enlarged lymph nodes underneath their armpits and their neck. So, your

lymphatic system is really involved with getting rid of infections. And if an infection goes on too long, that can negatively affect the lymphatic system. Especially, by the way, if you get a skin infection. They tested this in animal studies when they had skin infections that actually can affect the lymphatic system for up to 260 days after the infection where the lymphatic cells never grew back. So, in some cases it can create permanent damage. This is

why it's really important to take care of your skin, make sure that you don't neglect it, make sure that you eat really healthy because a lot of the skin is a reflection of what's going on inside and what you put in your body. The other thing I want to mention is your lymph nodes. When you have to go through some surgery for some reason and they remove lymph nodes on let's say your left growing area and then all of a sudden people get lymphedema in the left leg, but not in the right leg and that's because you're removing part of the lymphatic system to allow the drainage. So, each leg drains into its own lymphatic territory and this is the characteristic of lymphedema. Usually someone has it more on one side. If you have it on both

sides, you may just have edema. This is why diuretics do not help lymphedema because it's removing the water, but it's not removing the protein. So, when they take diuretics to get rid of the water, they have the same amount of protein, but now the protein is more concentrated and that can be more irritating to the tissues and accelerate the scar tissue. Now, if you're on diuretics, I'm not telling you to come off that. I would just review this with your doctor and bring it up as a concern. I have a free download that I

want to give to you. This free download is my daily routine in a checklist. This is the routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60 years old and I want to give it to you for free. And so, there's a little link down below, click it and definitely download that. Another really interesting clue about what's going on with lymphedema. When someone actually

removes a tumor or they get surgery and they have to remove part of the lymphatic system, the biggest single predictor for the the of lymphedema has to do with how many metabolic problems I have at the same time. An 18-year study of over 5,000 breast cancer patients at Memorial Sloan Kettering. Patients who also had diabetes at the same time they had surgery, 55% were more likely to develop lymphedema than the group that did not have diabetes, that didn't have metabolic problems. Same operation, different metabolic state. And so this relates to what happens inside your body when you have a metabolic problem, when you have diabetes. You're going to get

chronic inflammation because the lymphatic system also has an inner one-cell layer of cells called the endothelial layer, very similar to the arterial system. And that endothelial layer of cells is very susceptible to inflammation if the person has high blood glucose. And it creates damage within that system, which can directly relate to damage to the next layer, which is all the smooth muscle. So now we can't get the pumping action in the lymphatic system. From all the data that I looked at, lymphedema really seems to be connected to a metabolic problem. So

what can someone do about the situation? Number one, strength training is very, very important. Out of all the research that can potentially improve this drainage blockage, it's the strength training which is at the top of the list versus being sedentary and not actively building up the muscles in the body. Strength training will also reduce the metabolic effect of blood sugar. It also reduces chronic inflammation. So a lot

of people ask me, "What supplements do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not biased with my own high-quality supplement line, but if you go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more information. The second thing I would highly recommend is do whatever you can to protect your skin from the inside as well as from the outside. Take care of your skin because once the skin is infected, that can actually destroy the inner lymphatic system. And one of the last things

that's rarely mentioned in lymphedema is do whatever you can to improve your metabolic health. And that starts with doing a low-carb diet with intermittent fasting. The lymphatic cells themselves can very efficiently run on ketones if you go on a low-carb diet, which can greatly help the drainage. Not to mention it can greatly help with regular edema, but also lymphedema. For those of you that are not familiar with how to do that, I created a video with all of the details step-by-step and made it so simple anyone can do it. And it's right here.

Check it out.