---
video_title: "The Dr. Berg Show LIVE - August 28, 2026"
video_id: FHImIugRRDE
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FHImIugRRDE
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  The video recommended by Dr. Berg for foot problems, which can then effect knees, hips and more:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2D8ziu6rn0 - 
  
  When it comes to your health, most people try to fix everything at once. But there are 10 biological signals that control how you feel every day, and only 1 of them matters most to your body.
  
  Take my free 2-minute quiz and discover which signal YOU need to fix first: https://www.drberg.com/health-lever-quiz?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=may_26_live_show&utm_content=description
  
  Talk to Dr. Berg LIVE ➜ ➜ https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  To be considered, click on the link below to fill out the application! If you’d like to join next week’s show, make sure you fill out the application by Tuesday night, the week of the live show. 
  
  Fill this out to be a part of the LIVE show! — https://forms.gle/X7hdvwt2GMDmPSTo9
  
  Participants will be selected on Wednesdays, and an invitation with the unique link to join the show will be sent out on Thursday afternoon before the Friday Live Show.
  
  5:32 Can St. John’s Wort or any other supplements help with severe anxiety? 
  6:11 How can I slow the progression of glaucoma? 
  7:19 What can I do to reduce SIBO symptoms? 
  11:15 Quiz question #1
  11:30 What remedies can help with atrophic gastritis and GERD? 
  12:45 What can I do about a UTI? 
  13:51 What dosage of vitamin D3/K2 should someone take during an active shingles outbreak? 
  14:22 What is the best form of vitamin B1 besides nutritional yeast for a child? 
  15:15 Quiz answer #1
  16:50 What do you recommend for someone with an h. Pylori infection who’s breastfeeding? 
  19:44 What are the best supplements for someone going through perimenopause? 
  20:45 Quiz question #2
  20:55 What are the basics I should test for when getting my blood drawn? 
  22:32 What can I do to reduce the size of a gallstone? 
  23:52 How can I get the benefits of nature if I live in a big city? 
  26:02 What causes fluid retention in the feet? 
  26:20 What are the potential side effects of GLP-1 medications? 
  27:11 Why are people so tired when their thyroid is out of balance? 
  27:39 What do you recommend for someone with PCOS? 
  28:06 Are there any health concerns or downsides to eating raw milk yogurt? 
  28:41 How much TUDCA should you take if you don’t have a gallbladder? 
  29:24 Quiz answer #2
  30:55 Quiz question #3
  31:06 What is the best way to preserve the health of my remaining kidney after having one removed? 
  32:42 Should someone on statins take berberine?
  33:45 Quiz answer #3 
  37:12 Can the carnivore diet and mushroom powder help someone with Crohn’s disease? 
  38:29 Quiz question #4 
  38:41 What can I do to speed up recovery and avoid scarring after a toe surgery? 
  40:11 What dosage of TUDCA do you recommend? 
  41:29 What do you recommend for bunions and improving joint strength? (Mentions a YouTube channel that has exercises for feet) 
  43:40 What are your thoughts on the benefits of structured water? 
  44:08 What could cause my stomach to rumble excessively after eating steak? 
  44:43 How can a hormone imbalance affect mood?  
  46:23 Should I fast before or after chemo? 
  48:10 Quiz answer #4
  50:20 Quiz question #5
  50:32 What’s a good daily protocol for someone recently diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease? 
  51:27 Should I take prenatal vitamins with vitamin B12? How long should I take them? 
  54:05 If I take 20,000 IUs of vitamin D3, how much vitamin K2, magnesium, and zinc should I take each day? 
  56:00 How can I gain weight if I'm dealing with menopause and sarcopenia? 
  57:08 Quiz answer #5 
  59:26 How do I avoid diarrhea after a fast of 36 hours or more? 
  1:00:10 How can I relieve anxiety while traveling by plane? 
  1:00:53 Can lordosis be reversed? 
  1:02:20 Which is better, folate or folic acid?
  1:02:53 What is the best way to lose weight? 
  1:04:04 What are the best supplements for acid reflux? 
  Thanks for watching!
  
  Disclaimer: Dr. Eric Berg D.C. received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
---
[music]

Welcome back everyone. We're here with another show Q&A. Anything that I say is not intended to cure you or prevent any type of disease from being gone. So just check with your doctor before implementing any of the suggestions that we talk about. Steve, let's dive right in and uh answer as many questions as we can.

>> Sure will. Good morning, Dr. Burr. Good morning, audience. We've got a ton for people waiting to come on our video chatter, too. So, let's get started.

Let's start off with game time from YouTube. Would St. John's War help with severe anxiety? Anything else you'd recommend, Dr. Bird?

>> Yeah, the only thing is you you don't [clears throat] want to be on an SSRI and St. John's wart because that can mess with your serotonin. But typically, yeah, St. John's war has been shown to greatly improve not just depression but anxiety. Now, there's some other things that you could try for specific like anxiety, more vitamin B1, uh intermittent fasting, ashwagandha, um that also might help.

>> Okay, let's go to Francis from YouTube. Uh what kind of support would you recommend for someone to slow the advances of glaucoma? >> High doses of vitamin D3. If you could search out the CMBre protocol in which you use high doses of vitamin D3, there's going to you could find a doctor to work with to monitor that. But there's a fascinating book from a an eye doctor out of Germany. And no, I don't

remember the name of it, but you'll have to do a search. It's hard to find on Amazon, but uh this doctor has gotten great results with gluccom and using high doses of vitamin D3. Don't forget to add magnesium to allow that to also work because vitamin D is dependent on magnesium. So, so in other words, vitamin D may not work if you don't have enough magnesium. >> All right, very good. And we've got a

full house in a green room in Sura. I want you to get ready because I'm going to put you on the air and uh she is a repeat a return guest and go ahead with your one question, Ser. Good to see you again. >> Hi. Hi Dr. Berg. Um so I have really bad

SIBO. So I've been taking the El Ritter yogurt for a month and a half now and I take I take um oxy salts daily and I take uh pane hydrochloride not every day but I take it. But before taking the yogurt for 2 weeks, I was on antibiotics. And um I haven't seen any change in my SIBO. Like I'm still the same, like very bloated, constipated, like just the usual. Um and I've been

I've had a SIBO for a year and a half now. So there's I don't know what to do. I intermittent fast. I do the keto program. I mean, I do everything. Um so

I don't know what to do. So, did you get that uh device that you can measure the different gases to be able to determine it or are how are you how are you determining that for sure you have SIBO? That's the question. >> Um by just all my symptoms and then um you had told me to talk to Dr. William Davis to get um a stool sample and I did that and it turned out that I had I have no um good bacteria. I have like all

pathogens. So, and then um he recommended and you did too to take the um the yogurt and so but no, I haven't taken that thing that you said earlier. Um >> Okay. So, so are you um is the symptoms like bloating after each meal? That type of thing.

>> Yeah. So, very like sometimes I don't even eat like I just fast. I have a little bit of like heavy cream with coffee and even after that like I just feel so big like I ate like a whole cow and um even sometimes when I don't even do when I just drink electrolytes I'll feel it like bloated like yeah and um a lot of constipation sometimes uh diarrhea um I feel very fatigued uh just those kind of symptoms and yeah I I could never lose weight like I'm always like I'll fast for like six days with like a little bit of cream and coffee, right? Electrolytes and then I won't lose anything. Maybe one pound and I I exercise too. Um and then I eat and the

whole thing again I'll put on like four pounds in like one day, two days. Like it's just it's so annoy. Um >> okay. >> Do you think I >> So just so a couple things. Number one, um there's a chance that you might not have SIBO, but I'm not saying you don't have a digestive problem, but there's a chance you because when you're trying to solve a problem and it doesn't solve, you want to make sure you have the right problem. There is a uh a a breath

device. It's a handheld device that you can get on the internet. Uh Dr. Davis talks about it that you can measure the gases coming out to really determine is this really SIBO or not. But, uh, that being said, uh, you're doing all the right things. Um, I think, um, you need

more data, um, to be able to find out what's in there. But I think, uh, you know, that gas device would be helpful. And then also I I would try carnivore diet >> for a period. You did try that. >> I would do that. I would do that. I

followed everything you told me and nothing. It's I feel bloated. I'm so like I've tried almost like everything except that device. So maybe I should try that device. >> Take a look at that. And then and then

also uh realize that the eldery is only one one microbe. So you need a lot of microbes. So um you might have to try stronger probiotics that tend to go in there and uh uh stick a little bit more uh than some of the other ones. So yeah, so that's what I would recommend and then try that and then come back and let me know what happens. Seria, thank you so much. And Dr. Berg, let's kick things

off with the first quiz question of the day. And there you have it. >> What are the three most common ingredients that make up the 30,000 different food products in your grocery store? >> Good grief, that's a big list. Okay, let's move on to Mohassen from YouTube.

I have uh arropic gastritis and gird for a year. I've tried cabbage juice, but it doesn't seem to work. Are there any other natural remedies you'd recommend for gird and gastritis and so on? >> So really uh for that uh you could have a with gird we have a problem with the valve in the top of the stomach. So acid is kind of coming up. So it's really um

you may just need more acid. Okay. Not so if you took betane hydrochloride and you don't have any burning in your stomach then we can rule out an ulcer or maybe even gastritis which is inflammation of the the stomach. Uh and then that would be the solution is to acidify the stomach to be able to control that valve on the top of the stomach because there's a sensor mechanism that's involved. Um if you do feel worse when you take betane hydrochloride and even apple cider vinegar then you need zinc carnosine to heal the tissues for a while and a lot of times it's going to be helpful to start consuming more fermented uh vegetables and probiotics and things like that to heal the lower part of the digestive system which then will actually take the stress off the stomach.

>> All right, very good. Let's move to Pat from YouTube. Battling with a UTI. That's horrible right now. Now I have terrible pain. I'm on antibiotics. Help,

she says. Yeah, I think uh uh there's some great uh data using methylene blue and actually infrared light therapy at the same time over your bladder. Apparently, um, you know, methylene blue has been used for a very long time by medicine for all sorts of things. It's more of a natural thing, believe it or not, even though it's made from a chemical. It uh doesn't have hardly any side effects if you're taking small dosages of it. But I

think I would start to beef up, no pun intended, your probiotics and your foods to be able to put back in those good microbes because really when you have uh infections, everyone's focused on killing off the bug. But what about the immune system? The immune system needs to be strengthened. So that's what you need to focus on. >> All right, let's go to Lion's Mindset is the person's name on YouTube from you from YouTube. What dosage of D and K2

should one have during an active shingles outbreak? My guess, this lion's mindset is suffering. So, if it was me, I I might want to try uh something like 20,000 IUs of vitamin D3 with 200 micrograms of vitamin K2. And that would be the MK7 version. >> All right, let's go to Life and Health Coach from YouTube. What is the best

form of B1 besides nutritional yeast to give an 8-year-old? >> Ali thamine. It's a derivative from garlic. It's a natural B1. And um you know, you don't necessarily have to worry about like just taking one a day, which is it comes in like 40 or 50 milligrams because I mean the RDAs for B1 is like 1.2

milligrams. It's a joke. Like that is such a tiny amount. It's based on completely outdated research. They should increase the um the RDAs for B1 significantly higher to create an effect because right now it's like it's ridiculous. But yeah, that's what I

would do. >> All right. Very good. Well, here's what the audience did. They answered quiz question number one, which asked of them, "What are the three most common ingredients that make up 30,000 food products in the grocery store?" 55% of

our respondents say it's malttodextrin. That sounds familiar. Uh fructose and corn syrup. Uh and then 35% say starch, sugar, and seed oils. And 10% say soy starch and MSG. Boy, starch gets a top

ranking in this. Yeah, I think uh uh everyone's on to something because if you take a look at the food that's in the grocery store, you have it. It's like this illusion of choice. You have all these different choices, but in reality, you have like three choices because most of those foods have three common ingredients. Number one, corn. That's the big one.

Most things have corn in different forms. hypertro corn syrup, dextrose, ascorbic acid, gargum, um modified food starch, modified cornstarch, like just uh multi I mean like just so many different versions uh of that. So then you have u soy and wheat that makes up the majority of those ingredients. So, you're basically having this illusion of these multicolored amazing boxes that look like it's healthy, but it's really all the same crap. Um, unfortunately.

>> All right. Very good. Let's go to our next guest, Maria, who has a beautiful uh baby son. And so, we're going to try to get her on and off so she can tend to that. And Maria, go ahead with your one question for Dr. Berg, please.

>> Yeah. Hi, Dr. Berg. And so I have a history of uh gallbladder stones with what was cleared uh 3 4 years ago by taking your gallbladder formula and uh using lemon juice and diet change which after uh cdic canc like few months ago after I gave birth my son is 7 months old I have been diagnosed with after an endoscopy with gastritis and uh it's really making my life miserable right Now um they said which is due to H pylori infection and I have to take antibiotics. However, I'm breastfeeding my baby right now. So what

are my options? What can I do right now? Should I go ahead with the antibiotic? What can I do? Should I wait until I I win my baby? What can I do to make my

life? >> So all I can tell you is the areas of research that you should go into. I can't tell you exactly what to do because that would be um not good, especially on a public uh forum like this. So, I would I would I would research um the complications of taking an antibiotic while you're breastfeeding. I would research that. I would also

research um uh sulfurophane uh remedy for H py pylori. I would research uh zinc carnosine or other types of zinc in relationship to H. pylori. 80% of the population has this microbe and it normally is not bothering us. It just sits there doesn't create problems until your stomach somehow the environment changes to alkaline. That's

why we need to acidify you. And then it starts to change its relationship and irritate your stomach. So what is it possible to make it friendly again by changing the environment back? Maybe you should look into that. Uh so we want to acidify the stomach. We want to um uh

also realize that the strategy for H pylori to thrive is it releases ammonia into your body and ammonia is very alkaline. So it's changing the pH to more alkaline so it can actually survive better. So, I think there's things to be done, but I think you just need to research and then find out what works for you. But, um, but yeah, uh, that's what I would recommend. Um, and also on a side note with gallstones, um, what causes gallstones is usually like lack of bile. So, you've already

handled that, but then Tutka is another natural remedy that kind of keeps the bile thin. But that's as a side note. Thank you very much, >> Maria. Hope that helps. Thanks so much for taking your time to join us. We

appreciate it. And let's see. Let's go to Pam from YouTube. What are the best supplements for someone going through perry menopause? Well, it depends on what kind of problems you have because is it hot flashes? Is it um bone loss? Is it

muscle loss? What happens during perimeate loss is you have this drop of estrogen. Estrogen is the thing that protects the the muscle uh from being lost. So, there's a couple different things that you need to start stepping up. You need high quality protein like animal meat on with each meal. But the

problem is that um that by itself won't work unless you open the door to allow that protein to go into the muscle. And that the door opening has to do with you doing exercise, specifically weight training. So weight training several times a week with high quality protein can be very beneficial with someone going into uh menopause. >> Okay, very good. Let's ask quick question number two. There it is. Doc,

>> how long is the average attention span? >> What was that again? No kidding. Okay, audience, climb on that. Mom of 300s. I

love that handle. What a cool name from Rumble. I'll be getting a blood test soon. Can you give me a basic list of markers I should test it for and what the healthy levels I should watch for? That's could be kind of a long list. Any

sort of highlights in there? >> Let me let me just tell you, you should I I may have done a video on this, but you should definitely get a fasting insulin test. You want that to be below five. Very important. Um, if you test your cholesterol, which probably you're going to test it and it's high, you might get alarmed because they didn't do an advanced lipid profile test, which you always need to do that.

That will determine the type of LDL you have, which is the key to everything. It's like, do you have the small dense or do you have too many large buoyant? So, you want to be able to sort that out because just total uh LDL cholesterol is is worthless. It's not going to tell you much. So, that's one thing. Uh the other

thing is just to kind of look at the basic markers and and really understand that um some of these normal ranges uh are based on averages. So, you're basically I'm going to we're going to compare you to an average person assuming that they're healthy. So, some of these ranges aren't aren't quite correct, especially with the thyroid, for example, and and other things. And I I I'm almost positive I did a video on this. You can search out that data and uh and that will tell you specifically what you're asking.

>> Okay, very good. Let's go to uh YouTube. Hang on. I've got a little message that covered the person's name. Ashish from YouTube. I'm a 46-year-old diabetic with

hypertension and I have a 9 millimeter gall stone. I've been taking your tadka in the morning and on an empty stomach. After 10 months, the stone size is consistent. What should a sheish do now? >> I would research uh um in addition to the taka taking a bile salt, okay, after meal because um you want that stone to um go away and you you have too much cholesterol to uh and not enough bile.

Um, I would not go extremely low fat. I wouldn't go high fat. I would just make sure you have some fat in the diet because the fat actually causes the contraction of that gallbladder to be able to push things through. Um, so and then watch my most recent video on gallbladder complications after or it's I think it's called after you had your gallbladder removed and the complications. watch that video cuz I cover all these different things that you can do. Not that you had your

gallbladder out, but I think you can get some great data from that. >> All right, very good. Uh, Dr. Berg, we have no jingle for a mail bag, but if you're prepared for that, why don't we get started? >> Okay, first question is, I live in a big city without many trees and much nature around me. How can I get out and get the

benefits of nature when I don't have access to it? The single most powerful thing a person can do for their health that kind of crosses over and checks off the boxes to so many things is going for a walk in nature and even with a friend because then you have the social as well um and you're exposed to sun and you get this and that. But if you're in a city where you can't do that, then the next best thing is to try to find uh some type of water um like uh some type of you know river or water works that you can actually be around the water because that's more of a a very soothing n nature thing or or park for example. Have plants in your house. Um very important. and then maybe each week

drive out of the city and spend at least 120 minutes in a park or nature going for a walk. Super important. Um but um but yeah, water is going to be another very valuable thing, you know, because we're so hyperfocused on in front of a screen for the majority of the day. most people um you need to offset that and uh getting out in nature without headphones hits so many different uh therapeutic things and and I'm going to be doing a video on this because it's it's fascinating. But but even like if you can be around like birds for example and um or or ocean or something natural um that's going to offset that. And if you

can't, then going for long walks in a city is also therapeutic. >> All right, those sound like great um solutions. Let's go to quiz question number two, which asked of the audience. >> You know what's I just gave you one. I think we have a few more. So,

>> I'm sorry. Let me calm down here for a minute. Keep >> chill down. Yeah. Okay, good.

I'm a 45 year old woman struggling with fluid retention in my feet. Okay. So that's typically your carbs are too high. Carbs are like sponges for fluid. Cut out the carbs and add more potassium. Okay. And that will push the

fluid out. Three. What are the potential side effects of GLP1 medications? Muscle loss, digestive problems. I recently did a video on this. you can

watch it and uh I walk you through all the things that you can do um to prevent the muscle loss because that's the that's a real big thing and mainly you lose muscle because your appetite goes away and you don't eat enough protein. So, so people are using this GOP1 as a kind of an artificial way to hit their goal. But you, it doesn't mean you shouldn't eat the correct thing and also do exercise and all these other things because if you don't, you'll end up with a big problem at the end of your cycle of taking it. It comes right back and not and the muscle doesn't come back, just the fat comes back. Number four, why do people get so tired when their thyroid is out of balance? Um, because

the thyroid controls and coordinates your metabolism and the mitochondria in the body. So, selenium will probably be a really good thing to take. And also, all the other factors that I talk about in my videos are important, too, because uh it's not a just a one remedy fix for the thyroid. It's it's getting the diet, the sleep, everything. Five. What do you

recommend to support something someone with PCOS polycystic ovarian syndrome? This is an a high androgen problem. A female body has too much androgens and it's creating facial hair, acne, deeper voice. So what they need to do is lower their insulin by going on a low carb diet, doing intermittent fasting. That is the solution. Number six,

I get plain yogurt fresh from the farm made with raw milk. Are there any health concerns or downsides uh to eating raw raw milk yogurt? Honestly, from my viewpoint, absolutely not. Um and and I'm not going to get into a lot of other reasons, but I I think it's healthier, especially if you have it from a farmer that I mean, think of what we did before pasteurization. We used raw milk. And um I think it's convenient

for certain farms to use the pasteurization, but uh there's a lot of benefit in raw milk. And uh um number seven, if you don't have a gallbladder, how much tutka should you take? Um it depends. If you have kind of a fullness uh underneath your right rib cage and maybe even right shoulder pain, I would take two ta an empty stomach in the morning and two in the afternoon. If you don't, then I would just take one in the morning and one in the afternoon on an empty stomach. It's not going to help

you break down fat. It's going to just kind of keep the bile thin. It's going to keep the tubes cleaned out so you uh can then have everything work a lot better. >> All right, very good. I think that's a wrap. And by the way, the preceding

onair snafu by yours truly is evidence of the following. And it's our question. How long is the average attention span? Mine is in milliseconds, but the audience, 78% of respondents say it's less than a minute. 12% say it's between 1 minute and 5 minutes. Boy, that's a

stretch. And 10% say it's more than five minutes. Is any of that true? >> Well, it it was true years ago, but now it's right around 40 seconds. Okay. 40

seconds, not 40 minutes. 40 seconds. So, it's not that's on the average. But again, there's a lot of people that have a lot less attention span, a lot more. Um, the problem is with all the interruptions in social media through a given day and notifications on your cell phone, um, it takes a good amount of energy to get back on task. And this is

what I talk about in my new book, which is right here. And I'm not biased about this book being a really good book to get change your environments, but it's um helps a person uh work on establishing better environments. And you have nine. One is the cognitive. We have way too much cognitive overload and uh it's sucking up our it's it's kind of stealing our attention. You you think

that you have um you're in control of it, but you're not. were being hijacked by something called the cell phone, computers, social media, and also foods and many other things. >> Wow. Okay. Well, here's many other things. The next question, and this is

for you to ask, sir. >> What is the most common cause of cataracts? >> Climb on it, audience. By the way, no true falsers today, so everybody's got their thinking caps on. Let's go to Inz from YouTube. Today is my threemon mark

after having my left kidney removed. Can you please share the key factor to preserve my remaining kidney? Um, I do not have high blood pressure or diabetes. That's a good thing. Anz you can survive perfectly normal with one kidney without a problem. Um, the

number one destroyer of the kidney is diabetes, which means high blood glucose is really bad for the kidney. If we're talking about the kidney, we're talking about the kidney cell, which is called the nephron. The nephron is a filter. It's a it's wild as far as it's what it does. It filters all these things and it it allows other things to go through.

It's it's like it's amazing. Um well, guess guess what fuel that nefron runs on? It doesn't run on glucose. It runs on ketones. So, um, if you go on a low carb diet and you go as far away from diabetes as possible, that would be probably a very smart thing to do to preserve your kidney.

>> All right. Very good. Let's go to our next guest. Um, Charlotte from beautiful Clearwater, Florida. And Charlotte, uh, go ahead with one question for Dr. Bird.

I think your audio is off, dear. All

right, keep hunting for that. We've got it on this. I tell you what, you sort that out and we'll be right back with you. In the meantime, let's go to US KX from YouTube. Should someone on statins be taking uh bourberine?

>> Yeah, here's another question. I can just tell you what to research on that. Um, bourberine mainly helps um make insulin more sensitive. So, it works like metformin in a way. Uh, it has less side effects. And so, statin is

different. Statin blocks cholesterol. Okay? Berberine doesn't block cholesterol. But because bourberine works on your blood sugars, you're indirectly improving cholesterol because what causes high cholesterol in most people is too many refined carbohydrates.

So it does help you, but the real the thing you need to really do for cholesterol is cut down the refined carbohydrates and starches. >> Okay, very good. Let's uh let's go to answering very quickly quiz question number three which asks uh what is the most common cause of cataracts and let's see um 82% of our respondents say it's caused by too many carbs or sugars. 10% say um it's a lack of vitamin D. We all love vitamin D. And 8%

say it's a protein buildup. So the lens of the eye that becomes opaque when you develop a cataract, it this tissue is almost like an alien tissue. It's just bizarre because when it's first forming, it has all of these. And I'm going to show you right now this little demonstration right here. Here's a cell. Inside your cell, you

have all these different parts, right, that actually allow things to work. You have the nucleus, the mitochondria, they're called organels. So in a normal early lens, you have all these organels. But then what the lens has to do is purge all these organels. It gets rid of even the nucleus.

So why? So it can then you can see through it in a transparent way. So because these would be in the way. So you got this tissue that has to get its energy outside the nucleus and it uses that ancient pathway where it uses glucose. So it really doesn't have any protection against glucose. So it's very

vulnerable to glucose because it doesn't have all these other things connected to it. So, um, if someone's consuming too much glucose, aka sugar or starch, maltodextrin, um, that can then get stuck to that protein and start to make it, um, like, uh, kind of opaque and you now you can't see through it anymore. So, it's really, this is why type 1 diabetics especially, not to mention type two, have a big problem with like snowflakes and and the destruction of that lens. So, you do want to cut down on your sugars if you want to prevent it. But, let's say you're starting to get it.

There's a great natural remedy called NAC, but not the NAC that most people will find online. It's a very special different type of NAC. It stands for N acetal carnosine, not cyine, carnosine. Carnosine is in red meat. Carnosine is a powerful antioxidant, but carnosine can't really penetrate through your eye.

So you need the anal to drive it as a as a Trojan horse. It goes it pushes it through the eye in these drops. You can get them. You'll see them probably for dogs, but they have them for humans as well. So you put it on your eye, it goes into the eye and it helps to um act as a decoy to to prevent this. It's called

glycation on the uh the lens. And so um that's my long answer and I'm sticking to it. >> Wow. Well, that's fascinating. A lot of data in there. Okay, let's uh let's see

if we can hear from our guest, Charlotte. Go ahead and try us again, Charlotte. Can you speak to me for a moment? No. Oh, unfortunately, Charlotte, we still don't have you. Maybe we'll save

your link for next week and we can work this out before the show. We have time. Okay, let's go to Valerie from Rumble. My mom has recently been diagnosed with Crohn's disease. That's awful. Can it be

treated with the carnivore diet and mushroom powder? Will she be able to eat dairy again? Well, I think carnivore would be the best thing for anything inflammatory in the in the intestines because you're eliminating all these things that are irritating it off the bat. And plus, uh when you're eating meat, you're having glutamine, which is really good for um for healing the gut. Uh but I would recommend doing a version of the carnivore that also um has a wide range of foods. Maybe some organ meats, maybe

some seafood, shellfish, eggs, things like that. uh maybe cheese as well. Um not just muscle meat. Okay. Uh that's what I would recommend. And then some

people are doing the version of the carnivore diet with the juice from um sauerkraut to actually kind of help the gut. And I thought that was pretty pretty smart to do that. So you do that for a period of time and then you know see how it goes from there. Um, and I think you had two questions, but remember we're only only doing one today. So, >> very good. All right. Well, that was a

great one. Okay, let's uh go to one of our five questions today. And here it is for you to wear. >> What is the primary vitamin deficiency in tonitis? It's ringing in the ears.

>> Awful, I'm sure. Let's go to Bernardet from YouTube. I had an uh osteo Oh, god. osteoto osteotomy three weeks ago for frozen toe if that makes any sense. What can I take to speed up my recovery and avoid any scarring? So some kind of

operation on her toe. So um I dropped a 45 lb weight on my toe with sandals. Then I had a,000lb horse step on the same toe. Um, so I ran into the same thing where I needed surgery on my big toe and uh, honestly it took literally a year before the pain went away and the healing process because I'm walking on it every day, right? So I think some people heal faster, but just give it more time. The key is to keep it moving,

keep flexing it. Don't let it just I mean I think what they did with you is they fused it, so you're pretty much going to be stuck with that. try to try to walk normal. Um they have certain shoes that you can walk that can take the pressure off of it, but you're going to have to also make sure that you're not favoring it too much. But I will just say it just takes it takes a long time for certain people. Uh especially

if you have genetics that I have that have more inflammatory uh issues. So if I have a surgery, it takes me a long time to heal. >> Oh my goodness. I think it's osteotomy. I think I figured that out. Okay, good

luck with that. Bernardet sounds painful. What's u not from rumbled is the person's handle. Uh you have suggested taking two tablets of tuska on tutka, excuse me, on an empty stomach without mention of how much dosage per tablet. There are different strengths of tutka in the market. Which is best?

That's a that's on an um in order to determine that we would probably have to go with your size and your weight and your symptoms and the severity. I can't really get into exact dosage because then now I'm liable like I told I told you 40 milligrams but you said so I I'm just going to say I would watch my videos and also um you know typically the dosage on most of them are pretty much roughly within the range of you know when it's use the description what it says like take one an empty stomach or take two and just follow that recommendation. So, that's as far as I can really get with dosing. >> Okay, very good. I'm going to try to go to Noel, but I don't see her camera lit up. So, if you're out there in France,

go ahead and light up and we'll put you on after this next question. Oh, there you are. Okay, stand by just a moment. And uh let me bring up um uh go ahead with your question. Uh Noel >> Noel, hi Dr. B. Um I I really thank you

for your YouTube content. Um I am realizing that uh all my minor ailments might actually be interconnected. Um I have knee injuries and bunions and I've noted noticed that my joints have weakened with age. Okay. And um what would you do you think it's really interconnected? And uh what would you

recommend to strengthen the joint and also to heal if it's possible the bunions? >> Bunyions. Okay. Bunions heal. Well, bunyions um unfortunately can really affect your gate, how you walk, favoring the different part of the foot, which then will put a lot of stress on your knee there. Um I tell you what I'll do.

I will um put a link, but just give me a couple hours. I'll put a link on this video right here on an amazing YouTube channel that has exercises for your feet. I think that's what you need to do to balance your foot and the way that you walk. Because I'm telling you, just by having your gate off a little bit, it sends discomfort all the way up and instability in your knees, in your hips, in your shoulders, and uh uh I I love this YouTube channel because I'm like, "This guy's spot on." And he has a lot of different exercises for the feet. So, I think the foundation

uh is going to be important. I I don't know of any way of get getting rid of the bunions, but what we can at least do is uh get the muscles in your feet to work better so the bunions are not an issue anymore. That being said, one of the best things for the knee is to walk backwards. Um do it on a safe area uh on the grass first, but that really strengthens the knee. And then while you're walking backwards in a park and just don't mention my name uh if someone asks you what are you doing?

>> That's great. Well, thank you so much Noie if I said that right finally and good luck with that. Appreciate you spending your time on the air with the rest of the world here on the Dr. Berg Show. Pin Pitpin 67 from Rumble. What

are your thoughts on the benefits of structured water? Water that has been molecularly realigned by exposure to magnets, red light or sunlight. Have you heard of such a thing? >> Yeah. Yeah. I I don't know much about

it. I I don't I don't know. I couldn't even give you an opinion. Uh maybe you just try it out and see if it helps you, but uh I don't know of a lot on that. I don't know of much to even to give you on that data.

>> All right. Very good. Well, that's interesting. Maybe we'll learn more. Hey, Lou 1234 from Rumble. Every time I

eat steak, my stomach rumbles for a while. Speaking of rumble, uh what's wrong with me? [laughter] she says, >> "Well, I think maybe you want to try some betane hydrochloride, which is to acidify to allow you to digest more protein." Uh, if you have problems with or indigestion or problems with digesting meat, uh, typically you just need more acid, and the betain hydrochloride will build up your your acid to help you digest that meat. >> All right, very good. Here's an

interesting one. Heard a lot about this in the news. Italian from Rumble. How can you explain how hormone imbalance affects mood specifically in regards to depression and anxiety? Everybody's talking about TRT and a whole bunch of stuff.

Oh, absolutely. Your endocrine system is behind your hormones and your mood and so people can go up and up and down the mood scale all day long because their hormones are off. So again um you know like for example um the medical profession told people that if you take SSRI you'll increase your serotonin which will actually pull you out of anxiety or depression. Well then they found out well actually we lied. Um it's not really the serotonin. We're not really

increasing serotonin and serotonin is not really behind that. So so here here's the thing. I I wouldn't try to take a remedy to uh fix an emotion. I would instead focus on establishing your basic lifestyle factors, food, sleep, exposure to sun, movement, um rhythm of when you eat, when you don't eat, rhythm of sun exposure, bright in the morning, dim at night, exercise, recovery. These are all rhythms that you want to reestablish.

Uh, and you're going to probably find that your mood actually comes straight up and vertical when you do that. And I have many examples of that. I've talked about that in my videos. >> My goodness, when you said, "Well, they lied. We had an outburst of laughter in the control room."

Okay. Anyway, let's go to Tanya. I'm going through chemo right now and I fast 18 to 20 hours a day. Should I fast before or after chemo? I have heard several opinions about this. What would

make her more comfortable during that tough tough routine? >> I think I think before will help you a little bit more, but I think after as well, but there's some interesting data on fasting and just protecting your body against things, especially chemo. It lowers the side effects. So um so you're basically strengthening yourself to be able to handle po poison exposure or chemical exposure um by fasting. You know, it's it's interesting to me that um when you take a body and you make it super comfortable and you constantly nourish it and you keep it at the same temperature all the time, uh and you don't put any stress on it, it withers. It gets sick really fast. So

our bodies need to have intermittent stresses to survive with lots of recovery and uh it it thrives better when you like don't feed it. Uh but now you're doing chemo. So what you have to do is you have to um really hyperfocus on also your immune system more than anything to keep your immune system really really strong. And unfortunately, um, the way that people are trying to strengthen the immune system ends up weakening the immune system. But I'm I will that's as far as I'll get with that because I'll probably get in trouble if I say anything too much.

>> All right. Mum's the word. Let's go to quiz question number four, which asked of our audience, our astute audience, what primary vitamin deficiency in tonitis ringing in the ears? And 65% of respondents say it's a deficiency in zinc. 20% say it's a vitamin D deficiency. Boy, that comes up a lot for

everything. And 15% say it's a vitamin A or vitamin B deficiency. Lots of vitamins there. Who's right? So So the the the ear the inner ear, the mechanism, there's a there's a thin layer um on the inside of the ear that requires a tremendous amount of energy because it needs to make this voltage.

there's a lot of voltage going on in the inner ear. In fact, more than any other tissue. So, it's a high energy thing. And so, um when the energy goes down, okay, the brain compensates by turning up the gain and you get this feedback hissing or ringing. That's really what's happening. you have low

energy in the inner ear and uh the spark usually the spark plug that allows you to generate energy involves vitamin B1. Now the problem is normal vitamin B1 is when you you buy at the store is water soluble. There's no way it's going to penetrate the brain the bloodb brain barrier and get up there. So then people will try benotamine which is a fats soluble B vitamin. The problem with benotamine is it's good for peripheral neuro neurological issues in your feet, but it quickly breaks down into a water soluble in your in your blood mainly.

So, it's not necessarily good for brain stuff, but it just so happens there is a type of natural B1 called aliamine, which is fats soluble, which is great. It penetrates the brain, goes into the inner ear, and you'd want to take that as a remedy for ringing the ear more than anything else, as well as going on a lower carb diet. >> All right, very good. Final quiz question of the day for you to read, sir. >> How does uh creatin mostly influence your muscles? Like, what does it do for

your muscles or or exercise? I'm sorry. Exercise. >> All right, climb on that. Astute audience. Simple Spirit from YouTube.

What's a good daily protocol for someone recently diagnosed with the tough Parkinson's disease? >> This is uh the same thing we were talking about if we need to get more energy into the neuron. Okay, usually the person has insulin resistance in the neuron. Thankfully, there's a back door that can give the neuron energy and that back door involves feeding the brain ketones. So getting on a hardcore keto diet would be important, but also taking ketones. There's been also evidence to

show that supporting the mitochondria with co-actors like like vitamin B2 and vitamin B3 and magnesium are also super helpful in Parkinson's. >> All right. Well, that's hopeful. Okay, let's see. Rister from YouTube. I want

to start taking prenatal vitamins that include B12. How do we know if we have a AB to vitamin deficiency? How long do I need to take these prenatal vitamins for what I'm sure is her wonderful growing baby or anything else that she should be doing to help support that child? It's probably one of the most important things a mother can do in addition to cleaning up the diet before, during, and after pregnancy would be to make sure there's sufficient nutrients. And finding a prenatal is going to be hard. So, you want to just

find something with more natural things, but you may need to take several different supplements because the prenatalss out there are crap. They're just synthetic. So, you'd want a really good natural B complex. You definitely want more vitamin D3 with more magnesium. You need trace minerals. So,

like especially iodine and selenium and and zinc. Um, the reason is because the demand for nutrients are going to be so high. And the extra money you spend on a quality brand or quality nutrients are going to literally set up your child's future health for a good chance of uh preventing a lot of problems. Um it's I mean it's it's worth it because the demand uh even with breastfeeding too on on a female is huge and so a lot of nutrients are being sucked out and you don't want to end up with a baby that has a deficiency. I I'll give you an example. If that infant is deficient in

iodine, the IQ drops at least 12 points. If the the baby is deficient in vitamin D, there's could be structural problems. Scoliosis, flat feet, kyphosis such as hunchback or even maxillary uh problems around your mouth mouth where you need the child needs braces. So these are all unnecessary things to have happen if that mother has sufficient nutrients going through this cycle. Now asking your doctor is literally like asking your neighbor because they're not trained in nutrients unfortunately. I

think they get an an hour and a half every maybe every month on nutrition. It's just not enough. So, um, I need to write a book on this because I think it's it's like the easiest thing to do if you have a little bit of the right information and, uh, at at a fraction of the cost. It's not that expensive to eat good and and and have the right nutrients. >> Come on, moms. We're rooting for you.

Eat well. Nice pudgy babies. Eric from YouTube. If I take 20,000 IUs of vitamin D3, how many milligrams of K2 and K7 should I take with it? And how much magnesium and zinc should be taken daily? This guy has got a routine. So

the ratio of D3 is 10,000 IUs of D3 to 100 micrograms of K vitamin K uh K2. And the MK7 is the one I like more than the other versions because it's natural and it lasts longer in the body. Um, and uh, but MK4 is also a good one to take if you have tartar on your teeth and and I'm not against taking that too, but realize the halflife is I think only four hours, so you have to take it through the day. Um, so that's what I would recommend. And then the magnesium. Um, yeah, if you're

just honestly I would probably that's one that's one that's really hard to get and most people are deficient. So I would take probably 400 milligrams um of magnesium glycinate. And the the thing about magnesium is that um if you one of the best ways to know that you have a magnesium deficiency is cramping in your calves in the in the early morning or your foot starts getting stiff. That means you have magnesium deficiency. So you can't fix it like just with a onehot deal. You

have to take a good amount of magnesium maybe up to 600 milligrams a day and spread it out. uh a magnesium glycinate for weeks to sometimes even months to saturate the body to get it to where it needs to be. So, um it doesn't happen overnight in in everyone, but it's super important. >> All right, very good. Let's go to France where Severron asks from YouTube, "How can I gain weight?" Well, you can hang

out in the kitchen with me for an hour. I'm in menopause and have sarcopenia help or do whatever Dr. Berg might recommend. So, >> sarcopenia is age related muscle loss. You need to increase your quality protein, animal meat, okay? With weight

training exercises. You're going to have to hit those muscles with more resistance. And then with that protein, super important, more than you would if if uh if you were younger, actually. So, you need more protein and more weight training. Now, you might think, "Oh, I'm too fragile." But work up to it. Um

you'd be surprised. They've done uh a research uh study on women with osteoporosis doing weight training like loading the muscles and and they actually reverse osteoporosis. So, but we're talking about muscle problem, but osteoporosis is a common thing after menopause, too. So, um I guess that the story is that we're not as fragile as we think. >> Absolutely not. Okay, let's go to our

final quiz question of the day. Okay. And we tortured the audience with all questions and no true falsers. How does creatine mostly influence your exercise? 74% of our respondents say uh creatine creates a more more power through ATP.

16% say it hydrates the cells and 10% say it helps the muscles recover faster. Any geniuses out there today, doc? >> Yeah. So ATP is the energy that we use in our body. Uh it's like a charged battery. Okay. We're using this energy.

Um, and then as soon as we use it, it goes into the inactive form called A DP, ATP, adenosine tri, that's three, three phosphates, uh, adenosine die, two phosphates. So creatine is really the thing that um help connects with another phosphate to donate to actually help recharge that inactive uh uh energy unit. And so creatine quickly gives you this this backup to help you generate uh the initial power energy that you need when you start an explosive exercise or explosive being chased by a tiger. You don't have enough there's not enough time to use the glucose or the fat burning which takes longer like it takes like minutes or some periods of time to be able to tap in the fat. So, our bodies have developed this quick energy system that's energy on demand fast. And that's where we use creatine.

So, if you have enough creatine, you're going to find, wow, I can squeeze out an another rep. I have less resistance with exercise. I want to do it. I have more power with my exercise. Um, and also other things, too. More endurance. And,

um, you just you have better better workouts basically. But it definitely it'll give you that initial power that you need simply because it's going to help you donate more phosphates to the inactive version of ATP. Okay, let's here's a challenge for you, Nikki from Rumble. How do I avoid diarrhea after fasting for 36 hours or more? Obviously, there's a disruption in your microbiome that you need to probably work on. And probably what would be

helpful is if you took a a good probiotic um while you're fasting and so you can kind of keep things going because when you're fasting everything is going asleep and uh and for you um when you start eating you may need to very gradually increase the food back in the system because dumping too much food into a digestive system that's been asleep for a period of time could create diarrhea because it can't handle it. >> All right. Well, let ma can't handle the following from YouTube. Any suggestions for relieving anxiety while traveling by plane? Poor thing is just nervous.

>> Well, when you um have jet leg, one of the best antidotes for that is taking vitamin D before you before you go on the trip. And it really really works. and also taking vitamin D when you get on the other side of where you're flying. So, vitamin D is the antidote to anything related to jet lag. Um because you're actually affecting the circadian rhythms. Um you're changing your body in

in space and time. So, um yeah, vitamin D is what you would want to take more of. >> All right. Very good. Let's go to Gabriella from Rumble. Can uh luridosis,

inward bending of the spine since infancy be, you know, supported or reversed or anything? >> I don't know. It depends. I would I would try to um build up the muscles around that area. What typically creates lordosis or kyphosis or scoliosis is you have these weak bones, okay? It's like a

uh osteo mala it's called or even ricketetts. and then the muscles are pulling it out of shape and then we have this distorted thing. But if you can catch it in time and you you have enough vitamin D and then you do the right exercises, you can get some symmetry back there. I will say this is a side note, but for back pain, a lot of people have back pain are babying their back and then they then they really get atrophy and all the supporting muscles and now they have more back pain. So I have found that a lot of back pain occurs because people have not strengthened their back. And so if if you watch some

of my videos on that I think it can help help you of strengthening especially going in extension gradually over a period of time because a strong back I know I used to have a lot of back pain but I've been working on the muscles and now I have no back pain whatsoever because I've been I strengthen the the back muscles. >> Very encouraging. Okay, Gregory from YouTube, which is better for you, folate or folic acid? What are the benefits of each? >> Folate, that's one you want. Folate, and

you can get it from food or, you know, that's what you're going to get. Uh, or just methylolate is the supplement. >> Okay, very good. And by the way, before we run completely out of time, Charlotte from Clear Water, we've asked the staff to preserve your link. So, next week, log on with me a little earlier and we'll get your microphone squared away and get your question if you have a time next Friday. Okay, let's go to um Sine

from YouTube. I need help losing weight. I've tried everything. Where should I start next? So, you want to three things. You need to

cut your carbs. You need to do [snorts] fasting, intermittent fasting. And um actually four things I lied. And you need high quality protein. Keep your protein in there. That's going

to be important. It's going to stimulate uh something a hormone called glucagon, which then will help you also lose weight. It's the opposite of insulin. And then you need um the level of physical activity to be able to also use up the energy that you just ate. Um, so that would that's called aka that's cold exercise.

Um, and and sufficient exercise. So you're doing a lot of motion and movement. Um, those are the things that I would focus on, but there's other things too, but I have a lot of videos on plateau, for example. What to do if that doesn't work. Well, you can watch those videos.

>> All right. Very good. I'm going to risk one more question. We're out of time. Darlene from YouTube, what are the best supplements to take for acid reflux? I

buy many of your supplements and thankful to have you in my life. That's very sweet of you, darling. >> So, because that's a disease claim, uh all I'm going to say is research uh something that has uh an ingredient called betane hydrochloride in there. Okay. Uh that's the one that u you want to find.

>> All right. Very good, darling. Good luck. note >> on that note, Steve. I don't even know what time it is, but uh I just want to plug this book right here. Uh I'm

excited about it. It can train. It's not fluff. There is a lot of practical stuff in here, but it's all about redesigning your environment so you don't have to constantly fight the addictions with willpower because you're going to lose every single time. I know this might be hard to believe, but they have engineered the environment for addictions. I'm

serious. Um, so you need to change your environment to make it easy so that thing is not in your face 24/7. And I'm not just talking about food. I'm talking about also, you know, flipping through Tik Tok and stuff. You, Steve, you realize I don't I do not have any apps on my phone. Tik Tok, Instagram,

uh because it's highly addictive. I I don't want to be having it there, flipping through it. So, I know I'm guilty. I've I have a lot of social media on there and so it's okay to watch my my videos on there, but I personally don't spend a lot of time flipping through Tik Tok. >> I do.

>> On that note, >> I know you do. That's why I'm saying it. But but thanks for watching and I will see you guys next week.

>> [music]

[music]