---
video_title: "The 5 Biggest Mistakes Secretly Destroying Your Arteries (& Spiking Your Blood Pressure)"
video_id: uQLIQXAeo-k
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQLIQXAeo-k
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  These 5 daily habits are destroying your nitric oxide and spiking your blood pressure. Uncover hidden hypertension causes, the connection between nitric oxide and blood pressure, plus how to increase nitric oxide naturally to support heart health, immune function, and more. 
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg's Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/46y0TY9
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  0:00 Nitric oxide and blood pressure
  0:47 What is nitric oxide?
  1:01 Nitric oxide and artery health 
  2:33 Nitric oxide foods 
  2:58 5 habits destroying your nitric oxide
  4:46 Blood sugar spikes and nitric oxide 
  6:13 Nasal breathing benefits
  6:19 More ways to boost nitric oxide naturally 
  
  Watch next to learn more about improving blood pressure and heart health naturally:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/xUu0vqcP7fE
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/8oYzc1YUBq0
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/N21L5m1IjC4
  
  Check out this article for 7 ways to lower blood pressure naturally: https://drbrg.co/4qHS0ob
  
  Some research suggests that nitric oxide is one of the most beneficial compounds in the body, while other research suggests it can be damaging to your mitochondria. What explains the conflicting data?
  
  There are different systems of nitric oxide in the body, and failing to distinguish between them may explain some of the confusion.
  
  Certain foods and exercise can help boost nitric oxide, while common lifestyle and dietary habits may unknowingly destroy it. Blood sugar spikes are one major factor, and even certain types of mouthwash can affect nitric oxide levels.
  
  DATA:
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12161154/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8109295/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3482987/  
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3605573/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7125030/ 
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, Bio:
  Dr. Berg, DC, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the author of the best-selling book "The Healthy Keto Plan" and is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals. He no longer practices but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me on Social Media:
  YouTube: https://drbrg.co/drberg 
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergshorts
  
  Keto Recipe: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer:
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope this increases your awareness of some of the root causes of hypertension and how boosting nitric oxide levels can help. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
There are five daily habits that are destroying your nitric oxide [music] and spiking your blood pressure. There is a conflicting viewpoint regarding nitric oxide. On one side, you have researchers, cardiologists, exercise scientists all saying nitric oxide is one of the most beneficial things for your body. And then in the opposite side, you have Ray Peat, who is a physiologist who spent 40 years studying [music] cellular biology. He said that nitric oxide is one of the most damaging things that your mitochondria can be exposed to. That it suppresses the

thyroid gland. It drives inflammation. It depletes you of cellular energy. So, we have serious researchers on both sides saying the exact opposite thing. This is called conflicting data. When we

have two opinions opposing each other. And what's missing in this conversation is there are three versions of nitric oxide. One works on the inside of the blood vessels, one targets the neurons in your brain, and one is mainly involved in your immune system. In the first factory, the job of nitric oxide is to relax your arteries. And when the signals are gone, those arteries stiffen. So, all day long your arteries

are constantly producing nitric oxide. In fact, Viagra, which is used in erectile dysfunction, works by increasing nitric oxide in your genitalia. And the reason why people take it is as they age, nitric oxide goes down. By the time you're 40, you have only 50% of what you produced when you were 20 years old. And then number two, you have this factory in the brain that produces nitric oxide. In this

situation, the nitric oxide is a signal between the neurons. And then in factory three, it has everything to do with your immune system. When your body is under a threat, this engine or factory fires up by a factor of a thousand times more. And then it's supposed to shut off. A lot of times our body never shuts off.

What Ray Peat was documenting for 40 years is exactly what happens when factory number three runs on for years instead of 48 hours. And he was right about every single finding, the mitochondrial damage, the thyroid suppression, the energy drainage, the inflammation loop that keeps going on and on and on. But where he went wrong is he didn't differentiate number three from two and factory number one. He considered all nitric oxide dangerous. Also, if you think about it, nitric oxide is in arugula, cacao, or beets, spinach, or by exercising. And I'm not sure if I've

ever heard about anyone dying by eating arugula, cacao, or beets, or by exercising. But when you remove nitric oxide in animals, factory number one, they develop severe hypertension and die early. So now let's get into specifically the five habits that are destroying your nitric oxide. Number five. Did you realize that your mouth bacteria take the nitrates from the vegetables that you're eating and convert them into nitric oxide? And so this mechanism

right here becomes very important as you age because as you get older, you lose your ability to make nitric oxide. And so you want this mechanism right here to compensate for the loss of nitric oxide. Well, when you're exposed to broad-spectrum antibiotics, you kill the bacteria in your mouth and you no longer get this conversion. I mean, even if you look at some of the side effects from broad-spectrum antibiotics, you will notice that blood pressure is one of the side effects. Interesting. I

wonder if there's a connection. So what is the fix when you take broad-spectrum antibiotics? Probiotics. Okay, fermented foods, kefir, sauerkraut, kimchi. I have a free download that I want to give to you. This free download is my daily

routine and a checklist. This is a routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60 years old and I want to give it to you for free. And so there's a little link down below, click it and definitely download that. Number four, nitrates in processed meats. Now certain vegetables, arugula, beets, spinach all have nitrates, okay?

There's a big difference between those nitrates and the chemical nitrates in processed meats. These nitrates can break down into harmful things and create oxidation and even increase your risk for certain types of cancer. So it's really important if you consume processed meats to also at the same time consume foods that can protect you, okay? Like garlic, onion, things like that. Number three, blood sugar spikes.

Repeated blood sugar spikes massively create oxidative stress and this is exactly why a diabetic has a major disaster in their arteries because of the suppression of nitric oxide. Number two is your gut lining. Now remember in number three we talked about the immune system. When you destroy the gut lining, guess what's right behind that? Your immune system. So once you break that

internal digestive barrier, the immune system reads it as a full on war and it's now in an emergency mode. And unfortunately, if any of these cause high blood pressure, the person is treated for high blood pressure. They don't look deeper at what's driving the high blood pressure. And number one is mouthwash. If you use mouthwash twice a day, you potentially can create a 90% reduction in your nitric oxide. A

three-year study found that people using antibacterial mouthwash twice a day had an 85% higher rate of getting hypertension than those who did not. This was published in the American Journal of Hypertension and also confirmed again in 2026. So, a lot of people ask me, "What supplements do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not biased with my own high-quality supplement line, but if you go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more information. There's a

couple other really important things that you should be doing right now to increase your nitric oxide. Nasal breathing instead of mouth breathing. Get used to it. You'll increase your nitric oxide. Out of all the vegetables that increase nitric oxide, arugula is at the top of the list. Beets or beet

juice increases nitric oxide. Cacao, which is raw, unsweetened chocolate, increases nitric oxide. And in the morning, just put a little bit in your coffee. And because microbes are involved in making nitric oxide, start consuming more fermented vegetables. But, the biggest driver for nitric oxide is consistent, regular exercise. And I

recently did a video on an exercise that lets you release the most nitric oxide in your body. But, whether you've seen it or not, you should watch this video right here. I think you'll enjoy it.