---
video_title: "The Big Iodine Mistake 50% Of People Are Making"
video_id: Vcn7ayjPeqo
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vcn7ayjPeqo
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  Did you know that too much iodine AND low iodine can both contribute to hypothyroidism? Discover the big iodine mistake 50% of people are making, common iodine deficiency signs, the problem with too much iodine, and how to make sure you get just the right amount.
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg’s Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/4gH3G6e
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  0:00 Iodine hypothyroidism 
  0:12 Symptoms of hypothyroidism 
  0:41 Iodine foods 
  2:02 Iodine benefits 
  2:58 Iodine and thyroid hormones  
  3:25 Iodine and estrogen 
  4:30 Iodine and selenium 
  5:28 Too much iodine 
  7:08 Iodine and pregnancy 
  7:24 Symptoms of too much iodine 
  7:37 Iodine dosage explained  
  8:41 The best source of iodine 
  
  Keep watching for more on iodine deficiency and ways to support a healthy thyroid:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/kn_PpwqcQ-I
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/XJnQT-HjeLM
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/zIBEVeBDCNo
  
  🌟 Download the free comprehensive guide to iodine here: https://drbrg.co/4y5k8Ed
  
  Low iodine and too much iodine can both affect the thyroid in the same way. You may experience the same low thyroid symptoms, such as weight gain, fatigue, eyebrow thinning, hair loss, cold hands, and cold feet.
  
  Many people have low iodine. If you’re not regularly consuming iodine-rich foods, you could be deficient. People on plant-based diets often have very low levels of iodine.
  
  Iodine often goes under the radar, but its benefits extend beyond the thyroid. It supports cognitive function, helps break down estradiol, and regulates estrogen receptors. Iodine deficiency has been connected to fibrocystic breasts and often improves when you increase your iodine levels. Iodine also supports the health and function of the uterus and fallopian tubes.
  
  Too much iodine can trigger autoimmune disease, so avoiding too much is just as important as getting enough.
  
  How much iodine do you need? Most adults need around 150–300 mcg of iodine each day, 220 mcg during pregnancy, and 290 mcg while breastfeeding.
  
  DATA:
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5345857/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11999837/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6804415/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5587553/ 
  
  Dr. Eric Berg D.C. Bio:
  Dr. Berg, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals and author of the best-selling book The Healthy Keto Plan. He no longer practices, but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me On Social Media:
  YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@Drberg/
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@UCpWhiwlOPxOmwQu5xyjtLDw 
  
  Keto Recipes: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer: 
  Dr. Eric Berg D.C. received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope this explains the importance of iodine and how to ensure you're getting the right amount. I'll see you in the next video.
---
The big iodine mistake 50% of people are making. Did you realize that too little iodine can turn into hypothyroidism just as much as too much iodine can turn into hypothyroidism? It's a paradox. Same gland, same symptoms, fatigue, weight gain, hair loss, loss of the outer part of your eyebrow right here, cold hands, cold feet, dry skin, brain fog. The opposite spectrum of iodine can give you the same disease. And the reason for

that is that iodine is the most confusing mineral in the area of nutrition, as well as the most dangerous if you don't know what you're doing. Now, if we compare people who are deficient versus people who are taking too much, there are way more people that are deficient. In order to get enough iodine, you obviously need to be getting it from your diet. So, the question is, are you consuming any seaweed at all in your diet? Do you consume cod fish, shrimp, oysters, dairy, eggs, or iodized salt? These are the foods that have the

most iodine. And a lot of people are not even consuming any of these foods and don't realize that they're even deficient. I think it's about 38 to 39% of Americans tested below the iodine threshold. And definitely people that are on plant-based diets are running at very low levels. And sometimes people think, well, I'm consuming sea salt, so I'm getting my iodine. Actually, if

you're consuming sea salt, especially Himalayan sea salt, you're probably getting close to zero iodine. It's just such a tiny amount, it's not going to even add up to anything. Now, back in the '20s, people were developing goiters, these enlarged thyroid glands, or cretinism, which is stunted physical and mental growth. And it was epidemic. And even my father told me in school, I think it was in 1948, that they were passing around iodine tablets to everyone. And I think also,

if you're doing a lot of intermittent fasting and also prolonged fasting, you have to make sure you're getting your iodine, and it's kind of under the radar. A lot of people don't realize they're not getting enough. So, before I get into how much to take, let's just get into what iodine actually does for your body. One of the first things iodine does, especially in a child or even a baby, is it actually influences your IQ. If a mother is deficient in iodine, unfortunately, the offspring of that mother that's deficient could end up having a lower IQ by between 8 to 13 points. Now, this is not just in babies.

This is something that can happen in young children and teenagers as well. If they don't have enough iodine, it affects the IQ. The brain is highly affected by the thyroid. 80% of all the iodine in your body concentrates in the thyroid gland. And the thyroid controls the rate of metabolism. It controls also

the speed at which the cells work, especially the mitochondria. The thyroid connects to literally every single cell in your body and the brain. And we talk about thyroid hormones, and you hear T4 or T3, T4 is the inactive thyroid hormone, and then it has to be converted to T3 to become activated. And in this process, you need another trace mineral called selenium to allow this conversion. So, iodine is not some cofactor helper mineral. It is the thing that's embedded

in that hormone. Now, the next thing I want to explain is what iodine does to estrogen. Iodine helps break down estradiol, which is the most powerful form of estrogen. As you may or may not know, estradiol in excess creates a lot of problems in our body, and it just so happens that iodine regulates the estrogen receptor. So, if you don't have enough iodine, that receptor becomes too sensitive, and you can have all sorts of issues, because now we can't regulate the estrogen appropriately. So, for

example, the second most abundant place for iodine is in the breast tissue. So, when you're deficient in iodine in the breast tissue, many times a woman will develop fibrocystic breast. And actually, from my experience, I have observed it being reversed very quickly when the person starts taking iodine. And then also, we need iodine in the ovaries. And if we don't have enough, we can develop ovarian cysts.

The uterus also needs iodine to keep estrogen regulated. And then we also have iodine necessary to allow the fallopian tubes to work. Now, let's talk about the relationship between iodine and another trace mineral called selenium. So, iodine is needed to make thyroid hormone. So, iodine through certain biochemistry, this little enzyme called TPO, then helps you build up the thyroid proteins. And as a byproduct, you will

end up with a type of bleach, okay? It's called hydrogen peroxide. So, in other words, it can create like a rusting effect on the body or a corrosive action on the body. This is where selenium comes in. A certain selenium enzyme, it's kind of an enzyme that works with selenium, is really the cleanup crew to clean up the excess hydrogen peroxide. And so, if

you don't have enough selenium, yet you have sufficient iodine, here you are making all this hydrogen peroxide, but it can't be eliminated. Here's where it gets very interesting and very important to know. So, if you've checked out in this video, check back in right now, cuz this is the most important thing. Excess iodine can trigger an autoimmune disease. Now, normally, with a healthy thyroid, if you take excess iodine, you literally pause the thyroid. You

kind of shut it down temporarily, and then it kicks back in and starts working. But if the thyroid is sick, let's say you have Hashimoto's, you're not only going to pause that thyroid, it's not going to be able to bounce back. So you literally shut it down and you really create a hypothyroid condition. And so you might think, "Oh wow, I think I need more iodine, right?" No, you're actually going to create more and more damage. So people have to be

very careful of never taking too much iodine. So this is just as important as having enough iodine. We don't want too little, don't want too much, we want just the right amount. And it actually is true that selenium can actually lower the antibodies to TPO, but it doesn't necessarily protect you from this excess iodine triggering an autoimmune disease. I know also in Japan, people take massive amounts of iodine and you might think, "Wow, I can also do the same."

But you have to realize their genetics have evolved over a thousand years because they've been consuming a lot of sea kelp for a long time. You might not be able to tolerate the amounts that they consume. I have a free download that I want to give to you. This free download is my daily routine and a checklist. This is a routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60 years old and I want to give it to you for free. And so

there's a little link down below, click it and definitely download that. Another reason why someone needs a little bit more iodine is if they're pregnant. Super important because it's such an easy thing to prevent major intellectual disabilities. If a pregnant woman just takes enough sea kelp or iodine. Some of the symptoms for excess iodine are a metallic taste in your mouth, a burning sensation, especially acne on the chest or the face or the back. That

could be excess iodine as well. Most adults need between 150 to 300 micrograms of iodine. And 150 micrograms is the RDA for iodine. So, that's up the floor, the base. It's not the goal, but it's the minimum amount that you would need. But,

if you're taking 200 to 300 micrograms a day, you should be fine, okay? Especially to overcome all of the toxicity that we have to push through. Also, for pregnancy, 220 micrograms. You just want to make sure because that baby is sucking iodine out of you, and also hopefully you're going to breastfeed, and we need enough iodine to go through the breasts into the breast milk, so that baby will have the highest IQ possible. And so, as soon as you start breastfeeding, bump it up to 290 micrograms. The top ceiling that I

would never want to go past would be 1,100 micrograms. But again, work with a good practitioner that's trained in this, or doctor that really knows about this to regulate your levels. Personally, I like getting my iodine from sea kelp. Why? Because sea kelp also has selenium. Plus, it has

zinc and magnesium. But also realize, if you're looking at the back of the label on sea kelp, and it says a certain amount, you're really only going to be absorbing 33% of that, so take that in consideration when you're looking at these numbers right here. I would also highly recommend getting an organic sea kelp that is from an area of the world that has clean oceans. And also, with selenium, 100 to 200 micrograms, that's plenty to allow for the conversion, allow for the support of cleaning up the hydrogen peroxide. And now that you understand iodine, I think the next most important thing to really wrap your wits around is selenium. And for that, watch

this video right here.