---
video_title: "The BEST Remedies to Clear A Chest Infection (Naturally)"
video_id: Ltg8Zug25_w
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ltg8Zug25_w
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Did you know that most chest infections are caused by viral infections? This means antibiotics often won’t help. Discover 7 of the best natural remedies for chest infections to support respiratory health, ease chest infection symptoms, and promote recovery.
  
  0:00 Chest infection home remedies
  0:32 Side effects of antibiotics for chest infections 
  2:10 7 chest infection remedies 
  5:30 The best chest infection home remedy
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg's Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/4wE3TwO
  
  Keep watching for more ways to support respiratory health and bulletproof your immune system:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/l8vQk0_Wfck
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/jpfAAeqggtA
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/u6xyOtp5sIE
  
  Check out this article to learn the key differences between viral and bacterial infections: https://drbrg.co/45H6riO
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  Most chest infections, especially bronchitis and pneumonia, are caused by a viral infection. If you take antibiotics for a chest infection, you risk weakening the immune system and increasing inflammation and resistant bacteria. Not many drugs can combat a viral infection, so the immune system has to work to fight the virus.
  
  There are several natural remedies that can help shorten the duration and intensity of a viral chest infection. Here are 7 of the best ones. 
  
  1. NAC: supports glutathione production and respiratory health
  2. Black seed oil: has traditionally been used for immune and respiratory support
  3. Andrographis: is commonly used for respiratory and immune health
  4. South African geranium: has been studied for respiratory infections
  5. Magnesium: supports normal respiratory and muscle function
  6. Licorice root: has traditionally been used to soothe the throat and respiratory tract
  7. Vitamin D3: plays an important role in immune function
  
  Learn how these natural remedies work, when they may be most useful, and how to support your immune system and respiratory wellness during a chest infection.
  
  DATA:
  https://www.thieme-connect.de/products/ejournals/html/10.1055/s-2004-818938
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5544222/
  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK75219
  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.explore.2005.08.009
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, Bio:
  Dr. Berg, DC, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the author of the best-selling book "The Healthy Keto Plan" and is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals. He no longer practices but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me on Social Media:
  YouTube: https://drbrg.co/drberg 
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergshorts
  
  Keto Recipe: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer:
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope you’ll try these natural remedies the next time you have a chest infection. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
There are seven natural chest infection treatments that you can use as home remedies. The big problem with chest infections is that the great majority of people get an antibiotic. What they don't know is most chest infections, especially bronchitis, and even certain types of pneumonia, are coming from a viral infection. In fact, 90 to 95% of chest infections are viral infections, not bacterial infections. Yet, over 70% of the time, people with bron- chitis are given antibiotics. When you treat an

infection with the wrong thing, you can make it worse, especially antibiotics. Why? Because 80% of your immune system is your own microbiome. You're killing off this microbiome, part of your immune system, with antibiotics, weakening your immune system. You create more inflammation. You could potentially

increase resistant bacteria and more pathogens because of the antibiotics. You really want to make sure you're treating the correct problem with the correct solution. And the problem with viral infections, there are not a lot of drugs for viruses. So, normally, we let our body heal on its own. But, there are certain natural things that can shorten the duration of the infection and the intensity of the infection as well. And

before we begin the list, I just want to say that when someone is raised in a super clean, sterile environment, they're going to be more susceptible to getting lung infections as they get older. So, it's really important for kids to develop a really strong immune system from the very start. Unfortunately, a lot of people don't realize that. As soon as their child gets a fever or they get sick, they're instantly trying to suppress that fever or suppress that infection with something. Because when you're a born, you're born with your mother's immune system. That's called the innate immune

system. But, there's another immune system that is developed over time with exposure to viruses and bacteria and other pathogens. And that is called the acquired immune system. In order to develop that, you need to get sick and go through the sickness to have it get strong. For a child to be sick often is not a bad thing, especially in the beginning. Let's start with number one,

NAC, N-acetylcysteine. This compound is a precursor for something called glutathione, which is a very powerful detoxifier. NAC has the potential to decrease the frequency of infections in the lungs, as well as the duration of time you get this infection, especially for chronic bronchitis and something called COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The way I would take NAC is through a nebulizer. That's something that turns a liquid into a vapor, and you can breathe it in.

They're not that expensive. So, you take 3.5 oz of water, you warm it up a little bit, and you dissolve like an eighth of a teaspoon of NAC powder into the solution until it's completely dissolved, put it into the nebulizer, and then you can breathe it for 5 minutes a couple times a day. I mean, you can also take NAC orally in a tablet form as well, but the nebulizer tends to work a little bit faster. I have a free download that I want to give to you.

This free download is my daily routine and a checklist. This is a routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old, even though I'm 60 years old, and I want to give it to you for free. And so, there's a little link down below, click it, and definitely download that. Number two, black seed oil. This is an ancient remedy that's been used by the Egyptians and the Chinese. Black

seed oil is one of those remedies for virtually almost everything cuz it has amazing properties. It can decrease the growth of not just viruses and bacteria, but also funguses and mold, and allow you to breathe better, especially if you have asthma or some respiratory infection. Take this orally, and I would recommend just taking whatever's on the back of the label as far as the recommended amount. Number three is called Andrographis. Another name for this is king of the bitters cuz it's extremely bitter.

Andrographis is shown to significantly decrease the duration, the frequency, and the intensity of lung infections, as well as in coughing and sore throats. In one study, the effectiveness was comparable to an over-the-counter medication for coughing in lung congestion. Number four, South African geranium. There are quite a few studies that show that this can decrease the duration and severity of lung infections. And when we talk about lung infections, I'm talking about something like acute bronchitis, both in adults and children. It's also very effective

for viruses. This is why I'm bringing it up because most lung infections, 90 to 95% are viral-related. Number five is inhaled magnesium. For this one, I would recommend just getting some Epsom salts. Comes in a powder, and you can put a fourth of a teaspoon dissolved in about 3 and 1/2 oz of water, put it in a nebulizer, and you breathe this in.

Magnesium is really good to relax the bronchial tubes and help break up the mucus and help you breathe better. You can do this a few times a day, thereby decreasing your coughing and wheezing. Number six, licorice root. This is another ancient Egyptian and Chinese remedy. Great for sore throats. Great

for anything viral-related. If you have an infection in your lung, or you have coughing, or if you have an asthma attack, licorice root would be awesome. You can just take this orally in a supplement. And now we get to what I think is the best remedy, number seven, vitamin D3. And of course, we're not talking about small amounts. I'm talking

about larger amounts. I would recommend taking 50,000 IU every single day until that infection is gone. Because what we want to do is we want to raise your vitamin D level up to the point where you create a therapeutic effect. Small amounts won't do anything for this. We need high amounts. Every single immune

cell in your body requires vitamin D. It has receptors for vitamin D. The lungs are loaded with receptors for vitamin D. Vitamin D gives one of the most potent anti-inflammatory effects of all the natural remedies. If we're trying to get rid of inflammation in your lungs, vitamin D would be at the top of the list. Vitamin D also is very unique in

that it's an immune modulator. It's something that regulates your immune system. So many conditions out there are a problem with either too many or too few immune cells. On top of that, most people are very deficient in vitamin D3, making them very susceptible to respiratory infections. Vitamin D also triggers the certain part of the immune system, the killer T cells, that help directly attack viruses. One thing you

need to know when you're taking vitamin D3 at 50,000 IU, I would also make sure it has the K2 in it, as well as the magnesium, because vitamin D will not work without magnesium. Now, because we talked about natural remedies, I have some of my favorite natural remedies in a video that I highly recommend you watch right now, and I'm going to put it up right here. Check it out.