---
video_title: "7 Simple Ways to Lower Blood Sugar Fast"
video_id: QZuutrT7Y4k
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QZuutrT7Y4k
video_date: 2026-08-23
video_description: |
  Learn how to lower blood sugar fast with simple strategies for natural blood sugar control. Discover how to support healthy blood sugar levels naturally and improve overall metabolic health.
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg’s Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/45GhVDe
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  0:00 How to lower blood sugar fast 
  0:42 Common high blood sugar treatments 
  1:33 How to lower blood sugar tips
  4:06 Apple cider vinegar for blood sugar control
  4:51 Insulin resistance and your liver
  6:09 Meal timing and blood sugar management
  8:15 The best way to reduce blood sugar naturally
  
  Learn to spot the symptoms of high blood sugar and other key ways to control your blood glucose:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/69eAWgXDGrs
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/W5aH9Qa0H-I
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/V5-excE7XdE
  
  Learn the basics of insulin resistance in this informative article: https://www.drberg.com/blog/insulin-resistance
  
  There is only about 1 teaspoon of sugar in your blood at any given time. That amount can rise to around 1.5 teaspoons with prediabetes and 2 teaspoons with diabetes. Medication can help manage high blood sugar, but it doesn’t address the root cause.
  
  Exercise is one of the best ways to lower blood sugar naturally because your muscles can use the excess glucose for energy. Walking after dinner can be especially beneficial for lowering blood glucose levels.
  
  The order in which you eat your food can also affect blood glucose levels and help prevent blood sugar spikes. Meal timing matters too, so avoid eating too close to bedtime.
  
  Removing sugar from your diet is one of the best ways to control blood sugar. This can also help your body burn fat for fuel while reducing cravings and appetite.
  
  DATA:
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10036272/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10697639/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2278791/  
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5839379/ 
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, D.C. Bio:
  Dr. Berg, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals and author of the best-selling book The Healthy Keto Plan. He no longer practices, but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me On Social Media:
  YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@Drberg/
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@UCpWhiwlOPxOmwQu5xyjtLDw 
  
  Keto Recipes: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer: 
  Dr. Eric Berg D.C. received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope you find these natural blood sugar control tips helpful. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
How to lower your blood sugar >> [music] >> fast. If we take all of your blood in your entire body and we look at how much sugar is supposed to be in it to have normal blood glucose. Did you realize it's only one teaspoon of sugar? Prediabetes is one and a half teaspoons of sugar [music] and diabetes is only two teaspoons of sugar. Meanwhile, in your muscles, you hold about 125 teaspoons of sugar. And I think a lot of

people are concerned about taking medication and the side effects, so they're looking at ways to naturally bring the blood sugar down. And that's important because medicine is set up to manage your symptoms. But the big question is when you take this medication, where is this blood glucose going? One medication works by, and I'm not kidding, expanding your fat cells. So there's more space to put that sugar in. Another medication works by taking

the sugar that goes through the kidneys, stopping the reabsorption of it, allowing the sugar to go through into the urine. And then another way the diabetic medication works is by turning down the liver's production of sugar. Because when someone's a diabetic, a lot of their blood sugar is not even coming necessarily from the diet. It's coming from their own liver making a tremendous amount of glucose. But my question is a little bit deeper. Like, why do you have

high blood glucose in the first place? Where is that coming from? And how do we deal with that? We're going to answer that today. Let's go through seven tips and the last one is the most important that will explain everything. So let's

start with number seven. Muscle is a sugar sink. So after someone eats a meal, a lot of the muscle takes up the sugar and then it stores it as glycogen. If your muscles are filled up with sugar, they won't take any more in. What happens then is that sugar is then converted to fat. But if the muscles are

not filled and there's space in there, the muscle will absorb this excess sugar. Now this is important because we can use this data to help lower our blood sugar very quickly. Because when the muscle starts contracting, it needs that glucose to work, aka exercise. When you exercise, you suck the glucose from your bloodstream into your muscle. So, by adding contraction and exercise, we immediately pull the sugar out of our blood and reduce it. Now, the question

is what type of exercise would be the best and then when would be the best time to do this? Well, it just so happens that a walk after dinner makes a huge improvement in the lowering of your blood glucose. Go for a walk for 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes if you can do it after dinner. That's going to significantly drop your blood glucose. But, think about what most people do after dinner. They go sit for 2 to 3 to

4 to 5 hours and then they go to bed. So, all that sugar kind of stays in their blood, some goes in the muscle, but it's not used. But, there's something even bigger that you can do. You can do resistance training, increasing the capacity of that storage. So, building more muscle can greatly help your blood sugar. All right, let's

go to number six, the order of what you eat. Now, same meal, same food, same calories, different order dramatically makes a difference on your blood sugar. Here's the order that you should eat your food, protein, vegetables, fat, then your starch. What do most people do? They start with the bread. In fact,

I'm not even recommending you eat the starch or sugar, but if you do, make sure it's last. Why? Because if you actually eat the protein, vegetable, and fat first, you greatly nullify the blood sugar spike. The sequence of what you eat is very important and you can literally create an improvement of 30 to 40% in your blood sugar spikes just by changing the order of what you eat. I have a free download that I want to give to you.

This free download is my daily routine in a checklist. This is a routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old, even though I'm 60 years old, and I want to give it to you for free. And so, there's a little link down below, click it, and definitely download that. Next one is vinegar. I would recommend apple cider vinegar, 1 to 2 tsp in a glass of water, so you want to dilute it, drink it with a straw, so you don't get a lot of it on your teeth. The citric acid in

this drink helps interfere with the enzymes that break down starch into sugar. So, the less starch that gets converted into sugar, the less sugar ends up in your bloodstream. It'll even work with white vinegar, but I recommend using apple cider vinegar. Get something that's organic, that's raw, that has the mother in there, which just means it's just a higher quality product. The only time you wouldn't want to do this is if you have an ulcer or gastritis, okay? So, you don't want to do that.

Number four, your liver is a sugar machine at night. So, your liver actually can make sugar, and this can actually elevate your blood glucose, especially when you get up in the morning, and this happens because of a problem called insulin resistance. So, there's a problem with the body sensors, and then the pancreas doesn't get the message that we have enough insulin, so then it makes more. And so, now we have a situation with the liver and insulin is just not working, and so, now the liver has to make a lot of sugar because it thinks it doesn't have enough, so it starts making all the sugar, and it's raising your blood glucose. The majority of blood sugar in a diabetic situation comes from the liver because of this situation. And what metformin does is it

makes the body more sensitive to insulin. And so, then the liver makes less sugar. But, there just so happens to be a natural version of metformin based on some powerful research is called berberine. It doesn't nearly have the side effects because there's a black box warning on metformin that it can create some dangerous problems. In addition to that, it can deplete your B12 and even B1. But, the research on

berberine is very parallel to metformin. I will put a link down below of that research so you can show your doctor and make that decision. Number three, kitchen closed after dinner. So, let's say for example, you eat a meal at 9:00 a.m. in the morning and then you eat the

identical meal at 9:00 p.m. You're going to get a completely different response with blood sugar. Why? Because of timing. In the morning, your insulin is

most sensitive. It's most functional. At night, you have the most insulin resistance. So, in other words, when you eat at night, you're going to have a lot more problems with your blood sugar than in the morning. And this relates to what a lot of people are stuck in, which is snacking after dinner. It's the worst

thing possible. So, one of the most important things you can do for your blood sugar is after dinner, put a sign on your refrigerator the kitchen is closed. And that's also going to help you sleep, and that's also going to reduce your getting up in the middle of the night urinating as well. Okay, we're at number two, is sitting still. Okay, you're inactive. Prolonged sitting

creates insulin resistance in the muscle within hours, not years. Hours. We know this from bed rest studies. You take a healthy young person and put them on bed rest and their glucose control ch- shoots downward really quickly, almost to a pre-diabetic level within days. So, again, we're talking about the muscles and how important this muscle sink is as a storage for blood sugar.

Super important. What you want to do is you want to break up your sitting at least every hour, but I would prefer you to do it every 30 minutes. Just get up, go for a walk, start moving, just move your body. Now, another thing you can do while you're sitting at your desk is you can do heel raises. They've done research on this just by pumping that calf up and down while you're sitting down at your desk periodically can help lower your blood sugar. It's pretty wild. So, a lot of

people ask me, "What supplements do I recommend?" Now, of course, I'm not biased of my own high-quality supplement line, but if you go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg's supplements, you'll find more information. Let's get to number one. Stop eating the stuff that is creating the problem in the first place. It's too much sugar. So,

why aren't doctors telling people to stop eating sugar and hidden sugar, starches? A starch is not classified as a sugar, but it really is sugar on a chain. Okay, that's what starch is, and it creates a blood sugar spike higher than actual table sugar. What's really wild is when you go to a dietitian or even a doctor, they're going to recommend cutting down on your sugars, okay? They're going to tell you to watch your sugars. They

might say, "Everything in moderation." That is not good advice. You need to stop eating the sugar because just a little bit will keep that blood sugar up and down. What we want to do is bring the sugar down to a point where your body converts over into burning fat, okay? That's called ketosis.

Once your body is in ketosis, which means you got to bring your glucose below 50 g of carbohydrates per day, I would recommend bringing it down to 30 g per day, then your body is burning fat, and when that happens, guess what? Your appetite goes down. Your cravings go down. It makes it easy to stick to this plan. In fact, nothing's going to work without number one. Now, there's actually one more

that's even more important than number one because it includes several of these tips at the same time. I'm talking about the best way to give an overloaded system time to rest between meals and it's called intermittent fasting and I created an entire video on it right here that's super important to learn about. So, watch this video now so you can have all of the knowledge about how to do it and the details.