---
video_title: "The #1 Reason Your Vertigo Keeps Returning (& How to Stop It)"
video_id: hTuNYh9tBoM
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTuNYh9tBoM
video_date: 2026-08-27
video_description: |
  If you’re dealing with recurrent vertigo, understanding what causes it may explain why vertigo keeps coming back. Discover how to stop vertigo and address the underlying cause for lasting vertigo relief.
  
  👉 Download Dr. Berg’s Free Daily Health Routine: https://drbrg.co/4cFTqda
  
  🛒 Shop Dr. Berg Benfotiamine here: https://drbrg.co/3SuNgWy
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  0:00 Why vertigo keeps coming back
  0:10 The Epley maneuver
  0:53 Vertigo causes
  1:13 BPPV
  3:24 Vitamin D and vertigo
  4:38 How to stop vertigo 
  6:35 Understanding vertigo recovery
  
  Learn how to do the Epley maneuver here: 
  ▶️ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p824XQXWHAg 
  
  Discover the benefits of MK7 Vitamin K2 in this video:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/uBqNYt6oGCc
  
  Learn about the #1 vitamin deficiency behind vertigo in this article: https://drbrg.co/4cbO3Ci
  
  The Epley maneuver is helpful and works, but for many people, vertigo keeps coming back. That’s because the Epley maneuver moves the crystals that cause vertigo, but it doesn’t address why they’re becoming dislodged in the first place.
  
  The most common type of vertigo is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), which is caused by displaced calcium crystals in the inner ear. This condition is especially common in women after menopause.
  
  A protein called osteopontin helps keep calcium crystals tightly attached to the hairs of the inner ear. When this protein gets too high, these crystals can break off and become displaced, causing dizziness. Vitamin D plays a key role in regulating this protein.
  
  Here’s how to prevent vertigo and reduce the risk of recurrence.
  Vitamin D: take 6000 to 10,000 IU daily
  Vitamin K2: take 100 mcg of MK7 Vitamin K2 for every 10,000 IU of vitamin D
  Magnesium glycinate: take 400 mg daily
  
  Try this protocol for several weeks to stop vertigo and keep it from coming back.
  
  DATA:
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10934290/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10455006/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11214163/ 
  https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11983856/ 
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, Bio:
  Dr. Berg, DC, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the author of the best-selling book "The Healthy Keto Plan" and is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals. He no longer practices but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me on Social Media:
  YouTube: https://drbrg.co/drberg 
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergshorts
  
  Keto Recipe: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer:
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC, received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  *Dr. Eric Berg, DC, is not AI-generated. AI-enhanced elements may be used in this video for production purposes only.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope this helps you stop recurrent vertigo. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
The number one reason why vertigo keeps coming back. If you have vertigo, you're going to be very happy you watched this video. Most people, and I'm assuming you know about the Epley maneuver, which you're positioning your head in a certain way to help move some of the loose calcium crystals back into the place where they should be so they stop creating vertigo or dizziness. And it really does work. And if you don't know about it, I will put a link down below in the description. But the problem is

for a lot of people the dizziness keeps coming back. So they have to keep doing this epily maneuver over and over and over so that spinning stops. So the question is why doesn't that maneuver fix the problem? Well the answer is that maneuver does fix where those crystals are but it doesn't fix why those crystals keep falling off in the first place. You have these little calcium crystals that should normally be attached to these tiny little hairs. And

the reason why there's calcium crystals at the top of this little hair is to help you sense your position in space. But the problem is these little crystals can pop off and start floating in the wrong location creating vertigo. That's called BPPV. It stands for benign paroxismal positional vertigo which is the most common type of vertigo. And I'm also going to answer why this condition is more common in women after menopause and also why it's more common in people with osteoporosis. I want to introduce

you to a new product called benthotamine. This is a comprehensive formula tailor made to nourish healthy nerve function. Unlike typical B1 products, this is a fat soluble B1 that has very unique properties to help penetrate that outer sheath of the nervous system called the myelin sheath. Each serving has 300 mg of fats soluble benotamine. Plus, we added B12, B6, folate, alphalippoic acid, vitamin D, and magnesium because all of those are co-actors to help support a healthy nervous system. So, you do the Eple

maneuver, within 30 minutes, you feel better, but then maybe a couple weeks later, you're right back to where you started. So, why are these crystals falling off? Well, it just so happens they're supposed to be glued or cemented to this hair with a very special glue. It's a calcium binding protein called osteopontin. Okay, not that you needed to know, but it's glue that keeps this calcium attached to the hair. And as

long as this binding protein is keeping it in this gel area, everything is good. No vertigo. So I did a deep dive into this glue, this binding protein, and I found something very fascinating that I'm going to share with you. What happens when this calcium binding protein goes too high? It becomes unregulated and starts to degrade the connection between the crystal and the hair. That's

what makes it break off. when this calcium binding protein is actually too high in the body. Now the next question is if this protein is too high in your bone, what happens? Well, guess what? The calcium in the bone can't stay in the bone. It starts leaving the bone.

Very similar to the calcium leaving the inner ear and traveling in another location. But what is controlling the calcium binding protein? It just so happens the main influence over that protein is, and you guessed it, vitamin D. There's significant research in people taking enough vitamin D and actually putting this condition back in remission, including a meta analysis on the prevention of BPPV using vitamin D. And also think about the importance of vitamin D in osteoporosis.

Vitamin D controls calcium. It helps you absorb calcium in your gut. It also prevents ricketetts in kids. That's like your bones are too soft and also in adults they call it osteomalacia. Now the other question is why do women after menopause have a higher incidence of this vertigo? Because when estrogen

drops that far, the vitamin D receptor loses its sensitivity. There's another study that shows the connection between low estrogen and vitamin D sensitivity. In other words, the less estrogen you have, the less vitamin D is going to work in your body because that receptor is no longer as sensitive to pull in that vitamin D. So, let me give you the protocol that I would recommend. I would not do the regular RDAs, 600 IUs of vitamin D3. I don't think that's going

to do anything to really influence and get this calcium binding protein to be regulated properly. You would need between 6,000 to 10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 every single day. And if you had osteoporosis, that number would probably be higher. Number two, vitamin K2. For every 10,000 IUs of vitamin D3 that you take, you need about 100 micrograms of vitamin K2. I would recommend the MK7

version. I'll put these details in the description. So, you want a certain ratio of vitamin D3 to vitamin K2. Now, why would you need vitamin K2? Vitamin K2 has everything to do with keeping calcium out of the soft tissue and in your bone and your teeth. And you

probably can find a vitamin D that comes with K2 as well. I have a free download that I want to give to you. This free download is my daily routine and a checklist. This is a routine that I use every day to feel like I'm 18 years old even though I'm 60 years old. And I want to give it to you for free. And so

there's a little link down below. Click it and definitely download that. Number three, magnesium. Magnesium is the master controller over calcium. It's a very important co-enzyme. And in fact,

if you don't have enough magnesium, vitamin D won't work and vitamin K2 won't work because both are dependent on magnesium. And a lot of people are deficient in magnesium. So, I'm going to recommend 400 milligrams of magnesium glycinate with the K2 and vitamin D. And I would take this over a period of weeks to be able to make sure that this does not come back. What you're doing is you're building up your reserves so you have enough control over this protein to keep these attachments to the calcium secure. Okay, that's all you're doing.

So, the epil maneuver is the quick fix, but this is the long-term fix. Now, you might be wondering, why haven't I heard about this? Okay, I searched WebMD. I looked at Healthline. I didn't see this information. Well, you're right. It's

not on there. Those mainstream established sites push out consensus from certain guidelines that are completely outdated. They were last updated in 2017. So every 5 to 10 years, they update the information. So you might have to wait a little bit before you actually see what I'm showing you.

The point that I'm making is the research is there. It's been done. It's just not out in the mainstream yet. Now, I have done over 280 videos on vitamin D. It's a fascinating vitamin. It's

involved in a lot of different processes. And since I've mentioned it, I highly recommend you watch this video on vitamin D right here. Check it out. So you can have the full understanding of what it