---
video_title: "What Is Vibe Coding? Building Software with Agentic AI"
video_id: Y68FF_nUSWE
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y68FF_nUSWE
video_date: 2026-01-31T12:00:59+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn more about Vibe Coding here → https://ibm.biz/BdbtwZ
  
  Can you code by following the vibes? 🤔 Cedric Clyburn explains vibe coding, where Agentic AI and prompt engineering combine to streamline AI-assisted development. 🚀 Learn how to scaffold apps, iterate faster, and build smarter with best practices like test-driven and spec-driven development!
  
  AI news moves fast. Sign up for a monthly newsletter for AI updates from IBM → https://ibm.biz/BdbtwY
  
  #vibecoding #agenticai #promptengineering #aicoding
---
Today we're breaking down vibe coding. What vibe coding is, when it helps, and how to take it to the next level with techniques like spec-driven development and more so that your AI assisted code is safe, testable, and shippable. Now let's get started because maybe you've seen AI coding agents already as part of a IDE like VS Code or Intelligj where a developer is working and building out their code, right? And for example, let's say we have our project structure and repository here. We're working on some code in this space and on the right where we've got some type of AI assisted coding uh extension or it's part of our IDE itself where we're asking questions to a coding model or an agentic model saying hey I want a Java project uh and want it to be a banking API with these specific dependencies right and by using one of these inline editors I'm able to one let the model think about the requests I want to make in conjunction with the code that I have or want to have Right? I will get an edit into my project where hey,

you want to add this file. I want to approve or reject this as a developer myself. And then maybe it works. Uh maybe we have a command here to run it. And we test that out here. And maybe it works,

maybe it doesn't, but we fix it on the fly. And boom, the demo is working. Now, that my friends is what we call vibe coding. So vibe coding as the name entails uh is when you give into the vibes as you're building out a new application or you're working on something and it's really really cool as a use case for agentic AI, right? So our agent here being the code editor has access to our uh project uh tools that we can call and this is a really fast and fun way to get a demo out or build an application from scratch but it can be tricky for production. So, how can you vibe code

effectively? Well, I want to show you some of the best practices I use and how to get started for AI assisted coding and vibe coding as a developer, an engineer, or if you're just someone who's looking to learn more. So, vibe coding entails generating code with the assistance of a large language model, but it goes one step further where you might not actually fully read that generated code. It's a series and kind of a flow of doing a little bit of prompt engineering to get the right desired output and then seeing those recommended changes and improving or declining code and then iterating on those with perhaps running your code and fixing it at the same time. So it's kind of a loop of this type of pattern based on the React framework. So being able to understand and reason

and then take actions using tools. specifically for us is writing code and many of these can exist within our IDE. So something like uh what this example is or even through a browser by connecting your code repositories and vibe coding makes it really easy to quickly scaffold an application, right? So you could think of uh setting up a demo app really easy to do with Vibe Coding asking questions about codebase. So uh what is my project structure and how does it work?

But it's also well suited for tasks like building out a CLI or perhaps a UI and scaffolding that or maybe even doing some scripting which I tend to do myself. And uh there's some situations where you might not want to do vibe coding though. So let's think about anything where we have for example an API key, right? Because when we're trusting a large language model, well it can be susceptible to things such as hallucinations, right? Where the model makes up something in vibe coding uh sometimes means skipping a lot of traditional software development practices like tests and reviews and continuous integration and documentation that's really needed for deployment ready code. So how can you be a better vibe coder? Before we actually get to the coding phase, let's

talk a little bit about architecture and designing our application. And a good strategy here is writing or if you want to generating test first using something known as test-driven development. And this is a deterministic way to get your vibecoded application working as it should. At the same time, there's a new trend which is known as spec-driven development that allows us to build APIs and services by having a clear outline for what your coding agent should follow. For example, if we have multiple desired outcomes that we need, we can cross everyone off as we go. Now, this is

helpful for the architectural phase, but when it's time for implementation, the ability to use tools uh is really helpful to have our coding agent up to date with the newest libraries, documentation, and be able to do automated testing without you having to even touch the terminal. Now using tools like model context protocol is also super helpful here. And as we're building out these features and implementing our application, we can also make sure that we're doing proper versioning with a tool such as Git to ensure that as we add features and capabilities to our application, we can track everything in a structure so we can revert and go back and forth as needed. Now let's talk about the last section which is reviewing and actually understanding what's happening when we've produced this outputed code from a coding agent. So in many cases this can actually take longer than writing the code itself to understand the code that has been created. Now the basics still apply. So being

able to lint and do type checks is quite important but also understanding the potential security risks. So making sure that we're doing security scanning for our dependencies for vulnerabilities that might exist for sec for secrets that we've hardcoded. And we can even use a separate agent from our vibe coding agent to be able to take a look at from an outside perspective the code we've created and help as we're pushing our code to a repository before it's actually in the real world. So, it might sound like a lot, but these tips can really speed up and help you be safe as you're vibe coding and building out your application. And fortunately, most coding agents actually already have capabilities to adapt to your project, understand the libraries and tools and development practices you use, and even include this into the system prompt to help you architect, implement, and review your code to save time and frustration when you're vibing. So vibe coding

can be really powerful, but as the saying goes, with great power comes great responsibility. So let us know in the comments below how vibe coding has been going for you. And if you want to deep dive deeper on any of these related topics, please let us know in the comment section. If you learned something today, be sure to hack the algorithm and like the video. And make sure you subscribe for the channel for more open-source and AI learning. We'll see you in the next one.