---
video_title: "Mainframe modernization explained: COBOL and AI"
video_id: 9mJhBzjugQg
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mJhBzjugQg
video_date: 2026-02-27T11:00:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Visit Mixture of Experts podcast page to get more AI content → https://ibm.biz/BdpZc5
  
  Where does AI actually fit into the mainframe modernization journey? In this week’s episode of Mixture of Experts, host Tim Hwang is joined by experts Skyla Loomis, Maryam Ashoori and Kaoutar El Maghraoui. We dive into conversation around AI-powered mainframe modernization and AI builders. Next, 84% of the world has never used AI? A reality check on AI adoption and what needs to change. Finally, OpenClaw exposes some AI agent security gaps. We discuss "agent ops"—the framework for transparency, evaluation, optimization and policy enforcement that makes AI agents production-ready. All that and more on today’s Mixture of Experts. 
  
  00:00 – Introduction 
  1:06 – Mainframe modernization 
  14:18 – AI adoption reality check 
  29:40 – Security-by-design agentic AI 
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  Learn how to operate AI agents responsibly at scale in the latest Tech Summit → https://ibm.biz/BdpZc7
  
  #COBOL #MainframeModernization #AIagents
---
So it's like, how do we empower the human builder with kind of an AI apprentice that handles these cognitive load, right? And it's not just about replacing the mainframe or, you know, but it's more about integration, right? All that and more on today's Mixture of Experts.

I'm Tim Hwang, and welcome to another episode of Mixture of Experts. Each week, MoE brings together a group of researchers, product leaders and business minds working at the frontiers of artificial intelligence to discuss and debate the week's news. On this week's episode, we have

Maryam Ashoori, VP of Product and Engineering, AI Governance;

Skyla Loomis, General Manager, IBM Z Software; and Kaoutar El Maghraoui, Principal Research Scientist. Welcome to you all. We've got a packed episode today as always. We're going to talk a little bit about AI global AI adoption. We're going to talk a little bit about security by design, but I think one of the stories I wanted to start with today was actually to talk about modernization.

IBM did this blog post recently talking about their work on modernization and specifically mainframe modernization, which I think is like a really interesting topic where, you know, of course with AI, we're always excited about like, oh, what's the like, you know like use of it to generate new code. But it seems to me and Skyla, it sounds like you're the right person to talk a little bit about this is there's a ton of work for AI to do with existing systems. And so. Maybe the question to you is I'm curious if you can give our listeners a sense of like what's going on in that world and what sort of mainframe modernization even is. Yeah, absolutely.

I think what happens a lot of times when people think about mainframe modernization is there's this myth out there that that equates to migration to another platform. And a lot times it oversimplifies and ignores why the mainframe has been around for as long as it has to begin with. And that is the qualities of service that it ultimately delivers and the fact that it is a fully engineered stack top to bottom to be really optimized for the types of workloads that it runs. Now, it is not for everything by any means. So we really think about a fit-for-purpose model when we think about mainframe modernization.

But a lot of times people will overly simplify it to a language, for example, like COBOL, and think, oh, well, if I change out the language, then all of a sudden I'll quote unquote be modern. All my problems will go away. Right, right, exactly. But COBOL actually is, I mean, it's incredibly performant. It compiles down to machine-level code that is fully optimized throughout that and interacts with a complex system architecture that is, as I said, fit for purpose for what it does.

And there's often a lot of other techniques to think about besides purely a language play around modernization. You might think about how you're modernizing your operations, leveraging

additional open technologies like Terraform and Ansible, and open telemetry, which all is available to manage and run your Z platform, as well as data integration patterns. You know, we can integrate into eventing, offering, you know, super optimized caching and data access methods with the platform that really thinks about more of this enterprise system view of how your application fits into your larger business objectives and how these open and modern technologies can help you manage more efficiently with less skills or less proprietary skills, and be able to adhere and meet to your business requirements that are coming at you quickly. Yeah, and so, are you kind of saying, I mean, you know, I guess like the intuition is like, well, we just take COBOL, and we switch out whatever's modern. It's kind of what you're saying that like, you know, maybe in 2050, 2100, we're, you know, we'll still going to have COBOL, right? Like in some ways, like this is actually like a really great language for the problem it's trying to solve.

What we're trying to do is kind of just optimize it, right, like in place. Is that really where the kind of like balance of thinking is? Yeah, you know, actually. Yeah, you know, actually most of our clients, even though we ourselves have offered tools for language translation for a couple of years now, most of our clients are saying, actually, I want to stay in COBOL. Just help me understand my application space better, right?

These applications have been written over many decades with tons of business logic embedded in them that isn't documented anywhere. And the folks that wrote the code are no longer working at the company. And we didn't always have best practices around documentation and, you know, even when we have best practices, not every developer does it, right? Not exactly. Right, not exactly.

That's been a problem for like, since the beginning of computer programming. Right, it's not exactly their favorite activity. I think that's where AI can really help and actually having an ecosystem of AI tools is beneficial ultimately to the platform and helping it to be more successful and more approachable by helping our developers to understand the applications, de-risk them, help accelerate their ability to work on code that they're unfamiliar with just because it happens to have more longevity at the company. Kaoutar, maybe I can bring you into this conversation. I mean, I think one of the places my mind goes is, you know, I guess, Skyla, you were giving kind of like the most articulate argument I've ever heard for like, COBOL's still great, right? And COBOL is like in a kind

of incredible solution. You know, it sort of strikes me that in the past, you know if you've wanted to design new systems in COBOL, you've needed programmers who can do it, which has kind of required you to try to find these people, because it's been a language that has kind of disappeared with time in terms of people who know how to use it really well. I kind of wonder whether or not all this mainframe optimization stuff leads to a really interesting world where people start saying, well, I'm designing an entirely new system. Maybe COBOL would be a great language to do it in. I don't know if you think that the rise of this sort of code generation era is almost going to lead to like, you know, so-called dead languages or old languages like coming back in new ways, because suddenly we're kind of freed from this constraint of like needing a programmer to actually know how to do it.

Yeah, that's a very interesting take here. Yeah, definitely. I think whatever can deliver the best performance. Like, of course, you know, if you look right now at what's happening with the AI stacks, there's a lot of code generation happening, like you said, you know, deep down, you know, these deep learning compilers, like, for example, if you see what happens with the PyTorch stack. So the PyTorch, you know, 2.0

introduced torch.compile. And then beneath, behind the scenes, there is Dynamo, there is Inductor, and then what they do, there's a lot of work around figuring out how to map the AI algorithms to the targeted hardware, and a lot optimization, things like kernel fusions, things like reordering things, and also, and of course, tons of code generation to really build these optimized kernels that do well on the hardware. So whether it's COBOL or Assembly or C, C++, I think at the end of the day, I think we just need to pick what really delivers the best performance that we have on the silicon on these accelerators. So definitely, I think these automatic code generations is a very key step.

And going back to this modernization topic, I think really the winning strategy here is these targeted transformations. So, if you use AI as a builder, you know, these organizations could really extract, you know the business logic, like Skyla was mentioning, like 4 years old code and really wrap it in modern APIs. So it's like, how do we empower the human builder with kind of an AI apprentice that handles, you know, this cognitive load, right? And, you now, it's not just about replacing the mainframe or, you know, but it's more about integration, right. Allowing developers to use modern DevOps tool chains in all these legacy infrastructure and then understanding these embedded, deep business logic that has been there for many, many years.

So, yeah, but I agree, these tools that allow you to do these code generations, they're really powerful. Yeah, and Skyla, if I could turn back to you, I mean, one of the questions I've been kind of wrestling with, and this is part of just like the practicality of how this work happens, is: how do you get good at using AI for these applications? Because it sort of strikes me that if you're going to train a model on all the code that's easily available, a lot of the public code is not languages that are kind of like these older generation of languages. And so there's kind of almost like a sourcing problem, right? Which is like, where does all of this kind of like, how do you create even models that are good at doing this in the first place?

Yeah, well, and I think actually our approach with IBM has been to not have it be only the LLM. Like, that's only going to get you so far. And we actually really bring a lot of deep static analysis, a lot tools and understanding of the platform. Because often these code bases, they're not small, right? We're talking tens or hundreds of millions of lines of code, right, that an enterprise may have on this stack.

And it's all interconnected. It's all intertwined. And that's a scope that there might be slight differences in how something shows up in one part of the application, but shows up somewhere else. And it is just too hard really for an LLM at this stage to be able to understand those nuances. And when they're then working at that scale to, in theory, automatically translate all of this, you're gonna have ...

There's inherently going to be hallucinations, there's going to errors, there's gonna be misunderstandings. And the challenge then also is that often our clients don't have ways of, they don't know exactly what the behavior is meant to be. They don't comprehensive tests around this. And if you're using the same technology to create those tests, you're gonna inherently have some of the same problems also, right, likely show up in those tests. So you don't really have a way.

To validate that, I mean, these retail banking applications, for example, or core banking applications, you know, pick your favorite industry, they're not like a compiler, right? They're not, like, fully documented, you have the spec of how it's supposed to behave, you can absolutely, you can run it and validate if it's right or not. These are applications where, you now, something happened maybe to the specific bank in 1994 and you know because of some lawsuit or something that happened or some regulatory audit or something, they made a change that's unique to them. And it's built into the logic of their application, and then it's been piled on and piled on, right? And maybe it's applicable to a subset of clients that were, you know, built in at that time, but not going forward.

This is the type of nuance and detail of the business logic that are built in these applications that you can't just expect an LLM all on its own to be able to fully appreciate and do. So that's where we really believe in marrying the power of the LLM, really kind of in more bite size or incremental chunks aided by the human to be and then our static analysis and deep program-level analysis to really map out and understand the interconnections between all these pieces to help prompt the LLLM in a smarter way. So, there's a lot of prompt engineering and context engineering that goes into working with these LLMs to get the most out of them in these languages that don't have as much public code available. Yeah, I love this kind of picture that you're drawing of almost like it's like this archeology that needs to be done. You know, you like open up the hood and it's kind of searching through that world.

And I guess in some ways, I don't know if you'd agree with this or if it's too strong of a statement. It's like there's maybe modernization that we probably could not have practically taken on prior to LLMs, right? That in essence, like the LLM is just getting us to like understand the code just enough for the human experts to be able to do the modernization. And so in some ways like now more mainframes are like more potentially capable of being modernized than was true, I don't know, maybe even 24 months ago, do you agree? I think AI is a huge accelerant and I think the scale and scope of the challenge before was so daunting that, you know, it was hard to be, to really kind of take a bite at it, right?

And I think that the scale is still large, so it's, to me, I think it's still really about an incremental approach. Focus on what exactly what problem are you trying to solve? You know, is it agility? Is it a particular area of the code that you know has a lot of transformation or is really critical to changes that are happening in your business that you want to re-architect because you want it to be able to be worked on by a lot more people at the same time or expand to new capabilities and think about it in an incremental way, always focusing ultimately on the ROI that you're trying to achieve, and then use these AI tools to help you accelerate that. The other thing that I think people don't think about is, well, if you're introducing all this change into your traditional environments.

If you're still using old processes and old source control systems and not a modern DevOps tool chain and modern agile DevOps practices, you're gonna be hard pressed to get that much application change through your system in a way that manages your risk and ensures your quality. So as part of bringing AI into the system, you really need to look at, and we've had a number of clients that have done this very successfully, really modernizing your development practices. It's not Z-specific and it's not rocket science, right? But it is cultural change and people change and we know that that takes time, but it's an important investment if you're really gonna get the most out of the productivity and scalability kind of throughput of changes that you can achieve with these AI tools. Yeah, as always, it's like the cultural change is such a big part of it. So, well, that's that's

great. And a lot more to catch up on there.

I'm gonna move us on to our next topic today. I want to talk a little bit about this kind of interesting reality check. Some of our listeners may have seen it floating around on LinkedIn. It was one of those images that go super viral. And normally I think we avoid that kind of daily viral content.

But I think this one in particular was worth talking about. So a guy basically did a little visualization where he basically said, let's plot like the entire population of the world. And then we basically say like, how many people have not used AI? You know, how many people have not used a chat bot, you know how many have not paid for AI, how many who have not, you know used a coding scaffold, right, like Cursor or Claude Code. And, you know, not surprisingly, it just turns out that like the number of people who have actually used AI and used AI in the way that we spend a lot of time on MoE talking about is like tiny, tiny, tiny, and so, Maryam, this is maybe a good like point to bring you in on this conversation is, you know, I saw that and I'm kind of like, wow, okay, like the, we're just kind of getting started, which is I think a good way to feel because like the nature of AI is to always feel like you're behind.

So I curious about just like your reflections on kind of that visualization and I guess what it gets you thinking about. And Tim, I love visualizations that are data-driven. So let's talk about data and a specific report that you just mentioned. The population of the world, 8 billion people, right? Let's just assume that the numbers are correct.

84 persons have not used AI before. That translates to what? 6.8 or 6.5 billion.

Let's assume if we wanna get these people online, what is the cost and what's the size of the opportunity? To make it. All right, back of the napkin calculation. So let's just assume that AI interaction is going to be, hey, my appliance is broken, I want to call the company. When I call the companies, AI is augmented. So a customer care,

very simple situation. The average duration of a customer care call, a minute and a half. That's roughly 500 words. So let us just say half of it is AI, half of is the person. It maps to 300 token.

If we want to get that 6.8 billion people online, just for one single interaction with AI per month, you're going to need how many billion token? Roughly one billion token. So you're gonna need compute to enable one billion tokens. If you map it to the GPUs of the board today, it's roughly 10 million H100s at the speed of 100 tokens per second per GPU.

Just to put that in context, the entire GPU count of the world is estimated today to be in the range of 100,000 to low million. We are talking about 10 million new GPUs, right? So when I think about this, when I hear this, the size of the opportunity is like, wow, we can have infrastructure to power that up. We can have the electricity and all the resources that is going to power it up. We can have the talent that is going to put into work to build the data centers.

Keep going up the stack, the technology that powered this up. So if you want to be positive in ROI, there is a cost associated that creates a lot of opportunities in a sector of the market, but also the value that is going to be created to make this investment make sense. Positive ROI, the creation of value. I think that's the sweetest spot that I'm personally super excited about. Because that requires exploration of new use cases, new ways of thinking that AI hasn't explored because we need to think out of the box to justify the investment that is required to make it happen, right?

That's right. I think you're getting to exactly what I want to talk about is that like, you know, like, like a lot of things on LinkedIn, it's kind of like, ah, you know, it was just like something that you pass by. But I think the more I think about it, the more sort of interesting it becomes, because clearly the effect of the data visualization is to say, there's this like huge market out there for AI. But I think, Maryam, what you're pointing out, I think is really interesting, which is basically like, but also like the challenges we will need to overcome to deliver AI to those people is also like, colossal. Um, and I guess I don't know, Kaoutar, are like, I mean, on the hardware side, I'm kind of curious about how you think a little bit about this is that like, is the apparent giant market that's out there for AI even accessible right now?

Just given like the state of compute. Like it would just presume like a build out, which is like really, really crazy from even where we are right now. And everybody agrees right now that what we have is pretty crazy. Definitely, I think it's the compute cost, the infrastructure cost, they're huge right now. So adoption definitely will depend on the affordability, the infrastructure, but also the trust.

And how do we embed AI into everyday workflow, not just these standalone chat apps. And I really think, of course, these visualizations are showing us this big kind of gap between the reality and the hype. The tech communities are exaggerating the adoption because they see themselves using AI, but adoption metrics really tell a different story. So, of course, there is a real market here beyond kind of the Silicon Valley bubble, which is virtually untouched. And it's a huge runaway for growth, but the barriers here, they're not just technical.

They're a lot way beyond that. And the cost is also a big equation factor here. But I think if we want to maybe think beyond the bubble here, to really get, you know, my thinking is to really get to that true AI revolution isn't just about, you know, everybody using, for example, ChatGPT, but it's really when AI becomes invisible, embedded into the software and the services that people already use without really thinking about it as AI. And I think that's where we really can kind of say that, you know, we've reached, you know, the AI revolution. It will just become invisible.

But of course, that requires huge undertaking by government, by industry, by lots of different institutions and the infrastructure and the compute and the GPUs, all of that. How do we get to that in a sustainable way? And it's not just about always building these large models, but tiny models, the The small LLMs are also big factor of that because they reduce the cost, but they can also get embedded into everyday lives of gadgets and IoT and edge AI, et cetera. I think to get that, there is a lot of research ongoing to really compress these models, make them efficient. We already see some really great POVs on that.

You know, demos, et cetera, but, you know there is some runway here to really get to that reality. That's right. Yeah, and I think the kind of like diffusion question is a really interesting one. Because I think you know in practice, we're not gonna snap our fingers and have another two million H-200s and the power to run those chips, you know, tomorrow, right? As yeah, I think there's so much pressure to try to continue to drive adoption And I guess Skyla, I don't know.

I mean where that puts me is kind of well, maybe the future actually is like much smaller models everywhere and in everything, right, that like you need to find a way to kind of run these models on smaller and smaller devices with less and less infrastructure. Like it will turn out that like the future is kind of trying to come up with like clever ways of using GPT-3 to solve a bunch of problems. And that really where maybe where the next like 10 million users come from. Is that kind of where you think the future is headed? Yeah, I think I do actually.

I mean I actually thought the the analogy of the article or the post I think put us at around 2005 in the internet age. I think that's actually a little generous to be honest, you know, in terms of where we are. We're like maybe 2001. And if you look at what the internet did in terms of transforming businesses, turning some things up and down that kind of presumes the boom and bust already happened, which maybe we've had a mini version of. We've certainly seen a lot of growth and then some corrections in the market related to AI. But I do

think to really scale it needs to be, it needs to be very focused again on the outcomes that we're driving. And I think the challenge with AI also is that because it's not, you know, declarative, right? You don't know what you're gonna get every time. How we apply that is gonna change. And it's, I think we fully wrapped our head around what are the right use cases for that type of technology, especially in everyday life.

And so I think that's going to be an interesting dynamic that we see evolve. And as you get to these smaller models, well, they can actually be a lot more predictable too in terms of when you're using them for the purpose that they're built for. You know, they don't know as much to kind of go wander around and potentially pull in, right? They're much more targeted. So. They may become more reliable

as well, right, for these specific targeted use cases, which are more in line with often what I think we expect from these different ways of kind of interacting and using technology to solve our problems in everyday life. So I do think it's going to trend towards the small or perhaps a hybrid model, right? You'll use small as much as you can, but there are going to be some things where, Yeah, absolutely. You want that reasoning that, that large-scale thinking, that creativity almost, right, that comes from those larger models. And so, I actually don't think it's gonna be either or.

I think we'll see a lot, you know, we've swung the pendulum over to, I think everyone's enamored with frontier models right now. But the practical reality of implementing those for every use case and the cost that comes with them, plus the power and everything else you talked about, you know, is gonna become a limiting factor. And so from a practical purpose, we'll just start to bring in smaller models, but bring in a complimentary and a hybrid approach. Yeah, definitely. I was joking with a friend recently that's like, we're going to go back to the earlier era of like those desktop towers with the turbo button, where it's like the model will run largely on kind of low mode, but like when you really need the juice, you know, there'll be like a button that you push basically.

Yeah, if I might add to Tim, of course, you know, I think SLMs are really critical for adoption because, you know, they really bring that local cheap AI to the masses. But they're alone, they're not enough. You know, this, they also break, you know, down when you have, you know, deep multi-step reasoning, cross-domain synthesis, you know, really doing novel problem solving. As I think it was mentioned, the Winian architecture, it's gonna probably be like a tiered intelligence or layered, you know, stacks, where you have SLMs everywhere, which kind of maybe the default behavior, handling routine tasks. But you still need, you now, large models as these escalation engines where, but you only use them when needed, you know, for complex reasoning, for orchestration, for strategic decisions.

But I also think we need something that glues all of these things together. Maybe the agents could glue it all together where SLMs do the work and the LLMs think when required and then the agents decide who to ask and when. So it's like, it's kind of mirrors how humans work, reflexes, habits, deep thinking. But I think this is gonna be really important. And of course, adoption.

It's not, you know, isn't blocked by capability anymore. It's also blocked by cost, latency, trust, governance. So this is a complex ecosystem where all of these things need to play together. Maryam, maybe a final question to you to close out this topic. We've been talking a little bit about what would need to sit behind the distribution of AI to many more people.

But I think there's something in your original response, which I found was quite interesting, was you are talking a bit about, well, we also need to reimagine what the applications even look like. And curious about how you think a little about that. It seems very obvious to me that basically how we have served the first x number of users on AI. Is gonna look pretty radically different from how we serve the remaining amount. And it's gonna require new companies and new thinking and new product design.

And it sounds like you've been thinking about that a little bit as well. Yeah, I love it that you asked this question. The technology keeps changing. What we need to pay attention to is the paradigm changes. If you look into the past two years and a half, the whole market collectively was talking about AI augmenting human and human processes.

The example that I used, you call to call center to complain about your appliance broken. We augment AI. We take ... handle some part of the

conversation or you see it's a human process that you go inject AI. What happened in the past month or so with openQA and all of those. I feel like it raised awareness about a new shift in paradigm, which is people augmenting AI. In that world, our processes are going to be changed. The way that we are conducting our life is going to change.

I'm talking about the future, the future we are excited about. A lot of processes are going to be automated by AI agents. Let's just assume for now we have a secure and governed way, a beautiful world that all of these are automated. And the role of a human becomes an orchestrator of an army of intelligent, powerful agents, AI modules available at your disposal to do what you need to do, to create new things. When I think about like 25 years ago, I was out of school.

And then, I was taking a math exam at university. Calculator was banned, because calculator was like, you were not supposed to use calculator. It was cheating. But calculator was a tool that we don't spend our time on manually calculating and do the problem solving to solve bigger problem. That's how I think about AI.

It's just a tool, that unlocks a lot of time and opportunities for us to go. And solve a much bigger problem that today we are not capable of doing. Well, that's a great response. And yeah, I think this will be like really one of the big questions. And I do think that actually it's going to lead to like a completely new generation of companies in some ways, right?

That like, you know, there's no guarantee that like the OpenAIs and the Anthropics of the world will be the ones that kind of, will be the ones, that kind capture this next opportunity. They have a good shot at it, of course, but I think it's going to be like anyone's game. So I think, it'll be really interesting to watch.

I'm gonna move us on to our kind of final topic of the day. Over the last, I would say, three or four episodes of MoE, we have been kind of tracing the lightning arc of OpenClaw from its inception to its current moment, where the kind of originator of the OpenClaw project has now been hired by OpenAI. I really want to do a quick segment just to close out this episode about what comes afterwards, and specifically, how now competitors are trying to nip at OpenClaw's heels. There was a fun article that we caught in Computer World just this past week, focusing on a company called Quill, which has an AI agent called Quilium. And I mention it just because I think how the company is positioning itself is really so interesting in kind of the wake of the OpenClaw sort of moment.

And so I'll read this quote from the CEO of Quill. Quote, OpenClaw is like the ultimate in letting go. It's a little bit of gambling, says Michael Daugherty, Quill founder and CEO. By contrast, Quill is proactive AI with humans in control. And so, you know, I think we can talk about Quill, we can about their product Quillium, but I think the more broad item that I think kind of comes out of the kind of open clause experience seems to be that everybody's like, wow, this OpenClaw stuff, this kind of personal agent stuff is really, really powerful.

But the main thing everybody's worried about is security. There was a great tweet that bounced around. I think it was someone at the open, one of the big labs ran OpenClaw and it was like deleting all of their emails, right? They had to run across the room to stop OpenClaw from running. It feels like the next stage of competition here.

And Maryam, I'll maybe kick it to you to kind of start us off here, is really how do you get security by design for these agents? Because on one part, their power is that they can go anywhere. The problem is that, they can't go anywhere, and so how we resolve that, I don't know. I don't know, and I'm curious if you've got advice for your listeners on how that is evolving and how we do actually make these types of tools secure for use. Tim, two weeks ago, I was with our client advisory board and I posed a similar question to them. I said, what is the biggest

challenge that you have as you're thinking about operating AI agents in production? The number one challenge that almost everyone acknowledged, that's the one to focus, was accountability. Who is accountable? When things fail, how can I audit the lineage and go back and see where this was coming from? Was it from the entity that trained the pre-trained LLM?

Was it the person that built the agent? This agent, some of them are third-party agents. Some of the you build yourself your own agents in less than five minutes. They connect to tools. So even if you build your agent, you give access to external tools that are out of your control.

So is it the tool that caused that bad behavior? Is it the person that is stitched together orchestrated a business or a workflow and put it in front of the user that this bad behavior happened? Or it was the end user in this term can be a bad actor that did something? So who is accountable here? And when you go one level deeper, accountability is a big thing.

When you venture to security, that's identity. Where's the identity of the agent? Who is responsible for the actions that the agent is taking? But also what level of access are we comfortable to hold this agent accountable to? When you go to risk and compliance, risk and compliance leaves and breathes risk analysis, the risk exposure.

Okay, the task that is assigned to this agent, what is the risk associated? How can I define guardrails and policies? And how can I enforce that policy at the agent level for agents that are billed somewhere else, some of them third party, and for the agents that they're running everywhere. That's the complexity of what the world is dealing with. At IBM, we call it Agent Ops.

We recognize that this is the problem. Let's see how we can solve it. Step number one, we need to really understand what the agent is doing. So, we don't have to have an army of agents. But it's also important to know what they are doing, so you have the transparency and traceability of the actions, what the agents is doing?

Step number two is to make sure they do the right thing, right? So just knowing what they do is not necessarily ensuring that they do the right thing. Yeah, right. I mean, you guys, you can know that it's deleting all your emails, right? Exactly.

So that's where eval comes in. And at this point in the market, that's very enterprises or everyone in the markets is struggling. Eval is not mature yet. It's evolving, it's rapidly evolving. Most of the technology players are focused on eval, and that's the area we see every day something coming up. Then now let's say

you ensure that the agent does the right thing. Like I have an army of agent, I define a task for them, I evaluate their process, but then I need to optimize. It's not that you can just say, hey, unless you want to burn cash, I have a army of agents, I want to send them to a most powerful LLM that is out there 24x7. When I'm sleeping, do whatever you want do. Hey, in the morning, you're going to see the cost.

Right? So optimize all of those. And then last but not least, policy enforcement. How can I define what the agent can and cannot do and hold them accountable through the policy enforcement and guardrails that we are designing? I think these four areas is the areas that everybody in this market should think about when they hear OpenClaw or anything else.

No, that's a great framework for thinking about it. And it gets me thinking a little bit about kind of like, well, okay, there's lots of levers, right, for trying to control the risk from these agents, right? I think, Maryam, you pointed out kind of, like, well, accountability and transparency are gonna be one way of doing it. Kaoutar, I'm curious from your perspective. Like do you think eventually some of the security for agents will go down to the hardware level?

Where you basically say, like hey, you need to have cryptographic signature to run anything on this hardware? Or do you think a lot of these security issues will be dealt with really more at the software layer? It's a very good question. I think it has to be both. It has to be dealt at the upper levels, the system level and the hardware level.

So I think security by design involves multiple layers. You need first to have this blueprint for agents where you look at how do you do default deny autonomy with these explicit approval gates? How do you basically have this least privileged identity kind of given each agent as a separate identity? You give them a separate identify and then you also have minimal scopes, kind of short-lived credentials and so on. So all of these things need to be handled at the user space, not really at the hardware, the application level or at the frameworks and the orchestration layers.

Isolation by default, I think, is also very important, having these sandbox environments where you run these tools in hardened sandboxes, you know, container, VM isolations, no implicit file system access, no local shell by default. You have things like maybe an egress controls, only white-listed domains. And you need also to do this at maybe a firewall or policy engine level, where you insert control layers between model outputs and tools like validating the arguments, enforcing things like create limits, blocking sensitive patterns. So it's, you know, and also, you know, memory and data controls, you know, where you keep sensitive contexts, you know, or, you know, kind of think of it as local first where possible. And you separate kind of the task memory, the user preferences, the secrets.

So it is a very kind of deep undertaking that has to touch across multiple layers and need to be treated as a first-class citizen, where you need to have the hardware and the software across multiple layers work together to enforce all of these gates. Yeah, there's a lot to do. Skyla, maybe I'll give you the kind of final question here of the segment. You know, typically I think when we thought about security or safety for software, we're kind of like, okay, we've got this program. Is it secure or safe?

Part of the problem, it seems to me, is that like with lots of agents running around, you have this kind of problem where like, maybe the safety of any one, two, three, four agents is safe. But the four of them kind of all interacting together is gonna create some really unexpected outcome. And so that all kind of really seems to me that it's gonna require like a pretty different discipline of thinking about kind of assurance and security. And I think you're, in some ways, a great person to talk about it. Because I think right now, I assume that no one's like, here's my mainframe, send in a bunch of agents and do whatever you want in it.

But we wanna kind of eventually get there, and so you need to be able to create some kind of insurance for these types of systems. Um, and so I don't know, I think even in kind of like the specific case of mainframes. Uh, curious about how you think about like how long it's going to be until we can really kind of deploy multiple agents to work on this kind of thing. Yeah, so actually, we're already on that journey. So we actually do offer a domain-specific targeted agentic framework that runs on the mainframe.

And we are delivering agents and working with partners and others in the ecosystem to deliver agents on the platform. And aside from the developer scenario, which we talked about at the beginning, where certainly there's agents involved, but that's on code, there's controls you can test, you can decide what you deploy. We're actually talking about agents that are helping our clients with operations, with database, DBA activities, with helping to understand problems that maybe are happening in their environment. We have clients that actually are interested in bringing business use case-oriented agents to the platform as well to perhaps take over some of the business analyst type of work that they have in their business, but leveraging mainframe data. The way that we're really thinking about this is that there's, you know, security is really embedded deeply into the mainframe platform.

And it's been built up, you now, over decades, audited, you know sort of all the, all the proof points right within the platform. And so whenever a user is effectively invoking an agent, we tie that back to the user's credentials and what the user is actually allowed to do on the platform. So no agent will be able to do anything that a us=er couldn't actually do with themselves. So if a user doesn't have access to go change a config or go change something on the platform, that agent's not gonna do it either, right? And actually, our agents today are really focused more on giving insight, doing analysis, making recommendations.

I think over time, as we build trust, it'll go to more taking action on a platform or maybe certain classes of actions, like hey, maybe a health check can go run autonomously, and there are certain things that are considered safe, right, to potentially change or manage, and some of that might happen automatically, but still report, audit, you know, give the clarity as to where and how that happened, by who and or what, as Maryam was talking about. So we're really thinking about how do we marry those agents into the existing security profile that we have on the platform and leverage what's there as opposed to trying to reinvent something from scratch. Because it's all really kind of baked in, so it becomes kind of reinforcing that way to leverage it. Maybe a final note, the producers are passing along to me that Maryam, you actually spoke a little bit about kind of security by design and sort of scaling with agents on a recent tech summit episode. Curious about if there's anything you would want to add from that episode or if we just should point people to it to listen if they want to hear more about this topic after the show.

Yeah, so I went deeper on a practical enterprise application, a fireside conversation with John Whittaker from EY, and we looked into what is the reality of the market and what Agent Ops mean for enterprises to actually get into the four levels that we talked about. Like if you remember, we talked about what the agent does, if that's the right behavior, how can I do the policy enforcement and how can I optimize that? There is a lot of different products out there, the same for our portfolio, targeting risk and compliance officers, targeting security professionals, targeting business users, targeting developers. This is a teamwork between all these personas to shape what is a good behavior of the agent and how can we enforce it. So a developer in this climate needs to work directly with risk and compliance officer to really understand those risks.

Otherwise, it's just gonna be, hey, automating a number of tasks, and we saw what happened on the news over the past month in terms of security breaches. So everything that we do is intentional, and that conversation, I encourage all your viewers to go in, was a down-to-the-feature-level product conversation and a demonstration of how can you do that with the technology that is available to you today. That's great. Well, we'll definitely link to it in the episode notes here. And that's all the time that we have for today.

Kaoutar, Skyla, Maryam, thanks for joining us as always. Hopefully we'll all have you on the show very soon. And thanks to all you listeners. If you enjoyed what you heard, you can get us on Apple podcasts, Spotify and podcast platforms everywhere. And we'll see you next week on Mixture of Experts.