---
video_title: "Inside a Neuron: The Building Blocks of a Neural Network & AI"
video_id: H_jD5xa1nRg
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H_jD5xa1nRg
video_date: 2026-02-09T12:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Ready to become a certified SOC Analyst - QRadar SIEM V7.5 Plus CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst? Register now and use code IBMTechYT20 for 20% off of your exam → https://ibm.biz/BdbNZp
  
  Learn more about Neural Networks here → https://ibm.biz/BdbNZh
  
  How does a single neuron power a neural network? 🤖 Legare Kerrison explains how artificial neurons process data, using weights, biases, and activation functions like Sigmoid and ReLU to detect patterns. Learn how these building blocks help train AI models for real-world tasks. Watch to explore more!
  
  AI news moves fast. Sign up for a monthly newsletter for AI updates from IBM → https://ibm.biz/Bdpc9c
  
  #neuralnetworks #aitraining #weights #biases
---
Every neural network is just a collection of neurons, each making tiny mathematical decisions. My goal today is going to be to show you what a single neuron does, and how it transforms numbers into signals and learns which features within its training data matter most. Okay, so when we're trying to understand a neural network, the first building block we need to understand is this artificial neuron. Each neuron is going to take a vector as an input and then output a signal. So, what is a vector? A vector is going to be an ordered list of numerical features that represent

properties of data. So, you can represent a lot of data as a vector. Say we're training a neural network to predict housing prices. Here we have a chart showing different features common to houses: square footage, bedrooms, bathrooms, zip code. And then we have normalized values which are the machine's encoding of what this data means. And then the input vector for this home is going to

look something like this.

And this vector right here is what's going to go in to our neuron. Now, over the course of training, the neural network might learn that square footage is super important in predicting housing pricing. So, we'd multiply that normalized number by a value of 0.9 to represent its importance. While maybe the bathrooms are less important to predicting housing prices, so we'd multiply that by 0.2. Each feature here is getting multiplied by

its learned importance or weight, and on and on like this to get the weighted sum. Which looks like this, or explicitly this. Now, every neuron in a layer sees the same input vector. The same four features—size, bedrooms, bathrooms, zip code—in this simplified case. But what they do with those numbers is different, because each neuron is going to have its own set of weights. The weights are what's determining what this neuron is paying attention

to. The first neuron might care most about square footage and zip code, and the second might react more to the number of bedrooms or bathrooms. We can think about them specializing. And if one neuron consistently helps to reduce loss by paying attention to large suburban homes—in other words, it contributes to this neural network outputting the correct answer— then it will learn and evolve to detect that pattern more and more strongly. And over time, each neuron discovers a different useful signal, a pattern that's going to help us predict price. Now, if you were just

computing this weighted sum, the vectors and their importances, it would come out to be any number. So we want to make this standardized between zero and ... and one. And to make that happen, we're going

to apply the sigmoid function, more commonly known as the activation function. I think of it as like the sigmoid squishification function, because it's going to compress any input number into a range between 0 and 1, making it easier for our network to decide if a pattern is present. Though today, most neural networks are going to use ReLU instead of sigmoid for efficiency, we're using sigmoid here for simplicity of conceptualizing this. Now you'll see the b at the end of this equation, and that's our bias term. This here shifts the activation threshold, and it helps the neuron fire even when all the inputs are small. So, this activation function is what makes a neural

network nonlinear. Meaning, without activation functions, stacking neurons would just give you another linear model, and nonlinearity is what allows these networks to learn complex patterns. The activation decides whether a neuron fires, and whether its weighted sum is strong enough to make it to the next layer. So each neuron outputs a value after applying the activation function. That output is the activation level. A highly activated neuron means that for this particular

house, the neuron's output is large, close to 1 for sigmoid, or positive or high for ReLU. And it's the neuron's way of saying this pattern I'm responsible for is strongly present in the input. So if this is what's happening in one neuron, what's happening in a network of them? A single neuron can only capture one relationship, but by stacking many, this allows the network to learn combinations. Every neuron in a neural network is connected to every other neuron in the next layer, and there are going to be different weights and biases that can be tweaked for each connection. The training process is all about figuring out what the ideal

configuration of these dials is. Now, engineers can use open-source projects and tools like MLflow to track and visualize how these weights and biases evolve during training, reinforcing the idea that training equals adjusting weights and biases. So, MLflow lets you log and compare runs, visualize parameter changes, and just understand how different configurations affect the model's overall performance. And during training, the network tweaks these weights and biases to reduce prediction error. And that's backpropagation, a topic for another time. If you

learned something today, please be sure to hit the like button and subscribe for more content around development and AI. Cheers!