---
video_title: "Claude Mythos: Marketing hype or the end of cybersecurity?"
video_id: x_fBn7lto4Q
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x_fBn7lto4Q
video_date: 2026-04-15T10:01:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Read more about AI raising cybersecurity stakes → https://ibm.biz/~ftmuvbGVK
  
  Anthropic says its newest AI model, Claude Mythos, has found thousands of zero-day vulnerabilities across every major OS and web browser.
  
  It's so powerful, they won't release it publicly. Instead, they’re restricting access to a handful of trusted partners, who get to experiment with Mythos through a new initiative called Project Glasswing.
  
  Where does that leave the rest of us, who don’t get to tinker with perhaps the most advanced model yet? 
  
  This week on Security Intelligence, Sridhar Muppidi, Michelle Alvarez, and Dustin “EvilMog” Heywood join host Matt Kosinski to discuss what Mythos and Glasswing really mean for the average security pro.  
  
  How much is hype? How much is the real deal? And how could this limited release backfire? 
  
  Then: The FBI’s 2025 Internet Crime Report saw scam losses jump 26%, and Accenture found a 127% increase in malicious hackers trying to recruit the employees of their targets.  
  
  All that and more on Security Intelligence. 
  
  00:00 – Introduction
  1:22 -- Claude Mythos and Project Glasswing 
  12:26 -- The 2025 Internet Crime Report 
  20:19 -- Attackers recruiting more insiders 
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  Follow the Security Intelligence podcast on your preferred platform → https://ibm.biz/~DsOB1KwNu
  
  #AISecurity #Glasswing #insiderthreats
---
Project Glasswing folks. It's all the rage. But what does it really actually mean for everyday cybersecurity pros? Cybersecurity professionals can be better enabled to find bugs they never would have seen. Is it a revolution? It's left to be seen, but it's definitely something to take

notice. It's going to let me see some real vulnerabilities that probably are there, but I couldn't see them before so that I can focus my limited time on things that actually matter and get hacked. Hello and welcome, folks to Security Intelligence, IBM's weekly cybersecurity podcast, where our expert panelists turn the biggest industry news stories into practical takeaways you can use like they just did. I'm your host, Matt Kosinski, and joining me this week, as you've seen, we've got Sridhar Muppidi, IBM fellow CTO, IBM Security, Michelle Alvarez, Manager, X-Force Strategic Threat Analysis, and Dustin Heywood, aka EvilMog, X-Force executive managing hacker, senior technical staff member. And today we're talking about the latest FBI internet crime report and our old friends at Lapsus$ who might be trying to lure your employees away to join their gang. But first, folks, you know, we had to talk

about Claude Mythos Preview and Project Glasswing.

Right. Anthropic is at it again, and by it, I mean Project Glasswing, a new cybersecurity initiative where Anthropic is allowing a handful of partners, including AWS, Apple, JPMorgan Chase and the Linux Foundation to use what it calls its most powerful model yet: Claude Mythos Preview. Now, Mythos is supposedly extremely good at finding vulnerabilities. Anthropic says it has found thousands of zero day vulnerabilities across every major operating system and web browser including flaws in critical, decades old code like OpenBSD, FFmpeg, and the Linux kernel. Anthropic also says that Mythos is just too powerful to release widely in the wrong hands, it could do real damage. And so the idea behind Project Glasswing is to allow trusted partners to

experiment with using mythos to find and fix vulnerabilities and defend their systems. Anthropic has committed to sharing with they and their partners. Find with the rest of us in a timely manner. We don't get our hands on it, we don't get to use it. So we can't speak to how this thing actually works. And that leaves me wondering, what does it mean for the rest of us? I'll start

off right there with that question of, you know, Anthropic says, look, we've got to keep this thing closed down to trusted partners because we're worried about the damage it can do. But I'm wondering if there might be some downsides to that. And I'll throw to you first. Michelle, what do you think about this? This, you know, choice to release it to a limited set and not bring it wider. What's your take there? Cautious way of approaching things, of course. You know, we've seen

with, you know, open models that the more the merrier often in terms of being able to solve problems within open environments. But I think in this case, maybe this is a best foot forward, you know. We don't want to necessarily have this in the wrong hands, and give the um, the individuals and organizations, an opportunity to sort of really deep dive and come together. I think there's a significant number of organizations involved, so I think that will be fruitful in that sense. Oh, Sridhar, how about your thoughts on this decision to release it to just a close number of partners? And any thoughts there? It is easy to go find vulnerabilities. We've

done that to a certain extent. I'm not saying we're perfect. We've done that to a certain extent. And like I said earlier on, it gives me a microscope to do a better job. But I worry about the noise, right? Do I really need to go after everything? And we are already taxed in terms of

the time that we have. So I like listing it. So that number one, you know, write the exploit code and validate the exploit code that is indeed a vulnerability that is exploitable right versus not. And then two helps us in terms of prioritizing. Right. So that as an industry we can

focus on breaching those or rather not breaching but closing those big holes right, very quickly before we open it up and, and worry about the sand. Right. Versus focusing on the rocks. Dustin, I want to throw to you before we move on to the next question, what's your thoughts on this idea of like, look, we're releasing it to limited partners and we may never release it to the public. Do you think what do you think about that? So, I mean

they've already been doing this to some extent. Anyways, if you look at AI capabilities and some exposed models, it's like, if you talk anything related to cryptography or anything like software they already get, they dumb themselves down, say, I can't do that, I can't help you out. I had my account banned for a week because I was working on a CTF challenge for, a conference called CypherCon. So none of this is new. The big problem we're running into is a lot of these bug reports are what we call AI slop. Like if we look at curl, for example, a lot of the bugs in there were

just absolutely garbage. Now we're getting high quality bugs out. Okay, now we start looking into this. But at the same time, you know, finally, vulnerability is easy or a proposed vulnerability. We've been doing it for ages, but writing the exploit does require multiple steps. But I do

want to caution this in that if you look at some of these things coming out of Anthropic Mythos they turned off safety guardrails such as things like browser sandboxing, which is what we do in real exploitation anyways. But, you know, this is, you know, with certain guardrails disabled to write proof of concepts. So we're at that phase right now where it's not the end of the world, but we don't want to see all this hype being spewed across the enterprise of here's low quality bug reports. This is our chance to actually make a real difference. Yeah. And I think this theme is

already emerging. And so I'm probably going to put it to you folks bluntly, but like we do have to separate some of the marketing hype from the reality. Right? Because like if according to some people that, you know, this is the end of cybersecurity as we know it, the sky is falling right? But as all of us here have kind of pointed out already, it's like, look, this is an advanced development in our capabilities. But yeah. So I guess the question I'm trying to get at here is

is, is how much of this is hype and how much of this is reality? And Sridhar, I'll ask you, you know, what do you think? Do you think there's a lot of hype here or what? What's your take? This is a maturity of the industry from my perspective, right? This is not the first time we've seen it.

Like, if you look at a completely different topic from than what we're doing, like certificates, we used to have a what, 20 year lifecycle. Then we went to ten, then we went to five, then we went to one. Now we are talking about what, 47 days? The only way to deal with that is to be able to automate, right? To be able to do what is right. We should have done it ten years ago so that we

don't have to be in this. Right. I feel the same about okay here. To me, this is a force multiplier giving me an opportunity to go and look at the vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities that can be exploited. And help me write the exploit code very quickly and help me focus and not only focus with the volume of information which is going to come out. We have to now embrace

things like automation, right? So it is helping us get to best practices. I don't think it's bad. We need a reality check once in a while like this. And unfortunately, in our world, reality checks are always sky's falling. But then at some point, the pendulum is going to settle down at the

right place to use this as a force multiplier, right? Yeah, yeah, I like that take, you know, the idea that like, every once in a while we do need that gut check. We need something to kind of come along and say, look, there's going to be a step change here. You got to deal with it. And that kind of reminds me of the way that Jen Easterly reacted. Jen Easterly, for our listeners who may

not know, you know, former director of CISA and the current RSAC CEO, she called Project Glasswing the beginning of the end of cybersecurity, but I think it was a little bit of clickbait because she had a much more measured response. If you actually read it, she says. Basically, look, a lot of our vulnerabilities come from the fact that, like, people put out faulty code, if we have a model as powerful as this to help us write better code, that might change the whole approach we have to cybersecurity. Michelle, I'm wondering what you think of this idea that, like, reapproaching cybersecurity as like maybe we can head off more faulty code before it gets out there. Do you think that's something we can do? Do you think we might be on that precipice? How do you feel about that?

Yeah. So I think. Right. Absolutely. I think we can leverage these models, these tools to benefit ourselves. Right. It's sort of a dual purpose, right? The defenders are going to leverage

it to write better code to find vulnerabilities. And attackers, as we see, will leverage it for nefarious purposes. And I think, you know, to kind of go back to the question about, right, is this hype versus not hype? Sitting in threat intel, we get this question all the time, right? Should I be concerned? Am I at risk? And you know, the first question we ask is what's your threat

profile look like? Right? What is your industry? What is your geography? But with this, this is sort of impacting all, right? If this gets in the hands of the wrong person, this could

definitely be detrimental to all industries, all geographies where organizations operate. So I think the first key in all cyberthreat situations is just don't panic. Right. Make sure you have a plan in place and, know what your exposure is and already be doing the things that would be recommended regardless if this was something that was going on. Yeah. I'm glad you

gestured to the fact that, like, you know, there's a real threat, there's a real risk of this kind of thing maybe falling into the wrong hands. Right. Because, you know, part of the stated reason for anthropic kind of holding this thing back is that they say we don't want it to fall into the wrong hands, but there are people who are like, it's going to get there, or a model that is similar is going to get there anyway. Like it's, you know, just a few. It's a matter of time., Dustin, what do you

think of this idea that, like a model this powerful is going to find its way into the bad guys hands anyway? It's just inevitable. Do you think that's true? Well, it's true. That being said we do have this thing called responsible disclosure. The security industry has been built

on this for the last 20 years. You know, we have the 30s, 60, 90 model. And this is kind of what we're doing is we're getting it out of the hands of, like, X-Force offensive research, where we can go and find vulnerabilities long before you know it gets out there. No, absolutely. And in a lot of ways, you can't quite predict exactly what's going to happen. But as you mentioned, you know, we've

seen this pattern before, right? So we're not walking into completely new territory. And this is something I always have to remind myself of too, because I look, I can get caught up in the hype. Absolutely. It's fun sometimes to even get caught up in the hype. But like you do have to remember

we're not starting from scratch every single time, right? Like this isn't. We're not erasing everything that came before. A lot of what we were already doing still applies. There's already a WormGPT, right? Which is which is doing a lot of similar stuff, may not be at this scale and may

not be this pervasive. May not be accessible to everybody. But I think if you don't disclose it sooner or later the hacker community will get there. Right. It's a question of time. So I think

you know, by doing it, I kind of believe in ripping the band aid very quickly so that we know what we're dealing with and then put the appropriate governance and appropriate guardrails around how do we deal with this tsunami. Right. Well, I was just going to say, I thought EvilMog promised that the world wasn't ending, but then it just sounded like it was. So I mean, it's a great work for me and it's not going to end the world, but it's going to lead to burnout. A lot of security professionals. Absolutely. And I do think that is like, you

know, this we've been following this story of like, bug bounty programs shutting down for quite some time. Right., and you know, I do think one of the things we have to figure out is, is how are we going to deal with bug bounties? How are we going to deal with vulnerability hunting in, you know, this era of like post AI release? I don't think we figured it out. I still I think we still

have to figure it out. And I think like, like EvilMog said, our whole open source ecosystem kind of depends on this. That said, I do have to move us along. Unfortunately, we could spend a whole episode on this, folks. But I do want to just emphasize, Sridhar, I really like that point you made at the end there about maybe it's best to just rip the band-aid off, get it out there so we know what we're dealing with and put those guardrails out there. I'll leave our listeners on

that and let's move on then to the next story for today. This is the FBI's 2025 Internet Crime Report. Now, this is the latest annual report from the Internet Crime Complaint Center, or IC3. And it highlights a couple of troubling trends for me. The big ones that stuck out were there were over a million complaints filed last year, and we saw more than $20 billion in reported losses, which is a 26% jump from the previous year. That's a pretty significant increase in the amount of money people are losing

to these scams and cyberattacks. The other thing that caught my attention was that the report flagged 22,000 complaints with an AI component. You know, these were mostly like investment scams romance scams, BEC that used AI in some way. And these totaled nearly $900 million in losses, which against that $20 billion number, maybe not that big, but still significant. Michelle I want to start here by throwing to you, looking at this report. Did anything kind of stick out

from a threat intelligence perspective for you? Any new changes or things worth paying attention? How did you take it? You know, first, let's put it a little bit more context. This is, largely mostly claims, from United States, right. So it's a very focused report.

I think it's still very significant to also identify what's potentially other larger geographical trends. And I think the thing that stood out to me most was the business email compromise. It's just because we don't see it so much. On the X-Force incident response side of things, and I think that has a lot to do with the organizations that we're engaged with and their level in terms of their security posture being more mature. And so it's just I think eye opening potentially for especially like government and smaller businesses like this is still very much a real issue for organizations. And so that's what stood out for me. And I think

it's something to take note of. Sridhar, any thoughts on why the number just keeps getting higher? Why we can't ever seem to put a cap on this stuff. And any thoughts there? Unfortunately you know, I'm actually happy that it has only grown so much. Right? I was expecting a higher

number because, I mean, look at. Let's check the check this out. Right. It. This is not new. In the

past, we kind of dealt with a badly composed email or DNS, which was very obvious, or pictures which are very obvious over the years, which are very obvious right now. We have gen AI cleaning up all of that. Grammatically correct, looks, you know, accurate. The image looks exactly like EvilMog if I have to. Now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, it gives you a broader area to exploit, not just gullible people who don't know security that we should tell them 14 times. Don't click on anything which is flashing. Instead, it is going to look exactly

where as smart as we think we are, we will be susceptible to that, right? So I would expect it to go beyond, you know, the poor elderly, to a common man to organizations. So I kind of see that as growing very rapidly. Unfortunately, it's going to increase more because of the use of gen AI, because of the use of deception, the probably the use of, you know fake videos, fake audio, all of that, that somebody is going to create as a service package that you basically say that, hey, I want to sound like EvilMog and I go do these eight things. It'll exactly sound like him, and people like me will trust it all. I'm throwing myself under the bus

by the way. Like people, people like me will trust it because I know this guy and he's telling me, go do this and I will be doing this. In the past, I wouldn't be doing that. And it's going to go beyond personal finances to corporations, right, where you can easily cause somebody from giving a password or a token or an access, that has a lot more impact. Who's to say that's not already happening today? Right? I mean, at least my name, evil is in the name, so there's an

automatic warning assumed. But what it's really good at is like tone matching or, pattern matching I use for tone checking all my emails. It's great for that. On the offensive world. So I can say, like, I sound like a fortune 100 CTO. I need to go transfer the encryption keys for some

random system. I am now going to go empty out the HR system with payroll like this is how social engineering works. And who's to say there isn't already a service that does the automatic voice matching. I'm sure there's weird stuff popping around telegram all the time. And that's why I think it will continue to grow. And it's difficult to put a cap until we are talking about some basic

human, as you know, and cultural changes, being able to get to that 201 type of education. Right. Not 101. Right. Like, you know, that is don't click on this and have your password more than ten characters. It really has to get to a higher level and filters have to get to a higher level.

So well it's like reduced friction, right? You know, things like password managers, etc. But the thing that scares me is I'm surprised it's not higher in the senior area. Like, you know, hey, calling grandma, I need to go drain your retirement fund because of XYZ. Like those are the people that are most vulnerable and also the most, you know, susceptible to all of this. So I think to that

point, EvilMog and Sridhar, you also mentioned you're surprised about, that the losses aren't higher. I just think it has to do with underreporting, because I know a lot of people that have been the victim of fraud, but I didn't ask. And so maybe, I don't know, actually, truly. Did they report it to the IC3, right. How many people know to even do that? So I think it's a way

underreported number. No, I think I think that reminds me, actually, it's an embarrassing thing to be able to admit that you fell for a scam and that in hindsight, it looks oh, man, I shouldn't have. But you know, at the at the at the time of the scam, it's a high pressure tactic and you may be asked to send some money and, you know, in the normal sense you would never do. Why would anybody do that? Right. But you do it and you feel embarrassed about it too, right? Sridhar I

like this idea that came up where you pointed out that, like, we have to get to that 201 level of education finally, because like, we've been stuck at 101 for like, ever for like the moment I was born. We've been in 101 forever. My question is like, how do we get to that 201? Can we make it there? EvilMog, I'll ask you first because you got evil in the name. What do you think? How do we get

to the 201 here? So I know this sounds bad, but I think we've actually regressed in internet education. The early days of the internet, you told nobody nothing. You didn't tell them your name, age any of that stuff. You were a cat on the internet as far as everyone was concerned. And now we have

everyone launched with all these rewards programs. We give away so much personal information and it's ingrained into our culture now. Like to even go shopping at the grocery store. I had to give away half of my personal info that needs to change. It all comes down to we're no longer accustomed to paying for things. We become the product. And now that makes it far easier for the

scamming levels. So I think we need to go back to the earlier days of the internet, where we trust nothing on there. We're going to have to move on pretty soon though. But Michelle, I also wanted to ask for your thoughts in terms of like, especially as our threat intelligence analyst here, do you have any takes on like how we move to that 201, how we get there? What's the takeaway there? Any

thoughts? We're not all maybe on the same page. So it depends on if you're speaking to an individual or small to medium sized business or a large enterprise. Right. I think there's some really great cybersecurity awareness training out there, making sure that those trainings are elevated to what's going on currently. Right, so that the, mock exercises or whatever they're demonstrating

is actually reflective of like, what's being seen in the wild. I think is important. Let's move on then, folks. On that note to our final story for today, I'm talking about cybercriminals recruiting your employees. Rumor has it that Lapsus$. Our old friends are actively recruiting the employees of major software, AI and

telecom organizations to help them break in more easily. This comes from some information posts that Ryan Anschutz shared. Anyone who's listening to the show before knows that Ryan Anschutz, a member of X-Force, a common panelist on this show, and he shared an image of a possible recruiting ad from Lapsus$ which states, quote, we pay generously for VPN?VDI access, Citrix or AnyDesk credentials or any internal network entry point. Now, this particular ad isn't verified yet as far as I know, but like, it wouldn't be the first time that cybercriminals have tried this right? I remember a couple of years ago, Lockbit the ransomware gang. They were recruiting people

from legitimate organizations, and Accenture published some data earlier this year that backs up Ryan's post. Here's a direct quote from their research. In 2025, there was a 69% increase in insiders offering their access to hackers compared to 2024, and a 127% surge in hackers recruiting insiders compared with 2022. So both like insiders looking to sell their information and hackers looking for insiders to sell to them increased pretty significantly between 2024 and 2025. My question is why? What do we think is driving this trend? And I'll throw to you first, EvilMog

again, probably because you got evil in the name. I feel like I should ask you, what do you think is driving this trend of insider threat increases? Well, I mean, if you look at the general IT hiring, it's been a race to the bottom pushed to outsourcing, push to lower cost, push to layoffs. The old days of IT, people used to stay at companies for five, six, seven, ten years. Now it's six months if they're lucky, before they are cycled out, turned into contractors. And you know, if you look

at you haven't got a pay raise in 3 or 4 years due to this constant downward pressure you have, the cost of inflation eats away at your dollar. People are struggling out there right now. It's just the layoffs. They're going to go hand out access like Tic Tacs. It's just what happens when this kind of environment is around. Michelle, I'll ask you then, you know, Dustin kind of covered why people are

maybe more eager to sell their access, but do you think the hackers are also just tapping into what they know is there, or do you think it's a shift in terms of tactics? Why do you think we're seeing 127% increase? Any thoughts there? Yeah. Well, I think also. Interestingly, as it kind of started to

put pieces together. Right. Because that's kind of what we do with threat intelligence, we just start to connect the dots. And this comes on the heels of our research that we did with Flare on the North Korea IT worker. Right. So then we have, you know, unwittingly, possibly unwittingly, contractors

that are being leveraged by nation state actors. And now we have willingly insiders. So I see like a real like surge here between those two things with this insider threat. So I think, you know, attackers are going to take advantage of what they know is working, whatever that might be. Right? So whatever's working. Oh, I see this. You know, my threat actor friend over here

is having some success getting the access in leveraging insiders in the company. So I think that starts to just sort of snowball, right? It starts out as this thing, little thing over here. And it just continues and continues. So I'm just more concerned about this whole insider threat, as a whole, because we can see the extent of it again with the IT workers. And then

now with this of the selling of the access. I think it's a significant issue for organizations right now. I think it's a combination for me. Right? I mean, it is cheaper to bribe than attack, right?

It is. We have tremendous amount of layoffs across the US. And I think EvilMog covered it. But I'm being explicit over here. Right. So that leaves people to go and

you know, make a quick buck. The skills have been lowered. I don't need I don't need somebody with a hacking degree to be able to go do that, run this script or give me a token or give me this, you know, access to this one minute or so and so. Right. It becomes really, really lower.

And the second thing is like, you know, ChatGPT or WormGPT or all of these have helped attackers become more professionalized recruitment. So they have the marketing engine. They have a recruitment engine that makes it easier and, you know, targeted to go and attack, get information from people. Right. So it's a combination. There's no one silver bullet per se. But where we are I think you

know, we'll see a little bit more unfortunately. So. And it's also reduced friction also on the payments. Right. The old days used to be had to wire money. Go hide it. Now it's just here's a

cryptocurrency. Press a couple buttons. And now my account's funded. I mean, that's just that's the scary part. If there's, like one trend, I guess, that this whole episode has kind of been touching on it's that, like, we're seeing a lowering of the bar. And by that, I mean, like we're seeing these tools

come out that just make it easier for attackers to attack, for people to find vulnerabilities and hopefully, fingers crossed for us to defend things. But I don't know if we've reached that point yet. And so to close out this episode, I just want to roundtable with you folks. What do we do about it? So what? Michelle, let's start with you. Any thoughts on like how we tackle the insider

threat increase we're dealing with here? And I'm sure there's a few ways to do this. But like with you know, our recruiting practices and really kind of, I guess, focusing on those practices and processes and, and who we're allowing in the door. That's not my wheelhouse, you know. Hopefully, you know, have a solid, HR/recruitment policies in place lots of vetting, and that will maybe in sort of a preemptive sense, tackle that issue from one end and then the opposite end. Well, with regards to the selling of access. Do you

have a dark web, a monitoring solution in place? Are you looking for, you know, those key words domains, etc. to see what's out there. Everything from your credentials to is someone selling access, that can get into your organization. Right? So, I mean, the insider threats

are just like dealing with an external threat. Really. It comes down to permanent access is a bad thing. I'm with I've said this with passwords. They should be rotated constantly. I'm a big believer

in just in time access that needs to be justified with trouble tickets. When you access production data, I mean, if you make it so that even if the attacker gets a full credential and they can't do anything without going through other processes, it's not a problem. I would like to step back for a second. Right. Insider threat says not just the people. It's also the agents, right? Which agents

that will, under good conditions, may turn into a situation that is not supposed to be right. You could cause an agent to giving some of the tokens. In fact, one of the organizations I'm working with, because agents have identity, you can actually talk to them over slack. So I think in first and foremost, it's about understanding the landscape or the attack surface of the insider threat, which is not just what we used to see in the past, but the new where the skills are lowered, the monetary aspects, the technology aspects are going to help a new technology like agents are going to increase the surface of insider threat, right? The second part is then how do I apply the zero trust principles? I know it sounds cliche, but I think end of the

day, that's the best way to summarize in a, in a call like this to say, how do I make sure that you provide least privileged access? This is what EvilMog was saying, right? How do I do? Verify trust but verify right. Context becomes so important. Who's accessing? Why? On what conditions? Context

becomes really important, even though you may have access as a role, but the context becomes important to say, do I really need access or not? Access is the big thing. Reducing it to temporary only is the only way to solve this. Exactly. And the last but not the least is expect this. Expect that you're compromised. So what do you do? You continuously

monitor for anomalies. Not just the anomalies that we used to do with static anomaly detection, but behavioral anomalies. Right. And be able to go and flag changes. So that kind of goes back to the zero trust principles of, making sure that you provide the right level of access for the right reasons, under the right conditions, for the right purpose. Sridhar, I love that. To close this out

there, you mentioned that, like, look, agents are also going to be an insider threat. They're going to change the dynamics and that attack surface, and that isn't we didn't even really open that can of worms. But I'm going to leave our audience to sit and chew on that one, because I do think that's a really important thing to think about. These are a new kind of insider threat that are in our networks now. How are they going to change the calculation? But that, unfortunately, folks, is

all the time we have for today. Thank you so much to our panelists, Michelle and Sridhar and EvilMog Thank you to the viewers and the listeners. Thank you to our producers. Subscribe to Security Intelligence wherever podcasts are found. Stay safe out there. And if you get an email from

EvilMog, don't trust it.