---
video_title: "OpenClaw and Claude Opus 4.6: Where is AI agent security headed?"
video_id: g9LO9M1ZLIk
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g9LO9M1ZLIk
video_date: 2026-02-11T11:01:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore the podcast → https://ibm.biz/BdpHsU
  
  Are enterprises moving too fast with AI—and breaking security in the process? 
  
  In this episode of Security Intelligence, host Matt Kosinski is joined by Sridhar Muppidi, Nick Bradley and Jeff Crume to unpack a pivotal moment in cybersecurity. 
  
  The panel dives into the rapid rise of AI agents and the growing risks of shadow AI in the enterprise, comparing open-source agent platforms like OpenClaw with proprietary models such as Claude Opus 4.6 and its new agent teams. We explore how speed-first AI adoption, unsecured agent implementations and weak separation of duties are creating new attack surfaces—and why executives may be unintentionally fueling the problem. 
  
  The conversation also examines the recent Notepad++ supply chain breach as a warning sign of broader software inventory and supplier risk failures, and analyzes DragonForce’s attempt to reinvent ransomware as a scalable cartel business. 
  
  Along the way, we keep returning to a key theme: Have we optimized for velocity at the expense of security? 
  
  00:00 - Intro 
  01:18 - OpenClaw vs. Claude Opus 4.6 
  15:05 - Move fast. Break security? 
  27:29 - Notepad++ breach 
  38:55 - DragonForce ransomware cartel 
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  Subscribe to the IBM Think newsletter → https://ibm.biz/BdpHs5
  
  #openclaw #claudeopus #shadowai
---
The reality is that these are agents that are doing things for you based on very minimum supervision. Insecurity all too often were seen as either the roadblocks or the speed bumps make your total buzzkill. We're experts at finding the dark cloud in every silver lining. All that and more on security intelligence.

Hello, and welcome to your Security Intelligence, IBM's weekly Cyber security podcast, where our expert panelists turn the biggest industry news stories into practical takeaways you can use. I'm your host, Matt Kaczynski, and not a single one of my book posts has gone viral. Zero. The bots do not like me. Folks. Joining me today, Shridhar, DPD, IBM fellow CTO, IBM security, Nick Bradley of

X-Force Incident Command and not the Situation Room podcast, and Jeff Krumm, Distinguished engineer, master inventor, AI and data security. And he's playing through the pain today, folks, and here's what we're going to be talking about is the move fast and break things moment over the Notepad++ breach Dragon forces ransomware cartel but first open claw clawed opus 4.6 and shadow AI. What is going on with enterprise Agent security?

AI agent security in the enterprise seems to be a kind of an inflection point right now. Last week was a very busy week. We covered Open Claw, the open source AI agent with some major security concerns, and its own social media network, although it is worth noting that, according to an MIT investigation, a lot of the book behavior was just people pretending to be AI agents. So take it with a grain of salt. But last week also saw the release of Claude Opus 4.6, notable particularly

for the introduction of agent teams. These are swarms of multiple clawed agents that can divide and conquer big engineering or analysis tasks. So looking at this news, I kind of see two visions of a genetic implementation here. Right. You've got open claws, kind of anarchic, but highly customizable open source approach and anthropic proprietary models that are a little more locked down. But there's some security in that, and I can see the benefits to both sides. So I kind of want

to throw it to the panelists here because you're the security experts. When you look at these things. Open source versus proprietary agents, what kind of security concerns do you have? Do you lean one way or the other? Jeff, I want to start with you. What's your take here? Sure. Well, I guess if

we're talking about having an AI agent, which is essentially a model accessing tools in a loop, operating autonomously, and you're going to use open source materials. So in other words, let somebody else write code and we don't know who somebody else is, and we don't know what they've done or how trustworthy they are, how skilled they are. And we're going to turn that loose on our system and give it maybe system level privileges so that it can modify files, enter terminal commands and stuff like that. I don't see how any of this could possibly go wrong. It looks like it's going to be just perfect from a security standpoint. There is no mistake in any of those

kind of logical points that we connect. Obviously, I'm being facetious. This is something that is is tremendously powerful if it's used well. But the fact of the matter is, most people this is going to be very opaque. They're not going to see what's going into all of these systems. They're not going

to know what it does. They're using a repository and then they're giving it. I mean, it's the same thing as if you're just downloading code from any old source. And maybe it's got backdoors and malware and all kinds of other source in it. Now, though, it's an AI agent which can do all of this stuff autonomously and at scale. So the issues are more significant. And I think a

well-heeled security principle has never been more important than it is in the world of agent AI. And that's the principle of least privilege. We have to lock these things down. Only give them access that is absolutely necessary that we approve of, that we understand and don't give it to it for any longer than is necessary. So just very, very minimal. Lock these things down. Don't

let them run under your superuser account or you'll regret it. Concerns that came up last week when we talked about Open Claw, was that a lot of users might not totally get what they're there. They might not understand what they're getting into with this. Right. Like an AI agent is a very different kind of piece of software than than your standard app. And so when you install that

kind of thing, you're opening up doors. You might not know that you're opening up. Shridhar, how about you? What's your take here on the kind of open source agent versus proprietary agent question? Do you lean one way or the other in a security context? What are you thinking about? Well,

I think that's not a new topic for us, right? We've been dealing with open source for a number of years. I think the bigger problem over here is are these are the agents. And even if it's a proprietary model or proprietary software. It's a very, you know, nascent area. We are

all maturing over here in this space, right? So regardless of whether it's open source, for sure, open source adds another layer of, you know, um, security risk, like whether it is supply chain related issues. But the reality is that these are agents that are doing things for you based on very minimum supervision. Right? And that's scary to me. That is scary in terms of how

much you want to give them permission to do so, whether it's open source, whether it is in a closed source or the proprietary model. I think what makes sense is, you know, to be able to go provide a sanctioned option, right. People tend to use unsanctioned only because there's no other option. So embrace that. Give people a sanctioned option. Like Jeff said, treat every agent

like an insider, right? Or a privileged account, whether it's open source or not. Open source. Make sure they're only allowed to do what they are allowed to do and nothing more or nothing less. And then, you know, provide things like open clause or cloud with some more guardrails. Write

some rules on which they can act. For example, it's okay to say, hey, go install the software, but maybe leverage a playbook, a defined playbook. That being tested out was this open ended task that may cause more problems. That makes a lot of sense. You know, the the the open source and the proprietary models might cause slightly different backgrounds, but at the end of the day, that question of access and least privilege and guardrails is kind of the same for both of them.

Nick, how about you? What are what's your take here on this open source versus proprietary agent debate? Any thoughts there? Open source has caused a different problem here. And that we're moving so fast. And there's so many options that they're they don't even have to use software

vulnerabilities to take advantage of things that have been, you know, that have been over there were oversights, right? Because we're we're so fast to want to take advantage of the monetary value here because we can save time, we can save resources. It's something we can implement. We don't have to hire more employees, and we'll worry about security later because we can get the job done now and then. By the time you realize that it's too late and you run into situations like what happened with Open Claw, where it was running the indirect prompt injections and it thought it was doing anything wrong, it was processing exactly what it was supposed to. And and you get

busted. So I know we're not going to change and move away from open source and, and stay proprietary completely because, you know, if you do that, you take away the advantage of having the, the, the hive mind to contribute to development as well. Right? So it's it's a very multifaceted risk. And you have to decide what part you want to take advantage of and which parts you're not, and do it smartly. And the problem is, that's not always the case. Yeah,

and I think what Nick is talking about, people are going to do this whether we want them to or not. And Shridhar made a reference to this as well. We can. And I'm a big proponent of this idea. Don't say no. Say how. So if we just tell people don't do it and we don't give them a Schraeder set, a

sanctioned option, an approved version, then they're just going to go do it in the bad way. So it's a whole lot better to say, don't say no. We're not doing agents. They're too risky. Say we're not doing agents in the wide open universe. Just find any agents you want and turn it loose on our

system. Here are a set of agents that we have tested out that we think are useful and we think are not going to, you know, blow us up in the process. So use these. Say how? Don't just tell people. Don't do it. Yeah. And all three of you this is very interesting to me. Right. Because all three

of you are gesturing towards something that I wanted to bring up in this conversation, which is this question of shadow AI. Right? And the pressures that make people adopt this kind of thing when there is no sanctioned option. And the thing is that presenting people with a sanctioned option requires some time, right? It requires some part of the organization to test these things out, decide how to deploy them. But we've got a survey from Black Fog recently that showed that about

half of respondents are using unapproved AI at work. And moreover, 69% of presidents and executive leaders surveyed for this survey said that they prioritize speed over privacy and security when it comes to AI adoption. So I'm kind of wondering if the we're sitting here talking about how important it is to have sanctioned options, but like is the do we have a leadership like, you know, C-suite sending a different message that's kind of, you know, making people adopt some things that maybe they shouldn't move into. Is this a I don't know, maybe we're not all on the same page. Shridhar, any thoughts there on on that tension? I think the leaders want innovation.

Leaders want speed, right? I mean, you know, we have come to embrace that. And speed is important. Um, to help grow the business. But at the same time, part of that is we have to figure out how to do it. What? You know, we were talking about running before this, like discipline, running or discipline.

Way of going to speed versus getting off the gate and running at 60, 60 miles an hour. Right. So. So I'm not going to blame the execs, per se. I mean, this is what they need for running the business.

And you need to go faster, cheaper, better. It's for the technologies to go and vet out. What are the models which are approved? What are the agents which are approved? And even for the agents which are approved? How do you put some guardrails? Right. I'm not talking about doing a 600 page report

about serving everything. Pick one. They all pretty much at the same level of maturity. Pick one or 2 or 3 and then put some level of guardrails, some level of process on that go through the process of education and the risk of potentially data being exposed unintentionally. Right.

And and that might help curb some of the behavior around, uh, shadow it out of the shadow agent or shadow AI these days, right? Sadly, I mean, I fully agree with you, but sadly, I don't know if I think there is a solution. And I hate saying that because it feels like just giving up, but it's not what I mean. I mean, I feel like it's the same as the the same growing pains we have felt with technology and security all along, which is where I said before, you know, let's let's use it now or get it implemented now and figure out the security later. And sometimes the later doesn't happen or it happens too late and it's still it's still what's going to happen. It's

almost like we know how it works. History is still going to repeat itself because into insecurity. All too often we're seen as either the roadblocks or the speed bumps that that are, you know, we're the party poopers. You're not letting us use the cool stuff. Like trying to protect you. But

sometimes it's just ignored until until that catastrophe happens. And then it turns around and they want to know why we didn't warn them. Yeah. Your total buzzkill. Yeah. Be in the be in the

buzzkill today, man. That's right. I think one thing, Nick. Right. It's never all or nothing, right? You'll

never be able to finish it. Research on all the tools out there. Right. And there's always going to be the next vulnerability coming tomorrow morning. We know that. The question is how do you take a

risk based approach. Right. How do you take a risk based approach enough to basically move the needle fast enough with the appropriate risk? Now, granted, you know, you cannot control all the risks. So how do you then have some level of failsafe or fun level of mitigation after the fact? Right. So

all I'm asking, I'm suggesting a process or a disciplined way of going about this because the undisciplined way is chaos. Oh for sure. The issue, though, that I'm kind of trying to highlight here, is that this isn't just an issue with AI and Llms. Now it's an issue we've been dealing with forever, right? How often in a corporate, you know, do we try to say, here is the approved list of products you're allowed to use to do your job? Somebody's still going to find a way to use some third party

product that they think works better because they know how to use it, and they're going to figure out how to do it, even if it's its end of life or it's cracked software they downloaded from, you know, the wrong or not the wrong site, but like a pirated site or something along those lines. And then everything you tried to do is out the window. Yeah. When the when the security organization said wireless y, you know, Wi-Fi is too dangerous, we're not going to put that in the office. Then what did people do? They went out to the local, you know, computer store, bought a Wi-Fi router and plugged

it into the Ethernet port in their office. And then out now they have Wi-Fi. So you're bringing your Wi-Fi? Exactly, exactly. Bring your own it. Bring your own device. Now it's bring your own. It

was bring your own cloud. Now it's bring your own AI. And that that will. That will never change. Which is again why we have to say how give them a better option, or at least a good enough option so that they're not tempted to to go off the rails. It does seem to me that with AI, it's almost like

even harder to not be the party pooper because something new and cool, like Open Claw comes out like every week, you know what I mean? And so I like this idea that that, you know, Shridhar, you had mentioned where it's, you know, you can kind of balance security and speed by just, you know, picking a couple of them because they all kind of work the same, saying these are the approved ones, put them in place. But it's almost like you can do that. And like Nick said, someone's going to be like, yeah, but I think this open claw thing is really cool, so I'm just going to download that instead. And it's like, I guess the, you know, ultimately what we're running up against here, which we run up against all the time, is that like there's, you know, the organization can do everything it can, but at the end of the day, there's there's that user and you cannot control your users. You cannot control their every move. So you just you secure what you can I guess is the

takeaway here, right? Like, you just doesn't want us to have any fun. I mean, that's the bottom line. No, no, I do not. Exactly. Well, I think, you know, this is a natural moment to kind of

segue into our next, uh, you know, conversation topic here. Have we moved too fast and broken too many things? Now, I'm asking that question because I read an op ed on Cyber Scoop recently by Sasha Geller, who is chief trust officer at Reversing Labs. And in this op ed, he argues that the era of moving fast and breaking things I'm sure we've all heard this slogan before has led to a security crisis. Now, in Geller's telling, by prioritizing speed over over almost everything else, we've made it normal to release vulnerable code that makes cyber criminals jobs much easier. I'm thinking about what Nick said before about,

you know, implement it and worry about security later. Then the question is, do we ever actually worry about the security? Um, so I'm wondering what we think about this idea that, you know, the fast and break things philosophy has led us to a kind of security crisis. And if it's time to move on, and how do you first, what's your take here? We don't need to slow down, per se, for sure. We need

to go and and need to move in a more disciplined manner. Right. Um, but that doesn't mean we stop everything. When we stop everything, we can put food on the table. Right. Each of the each of the

companies that they have to survive, each of the company have to differentiate against their competitors and innovate and go faster, cheaper, better. But we have to go through the discipline of stepping back and doing the right things right. If not, bad things will happen. Um, as you said, we've got Ames looking at an organization 550,000 unpatched vulnerabilities. Right. I mean, why did we allow that much of an unknown

vulnerabilities? Um, I like the culture of, you know, don't ship anything which has vulnerabilities. So I think there's a part of it is a rigor that we have to put in to make sure that whether it is a supply chain process, whether it's a third party, whether what you're doing, how do I have a level of rigor in terms of what you're taking or what you're not taking? How do I have a level of transparency? We talk about software, bill of materials, this crypto bill of materials. There's

you know, let's make up a word today, Jeff. Agent Bill of materials. Right. Uh, AI bill of materials. ML bill of materials. Right. Let's make those up. Trademark. Right. Trademark. Right. You heard it here

first. T shirts. Right. So that. So that you're providing the level of transparency and what is going on, and then be able to go and put the appropriate policies or rules or models to be able to mitigate against us, right? So that's my high level approach over here, which

is. Yes. You know, don't slow down, go in a controlled manner and do it with some level of rigor, both in people process and technology. Right. Yeah. And that reminds me of

something that Dustin Heywood said when we had him on the show a few weeks back, which was that ultimately, no organization is in the business of being secure, right? Their business aims is not being secure, and security has to support those business aims. And that's kind of what you're talking about, right? You can't like you said, you can't slow down you or else you can't put food on the table. But you do have to figure out a way of balancing these things. Um, Jeff, I want to throw to

you next. What's your take here on this idea that move fast and break things, the moment's over. It's it's it's led to a crisis. We gotta try something else. What's your take here? I'm going to say I

feel like I'm particularly well qualified to weigh in on this topic of move fast and break things, because that's what I did about a week ago when I was moving fast on my daily run, I hit an ice patch and broke my shoulder. So I have a first hand experience with how this works and doesn't end well. I'm just going to tell you. Um, so so that that's. Yeah, there are lessons to be learned also.

Well play about this also. Well played. Well thank you, thank you, thank you. Yeah I figured he picked you. You picked that story just to pick on me, but. Yeah. Okay. It's all right. It's all right. I can

take it. Uh, yeah. Big shoulders. Even though one of them's broken, I can still bear it on the other. This also sounds like something that if my three year old grandson could articulate, he would think this is a good idea as well. Uh, you know, just go fast and break things because, you know, mom or dad

or granddad will get a new one, you know, and and, you know, from his perspective, that makes sense because you're in exploration mode and but you and maybe if you're a billionaire, then this works for you economically as well. You can afford enough lawyers that whatever you break, you can just throw them after the problem and, you know, keep moving along because you're already breaking more things down the road, but you're making enough profit in the in the process. This is kind of going back to the the business perspective of this, like Schraeder was referring to, as opposed to the natural security way that we look at things where we're trying to not break things, we're trying to keep things intact. So there's always going to be that that kind of uneasy tension. Um, I think generally just saying break, you know, move fast and break things I think is irresponsible. Um, I think there's a spirit of entrepreneurship, and we should move faster. We

should execute with speed, we should execute with scale. But, you know, and I've used this example before, I didn't come up with this. But I love this analogy. The question of why you put brakes on a car. And the answer is not to stop. It's so you can go really fast. And the reason I know that's the

case, because how fast would you drive a car that had no brakes? You wouldn't. So security is the brakes on the car that led you to take calculated risk? The the, you know, move fast and break things. Says I'm throwing risk to the wind. I'm throwing caution to the wind. I'm not really looking at

that. So I don't think that's a scalable model. I think eventually it comes back to haunt you as my left shoulder is telling me, um, and, and eventually there's a price to be paid. So but I also think the era of AI that we're in is encouraging. Even more so, the not only is the velocity increasing, the acceleration is increasing. So the rate of change is happening

faster. So this is going to be more and more of of what we find, whether people verbalize it that way or not. I think I think this is the world we live in, but it's not one that we should accept blindly. It's one where we do need to put brakes on the car. Then I can. I can run this thing like a

formula one race car instead of a Flintstone mobile, where I can't afford to go very fast in this thing because it's going to crash. I like the idea of security being a thing that actually lets you go faster, right? Like like it's not the thing that slows you down. It's actually the thing let you go even faster. So it's like we can modify that phrase to, you know, move fast and protect things. I don't know, something. You guys can come up with something catchier. You're way better at

that stuff. But, Nick, let me bring you in here. And I also want to, you know, you have the bad luck, basically, of coming after Jeff because he brought up something that's really important, which is how vibe coding and this kind of new era of AI development is might make this worse. So like when you look at this situation, you know, I think about not just how moving fast and breaking things, whether the time is up, but it's like, are we going to start moving even faster and breaking even more things and making security's job even worse? What's your take here? I think saying going worst

case scenario, I am going to say that we'll move fast and break things really is kind of a misleading statement, because it almost implies that we're breaking things on a purpose. And I and I just think that's misleading because that is not the goal. It's just a side effect, and it's a side effect of trying to get there as fast as you can. And yeah, we're going to take calculated risks, sometimes calculated less than we should or more than we should. But the whole point at the end of the day is we're going to do it. It's going to happen. And it's not new with AI. And I think I've

said this on I've said this on one of the other episodes before. I'll say it again. The issue is if you halt, you catch fire. Now that makes a lot of sense, right? And so I like that you point out, right, that the the breaking things is not the point. Right? Like, it's not like we're saying, hey,

you got to break things. It's just kind of a side effect. Right. And so again, keeps coming back to this, this theme we're developing here. And I like when we do this where it's like you got to balance that security in that business perspective. But the question is how. And jewelers

proposed alternative approach to move fast and break things is quote make smart and safe things, but I'm kind of wondering. Okay, you got a slogan now that's great. Well, what does that actually look like? Shridhar, I see you. You're starting to talk here. What's your take? No, I think I think it

starts with the slogan. It starts with a motto, right? It starts with the mission to say yes. We're going to go, you know, chef's analogy, right? The velocity is fine, but wreckage is not fine. Right.

Or your point about, um, move faster, but build safely. I think the mission is important to start with, but then from a technology perspective, you got to figure out how to bake security into the pipeline, right? DevOps or DevSecOps or CI, CD pipelines, MLOps or ML ops, whatever that is. There's so many tools right there in terms of, you know, scanning the code and not, you know, with static scanning, dynamic scanning, red teaming. So we kind of have the philosophy of how do I do things as a part of the pipeline so that it doesn't slow you down as much, but allows you to go and have the kill switches allows you to go and do the basic things. The

hygiene is what I call right? Then comes the question of the transparency that I was talking about. Right? Because it's not just four of us sitting in a room and writing code that we can peer over each other's shoulders. It's open source, open tooling, SaaS vendors. There's a number of

different things that make up the software that make up a solution. So how do you provide that transparency from the different vendors? Right. We started coining names before with like very similar to software bill of materials to crypto bill of materials. But we need to demand that transfer from the SaaS vendors, from the AI vendors to say, you know, what are they doing? How

are they mitigating it, so that we can then figure out how do you go and provide some risks around when to use it and when not to use it? So not everybody has a Formula One car, but, you know, you can have a a Toyota Corolla, you know, at going at a speed that some may want it and some may want it. The formula one speed and putting a brake. Brakes that are for formula. One designed for formula on Toyota doesn't make sense. Right. So I think I think

having the right business model use cases and balancing out the mitigation that might help go faster. One thing, just a moment of of hope for us because, you know, it's very easy for security guys to we're experts at finding the dark cloud in every silver lining. But you know, with AI out there and vibe coding and the ability to generate all kinds of just really awful code. Guess what? AI could also do code reviews for us as well, and maybe suss out what some of that really awful code is and tell us what some of the vulnerabilities could be. So this is one of the

things that it's not only taking away. It also could add to the process as well and become the guards and the oversight that we need. So AI is neither good nor bad. It depends on how we use it, and it could be used for good in this case. That's a great statement. I just I just feel like all, all

technology over the years as we continue to develop, you could say the same thing about all of it. Absolutely. Yeah. And I think that, you know, going back to what we were talking about earlier with this kind of release of cloud Opus 4.6, that's an, you know, they, uh, anthropic used that to do like a, they used opus to do like a code review of a bunch of open source libraries. And they

found something like 500 undiscovered vulnerabilities. Right. So it's like that's an example of using that AI to help us kind of do that thing, right? AI doesn't just have to accelerate slop, it can accelerate some of the good stuff we do. Right. And I also like before we

move on, I just want to emphasize, you know, I like how you pointed out that, like, even if we're talking about a paradigm shift and we have a new kind of slogan here, the tools to do this kind of thing, we're already intimately familiar with them. Right. Like DevSecOps is a thing. Bills of materials are a thing. We have the models. We can just apply them in a in a more, maybe, I don't know,

targeted or strategic way. But it's not like we're starting from scratch here. All right, let's move on to our next story for the day, folks. The Notepad++ breach.

Last week, rapid seven reported on Chrysalis, a previously undocumented backdoor delivered through Notepad++ updater. Client threat actors were able to gain access to Notepad++ server for about six months, during which time they distributed the backdoor to a number of targets. It wasn't a mass campaign, it seems like it was a very targeted effort. Now, Notepad++ has since switched servers and addressed the authentication weakness that allowed the hijack to happen. So it's not an active issue anymore. And I'm not so much interested in the story of a single

compromise here and what happened in Notepad++. But but whether it represents a broader trend, because I saw Mark Thomson, one of the founders of the Cyber Threat Intelligence Capability Maturity Model on LinkedIn, talking about this. And his take was that this breach highlights and this is a quote from him, the absolute lack of oversight for utilities like this, the overall poor scrutiny of supplier risk programs, and generally weak software inventory practices, this idea of bills and materials popping up again already. But Nick, I want to throw to you first because I know you folks talked about this on the most recent, uh, not the Situation Room. What do you think about the Notepad++ breach? Is this a sign of something big, or is this just. Yeah, it's a breach, and it happens.

What's your take here? It's not exactly novel, but what makes this one feel like it's novel is it was. It was. It had such a big footprint. Right. Because we've seen supply chain compromises

before and we we saw a lot of it throughout last year. But this one affected so many people on such a level that it even got the attention of people that don't know anything about security. Now, whether this was actually open sourced or not, it's the same problem if you compromise the supply chain. What I guess the reason it's such a big deal to me is because one of our mantras that we just love to preach is pat your stuff, right? Well, in this case, patching your stuff is exactly what got you kicked in the gut. So sometimes it's there's no silver bullet. This one

is the the oversight, as was mentioned by the quote you stated before. So I don't have a whole lot more to add on this one because it's pretty straightforward, but it is downright sneaky. The thing that worries me over here is, um, it's such a utility tool. It's like curl. When did I ever think about doing an inventory and curl? When did I ever do an inventory on V-I

in my system? Right. Or notepad or. These are such tools that we use like which are so matter of fact and given. Right. It worries me when somebody is

targeting these like because even if you do a software inventory We don't do this right. So my wakeup moment for this is I think software inventory is really software inventory. It's not the the big software per se, but every little thing on your laptop. Right. Every little thing that you use, um, is probably a more, uh, revelation for me with this, with this attack. Right. And of course, there are other ways to mitigate it, but that's

pretty much the starting point for me, right? Well, I mean, in this case, the issue is and I think you were saying this, is that the level, the level of implied trust in a tool like this is so absolute that the idea of it being compromised just was unfathomable. And that's all. And that's all my big words for the rest of this podcast. Oh that's it okay. All right. Trust was the

big word. Yes. All right. Yeah. Um, yeah. And that that actually hit on the point that I wanted to make

as well. We went through a while where we were talking about zero trust, and then a lot of people soured on it because, quite honestly, vendors, uh, absconded the term and abused it beyond belief as a way to just sell everything they had on the truck. So, you know, as, as people will they got tired of hearing about it. But I'm a cybersecurity architect. Zero trust principles are good and they're still good, regardless of what vendors call them or not. And it means not trusting

anything you haven't verified. And it comes down to things like this. Third party risk is is a is a risk that is continuing to grow because nobody writes all their code anymore, if that was ever the case. But we're depending on more and more components from more and more places which we don't know about. Which means if we're depending on them, we're trusting them. And

implicit trust is the opposite of zero trust, which says I'm going to verify and then trust. So trust follows verification. I think I think we're needing more in the way of tools and oversight because individuals can't look at all this. Our systems are far too complex for any person to go and look at all of it and say, yep, it's all good to go. Oh, by the way, the software just changed because it changes all the time. Now you have to go back and reevaluate the entire

system again. No. Not possible. So here again, if we do this right, AI could help us. It could be one of the technologies that comes in and helps them scan all of these things and looks for abnormal behaviors and flags those things for us. It's not perfect. But, you know, we talked about at the

beginning of this episode how the speed at which these things operate is dangerous for us, but here's where the speed could actually come back to benefit us, because it can look for these kind of failures across a mass scale and let us know about it. If we do it right. Yeah, I like that. You point out there's there's three things actually that I want to emphasize there, Jeff. The first is that souring on zero trust because like I feel like I've watched that happen. I feel like when I

sort of started in security, you know, covering this, this world a few years back, it was everywhere. Everybody's talking about zero trust all the time. You don't see that really anymore. And I do think it's partially because, like you said, vendors started to kind of abuse the term. So that's the first thing I want to emphasize is that like, you know, we've kind of soured this, but it is still really important. And the second thing is that even when you are implementing zero trust,

like you said, sometimes it doesn't get to that granular level of like the notepad program on your laptop, right? Like you've got to get real smart. And like Shridhar said, an inventory has got to be a real inventory and actual inventory, right? It's got to be every little thing. But how do you do that? Right? And that's the kind of third thing I wanted to ask is like, how do you do that? And

you gestured toward AI there, Jeff. And that makes a lot of sense to me. But I'm wondering if you have any other kind of lessons or takeaways that we think organizations should kind of learn from this situation. You know, in addition to using that AI, that that true approach to zero trust and that that really granular take on on inventories. And Nick, I guess I'll throw to you first. Are there

any lessons you feel like organizations should be taken away from this? Aside from what we've enumerated here already, I have to think back to some of my my previous jobs or previous missions before I was actually in security and didn't realize that it was it was it was going to be part of it. And I won't name the company, but but I will say this company used to not allow anything to be installed in their environment unless they had processed the MSI, right, the Microsoft's installer package. So you had to go to their store, and anything you wanted to install had to be something that they had put together for you. And I was part of the team that wrote those messes. So

in this case, if we had had a vulnerable or a compromised version of Notepad Plus plus, we would have seen it in the process of developing the the installer that you as an employee would have been allowed to use. So that is one option. I have to say. I think that's probably an expensive option, but if AI can do that for us, then I think that might not be a bad path to consider. Goes back to probably the framework that Jeff you defined, right? Zero trust, which is one, is I think

we talked about elevating the inventory to even the boring software. Right. Not just a cool software, but the boring software and all that. But, um, Jeff, you talked about trust, verify, etc., right? But I think part of it is monitoring. Part of it is monitoring as well. Right. Continuous

monitoring to be able to say, are we getting updates from repositories that we don't know of, right. Or could we have updates come from some sanctioned repository that you may want to mirror from a public website, like if you're using open source tools, maybe you want to put up a mirror site so that everybody can upload or make patches from there. Was this going directly right? Um, that's a that's something that crosses my lessons. Learn. Um, and then the last but not the least is

the the small vendors are small, uh, set expectations even with the smallest vendors. Right. Like, for example, most of these tools are 1 to 2 people who are maintaining it. So what is what is our policy for those. Right. Um, I mentioned curl. You know,

you mentioned notebook, right. The curl. The curl comes to my mind because curl just closed their bug bounty program. There's only two people who are maintaining that code and AI. As good as it is, it's opening up a lot of vulnerabilities that they just can't keep up the volume. So. So

what's the process in an organization that uses curl all the time? Right. So I think that expectations and policies will help go a long way as well. Yeah. Nothing can be too small to let it fly under the radar. You know, in the past, we ignored it, but we don't need to ignore it anymore.

With the ability for gen AI to be able to not only crawl, but we understand and prioritize very quickly. Jeff. And you kind of covered the answer to this question already, but I'll just, you know, any last thoughts before we move on to the final story for today and any other lessons you feel like we can walk away from this learning? Yeah, I think again, I'll lean back to to zero trust. To me, the thing that changes with zero trust is the assumption of breach. You assume the bad guys

already in your system, and that's not what we normally do. We normally assume, okay, my system is clean now. I'm trying to keep the bad guy out. No, assume the bad guy is already in your system to begin with. Whatever tools you use, whatever things that you're depending on your database, your apps, your network, or whatever. Assume the bad guy is there. Now design your security. That's that's the

real key. Change that zero trust Brock that I think got missed along the way because again the term got stretched and abused so much. But I still see that as a very valuable lesson that we should look at. It's not really fully achievable. I remember I talked to a CISO once of an organization. I asked, where are you on your zero trust? He said, yeah, we've done that. And I just

nearly bit my tongue off. It's like, okay, then you don't understand what this is. I didn't say that to him. But that's just like saying security. Yeah, we did that. You know, we're done with it. You know,

the old thing about, you know, if you're satisfied with your security, so are the bad guys. So this is continuous. Like Shridhar said, continuous monitoring is going to be what's necessary. That's why we'll always have a show. Because you can't ever be satisfied with security. Let's move on to

our fourth and final story for the day. DragonForce aims to be the next big ransomware cartel. Managed security services provider Level Blue published a comprehensive report on the DragonForce ransomware gang last week. The overarching theme is they're trying to become the next big players in the field. Some of the highlights from their recent activity, reported by Level Blue include a move to online registration.

Right, so there's no more extensive background checks for affiliates. You can sign up through a portal like you would on, like, I don't know, a Facebook account or something, allowing affiliates to create their own brands under the DragonForce Egis uh test runs to help affiliates practice launching attacks and file analysis support where folks from DragonForce will help you find the juicy stuff in the data you stole. Help you figure out how to communicate with your your, you know, your victims, right? Call scripts even for you so that you can deliver your ransom demands. Uh, DragonForce also engaged in some attacks on competitors. I'm thinking of them defacing black

locks leak site recently. And they also called for collaboration, forming a coalition with Keelin and Locke Bit to coordinate their activities. Basically, you know, one big monopoly, right? Um, so, you know, a lot of movement here from DragonForce, but I'm wondering if there's anything new or concerning or there's anything that catches your eye here. And, Nick, I'll throw to you first. You

look at this activity from ransomware. I've not ransomware. DragonForce. Does it change anything in the ransomware landscape? Or is this same old, same old? What's your take it only for a small

percentage of your haul. Will they help you with your entire nefarious mission. And it's a great customer service, you know. I mean, so they'll drive the getaway cars. There you go.

Whatever you gotta do, right? Just to be a part of the team. And I think that's that's kind of it right there is diversifying and making the tools available to whoever wants to pay to use them. And it's it's just they're the next big thing. If they even become the next big thing, and if it's not them, it will be another to take their place. Because as if something happens to them, it will

open a power vacuum for another group to step in, or the same group to step in and change their name and pretend they're someone else, you know. Just like we've seen with. With shiny happy hunters or shiny lapses. Hunters, whatever we want to call them these days. How many times have they gone away and come back? So the threat is real. It is definitely worth keeping an eye on and

watching what they're doing. I'm I'm a little concerned with them wanting to go back to old school and doing the data encryption and data theft at the same time, since most ransomware gangs now are just doing data theft and not worrying about encryption. So either either they know something we don't, or I think they're just not paying attention to the room. That makes a lot of sense. Shredder, your take here. Looking at the situation, any any thoughts on how this changes

the ransomware landscape at all or how we respond? I think I think it changes quite a bit. Right. I'm actually concerned over here because now what used to be a hard thing to do, and only people like Nick understood it. It becomes easy for anybody to understand and be able to hire these organization for, for, you know, whatever some eternal investment is to call itself out.

But people are not as experienced, can go and leverage these organizations to be able to launch devastating attacks. Right. That's what worries me. So to me, things like DragonForce more than the name and more than all of that is they make, um, hacktivism or cyber security, you know, hacking, more professional, more scalable, more persistent, so that even the a small timer is able to use the services to extract more money as an example. Right. What's the time value of this data. Right. How do I do that? Um, it gives them low barrier to

entry. Right. Um, it blurs with some of the geopolitical situations that are surrounding us right now. So to me, I'm a bit worried about how these organizations are coming to bear very quickly. So. And then

Jeff. Jeff will probably add in like, you know. One and I'm sure they're using the same technology that is privy to us, i.e. cloud and AI and and be able to bring the barrier even further lower.

Right. I agree with you. I agree with you on that. I just I think it was it was an inevitable end point because this is where we have been heading all along. Yeah, it's it's uh, it's move fast, break things and uh, just that, that business model now being applied in this space, uh, the level of professionalism, if you want to call it that, that's being added to this is what's kind of raising it up another notch, uh, making it lowering the barrier for the attacker by putting the, the harder stuff into the infrastructure. It's ransomware as a service. It's

click here to hack it. It's all of those kinds of things. And we're in there was there was mention of, you know, the next group that comes along, I think the next group that comes along, we're actually already looking at it's called AI agents. And they'll be able to do this stuff even better than the infrastructures that we set up. Otherwise they'll set up the infrastructure and tear it down and set it up again and tear it down again. They'll identify targets, they will identify

vulnerabilities, they'll execute on those vulnerabilities, they'll do the collections. They'll all of this. You know, all of that can be completely automated with an agent that's running autonomously. And all someone has to do is just launch the thing. And so, so eventually the the agents will probably put these guys out of business. And, you know, we'll all be really sorry

that these ransomware guys lost their their work, that they got replaced by AI. You know, a moment of silence for that. A humble ransomware operator can't even find a job anymore. You know, what's What's the world coming to? What's the world coming to? I don't see this as new because we've

always had, like, warhead trickle down when it comes to these, you know, highly complex vulnerabilities in the way that these attack campaigns are executed. And they just become easier over time because usually after a conflict, you know, a high end group does their thing. You're like, well, let's package it up and sell it now. And that's how we also end up with the term script kiddies, right? Because they didn't figure it out themselves most of the time they bought it from someone else. So this I think the only novel part of this is them trying to become the Walmart of

their group. I think with becoming the Walmart of that group. Nick Wright has good and the bad. You know, we talked about some of the risks, the fact that low barrier to entry and scale and professionalism, customer support, all of that. Right. But the other side of it is that they will

have to use patterns to scale, right? If they if they launched a phishing attack, if they compromised a VPN on a remote desktop or exposed a specific web page, those will be repeated. So the. So the insight to defenders is look at your TTP very closely. Right. Because that's probably an indication of how some of these would meaning each attack is

not a custom attack. Nick is my point, right? Instead, they will have to scale with some level of patterns. But you're right in the sense that the common sense or the hygiene which is preparing for a ransomware service, a ransomware type of attack, um, is important, right? In being able to prepare for. I think you're talking about the dual extortion, um,

communication plan, data leakage, um, regulatory. All of that is important. That doesn't go away. But in addition, I think if we can look at the fact that these groups are sharing Intel's. These groups are sharing patterns. These groups are sharing tooling. What can we learn from that? So that maybe we can

use gen AI as a mechanism to go and read a TTP faster than anybody can, and pass the systems faster, right? If they become the Walmart of ransomware and this whole cybersecurity thing doesn't work out for us, maybe we become Walmart greeters for ransomware. You know, one of the things I love about recording with this panel specifically is you basically do my job for me. I get to shut up and sit in the corner and you all talk, but that does it for this episode. We are out of time, folks. Thank you to our panelists, Nick and Shridhar and Jeff. Thank you to the viewers and

listeners. As always, subscribe to Security Intelligence wherever podcasts are found. Stay safe out there and the next time you're watching one of Jeff's videos, just tell them get well soon, you know, because he's going to need it with that shoulder. Thank you.