---
video_title: "How They Will Print Money"
video_id: ePDPqfJfSAA
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ePDPqfJfSAA
video_date: 2026-04-17T16:01:11+00:00
video_description: |
  How They Will Print Money
  
  Terms and Conditions apply. Securities are offered through Moomoo Financial Inc. (MFI), Member FINRA/SIPC. The creator is a paid influencer and is not affiliated with MFI and their experiences may not be representative of other moomoo users. Investing is risky. Securities are offered through Moomoo Financial Inc.(MFI), Member FINRA/SIPC.Promo 8.1% APY (as of 8/1/25) for new users only until 9/25/25. Actual APY may differ. Rates may change. New user promo subject to terms & conditions.Click the link for Bank Deposit List, Cash Sweep and Promo details. See full disclosures at：https://invest.us.moomoo.com/_disclosure 
  
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Tracker https://www.brrrr.ai
  ► How To Protect Your Bitcoin (step by step), use Code "ANDREI40" to get 40% off https://stan.store/andreijikh
  ► Where I Buy My Bitcoin: https://gemini.sjv.io/7a0OL5
  ► How I went from Zero To A Million: https://www.zerotoamillion.com
  ► Ledger Discount Link: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/black-friday-andrei-jikh?r=535643c13ab0
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Stock Tracker: https://www.patreon.com/andreijikh
  ► Open A Roth IRA: 
  ► Follow Me On Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/andreijikh/
  ► How I Protect My Bitcoin: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/ledger-nano-x?r=535643c13ab0
  
  My PO Box: 
  Andrei Jikh
  4132 S. Rainbow Blvd # 270
  Las Vegas, NV 89103
  
  DISCLOSURE: None of this is meant to be construed as investment advice, it's for entertainment purposes only. Links above include affiliate commission or referrals. I'm part of an affiliate network and I receive compensation from partnering websites. The video is accurate as of the posting date but may not be accurate in the future.
  
  You should not treat any opinion expressed on this Youtube channel as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of opinion. Opinions expressed are based upon information considered reliable, but this Youtube channel does not warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such. This Youtube channel is not under any obligation to update or correct any information provided in these videos. Statements and opinions are subject to change without notice. No compensation is received by this Youtube channel for the opinions expressed. 
  
  Past performance is not indicative of future results. This Youtube channel does not guarantee any specific outcome or profit. You should be aware of the real risk of loss in following any strategy or investment discussed on this Youtube channel. Strategies or investments discussed may fluctuate in price or value. Investors may get back less than invested. Investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel may not be suitable for you. This material does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial situation or needs and is not intended as recommendations appropriate for you. You must make an independent decision regarding investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel. Before acting on information on this Youtube channel, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and strongly consider seeking advice from your own financial or investment adviser.
---
Let me explain which QE I think the US will pick. There's Type 1 QE, which is what the Fed did in 2008. It's considered non-inflationary. It did not trigger a spike in asset prices. The rich did not get richer. Well, technically yes, the bankers that got bailed out got richer, but the market assets did not inflate. Why? Because remember, the financial system was collapsing, right? Banks were sitting on mountains of toxic, worthless market assets. The Fed stepped in and bought those bad assets directly from the banks. That cleaned up their balance sheets. At face value, there was no new money that entered the broader economy. The central pop of bank was like, hey, it's OK guys, well forgive you, for all those bad loans you gave out. Don't even worry about it. It's essentially a cleanup, and it happens completely within the banking system without the money flowing into the real world. That's also why 2008's QE didn't cause significant consumer price inflation. Type two QE is what happened in 2020. And this one is completely different. Instead of buying assets directly from the banks and then just forgiving them, the Fed bought assets from non-banks and corporations and pension funds and regular institutions. And when that happens, those sellers deposit the money into their bank accounts. So banks are now forced to create new deposits. New money floods into the broader economy and people have more buying power. But the supply of stuff in the world didn't change. Prices went up. Not right away, there was a lag of about 12 to 18 months. The Fed did huge type two QE money printing in March 2020 and then 18 months later, inflation hit 9%. The original economists who created this term QE actually warned this inflation would happen, but nobody listened. Instead, the media told us this. Here's why economists don't expect trillions of dollars in economic stimulus to create inflation. They were all wrong. In 2020, BlackRock presented this exact type two QE at something called the Jackson Hole Conference. They essentially told the Fed what the plan was. And then six months later, BlackRock went ahead and did it. Now, how all of this is related to what I'm talking about is that option number two is the option that the US will have to pick printing money into the oil spike. The inflation that might happen after that could be a lot higher than 9% 12 to 18 months after that QE. That would make this graph much, much worse. This is where economic growth slows down and inflation goes up. That is called stackflation. That it's very, very bad.