---
video_title: "How I Protect My Money"
video_id: k9iymObUSZ8
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k9iymObUSZ8
video_date: 2026-04-25T16:01:10+00:00
video_description: |

---
Now the question I had for myself is, what can I do to protect myself against any of this? And a great piece of advice I saw was from Catherine Austin Fitz who says, there's three things you can do. Secure real assets, use cash and build local, skill up and network. And I think that's good advice. Beyond that, the way I'm thinking about this for myself is to self-custody. I want to own and protect my own assets. If I can hold a physical version of an asset like silver or gold, for example, I will prefer that to the ETF version. Physical gold is the oldest monetary asset in human history because it doesn't need an institution or a network or a government to work. Because remember in 1933, Roosevelt made it illegal to own gold and stole it. Could that happen again? Maybe. Physical gold held privately is still the hardest asset to track and freeze and digitally disable. It's been money for thousands of years for a reason. And it's the same concept with Bitcoin for me. I've always preferred to self-custody it rather than buying the ETF version of it. Because I think there was a cost to guaranteed safety. I'm not willing to pay it. The third thing I'm doing is trying to stay informed. Because the most dangerous thing about this whole system is that it's complicated and it's supposed to be. And most people I think will walk into this without understanding that this is happening. The people who do understand will hopefully make better choices. They'll hold assets outside the grid. And that is why I like to make these videos. I genuinely believe that understanding this stuff, even if it's wrong on the specifics of it, but right, directionally speaking, that it puts me in a better position. But regardless, I highly encourage you to please do your own research.