---
video_title: "The Dollar Is America’s Secret Weapon"
video_id: kO1fq_KHntk
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kO1fq_KHntk
video_date: 2026-06-25T19:05:46+00:00
video_description: |

---
America holds the most powerful weapon in human history, which is the dollar, because the whole world has to use our dollars to buy their energy and to trade with each other. So we get to control the plumbing of the entire global economy. That is the fixed superpower. Now we use this superpower to crack other countries open so we can take their resources. And there's basically four ways to crack a country open, right? Number one, you sanction it. Their economy collapses. In 2018, for example, the US pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal. Now countries like Germany, France, and Britain, they still wanted to keep trading with Iran. But the US basically said, but that's nice. But if you guys want access to the US financial system, you're going to have to choose who you want to do business with. So European companies started leaving Iran. Now the second way to crack a country open is you cut it off from its bloodstream, which is access to the dollar. So their economy collapses. For example, in 1988, the United States basically told Panama, hey, that's a nice country you have there. It'd be a shame if the cash stopped moving here. So we froze their assets. We blocked payments and we pushed money that was supposed to go to them into the Federal Reserve escrow accounts. And because Panama's economy relied on the dollar, their banks closed for nine weeks because there wasn't enough cash and their economy was massively pressured. Now the third way to crack a country open is you go to war with it. You pressure it long enough that will cause huge amounts of inflation because war is always inflationary. So their economy collapses. And the people of that country will hate their leaders so much they'll revolt against them. And when the time is right, we'll remove that guy from power and replace him with one of our own who's cool with us rebuilding there. Okay, the fourth way is the last resort takes the longest and that is use the media and the capital to fund the opposition from inside that country to eventually push for a revolution in the name of good, right? In the name of democracy in the name of human rights. And if that goes on long enough, you let the country tear itself apart from the inside. People revolt, right? They replace their leader themselves. The economy falls apart. More different ways of doing the same thing, which is to collapse an economy in order to get their resources privatized, sold off and get them sucked into the financial industrial complex where more power and capital can centralize.