---
video_title: "How America Took Control of the World’s Gold"
video_id: tPezfRBSIj0
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPezfRBSIj0
video_date: 2026-03-27T21:00:00+00:00
video_description: |

---
There have been rumors that the United States doesn't actually have the gold it says it does. But first I gotta ask, how did the US even end up with over 8,000 tons of gold? In 1933, during the Great Depression, President Franklin Roosevelt ended the gold standard for US citizens and ordered the confiscation of most privately held gold through executive order, 6102. Americans were required to turn in all their gold coins and all their bullion to the government in exchange for paper dollars. This was super controversial at the time and it resulted in a huge inflow of gold to the US treasury. Now to store it, Fort Knox depository was built in 1936. And by 1937, there were train loads of seized and stolen gold that were moved into these new vaults. Now its global tensions rose before World War II. The US got even more gold from other countries to help them protect it. And by 1941, US gold reserves peaked. By the end of 1941, Fort Knox alone held over 20,000 metric tons. Now at that time, the US controlled about two thirds of the world's official gold, a concentration of wealth, unlike any time in human history. And all of this happened because decades of trade surpluses and the influx of gold from Europe, which it gave to the US for safekeeping during World War II. And gold was seen as this huge part of the monetary system. And under the 1944 Bretton Woods Agreement, the US dollar was directly attached to gold at $35 per ounce. And other countries linked their money to the dollar. America's huge pile of gold gave other countries confidence in the dollar's value. Then in the 1950s to the 1960s and the post-war decades, everything started to reverse. The US gold reserves started to go down. And America started to run what are called trade deficits. And it spent a lot of money on overseas commitments. The US was sending money to countries left and right. And before long, countries started asking for their gold back in exchange for the dollars they had held, which was allowed at the time under the Bretton Woods Agreement. And systematically, gold flowed out of US vaults to pay other countries. And US holdings fell from the World War II peak. And by 1971, US gold reserves were down to about the same level they are today.