---
video_title: "Governments Are Buying So Much Gold"
video_id: uaQUAgeYE8U
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaQUAgeYE8U
video_date: 2026-07-18T16:00:07+00:00
video_description: |

---
It's kind of ironic that in 2009, China quoted Keynes to the world and said, the dollar systems broken. We need a neutral reserve asset and nobody listened. And then 17 years later, the United States is now on the losing end of the system that it designed. And it's now the US that's quoting the same economist, making the same argument. The point is they're telling us the system needs a neutral reserve asset. And by the way, it's not just China asking for this in 2010, the president of the World Bank, Robert Zolik, who was the former US Treasury official wrote an article in the financial time saying the world should consider using gold, quote, as an international reference point for the monetary system in 2016. A guy named Ken Rogov, who was the ex head economist of the IMF, he wrote that emerging markets should convert a big chunk of the trillions of dollars they hold in reserves into gold. And then he wrote, maybe the most important thing you'll learn from this video, he said, gold, quote, despite being in nearly fixed supply does not have this problem because there is no limit on its price. So tying all of this together, thanks to Lou Grumman, Keynes in 1944, China in 2009, the World Bank in 2010, the IMF's former chief economist in 2016, and now Greer and Bessent in 2026. The point is they're all versions of basically the same thing, which is a return to a neutral reserve asset to balance global trade. And there's only one asset that's ever actually done that job. Now, the problem is gold cannot do that job at today's prices because it's just too low. For the math to work, the price has to be much, much higher. The estimate for how much higher gold has to be is $38,000 per ounce, roughly. That's when the biggest trade imbalance, which is with China, would be balanced.