---
video_title: "China Just Made a Massive Gold Move"
video_id: j3yDwy1l5Mo
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j3yDwy1l5Mo
video_date: 2026-07-03T16:00:14+00:00
video_description: |

---
The battle for what is money and who controls it just got really interesting. At the start of the year, some investors apparently made a bet that gold could be worth as much as $20,000 per ounce by the end of the year. Now today, gold is worth closer to $4,000, but what's interesting is that on June 24th, one of China's biggest banks, the Industrial Commercial Bank of China or the ICBC, announced that they were shutting down their paper gold trading for their retail investors. What does that mean? That means, on July 24th, if you're a Chinese citizen who wants to trade gold through their bank, your access will get switched off. Now the ICBC is not the only bank doing this. It was also their postal savings bank of China that did it first, then Ping-N Bank, then China Guangfeng Bank announced it in June, so some of their biggest financial institutions, one after another, are now pulling the plug on retail trading. The question is, why is China doing this? The official story that they're telling us is that they are protecting citizens from the volatility, the extreme up and down movements of gold. They're doing this because back in January 29th, spot gold hit an all-time high over five and a half thousand dollars per ounce, but then it crashed. As I'm making this video, gold is trading at around $4,000 per ounce. That's a drop of about 28% from the peak. So of course to protect people, China's banks have increased what's called the margin requirement to 140%, which is a record high for the industry. A margin requirement, by the way, is the amount of collateral someone needs to borrow money. And by increasing that percentage, like they just did, it means you need to have a lot more money to borrow less money. gold is now demanding more collateral than what the investment is even worth. Okay, so the official reason is gold is volatile. Retail traders are getting hurt and big government has to step in to protect them.