---
video_title: "The Iran Deal Just Broke The Global Economy"
video_id: r4xoOQ32KNM
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r4xoOQ32KNM
video_date: 2026-06-24T16:01:47+00:00
video_description: |
  The Iran Deal Just Collapsed
  ► Try out Gemini Predictions: http://gemini.com/andrei
  ► Premium Membership (extra videos, early access): https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg/join
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Tracker https://www.funvest.com
  ► How To Protect Your Bitcoin (step by step), use Code "ANDREI40" to get 40% off https://stan.store/andreijikh
  ► Fund your account and get up to 4% with WeBull: https://www.webull.com/k/AndreiJikh
  ► Where I Buy My Bitcoin: https://gemini.sjv.io/7a0OL5
  ► How I went from Zero To A Million: https://www.zerotoamillion.com
  ► Ledger Discount Link: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/black-friday-andrei-jikh?r=535643c13ab0
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Stock Tracker: https://www.patreon.com/andreijikh
  ► Open A Roth IRA: 
  ► Follow Me On Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/andreijikh/
  ► How I Protect My Bitcoin: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/ledger-nano-x?r=535643c13ab0
  
  DISCLOSURE: None of this is meant to be construed as investment advice, it's for entertainment purposes only. Links above include affiliate commission or referrals. I'm part of an affiliate network and I receive compensation from partnering websites. The video is accurate as of the posting date but may not be accurate in the future.
  
  You should not treat any opinion expressed on this Youtube channel as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of opinion. Opinions expressed are based upon information considered reliable, but this Youtube channel does not warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such. This Youtube channel is not under any obligation to update or correct any information provided in these videos. Statements and opinions are subject to change without notice. No compensation is received by this Youtube channel for the opinions expressed. 
  
  Past performance is not indicative of future results. This Youtube channel does not guarantee any specific outcome or profit. You should be aware of the real risk of loss in following any strategy or investment discussed on this Youtube channel. Strategies or investments discussed may fluctuate in price or value. Investors may get back less than invested. Investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel may not be suitable for you. This material does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial situation or needs and is not intended as recommendations appropriate for you. You must make an independent decision regarding investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel. Before acting on information on this Youtube channel, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and strongly consider seeking advice from your own financial or investment adviser.
---
So it looks like the Forever War model is coming to an end. We initiate, we attack, we surprise, and we attack those enemies that seek our destruction, that seek to kill us. We attack them before they have a chance to do so. If you know Hebrew, a Kamlo Gecha, a Shkemlo Goh, kill them first. The next phase of the global economy needs something that the Forever War model just can't give us, which is stability. Why we need stability is because you can't build a trillion dollar AI grid in a world that's always on fire. Now, if this is true, it would explain why we're seeing such a change to the narrative from the media. Because right now, there is real criticism of US's greatest ally Israel. And it's criticism by people no one ever thought would criticize Israel. And you know, you're a country of nine million people. You can't just kill your way out of solving every single national security problem that you have. Why did October 7th happen? What were the signals that were missed? What could have been done differently? What did Vibi Netanyahu think he was doing? Having cutter pay Hamas millions and millions of dollars a month in order in his thinking to weaken the Palestinian authority? What did he think was going to happen without the United States? There would be no Israel. Israel would have been blowed up a long time ago. And I net got involved to Israel's fighting has more too long and too many people are being killed. Let me explain. Couple days ago, the United States and Iran signed a historic deal to end one of the most destructive wars in the Middle East. And within days, that deal was canceled. How come? Well, it's because America's closest ally in the region kept on bombing Lebanon, which was in violation of the agreement between Iran and the United States. That agreement, by the way, is called the Memorandum of Understanding. Now, Israel's basically saying this deal does not apply to them. So Iran was like, well, okay, we're now closing the straight of her moves again. So no more oil for the world. Have fun with the global economy and let's see how long your markets last. That's where we're at today. Now, the thing that I want to explain is how the world actually works and what Israel really represents for the United States. This is going to be a pretty ambitious video, but what you have to understand is that for a very small group of powerful people, peace is a very dangerous thing because peace threatens the most profitable business model that humanity has ever created. That model, of course, is the forever war model. The product is war. And the way it works is war generates demand for weapons and every time countries fight, that justifies a bigger pentagon budget. And every destroyed city becomes an opportunity to make money with reconstruction contracts. That is why we are seeing non-government officials structuring deals on the behalf of the United States. So Jared Kushner actually came up with a very interesting solution with the Qataris where instead of actual people that represent the country, we're seeing real estate developers negotiating these deals because rebuilding is very good for business. In fact, it is so good for business that if you look at history, you'll find that the United States has been at war for something like 93% of its entire existence. In almost 250 years as a nation, the US has had maybe 15, maybe 20 years of actual peace. And out of all those wars, only five were ever officially declared by Congress the way the Constitution tells us we're supposed to do it. Now, after the Cold War era between the Soviet Union and the United States, things got worse. We went from 46 military interventions during the Cold War era to 188 in the 25 years after it. And just between 1947 and 1989, the US tried to change or overthrow another country's governments 72 different times. Most of them of course in secret. The countries like Korea, Vietnam, Lebanon, Grenada, Panama, Somalia, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan. Now, what's interesting though is that America did not invent this model. The US actually inherited it because before the US was the world's police force, it was Great Britain. It was the British Empire that was the global cop from 1815 all the way to 1914. And during that whole century, they were at war for all but about 15 years of their history. Britain ran the whole world through what are called proxies. A proxies basically a substitute for your interests because someone else needs destabilize the world. So that while they do, you can act like the good cop that cares for values like freedom and democracy. While the other country gets to be the bad cop who destabilizes the world. Now why this proxy is so important is because if you're the most powerful country in the world, you don't want to send your own soldiers into every single fight. It's expensive, it's unpopular. People start asking really hard questions back at home. So instead, you find a close ally. Somebody in the region who has their own reasons to fight and you back them up. You give them weapons, you give them capital and you give them the political cover. And they do the destabilizing while you do the posturing and the rebuilding. That's a proxy. And for decades now, Israel has been America's proxy. We give them billions of dollars in military aid every year. We give them weapons and Willvito basically anything that the UN throws against them. And in return, Israel acts as America's proxy of interest in the Middle East. That relationship allows for this forever war model because wherever there is war, there's always an opportunity to make some money. And if there is an opportunity to make some money, don't you dare stand on the way of it. That's also why people that have called for peace throughout history have somehow ended up in very bad scenarios. I speak of peace because of the new face of war. Total war makes no sense. In an age where great powers can maintain large and relatively invulnerable nuclear forces. And refuse to surrender without resort to those forces. And the easy explanation to that is Israel controls America. I see that everywhere on social media. But the truth is that Israel and the United States are more or less one in the same. Their interests are a lot of times the same. They are both subservient to the capital machine. Everyone is being used for a greater purpose. And that purpose is to extract resources and centralize power. Let me explain. Throughout history, countries have basically organized their power in two different ways. In one type of country, we can call the sovereign, the government sits on top as the ruling class. And it's the people in government that hold the power. The capital or money answers to them. The state decides what gets built, who gets rich, where the resources go. We usually call these countries nationalistic, sovereign. China runs this way. And we've seen examples of how China has punished their capitalists. Russia runs this way. They have also punished their capitalists before. Iran runs this way. And love them or hate them. In those countries, their government is the boss. And corporate capital is their employee. Now here in the United States, it is reversed. It's flipped. Here, capital sits on top and government answers to it. The corporations, the banks, and the giant asset managers like the Black Rocks, the state streets, and the vanguards, they're the boss. And the politicians are basically their employees. They're kind of what I like to call pinatas. They sort of like these symbols that are meant to represent our interests. But as George Carlin would say, they're symbols for the symbol minded. Right? Because we beat them up, expecting some kind of change, but nothing ever changes because they were never in charge in the first place. And I know that sounds cynical, but that is how it works. We know this because politicians need hundreds of millions of dollars to win elections. Well, where does that money come from? From the people who already had it. And once they write their checks, the politician owes them a favor. So the political class in this country doesn't really rule over capital. It works for it. Now, some people call this power the man or central planners or something else, but the best way to understand the powers that actually run the West was best described by Simon Dixon's model, where power is made up of the big three, the financial industrial complex, aka the thick, which is Wall Street, the banks, and the crypto lobby. You've got the military industrial complex, aka the Mick, which is the war economy we were just talking about. And then you've got the rising power, which is the technological industrial complex, aka the tick, which is big tech, AI, data, and surveillance. And then sitting across the room from all of that on the opposite side of the spectrum, you've got the sovereigns, the nations that refuse to let capital run their interests. Those are the players. What is the gain? Now, before I get into it, though, this video is sponsored by Gemini. All opinions are my own, and we're not influenced or endorsed by Gemini. I've used Gemini for years, and recently, I started using something new from them called Gemini Predictions. It fits perfectly with the kind of things we already talk about, because every week, we're looking at the same questions. How are markets thinking about the next Fed decision? What happens after the next inflation report? What happens to oil or gold or markets when the world is changing this fast? Usually, we talk about those things, we analyze them, and then we watch the market react. But Gemini Predictions gives you a way to express your view on real world outcomes in real time, directly inside Gemini. What I like about it is that it's super easy to navigate. Here inside the app, for example, I'm looking at one of the short-duration Bitcoin contracts, checking the possible outcomes, the pricing, and the time left before deciding whether this is something I want to participate in. Now, of course, this is not financial advice. Prediction markets involve risk, and you should only use money you're comfortable putting at risk. Gemini Predictions is also available in all 50 states, so if you want to give it a try, go to Gemini.com forward slash Andre, or click the link in the description down below. Please be careful. Do your own research and make sure you understand the risks, and now let's get back to it. Okay, so the whole game of this system is to gain control or capital in order to centralize power. Basically, the game is to get rich, and here's how we do that. America holds the most powerful weapon in human history, which is the dollar, because the whole world has to use our dollars to buy their energy and to trade with each other. So we get to control the plumbing of the entire global economy. That is the fixed superpower. Now, we use this superpower to crack other countries open so we can take their resources. And there's basically four ways to crack a country open. Right? Number one, you sanction it. Their economy collapses. In 2018, for example, the US pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal. Now, countries like Germany, France, and Britain, they still wanted to keep trading with Iran. But the US basically said, well, that's nice, but if you guys want access to the US financial system, you're going to have to choose who you want to do business with. So European companies started leaving Iran. Now, the second way to crack a country open is you cut it off from its bloodstream, which is access to the dollar. So their economy collapses. For example, in 1988, the United States basically told Panama, hey, that's a nice country you have there. It'd be a shame if the cash stopped moving here. So we froze their assets. We blocked payments and we pushed money that was supposed to go to them into the Federal Reserve Eskirah accounts. And because Panama's economy relied on the dollar, their banks closed for nine weeks because there wasn't enough cash and their economy was massively pressured. Now, the third way to crack a country open is you go to war with it. You pressure it long enough that will cause huge amounts of inflation because war is always inflationary. So their economy collapses. And the people of that country will hate their leaders so much they'll revolt against them. And when the time is right, we'll remove that guy from power and replace him with one of our own who's cool with us rebuilding there. Okay, the fourth way is the last resort takes the longest and that is use the media and the capital to fund the opposition from inside that country to eventually push for a revolution in the name of good, right in the name of democracy in the name of human rights. And if that goes on long enough, you let the country tear itself apart from the inside. People revolt might they replace their leader themselves. The economy falls apart. Four different ways of doing the same thing, which is to collapse an economy in order to get their resources privatized, sold off, and get them sucked into the financial industrial complex where more power and capital can centralize. This is why, unlike 99% of people in this world, we are able to park our money into the S&P 500 index and assuming that we're sensible, right, we've saved enough and invested diligently throughout our lives. We get to retire fat and happy at the age of 67 as millionaires. Hold on though, where does this system get the money to do this? I wonder, well, it gets it from you, from all of us, because we have been conditioned to persistently dollar cost average into the market, right? That is the heroes we prop up. That's who the media says we should look up to. And it is this very same market that rules over our political class because the true votes do not come from you voting at the voting booth. It comes from voting with capital. Now most of us will never get those votes because we dollar cost average into what are called mutual funds, ETFs, target retirement funds, right, places that forfeit those voting rights to the black rocks, the state streets, and the vanguards. Those votes get used to support these policies. Now after those countries get vassalized and absorbed into the thick and we get richer, the machine rolls on to the next country and then the next one and the next one. But the catch though is that not every country can be cracked. Some countries are really hard to take down. Some countries, for example, have very powerful allies who might have their back, right? Some countries are just really big and they're self-sufficient and they don't actually need the US. Maybe they don't depend on the dollar or on energy because they have their own. Some countries have nuclear weapons. Now if the first three strategies don't work, then the fourth strategy of last resort is propaganda. That consists of using the media, the entertainment industry, culture, right, that tries to change the minds from the inside of that country to hopefully spark a revolution. That brings me then to Iran and the conflict that the machine is now in, the conflict of the machine is this. AI needs stability in the region. The forever war model needs war and instability. Iran knows that it has a lot of leverage here because even though they can't win the military war, they can wait it out long enough to collapse the global economy. They know that, which is why in a recent meeting with their leaders, they kind of embarrassed US leadership by just not showing up at all and having US leadership show up first, which in the game of negotiations is a big no-no. Now also in this game where capital and centralization of power is the end goal, a collapse of the economy is the worst possible outcome and it is obvious the Iranian leadership understands this and that's why they've been putting out messages like this. Both the ruling class, the military generals, your own government, the political leadership and the head of the government. They are all just using you as human shields. The spiral of silence created is the result of a financial oligarchy. Iran mentioned the financial oligarchy, which is exactly the system where capital sits above the government. Now where does Israel play a role in all of this? Israel is the cover story for the US Empire. Israel is the piece of the whole machine whose job it is to keep the world in conflict. Remember the Mick, the military side of this, they only make money when there's a war, weapons to sell and cities to rebuild and somebody has to fight and in the most resource rich, most strategically important region on the planet, that somebody has been Israel. That is their role. Israel keeps the Middle East unstable enough that the forever war model never runs out of customers. But at the end of the day, this can't go on forever. Something has to give. The model of making money from war will inevitably end one way or another, but that is why we're seeing money move from the war model to the build out of the last technology humans will ever need to build, which is robots and AI. In order to transition this money from one place to the other, you need an exit strategy, you need a face to represent the movement, and you need on brand messaging from everyone. That's what we're watching right now. We are watching that exit strategy play out. That is why we're seeing the coordinated public criticism of Israel from people who would have never criticized Israel before. All that criticism gives us the exit narrative. Everyone is now on the same page if you haven't noticed. But we also need a face that will allow us to transition the model to AI, and the candidate that best represents the interest of the technological industrial complex is JD Vance. JD Vance's entire political career was essentially launched by one man. The man's name is Peter Teal. Peter Teal spent around $15 million for Vance's Senate run, which is one of the biggest bets on a Senate candidate ever made. JD Vance worked inside of Peter Teal's world. Peter Teal was the guy who helped get him into Trump's orbit in the first place so that he could become VP. That's not a theory. This is all on record. JD Vance doesn't have a lot of competition. He is the clearest political embodiment of the tech world that exists in power today. So now we have an exit narrative where everyone's on the same page. We have a face that represents the movement, and he's also on board with criticizing Israel, right? All of it is consistent with this story. If you wanted to transition from wars to AI, you take your guy, you would distance him from this forever war model, you'd let him look strong and independent by standing up to Israel and public, which is exactly what we're watching him do right now. If I was in the cabinet of the Israeli government, I might not be attacking the only powerful ally that I have anywhere left in the entire world. And anybody in Israel who thinks their biggest problem is the president of the United States needs to wake up and smell the reality of the situation that country is in. That's how you'd set him up to be the face of the new world order heading into 2028. That is how the technological industrial complex becomes the power player. That's how we usher in this digital control grid. So let me tie all of this together. Remember the three power structures from Simon Dixon, the Fick, the Mick, and the Tick. All right, for the last few decades, the financial industrial complex used the military industrial complex to run this forever war model because war was the most profitable product in the world. War means more weapons contracts, emergency budgets, sanctions, oil shocks, reconstruction deals, and of course more and more debt. Now the Mick created the need for war using its proxies. Right, good cop US, bad cop Israel, and the financial industrial complex financed all of it. But now the product is changing. The new king on the block is going to be the tick, the technological industrial complex. They want to build out AI, data centers, robots, surveillance, chips, energy, digital infrastructure. That is where the money's going right now. But this creates a problem because the old model and the new model want opposite things. The Mick needs chaos and forever wars and the tick needs stability because you can't build a trillion dollar AI grid in a world that is always on fire. Data centers need power, supply chains that work, energy markets that work, shipping lanes that they open. So what we might be watching is not America versus Iran or Israel versus Lebanon. We are watching a civil war inside the profit machine itself. Two factions of the same system fighting over which business model will run the future. This is where Simon Dixon says, look at who's funding these operations. But at the top you have Gulf Capital, which are countries like Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, Kuwait. Countries with giant sovereign well funds that need places to invest trillions of dollars. Well then you have the financial industrial complex, which are the banks, the asset managers, private equity, old banking families, the western financial system that can turn all of this into investible products like bonds, stocks, loans, insurance contracts, infrastructure funds, yield. Well then you have the technological industrial complex who also funded Trump's election. People like Elon Musk, Peter Teal, Silicon Valley. And this is all done in order to transition from the old war model to building AI, robots, satellites, data centers and the surveillance side of the system, the digital control grid. Well then of course you can't leave out the military industrial complex, which was that old war economy, which are the defense contractors, the weapons lobby right. And the Israel first donors represented by people like Nierriam Adelson. That is the old model in conflict with the new. So now the question is, well who's winning? Right now it looks like the Gulf, the financial industrial complex and the technological industrial complex. They're trying to move the region toward stability because again, stability lets them build and own the future. Now while that's happening though, the military industrial complex will still benefit from the chaos because chaos keeps their model alive. That's what the Iran conflict represents. Now Iran does not need to win the conventional war. Iran is convincing the world right now that the future is going to be cheaper with them inside the system. And Iran has the geography, they have the energy and the choke point to leverage themselves into this bigger future. To be part of that deal. Now China's role in this is they're the factory of the world, the manufacturing base, right, the infrastructure and the alternative payment rails based on gold. Now the Gulf has the money. The West for now still has the financial rapper. But ultimately, an agreement will be reached because ownership and rebuilding is a lot more profitable right now than war. You can only bomb somebody once. But if you finance the rebuilding, you own the ports, you insure the ships, you control the payment rails, you run the data centers, you reroute their energy, collect interest rates for the next 30 years. And that's a way better business model. That's the transition away from war as a service to infrastructure and AI as a service. And that is why I believe that in the near future, Israel's leadership will probably be changed. Its resources will be privatized and it too will be absorbed into this profit machine. The leaders of the old forever war model will be replaced with new ones. And we will get whatever narrative they'll negotiate. That's where I think this is going. Now if you're interested in seeing more videos about how I'm investing through these crazy times, those live in the premium member section, you'll also get access to my main videos earlier. And if that's valuable, the link is down below. It allows me to make more videos like this one and take on a few responses. Thank you for watching and being a member. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Smash the like button. I'd love to see you back here next time. Take care.