---
video_title: "The Biggest Mistakes People Make With Bitcoin Wallets"
video_id: PN5b8nTjYws
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PN5b8nTjYws
video_date: 2026-03-30T01:00:00+00:00
video_description: |

---
If you choose to self-custody your Bitcoin, meaning hold and protect the asset yourself, here's what you should watch out for. Before you get yourself a hardware wallet like this, the ledger, the trays or just remember there's plenty of them out there including the cold card queue which is way more advanced, make sure you buy them directly from the manufacturer. Another mistake is keeping your seed phrase on your phone or on some app. Remember that these devices generate that 12 or 24 word seed phrase. This is the key to your wallet. It's not the hardware itself that holds your coins. Your coins are on the blockchain and the hardware here is just an interface. It's a piece of software that allows you to talk to the blockchain easier. Unfortunately, it's not that uncommon that when people set up these devices, they take a screenshot of their seed phrase or they put it on a password logger like one password, those apps and password managers have been hacked before so it's not safe there either. So never type your seed phrase into a computer that is connected to the internet ever. The moment you do that wallet becomes what's called a hot wallet, meaning it's susceptible to all the things that the internet. If you're thinking yourself, well fine Andre, I'm just gonna store it in my home safe. But if the lockpicking lawyer hasn't scared you yet, it's also the most obvious place that someone's gonna look. That's where your valuables are. It's a honeypot. They may not be able to crack your safe, but they could steal it and then later brute force into it. And if they can find that piece of paper, they'll know exactly what it is. It could even be as harmless as your house cleaner coming by to find your seed phrase somewhere. And then a couple of years later, just when you think you're safe, poof, you'll have no idea how your device, which no one has touched for years was wiped clean. You're gonna think I was hacked Bitcoin as a scam. But no, instead you just granted someone access by not storing your seed phrase properly. And don't trust anyone, including your dog, because they could accidentally eat it too. It sounds silly, but it's actually happened before. So if you do store it somewhere physically, make sure it's not just written down on a piece of paper. That's a risk if your house burns down and you lose it. Instead, keep it somewhere on a metal sheet or a device that's really hard to destroy, like a bill photo or the crypto tag. The crypto tag displays what's called a BIP 39 Namanik, which is made up of 2048 different words that you can use to reference and reconstruct your 24 word seed phrase.