---
video_title: "How The War Will End"
video_id: s7PYilrcpHQ
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7PYilrcpHQ
video_date: 2026-04-11T16:01:22+00:00
video_description: |

---
Outcome number one, let yields go up, right? Treasure yields go to five, six, maybe higher. That crushes the US stock market. Investors would rather take a guaranteed five to six percent return in the bond market, then risk it in the stock market. Docks and tax receipts move together. And when markets go down, tax revenues go down. So deficits explode, housing gets weaker, consumer spending collapses, banks take losses, and we enter into a recession. And because of that negative 87% net international investment position, this recession triggers a debt, death spiral that sort of takes the rest of the world with us. Outcome number two, print money at the same time oil prices are going up. The Fed steps in, quantitative easing, it buys treasuries, it caps yields, and it does what's called yield curve control. It saves the bond market. But you're also putting liquidity into an economy that's experiencing an oil shock. And that causes inflation. We could see inflation that makes 2021 look mild. Double digits may be worse. Outcome number three, walk away from Iran. The rest of the world watches America start a war. It watches the US fail to reopen this major shipping lane, and the world watches as the US retreats. The world then realizes that the US is not as powerful as it used to be. And it doesn't have the influence to restore order. Is Iran the US Suez Canal moment? Pay attention to some variation of that headline. If you're not sure what it means, this comes from Luke Gromin. It means it is the end of the US empire. Before the US empire, it was the British empire that ruled the world. But Britain lost that status because of its Suez Canal moment in 1956. If the US retreats and fails in restoring this order, it sort of accelerates every country's decision to price their oil in something other than dollars. Countries would say, OK, I guess I don't need to use dollars anymore because the US can't protect me, and it can't enforce the rules anyway. I'm going to trade with other countries in whatever currency I can find, right? Which also means a weaker dollar, which is also inflationary.