---
video_title: "Central Banks Are Dumping US Treasuries"
video_id: tWIkCPhcbGE
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tWIkCPhcbGE
video_date: 2026-07-06T16:00:24+00:00
video_description: |

---
In the first quarter of this year alone, Central Banks bought a net 244 tons of gold. That is the strongest first quarter ever recorded. And it's also not a one time thing. They've now bought over 200 tons in 10 of the last 11 quarters. And the crazy part is that a big chunk of that buying was never officially reported, which is kind of interesting. According to the World Gold Council, they say their number includes an estimate of undisclosed purchases, which means gold, these banks are buying, but not telling anyone about it. Now this shadow accumulation has allegedly been happening since 2022. The official numbers that banks are reporting, that's just the minimal. The real number is probably way bigger, maybe as much as 10 times bigger, especially for China. Now that behavior, that's the first half of it. They'd buy more of the real thing. But it's also what they're selling to buy in. What are they selling? That would be US Treasuries, the bond market. Because for 50 years, the strategy for all central banks was doing the opposite of this. Central banks took your extra dollars and they parked them in US Treasuries. They basically lent the money back to America to earn a little bit of interest. That was the safe thing to do and everybody did it. Any country that didn't do it in fact and tried to route around the dollar, got a lot more freedom in their country, right? But now we're seeing a reversal of that strategy. Foreign central banks have essentially quit growing their pile of Treasuries over a decade ago. And lately, some of the biggest holders have actually been selling US Treasuries. China has dumped hundreds of billions of dollars of US debt and rotated it into gold. Now they're not dumping all of it at once. That would not be smart because they want to extract as many dollars as they can. If they sold all of it at once, they'd crash the value of their own bond holdings. So they have to do it slowly and strategically. That's true for all the other countries holding on Treasury bonds as well.