---
video_title: "China Is About To Pop The AI Bubble"
video_id: siazPdsZHuI
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=siazPdsZHuI
video_date: 2026-07-07T23:05:52+00:00
video_description: |
  China Is About To Pop The AI Bubble
  ► Go to https://ground.news/jikh to access world-wide perspectives in one place, compare coverage, and stay fully informed on our economy and more. Subscribe for 40% off unlimited access through my link.
  ► Premium Membership (extra videos, early access): https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg/join
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Tracker https://www.funvest.com
  ► How To Protect Your Bitcoin (step by step), use Code "ANDREI40" to get 40% off https://stan.store/andreijikh
  ► Fund your account and get up to 4% with WeBull: https://www.webull.com/k/AndreiJikh
  ► Where I Buy My Bitcoin: https://gemini.sjv.io/7a0OL5
  ► How I went from Zero To A Million: https://www.zerotoamillion.com
  ► Ledger Discount Link: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/black-friday-andrei-jikh?r=535643c13ab0
  ► My Stock Portfolio + Stock Tracker: https://www.patreon.com/andreijikh
  ► Open A Roth IRA: 
  ► Follow Me On Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/andreijikh/
  ► How I Protect My Bitcoin: https://shop.ledger.com/pages/ledger-nano-x?r=535643c13ab0
  
  DISCLOSURE: None of this is meant to be construed as investment advice, it's for entertainment purposes only. Links above include affiliate commission or referrals. I'm part of an affiliate network and I receive compensation from partnering websites. The video is accurate as of the posting date but may not be accurate in the future.
  
  You should not treat any opinion expressed on this Youtube channel as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of opinion. Opinions expressed are based upon information considered reliable, but this Youtube channel does not warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such. This Youtube channel is not under any obligation to update or correct any information provided in these videos. Statements and opinions are subject to change without notice. No compensation is received by this Youtube channel for the opinions expressed. 
  
  Past performance is not indicative of future results. This Youtube channel does not guarantee any specific outcome or profit. You should be aware of the real risk of loss in following any strategy or investment discussed on this Youtube channel. Strategies or investments discussed may fluctuate in price or value. Investors may get back less than invested. Investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel may not be suitable for you. This material does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial situation or needs and is not intended as recommendations appropriate for you. You must make an independent decision regarding investments or strategies mentioned on this Youtube channel. Before acting on information on this Youtube channel, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and strongly consider seeking advice from your own financial or investment adviser.
---
So the whole US stock market, including your 401k, your index funds, and the value of your retirement, is based on a story that might be coming to an end. You mentioned earlier the .com bubble. Are we doing .com bubble 2.0 right now? This is much bigger. The AI build out relative to the TMT build out of 99, 2000 is multiples, even as a percent of the economy. Okay, so one of the big reasons why the stock market is being held up right now is because there's a story that American companies are going to make trillions of dollars in profits forever because the world will be forced to use America's technology. You have a lot of data that you look at. Do you think China is getting better at AI? Is it got narrowing? There are two relevant tech centers on two and a half. America, China, is real. Those are the tech centers of the world. They will win or we will win. Now some people say that that story is coming to an end because of all the lies, the spending, and the competition. Now on June 12th something interesting happened. A letter was sent to a company in San Francisco. That letter was from Howard Ludnick, the Commerce Secretary of the United States, and by the end of the night, the most advanced AI in the world was shut down. And Thropic, which is the company behind Claude, was ordered to cut off two of its most powerful AI models from every foreign national in the world. Not just China, by the way. That order included countries like France, Germany, Japan, and even anthropics employees if they weren't American citizens. They were also locked out. Now four days after that letter, France fires Palin tear. The French Prime Minister said that we can't depend on partners who are capable of turning off the tap. At Germany, already walked away, Spain told its companies to stop signing deals, the same goes for Britain. And it's because the world found out that it has a choice. And the choice is literally seven and a half times cheaper. Because while America is spending $1 trillion a year building AI, which is 3% of the whole US economy, China is spending a fraction of that and giving it away virtually for free. So in this video, I want to explain how China is competing with the US and how this AI story might be coming to an end and some of the things that you can use to potentially see this bubble popping before anybody else. So with that said, let's get into it. Hi, my name is Andre Jik. Hope you're doing well. Come for the finance and stay for the AI bubble everyone's all coming. So let me just start with the basic question. Do people really want this AI technology? Because there's a theory that says the reason that this is such a prevalent story in the market is so that these tech companies could justify their insanely high stock prices because in reality, they've run out of really good ideas. In fact, there's a really good interview on CNBC with Ed Zitron who brought up a lot of really great points. But fundamentally, large language models are not the future. The only reason big tech is investing in this is that they've run out of hyper growth ideas. They don't have an next iPhone. They don't have a new Google search. So they've put over a trillion dollars with trillions more to come into a kind of a dead end industry because when they, when that ends, they'll have to admit that they don't have anything else. Now, throughout the video, I'm going to show you more clips from that interview. But there was also an interview with Alex Carp, who is the CEO of Palantir, which if you don't know, is the company that works closely with the government and pretty much every three-letter agency in the world. And Alex also brings up the fact that nobody really trusts say I right now. Who owns the data? Where is it cash? Are the prompts secure? Is this being transferred to you? Are you being comp, okay, if it was so valuable, let's say I can make you a billion dollars. Right. Tomorrow, wouldn't I say I'll make you a billion dollars and I want 30%. Why are they charging for tokens if it's so valuable? He is saying if the promise of AI is as good as they are marketing it to be in its current form, they would not be charging us for tokens. Instead, they'd be charging us for building a billion-dollar business idea where they would take 30% of the revenue. Because think about how you pay for anything in business. You pay a lawyer to win a court case. You pay a contractor to remodel your house. The price you pay is attached to a specific result. Now, AI companies do not work that way. They charge us per what's called token usage. Now, a token is basically a word. Every word, the AI reads and every word it writes for you, we pay for that. Whether the answer was good or was really bad, and Alex Carp is basically saying why would they price their business that way? Why wouldn't open AI, chat GPT just say, only pay me when it works. If we create a good idea for you, give us a cut of your income. But I'm telling you, in this country at every single enterprise I deal with, these people are living. They're like, I am paying for tokens that create no value. These people are stealing the weights and alpha of my business and they're creating a wealth tax that does not help the poor. It just clenishes, starts with the billionaires, every single person at this table is going to be paying a wealth tax only to punish us. If they were confident that this thing created this value, that would be the easiest sales pitch in history. Pay us nothing unless we make you money and unless we build you a billion dollar idea. But they can't offer that because these models do what's called hallucinate, right? This is where they confidently make things up and nobody, including the people who built them, could tell you when or really why it happens. No one's been able to figure out how to fix it completely. You'll notice the both anthropic CEO Dariyama Day in Samutman have both said, we can't wait to see what you built with this. Well, that's because they don't know what you can build with this. They want everyone else to do their innovation for them, spend as much as they can on tokens and then take whatever's left except they lose too much money for that strategy to actually work. And that puts every corporation in America in a very awkward situation. Because let's say you're the CEO of a corporation, right? You just spent $50 million on AI this year. So your board of directors asks you a question. They're like, what did we get for this $50 million we just spent? What's the ROI? And you're like, I don't know, right? We don't have a number. Nobody has a number. Corporate America is paying subscription fees on a technology whose outcome we cannot measure. And it gets worse though because not only can we not measure it, we are also risking our company secrets and potentially creating a competitor. Here's what Alex has to say about that. But something is gone completely wrong. And the basic view among enterprises in this country is, I'm going to chill wax and waste my time with tokens. I'm going to get no value and they're going to get my IP. The fear for all these CEOs is that when your company uses these models, your data flows through them, right? Your process, your trade secrets, the special sauce that makes you profitable, which Alex Carp calls the alpha. So what happens when the AI company that you use learns from your business, it just becomes your competitor. And this is not a hypothetical thing, by the way, anthropic launched a design product called Claude Design while having a relationship with the company called Figma, which is a design company. Figma CEO publicly said he was shocked. So picture being a business and then watching that you're paying your vendor millions of dollars a year to use their AI. But what you're actually doing is paying them and training your own replacement. So what's the solution that this is where it gets really interesting. But what is happening among the most technical players is they're saying, I want something I own. This is my business. I want to own the GPUs. I want to own my data. I want to own the model. I want to control the alpha. Why would they get access to my data if they're going to build my alpha? Why wouldn't I control the weights? Right. What that means is, instead of renting an AI from someone, instead you just download one, you run it on your own computers using your own data where no one can see it and no one can learn from it. And also no one can shut it off. He then goes on to say, though, that most businesses don't even need the latest and greatest cutting edge AI because you don't need the smartest one to process insurance claims. Right. You need one that's specifically really good and insurance claims. And what's interesting is that Alex Carp profits from this business model as well. So why would he be saying all this? What's his motive? Because remember France, Germany, Spain, they're canceling their contracts. Palantir has been losing those contracts across Europe all year. Now two days before that interview, Palantir announced a partnership with Nvidia to sell open models in sovereign environments. Basically, that interview was a product launch for his new service, which is why he's out there telling other companies to download and own their own AI. So that is the first problem with AI. Nobody trusts it. But there's a second problem that's even bigger. Now before I explain the second problem, everything in this video, like the AI spending and whether this is a bubble at all, depends completely on where you're reading it. And that's where today's sponsor, Ground News, comes in. Ground News is an app that shows you the same story from hundreds of different outlets at the same time. And it tells you which ones are left leaning, right leaning, or center. So you can see how the story changes depending on the source. Perfect example. South Korea just announced a huge national AI and chip investment. Over 159 news sources covered it. And here's what Ground News shows. Left leaning outlets frame this as a historic industrial strategy, stressing the huge scale and a lead with the market's outcome. Right leaning outlets lean into the urgency and survival using phrases like race against time, framing it as existential for South Korea's chip industry. Now center outlets just skip the drama and focus on policy execution. Even the headline number changes depending on the source. Some report a thousand trillion one others up to 2000 trillion. Some just say 1.2 trillion. But it's the same announcement with three different narratives. That's what Ground News makes visible. I use it when I'm researching for these videos so I can separate what's actually happening from how it's being told. If you want to see the full picture of global events and not just one side go to ground.news forward slash jick or click the link down below. You'll get 40% off the vantage plan which is the one I use and you'll be supporting independent journalism and this channel. Thank you to ground news for sponsoring this segment. And now let's get back to it. Now the second problem with AI is that even if every company in America trusted these AI companies, the money still does not make sense because the business model is broken in a way we've never seen from tech companies because here's how software is supposed to make money. Software is the greatest business model ever invented because you spend a lot of money building the thing at once right. And then every new customer is basically free money. That's why tech stocks have done so well over the past few decades. When you buy Microsoft Excel, Microsoft doesn't spend anything extra to sell you that copy. Their costs stay the same but the revenue goes up and it's the gap between those two lines that is their profit and that gap is why tech companies the most valuable companies on earth. Now AI broke that model and how they broke it was every single time you ask Chan and GPD a question right now it costs open AI money because it uses electricity chips are being worn down so more customers does not translate to free money anymore. More customers means more cost dollar for dollar. So AI is not a software business. It's more like a restaurant but every time a meal gets served somebody has to buy the ingredients every time except this is a restaurant that loses money every time it serves food and it's planned to fix it is to serve more food. But let me give you some context. In 2025, open AI burned over 20 billion dollars in just one year. They'd be the first to be this bad other than we work and even then this is so much worse than that. Open AI burned 20.9 billion dollars in 2025 that's the origin of financials that the FT and I reported and the problem with these companies is their margins are getting worse and they actually their costs increase linearly with their revenues. So he's basically saying that costs increase linearly with revenues where the two lines are going up together and the gap never really opens up. Now for 25 years every investor has been trained to be patient with this because they say well they're losing money now right but at scale their margins will get better right Amazon lost money for years except with AI we just keep on waiting and the margins are getting worse because every new model costs more to run than the last one and the market is starting to notice it. There is no proof that they can improve their margins no amount of specialist silicon or supposed Vera Rubens will bring these costs down and we're at a point now where open AI is now potentially pushing their IPO to 2027 because they couldn't get a trillion dollar valuation. It's clear that people are whizing up to the problem of generative AI which is there's not really a business there. Now all of this by the way is not just open AI because look at who's paying to build all of this. This is from Oracle's annual report. Oracle is a particularly scary one because they are building 7.1 gigawatts of capacity just for one customer and they even said in their annual report that the risk was they might not get paid. Open AI only loses money and I think I estimate it's like 75 billion dollars of revenue annually that they will have to pay for the full Stargate data center project in annual compute revenue. Open AI can't afford that and if they can't Larry Ellison can't afford to pay back those bills. An Oracle stock will be in jeopardy along with the margin lows that Mr Ellison holds. It's genuinely dangerous. So Oracle is building the equivalent of several nuclear power plants worth of electricity for basically one customer. A customer that just lost 20 billion dollars. Here's my favorite one though. Invidia sells its chips to a group of smaller cloud companies. They're called Neil clouds. Now those companies borrow billions of dollars to buy in video chips and invidia rents them back. I think companies like Core even especially Nebius and I ran and Cypher mining and all of them. Terrible as well. They are all very they're basically outgrowth since their subsidiaries of Nvidia. Nvidia is now according to the information going to be paying them to rent back their GPUs when they install them in the data center. This is something that only happens in an industry without diverse and real demand. So what he's saying there is that Nvidia sales are partially funded by. Invidia. That's like a car dealership lending you money to buy a car and then paying you to borrow the car back for the weekend and then reporting all of it as demand. Now look how much profit we're making right? Yeah because you are buying back your own equipment. There's a name for when an industry starts doing this. It's called not enough real customers. So for companies investing trillions in AI like Microsoft, Google, Amazon meta. What is the ROI from all their spending? They won't tell you. These companies report everything. Cloud revenue, ad revenue, YouTube revenue. But AI revenue, they're not telling us that. Microsoft, Google and Meta and Amazon are all doing a funny little I don't want to call it a scam but it's a trick where because their other businesses are still growing but they never disclose their AI revenues. Everyone conflates that with AI driving their growth. In reality, their other businesses are growing and AI is losing the money across the board. You'll notice that neither might Krasov to Amazon who both shared their run rate of AI will share the actual AI revenues. That tells you that these companies are afraid. Public companies love good news. If they had good news, why wouldn't they share it? That's because they've only got bad news here. Now as of right now, the stock market is still patient and investors are saying, okay, give it time still. But all of it really depends on one big assumption, which is that if and when the profits do come, it's going to be the American companies that will make the profits because the world has no other option. But the third problem with AI is that the world has another option. That option is called China. So let me show you what China is really doing. Remember this chart from the beginning of the video, the trillion dollars that America's spending. Well, here's something interesting. This is China. On that same scale, America $764 billion this year and then one trillion next year, the repressent of the whole US economy. China, $102 billion this year, $123 billion next year, 0.6% of their economy, which means America's outspending China almost 10 to 1. Why? It's because China figured something out. A developer took the exact same coding task and gave it to two AI models. Claude Opus, which is one of the top American models made by Anthropic and GLM, which is a Chinese open model. Both models finished the same task and both took about five and a half minutes. The American model charged $2.33 and the Chinese model charged 31 cents. That's seven and a half times cheaper. And before you think that that's a cherry-pick test, here is the industry-wide data. This is called the artificial analysis intelligence index and this is basically the official rankings of every AI model in the world. Now look at the top. The best American model scores 60. Now look right here. This is GLM, the best Chinese open model, 51. And look at how much of this chart is from China. DeepSeek, Quinn, Kinnie, Minimax. They're not at the top. They are everywhere. They are filling the whole middle of the global rankings. Now to be fair, the US still has the smartest AI in the world and that's true. But if you ask the question that every business is asking, do I need the fastest AI model to manage my business? The answer is no. For most businesses, that's things like answering their customer service emails to basically do the boring work that is 90% of what companies actually use AI for. Based on that logic, China is winning. The US is winning the race for the most dollar spent and China is sort of winning the race for the customer. Now the question is, how is China doing this while spending 10 times less money? And the answer is distillation. Here's how it works. When you train a frontier AI model from scratch, that means spending billions of dollars teaching it everything the hard way. But there's a shortcut. You can train your model by studying the answers of a model that already exists. This is basically like copying someone else's homework and then you know the answer. For almost no money spent by the way. So the US spends trillions of dollars doing the hardest research in human history and then China just sort of copies it by compressing the results into smaller, cheaper models and then it gives them away for free. It open sources them, which means anyone can download them. If you think about it, every dollar of US AI spending, it's kind of like a donation to the Chinese AI industry. And this has become common practice for China. So much so that they are doing it as a side hustle. Check this out. This is a model for example called Lawncat. Look at the benchmarks. It's going toe-to-toe with Google's Gemini and it's beating older versions of Anthropics flagship models on real world agenteic tasks. But the thing is, do you know who built Lawncat? It's a company called Maituan. Do you know what Maituan does? It's a food delivery company. It's the Chinese door dash equivalent and they built an AI that competes with the smartest labs in the United States, which means when a company like that can do what a trillion dollar US company is doing is that company still actually worth trillions of dollars. Maybe not because remember the assumption that's holding up the whole AI stock market is that let's be patient guys. The profits will come and when they do all the US companies will collect those profits because the world has no other choice. But here's what the actual cost is when there is a choice. Right. This is the same type of work the American model shows 18.5 cents per task and the Chinese model four cents. Right within a few quality points of each other at a 76% discount. This is sort of the chart that destroys the whole story because you cannot make back a trillion dollars selling something that your competitor is giving away at 90% of the quality for just 10% of the price. So let me tie all of this together. If all of this is true, then when does this bubble pop if ever? And logic says it's when corporations stop their capex, their capital expenditures. It's when they stop spending money building all these data centers. But believe it or not, that is not when the bubble pops according to the data. Data shows that the bubble could pop a lot sooner and here's why during the dot com bubble the NASDAQ index peaked in March of 2000. Now all the companies that were laying the fiber optic cables at the time for the data centers of that era, they kept spending billions of dollars well into 2001 even though the stock market collapsed a full year before their spending stopped. So the market did not wait for companies to stop spending and to admit to anything. The logic of the market changed when enough investors stopped believing in that story. So the trigger this time around I think will be something a lot more subtle. Something like a big tech earnings call where a CEO says something like we are moderating the pace of our infrastructure investment. Some boring small thing like that. And that's because the first company that gets rewarded by Wall Street for cutting their AI spending, that will give every other CEO permission to do the same thing. In fact according to Ed Zitron, Goldman Sachs recently said that the first hyper scaler to pull back on spending will get rewarded by the markets. So I heard a Goldman analyst say recently that the first hyper scaler to pull CapEx will get rewarded by the markets. I think the CapEx pullbacks are there the sign. I also think any financing falling through through the open AI or anthropic would be a sign. But I think we're going to start seeing AI companies kind of start falling out of favor and not being able to raise money. But the big thing is debt. When data center debt stops being issued, that will be when it's bedtime for this industry. Because even if they think AI is going to win, we've got 100 gigawatts of so-called data center capacity allegedly under construction or in planning. That's trillions of dollars of money that needs to come from somewhere. And we are tapping out the debt markets. We saw that with Google raising that $85 billion equity raise. That's going to be one of the early signs. Now another sign that we could be at the peak of the bubble is the bond market. That's because unlike the stock market, which runs on stories of hopes and dreams, the bond market doesn't work like that. All bond investors care about is will I get paid my interest payment? The moment they get scared, they start to demand a much higher interest rate. Now how we measure their fear is something called a credit spread. Here's how that works. In the world of investing, there's a concept called the risk-free interest rate. It's called that because it is set by the US government, which is considered to be the safest borrower on earth. That's government bonds, right? Whatever they're at, that's the risk-free rate. Okay, but remember, companies can also issue bonds, except because companies are risky, because they can go out of business, their bonds pay that risk-free rate plus something extra to compensate you for the risk that their company could go broke and never pay you back. Makes sense, right? Well, that extra between the risk-free rate and their rate, that is called the spread. Think of it as an interest premium. When lenders feel safe, the premium is small, meaning the spreads are what's called tight. Meaning corporate bond rates are close to the risk-free rate. But when investors feel like there's some market risk, the premium explodes, right? The spread increases. That is one of the early signs that we can start to see that this is going to fall apart. Now, here's an example, by the way. See this increase in 2008. Spreads hit almost 22%. Lenders started to charge very high prices, credit shut off completely, and companies that ran on borrowed money just collapsed. Also, see the jump in 2020. Now, look at today. The spreads are very tight. 2.6%. That is close to the lowest and the commiss readings in recorded history. What this means for now is that either bond investors see no problem and everything in this video is completely wrong or bond investors are wrong. They can be wrong. Look at early 2007. The housing crisis was already underway. Bear Stearns was months away from blowing up and spreads were only 2.5%. They were super calm. Right where they are today. Fear Gage didn't predict 2008 though. That's because spreads don't really measure what is true. They measure what lenders believe. In 2007, lenders believe the housing market was safe, which now we know obviously that it wasn't. But the point is that when you see someone on the news say, hey, don't worry, AI is totally safe, it's doing great. Credit markets, right, the spreads are not so worried. If you hear that, remember that the credit market wasn't worried in 2007 either. Credit markets can be wrong and they have been wrong before. Although you agree that spreads do not imply that that moment is anytime soon. Spreads have been wrong before. That's the thing and I think that perhaps the timing isn't going to be immediate. But at some point a hyperscaler is going to pull back capex. And when that happens, well, this is an industry of followers. The tech industry doesn't have ideas. They just copy each other. Everyone copies Sachin Adelaide when he put chat GPT in Bing. And I think that whoever breaks capex first, they'll follow them too. And finally, I just want to show you what Michael Burry posted a few days ago. And remember, he's the guy who predicted the 2008 financial crisis. So in chart one, he shows chip stocks are trading at the top of their 15 year valuation range. Basically the same peak that they hit right before the 2024 correction, which is marked with those red circles. The market is basically pricing chips like the trillion dollars has already been made. Now chart two is even more interesting. This tracks the three groups of AI stocks since last year. Now the gray and white lines going up the 200% are the AI winners, right? The companies selling the chips and the equipment. But the orange line way at the bottom, that's barely above zero are the hyperscalers, right? Companies like Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Meta. What does that mean? It means the market is telling us that the companies that are doing the spending, the trillions of dollars, right? They're getting almost no credit for it. Their stock values aren't really going up. Wall Street instead is rewarding the companies that are getting that money. And it's ignoring the companies spending to build it. Right? That's basically the market admitting it doesn't believe the spenders will make it back. And in the third chart, he posted, it shows the Silicon Data LLM token expenditure index. It's a fancy name, but what it shows is it shows us the price that people pay for AI tokens. This index is the price of AI itself. And look at it. It's down almost 20% from its high in May. Now the question is why would the price of AI be going down during the biggest AI build out in history? Bloomberg says either it's because demand is going to cheaper models or buyers are just not willing to pay more. Look at the middle one. Demand is shifting towards cheaper models. And that is the China theory that's showing up in this data. Now to be fair though, Michael Burry has been early before and when people say early in the market, that's a polite way of saying he's been wrong. Right? He's made market crash predictions over the years. Quite a lot. That didn't really come true. And even this index has dips that have recovered. Basically Bloomberg says that the signal for all of this is ambiguous. We can't really learn anything from this data. It can mean anything. So basically the real answer to how long it will take for the AI bubble to pop if ever is that no one knows. But those are some of the early signs to look for based on the data from the past. Now if you're interested in seeing how I'm personally preparing and more of my thoughts, those videos live in the premium member section. We'll also get access to my videos earlier. And if that's valuable, the link is down below. It allows me to make more videos like this one and take on a few responses. Thank you for watching and being a premium member. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Smash the like button, subscribe if you haven't already. Would love to see you back here next time. See you soon. Bye bye.