---
video_title: "How Gold Prices Are Manipulated"
video_id: L1jW31urHiM
channel_name: "Andrei Jikh"
channel_id: UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L1jW31urHiM
video_date: 2026-07-01T22:35:12+00:00
video_description: |

---
Once I realize you're never actually going to show up and ask for your card, what stops me from writing a second certificate and then selling it to someone else, and then a third and a fourth and a tenth? Right? Now there's 10 people who think they own this view, but there's still only one card. I've sold 10 claims on it, though. On paper, the supply will show that there's 10 mues. In reality, nothing's changed, right? There's still one card in existence. So what's it really worth? Well, if the market is pricing my card based on the evidence it has, which is all that paper floating around, the price should be one-tenth of what it should be worth. Because as far as the market can tell, these mues are everywhere, why would the price go up when there's so much of them available? That's paper supply. The second everybody walks in at the same time and says, you know what, Andre, actually I want my card now. The whole system would fall apart because 9 out of 10 people would find out that their paper certificate is worth nothing. That is the overly simplified version of paper gold. Now in the big western markets like London and Comex in New York, most gold that trades every day is never physically delivered. They're what are called contracts. They are claims. People buy and sell these pieces of paper that represent claims on the gold. And the majority of people never intend to take a single physical bar, right? Same as the Mue example. And just like my card scheme, that means they can also write way more claims than there are actual pieces of metal sitting in their vaults. Estimates for how much paper gold there is varies because no one knows how much gold there really is in the world or how much paper there is. But the point is there is dramatically more paper than there is physical real gold. What that means then is that the price of gold today is probably lower than where it should be. That's how you suppress the price of an asset.