---
video_title: "7 Useful Websites You Should Know"
video_id: JzUJb_VqQAM
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzUJb_VqQAM
video_date: 2024-03-25
video_description: |
  Go to my sponsor Aura https://aura.com/privacymatters to get a 14-day free trial and protect yourself and your family from hackers and identity theft.
  
  The first powerful website on the list is the Background Remover. Have you ever found yourself spending precious time painfully trying to remove a background from an image? It's a frustrating task we've all faced. But fear no more! You just upload a image and with just one click on this website, you can instantly remove the background from any image. Yes, you read that right – ANY IMAGE! And the best part? It's completely free to use! The next one is even cooler! 
  
  Struggling with removing or noisy audio or unwanted music in your videos? No worries! With this awesome website, you can remove noise with just one click, keeping all the important voices intact. It's super easy – just upload your file and let the website work its magic! 
  
  But wait, there's more! Have you ever wanted to change your voice like they do in movies? Well, now you can with the Voice Changer website! It's as simple as clicking a button, and your voice transforms in real-time. Get ready to impress your friends and family with this cool feature!
  
  And if that wasn't enough, get ready for some serious productivity boost with the Small PDF website. Convert images to PDFs, turn PDFs into editable Word documents, and even sign PDFs online – all in one place! Plus, remove backgrounds from images and videos effortlessly. It's like having your own digital Swiss army knife!
  
  Last but not least, embrace your inner hacker with the Hackertype and hacking simulator website. Type away on your keyboard and watch your screen light up with code, just like in those hacker movies. It's not only fun but also a great way to impress your friends and family with your tech skills!
---
if you're anything like me you love cool websites that are powerful and that make your life easier these websites I'm about to share are so good I promise you you will not be disappointed so why are these websites so underrated and what can they do for you these are easy to use so anyone can use them they let you do stuff that used to take professionals hours in a few seconds and they'll make you look like a genius you might seriously bang your head into the wall for not knowing about these earlier but hey it's better late than never so let's get straight into it the first powerful websites on the list is the background remover imagine this you're struggling with the tricky job of getting rid of the background from a picture it's tough and timec consuming right we've all been there feeling the frustration but fear not because it's the last time you'll do it the hard way introducing the background remover a super easy to ouse website that's here to make your life a whole lot simpler gone are the days of painstakingly erasing backgrounds pixel by pixel now all you need to do is upload your image and give that magical click on the website just like that the background disappears leaving your image looking clean and professional and get this it works on any image you throw its way yep you heard that right any image whether it's a selfie a vacation snap or a picture of your favorite pet this tool handles them all like a breeze but here's the best part it won't cost you a penny this amazing tool is completely free for everyone to use no hidden fees no subscriptions just pure simple background removal the next one I'm about to share is even cooler imagine this scenario you've got an audio or video file but it has distracting background noise or unwanted music that's drowning out the voices you need to hear frustrating right but fear not because our next tool is here to change that forever this website is super useful for removing background noise or extracting specific audio channels in just one click it seamlessly splits your audio file and isolates the different frequencies it's like something straight out of those hacking scenes from the movies but here's the best part it preserves the voices you want to keep intact ensuring that your audio or video remains crystal clear and professional and if you think this tool is impressive just wait until you see what else I have in store the next website is even more powerful your online identity is valuable to hackers imagine one day you Tred to log into your social accounts but can't get in you check your bank balance and it's drained your hard-earned money gone identity theft can really ruin your life and it's easy for evil hackers to do so that's why I've been using Aura the sponsor of today's video Aura gives you peace of mind and protects you from hackers and identity theft it works like a strong shield and protects your Digital Life you get a ton of features like anti virus VPN password management and my favorite identity theft Insurance included without having to download several different apps it's really easy to set up and best of all you get everything at one affordable price you can go to aura.com privacy matters to start your 2E free trial also linked Below in the description let me introduce you to another incredible tool the voice changer you've probably seen those movies where hackers alter their voices to sound completely different right well guess what now you can do it too and it's easier than ever this amazing website allows you to change your voice in real time yes you read that correctly realtime voice modulation at your fingertips it's pretty epic isn't it imagine the possibilities prank calls voiceovers gaming streams the list goes on with just a few clicks you can transform your voice into anything you desire from robot voices to celebrities to your friends and the best part it's incredibly userfriendly so even if you're not a tech whs you'll be able to change your voice without any problems all the websites you have seen so far are really powerful but the next one is probably the most useful one in this video let me introduce small PDF this incredible tool can do so much for you for starters it can change your pictures into PDF files ever needed to save a bunch of photos together in one document this does the trick but wait there's more it can also take those PDF files and turn them into Word documents that means you can edit them easily just like you do with any word file no more struggling with locked PDFs you can even sign your PDFs online with this tool no printing no scanning just a few clicks and your signature is right there on the document now earlier in this video I shared a website that simplifies the process of background removal in images with just one click but what if you find yourself in need of removing backgrounds from videos we've got you covered the next tool on our list takes it a step further by allowing you to effortlessly remove backgrounds in videos opening up a world possibilities with runway. ML getting rid of backgrounds in your videos is super easy just upload your video click once and voila no more backgrounds cluttering up your footage this is very useful if you want to cut out a person from a video for example get ready for something really special the next tool is seriously cool and it'll have you feeling like a hacker we're talking about hacker type and hacking simulator these websites are not just fun they look really cool too picture this you're typing away on your keyboard and suddenly your screen starts flashing with lines of code just like in those hacker movies it's not just fun it's also a great way to impress your friends and family if you found these websites and tools useful hit that like button and if you want to add some powerful websites to this list let me know in the comment if you enjoyed this video you'll love this one next