---
video_title: "20 Apps That Turn Your Mobile Into a Hacking  Super Computer!"
video_id: x3bCXa4mjWE
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x3bCXa4mjWE
video_date: 2024-09-14
video_description: |
  20 Must-Have Hacking Apps for Ethical Hacking & Security
  
  Get the Pro Hacker's Cheat Sheet:
  https://buymeacoffee.com/PrivacyMatters/e/292971
  
  🚨 Disclaimer: This video is intended for educational and ethical hacking purposes only. Use these tools responsibly and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Unauthorized access to systems or data is illegal and punishable by law. 🚨
  
  Ever wondered how hackers leverage their mobile phones for advanced tasks? In this video, we reveal 20 powerful apps that can turn your smartphone into a hacker's paradise—perfect for ethical hacking and educational purposes! 📱🔐
  
  Starting off strong at Number 20: Haven. Transform your phone into a security system with Haven, developed by the Guardian Project and Edward Snowden. It uses your phone’s sensors to detect and alert you to suspicious activity.
  
  NetHunter Store takes the 19th spot. This is more than just an app; it’s an app store dedicated to penetration testing tools, including network analyzers and vulnerability scanners, as part of the Kali Linux project.
  
  At Number 18, we have DriveDroid. This app allows you to boot your PC directly from your phone, turning it into a bootable USB drive and supporting multiple Linux distributions.
  
  WiFi Analyzer, coming in at Number 17, helps you optimize your Wi-Fi network by analyzing signal strength and channel interference, improving your network performance.
  
  Orbot is at Number 16. Powered by Tor, it encrypts your internet traffic and hides your IP address, helping you maintain anonymity and bypass internet censorship.
  
  Number 15 is Kali NetHunter. This ultimate mobile penetration testing platform brings the full power of Kali Linux to your Android device, including support for USB HID keyboard attacks.
  
  At Number 14, Shodan Mobile allows you to discover devices connected to the internet. Known as the 'search engine for the Internet of Things,' it underscores the importance of securing IoT devices.
  
  USB Cleaver, coming in at Number 13, is designed to gather information from connected Windows devices, extracting passwords, Wi-Fi keys, and other sensitive data.
  
  NetCut is at Number 12. It lets you see and control all devices connected to your Wi-Fi network, blocking unauthorized devices with a single tap.
  
  Number 11 is Hackode, a collection of tools for ethical hackers that includes reconnaissance, scanning, and security feed tools, as well as Google Dorks for finding sensitive information online.
  
  AndroDumpper, at Number 10, helps you test the security of your Wi-Fi network by attempting to connect to WPS-enabled routers, revealing any vulnerabilities.
  
  dSploit is Number 9. This penetration testing suite offers network analysis, vulnerability scanning, and exploit execution, including man-in-the-middle attacks.
  
  Number 8 is Nessus, a remote security scanner used to identify vulnerabilities in networks. It’s a trusted tool for comprehensive vulnerability assessments.
  
  WiFi WPS WPA Tester, at Number 7, tests the security of your Wi-Fi network by attempting to connect to WPS-enabled routers and generating detailed security reports.
  
  Number 6 is cSploit, a complete IT security toolkit offering network mapping, vulnerability scanning, and exploit execution, including Wi-Fi password cracking.
  
  Nmap takes the 5th spot. Known as the network mapper, it helps you discover hosts and services on your network and create a detailed map of your network.
  
  At Number 4, Fing provides detailed information about devices connected to your network. It detects unauthorized devices and sends alerts to help you maintain network security.
  
  Hacker's Keyboard, Number 3, offers a full PC keyboard layout on your mobile device, including arrow keys and function keys, ideal for command-line tools and remote desktop applications.
  
  DroidSheep, at Number 2, allows you to intercept web session profiles over a network, capturing session cookies to test web application security against session hijacking.
  
  And finally, at Number 1, zANTI. Developed by Zimperium, this mobile penetration testing toolkit lets you assess network security by simulating advanced attacks and providing detailed reports.
  
  🔔 Don’t forget to like, subscribe, and hit the bell icon for more tech and security tips!
  
  📥 Want a quick reference? Download our free cheatsheet with a summary of these top 20 hacking apps! [Download Cheatsheet Here]
  
  #MobileHacking #EthicalHacking #SecurityApps #TechTools #NetworkSecurity #KaliLinux #EthicalHacker #AppReview
---
ever wondered how hackers turn their mobile phones into powerful tools stick around because today we're revealing 20 unique apps that can transform your mobile into a hacker's Paradise remember these tools are for ethical hacking and educational purposes only let's dive in starting off strong at number 20 Haven this app developed by the Guardian Project and co-developed by Edward Snowden turns your phone into a security system it uses your phone sensors to detect motion sound and even light changes alerting you to any suspicious activity perfect for securing your personal space number 19 net Hunter store this isn't just an app it's a whole App Store dedicated to penetration testing tools from Network analyzers to vulnerability scanners net Hunter store has it all it's part of the Ki Linux project known for its extensive Suite of security tools number 18 Drive Droid imagine booting your PC directly from your phone Drive Droid allows you to do just that by turning your phone into a bootable USB drive it supports multiple Linux distributions making it a versatile tool for Tech enthusiasts number 17 Wi-Fi analyzer this app helps you optimize your Wi-Fi network by analyzing signal strength Channel interference and more it can help you find the best Channel for your router reducing interference and improving your network speed number 16 Orbot powered by tour Orbot encrypts your internet traffic and hides your IP address making your online activities Anonymous it can also be used to bypass internet censorship providing access to blocked websites and services number 15 KY net Hunter this is the ultimate mobile penetration testing platform developed by offensive security KY net Hunter brings the full power of Ky Linux to your Android device it even supports usb hid keyboard attacks allowing you to execute commands on a Target computer I I know it can be difficult to get started and just not knowing where to begin that's why I have created the ultimate hackers cheat sheet it's a list of the most popular tools and the commands you need to learn first along with examples on how to use them so make sure you check that out in the comments to get a head start on your hacking Journey number 14 Showdown mobile known as the search engine for The Internet of Things show on mobile lets you discover devices connected to the internet from webcams to traffic lights you can find it all highlighting the importance of securing iot devices number 13 USB Cleaver this app is designed to gather information from connected Windows devices it can extract passwords Wi-Fi keys and other sensitive data running silently in the background for stealthy ethical hacking number 12 net cut control your WiFi network like never before net cut allows you to see all devices connected to your network and gives you the power to block any device with a single T it's perfect for managing your network and ensuring no unauthorized devices are connected number 11 hode this app is a collection of tools for ethical hackers including reconnaissance scanning and security feed tools it even includes Google dorks which can be used to find sensitive information indexed by search engines number 10 Andro dumper this app helps you test the security of your Wi-Fi network by attempting to connect to WPS enabled routers it can reveal if your router's WPS feature is vulnerable prompting you to disable it for better security number nine DLo this is a penetration testing Suite that offers a range of tools for network analysis vulnerability scanning and exploit execution it can perform man-in-the-middle attacks allowing you to intercept and modify Network traffic number eight nessus this app is a remote security scanner that can identify vulnerabilities in your network widely used by Fortune 500 companies for vulnerability assessments it's a trusted tool in the industry number seven Wi-Fi WPS WPA tester this app tests the security of your Wi-Fi network by attempting to connect to WPS enabled routers it generates detailed reports on your network security helping you identify and fix vulnerabilities number six csplit this app is a complete it security toolkit that offers features like Network mapping vulnerability scanning and exploit execution it can even crack Wi-Fi passwords using dictionary attacks making it a powerful tool for network security testing number five nmap known as the network mapper nmap is a powerful Network scanning tool it helps you discover hosts and services on a computer network creating a map of the network nmap has even been featured in movies like The Matrix Reloaded and die hard 4.0 for its impressive capabilities number four fing fing is a network scanner that provides detailed information about the devices connected to your network it can detect unauthorized devices and send you alerts helping you maintain network security number three hackers keyboard this app provides a full PC keyboard layout making it easier to to use command line tools on your mobile device it includes arrow keys and function keys making it ideal for terminal emulators and remote desktop applications number two Droid sheep this app allows you to intercept web session profiles over a network it can capture session cookies allowing you to test the security of web applications and ensure they are protected against session hijacking and finale number one zantai developed by zimperium zantai is a mobile penetration testing toolkit that lets you assess the security of your network it can simulate Advanced attackers to identify vulnerabilities providing detailed reports and recommendations for improvement