---
video_title: "Powerful Hacking Tools [Part 3] #hackingtools #hacking"
video_id: JRi9m6FwRUU
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JRi9m6FwRUU
video_date: 2024-05-30
video_description: |
  Discover the top hacking tools that are revolutionizing cybersecurity in 2024! From network mappers to password crackers, these tools are essential for ethical hackers and security professionals. Watch as we count down the most powerful and versatile tools that can help you identify and mitigate vulnerabilities.
  
  Disclaimer: This video is for educational purposes only. The tools discussed are meant for ethical hacking and security testing. Unauthorized use of these tools is illegal and punishable by law. Always ensure you have proper authorization before using any hacking tools.
  
  In this video we cover:
  🔟 Burpsuite
  9️⃣ JohnTheRipper
  9️⃣ Wireshark
  
  
  
  Subscribe for more cybersecurity insights and ethical hacking tutorials!
  
  #HackingTools #Cybersecurity #EthicalHacking #Top10 #TechTrends2024
---
In this video, I'll share some of the most popular and powerful hacking tools. But before we get started, remember that this is for educational purposes only. Number five, Burp Suite. At number five, we have Burp Suite, a comprehensive platform for web application security testing. Burp Suite is widely used by ethical hackers to perform automated and manual testing of web applications for vulnerabilities. Key features,

intercepting proxy for inspecting traffic, scanner for automated vulnerability detection, intruder tool for automating customized attacks. Number four, John the Ripper. Holding the fourth position is John the Ripper, a fast password cracker designed to detect weak passwords. It's highly versatile and can be used on various operating systems, including Unix, Windows, and macOS. Key features, support for multiple password hash types, customizable with additional modules, efficient brute force and dictionary attack capabilities. Number

three, Wireshark. At number three, we have Wireshark, a network protocol analyzer that lets you capture and interactively browse the traffic running on a computer network. It's essential for diagnosing network issues and analyzing traffic. Key features, deep inspection of hundreds of protocols, live capture and offline analysis.