---
video_title: "Every Cybersecurity Job Explained In 8 Minutes"
video_id: dbf44KokJVg
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dbf44KokJVg
video_date: 2025-04-20
video_description: |
  Get The Pro Hacking Cheatsheets: https://bit.ly/Pro-Hacking-Cheatsheet
  
  🎯 In this video, I’ll walk you through every major cybersecurity career path, from ethical hacking to AI security, so you can find the role that aligns perfectly with your skills, mindset, and long-term goals.
  
  👉 Whether you’re just starting out, switching careers, or leveling up, you’ll walk away with clarity and direction.
  💡 And stick around to the end—I'll reveal an industry secret that most pros wish they knew when they started.
  
  🔍 Career Paths Covered:
  
  Ethical Hacker / Penetration Tester
  Red Team Operator
  Application Security Engineer
  Social Engineering Specialist
  SOC Analyst
  Incident Responder
  Threat Hunter
  Digital Forensics Expert
  Security Architect
  Cloud Security Engineer
  Network Security Engineer
  Security Auditor
  Privacy Officer
  Security Researcher
  IoT Security Specialist
  AI Security Engineer
---
What if I told you that the cyber security career you're chasing might not be the right fit for your skills and interests? With over 3.5 million unfilled cyber security positions worldwide, there's never been a better time to enter this field. But choosing the wrong path could cost you years of career satisfaction. I'm going to break down every major cyber security career path in the next 11 minutes, and by the end, you'll have clarity on which one aligns with your natural strengths. Stay

until the end where I'll share an industry secret that most cyber security professionals wish they knew when starting out. First up, ethical hackers. These are the professionals companies hire to break into their systems legally before the bad guys do. Your day starts by planning which systems you'll target. You'll run specialized tools to scan for weaknesses, then use creative problem solving to exploit vulnerabilities manually. We'll document everything

meticulously and present findings that executives can understand. The average salary, $120,000 with senior positions reaching $180,000 plus. But the real thrill is the constant variety. No two days are ever the same. Who thrives here? You're

perfect for ethical hacking. If you're naturally curious, enjoy solving puzzles, think creatively, and have a slight rebellious streak. All channeled ethically, of course. You prefer creating your own path rather than following established procedures. If the hacking path gets you excited and you're the type who wants to dive in faster, I've got something that'll help make you a pro hacker without all the trial and error so you don't waste months trying to piece everything together from scratch. I've already done the heavy

lifting for you. I put together the ultimate hacking cheat sheets, a toolkit of over 10 prolevel resources designed to help you skip the trial and error and focus on what actually works. Inside, you'll get step-by-step guides for privilege escalation, reverse shells, and exploit development, a command line mastery cheat sheet so you know exactly what tools to use and how to use them, the hacker's ultimate checklist to never miss a critical step, and a complete pro hacking guide packed with realorld hacking techniques and foundational skills. Whether you're starting fresh switching careers or just want to level up faster, this bundle clears the noise and gives you a clear path forward. Just hit the link in the description when you're ready to get started. Next, red

team operators. These professionals simulate advanced attacks against organizations over extended periods. Think of ethical hacking, but with longer engagements and deeper objectives. Your daily work involves developing custom attack strategies, bypassing security controls, and maintaining persistent access without detection. You will work in teams with specialized roles and coordinate complex operations. Salary range

$135,000 to $200,000 for experienced operators. Who thrives here? Strategic thinkers who enjoy long-term planning, have exceptional teamwork skills, and can think like sophisticated attackers. Application security engineers find vulnerabilities, specifically in software during development. Your day involves code reviews, security testing, and collaborating directly with developers. Average compensation

$115,000 with principal positions exceeding $170,000. This path is ideal for those who enjoy coding but want to specialize in security. You're the bridge between developers and security teams. Social engineering specialists focus on human vulnerabilities through techniques like fishing and pre-texting. You'll design and execute campaigns that test employee security awareness without disrupting business operations. Typical salary

$15,000 to $150,000. This path is perfect for those with strong psychological insights, excellent communication skills, and who understand human behavior patterns. SOC analysts monitor security alerts and respond to potential threats in real time. Her day revolves around security monitoring tools, investigating alerts and escalating significant incidents. Starting salary, $85,000, progressing to $115,000 for senior analysts. This path

offers excellent entry points into cyber security, but comes with challenges, shift work, alert fatigue, and reactive rather than proactive work. Who succeeds here? Detail- oriented individuals who stay calm under pressure, follow procedures meticulously, and can maintain focus during long monitoring sessions. Incident responders contain active threats after breaches occur. Your work starts when something goes wrong. We will analyze compromise

indicators, isolate affected systems, remove malicious components, and restore operations. Average compensation $110,000 to $160,000. This path suits those who thrive in high pressure situations, can make quick decisions with limited information, and enjoy solving complex problems under time constraints. Threat hunters proactively search for signs of compromise within networks before alarms trigger. Your day involves creating and testing hypotheses about potential attacker activities, analyzing data patterns, and investigating suspicious behaviors. Typical salary, $115,000 to

$175,000. This path combines elements of both offensive and defensive security. Perfect for analytical minds who enjoy detective work and pattern recognition. Digital forensics experts analyze evidence after security incidents. Your work involves preserving digital evidence, performing detailed technical analysis, and potentially supporting legal proceedings. Salary range $100,000

to $160,000. This specialization suits methodical individuals with exceptional attention to detail who enjoy deep technical investigations and can document findings with courtroom level precision. Security architects design secure systems from the ground up. Your typical day involves developing security frameworks, evaluating technology solutions and ensuring security controls work together cohesively. Average compensation $140,000 with senior positions exceeding $200,000. This path requires extensive

experience and broad knowledge but offer strategic influence and respect. Who excels here? Big picture thinkers who can translate business requirements into technical solutions. Communicate effectively with executives and balance security with usability. Cloud security engineers focus on securing AWS, Azure, and other cloud environments. Your daily

work involves implementing security controls in cloud platforms, automating security processes, and ensuring compliant configurations. Typical salary $125,000 to $190,000. This rapidly growing specialization is perfect for those who enjoy working with cuttingedge technologies and have both cloud and security expertise. Network security engineers implement and manage security devices across organizational networks. Your day involves configuring firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and managing network access controls. Salary

range $15,000 to $160,000. This path suits those with strong networking backgrounds who enjoy building and maintaining defensive infrastructure. Security auditors ensure organizations meet regulatory requirements and industry standards. Your work involves assessing security controls, identifying compliance gaps, and providing recommendations for improvement. Average compensation $95,000 to $150,000. This path is ideal for those

who value process documentation and structured approaches to security. Privacy officers focus specifically on protecting personal data in compliance with laws like GDPR and CCPA. Your day involves developing privacy policies, conducting impact assessments, and advising on privacy by different initiatives. Typical salary $115,000 to $180,000. This specialization suits those with interests in both legal and technical aspects of data protection. IoT security

specialists focus on securing connected devices across various industries. Your day involves testing hardware, analyzing firmware, and securing communication protocols. Salary range $120,000 to $175,000. This specialization is perfect for those fascinated by the intersection of physical and digital security. AI security engineers work on securing machine learning systems. Your work

involves testing ML models against adversarial attacks, implementing defensive mechanisms, and developing secure AI architectures. Average compensation, $140,000 to $200,000. This cuttingedge field is ideal for those with both AI or ML knowledge and security expertise. Oh, and if ethical hacking stood out to you, those cheat sheets I mentioned are waiting in the description. Feel free to check them out when you're ready to get started.