---
video_title: "Every Level Of Hacking Explained in 8 Minutes"
video_id: AP_O-Xo0J78
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AP_O-Xo0J78
video_date: 2025-06-24
video_description: |
  Try Cape now and secure your digital life: https://bit.ly/45CVU9I
  Get 33% OFF By Using Code: PRIVACYMATTERS33
  
  🎯 Every Level of Hacking Explained in 8 Minutes 
  Think hacking is just hoodie-wearing teens in dark basements? Think again.
  
  From your cousin who "fixed" your WiFi to elite state-sponsored cyber operatives who don’t exist on LinkedIn, this video breaks down every level of hacking—funny, fast, and brutally honest. Whether you’re a curious beginner, a certified ethical hacker, or a bug bounty hunter grinding for that next $50 reward, you’ll see where you land on the pyramid of cyber skills.
  
  🔓 Levels Covered:
  
  Level 0: The Noob (hello “password123”)
  Level 1: The Script Kiddie (cut, paste, pray)
  Level 2: The Ethical Hacker (patches, not breaches)
  Level 3: The Pen Tester (corporate ninja mode)
  Level 4: The Bug Bounty Hunter (sleep-deprived caffeine junkies)
  Level 5: The Red Teamer (HR will always click the link)
  Level 6: The Nation-State Operative (classified AF)
  Level 7: The APT Group Leader (the final boss of hacking)
  
  💡 Protect Yourself from Hackers (Yes, Even the Script Kiddies):
  SIM swap attacks are real—and deadly to your digital life. Hackers can hijack your phone number and bypass SMS 2FA, gaining access to your most sensitive accounts. That’s why we recommend Cape, a mobile carrier built for security from the ground up.
  
  🛡️ Cape protects you from SIM swaps, metadata leaks, and more.
  No ads. No data selling. Just private connectivity trusted by cybersecurity pros.
  🧪 Currently in beta and easy to try—just $1.50 for your first month.
  💸 Use my 33% OFF code for your first 6 months!
  👉 Check it out here – https://bit.ly/45CVU9I
---
Level zero, the noob, aka your friend who fixed your Wi-Fi password. You know this person all too well. They stumbled upon your neighbor's Wi-Fi password. Password 1 2 3. And now they're convinced they're the next Morpheus from the Matrix, dodging digital bullets in a trench code of their own imagination.

Their hacking education, a single episode of Mr. Robot, and a crash course in outdated tech lingo like mainframe and firewall used with zero irony. their greatest triumph, changing their Instagram username to Cyber Ninja and flooding their feed with command prompt screenshots captioned, "Just hacked NASA." They might even brag about cracking a capture, blissfully unaware it's just a bot test. Level one, the script kitty, aka the human copy paste machine. These digital wannabes have

just discovered GitHub and believe downloading someone else's code transforms them into elite hackers overnight. They execute scripts they can't even read, shamelessly claiming credit for exploits crafted by real coders, and their desktops are a chaotic wasteland. Their vocabulary is a glorious mess of poned, noob, and aggressive keyboard smashes meant to terrify their little sister. They might even record themselves hacking with dramatic music, only to accidentally format their hard drive. Fun fact, they've probably locked themselves out of their own computer more times than they've successfully hacked anything, turning their PC into a digital fortress they can't breach. Level two, the

ethical hacker, aka I swear I'm one of the good guys. Step into the noble realm of white hats and high-minded intentions. These budding hackers have realized that staying legal is not only ethical but pretty cool. They're kneedeep in studying for their C certification. Setting up home labs with racks of servers that cost more than their car and patiently explaining to their parents for the 47th time that yes, their late night typing is a legit career move and no, they won't end up in handcuffs. They might even volunteer at

local hackathons to prove their goodwill. Armed with a laptop with Kali Linux on their biggest struggle, trying to look cool at parties while admitting they're the boring kind of hacker who patches vulnerabilities for companies instead of pulling off heist. Three, the penetration testing professional, aka I got the license to hack person. These are the hackers who've hit the big leagues. They trade hoodies for business casual, polish up LinkedIn profiles with buzzwords like ethical hacking expert, and can explain the intricacies of SQL injection to a board of directors without a single pone slipping out.

They've achieved the holy grail, a paycheck for thinking like a criminal while keeping their record spotless. Their days involve stress- testing corporate firewalls and dodging HR's endless compliance forms. But here's the kicker. They spend 80% of their time drafting detailed reports that executives skim for two seconds, justifying why that one critical vulnerability could sink the company and fighting the urge to scream when a clueless manager asks if they can just hack the competition real quick to gain an edge. Before I move on to the next level, what if you wanted to protect yourself from hackers, no matter their skill level? Take SIM swap attacks for

instance. This is a very powerful hacking tactic that can ruin your life because some hacker can basically steal your phone number to hijack and get instant access to your accounts. So, how does it happen? Hackers target your phone number by tricking your carrier, often with stolen personal info like your name or address grabbed from data breaches. They pose as you claiming a lost or damaged SIM and convince the carrier to reassign your number to a new SIM they control. Crazy. Once they've

got it, they intercept your calls, texts, and two-factor authentication codes, unlocking your accounts, banking, email, you name it, all in minutes. It's a tactic used by both scriptkitties and pro hackers. That's why I'm so glad that a mobile carrier such as Cape exist. Unlike traditional telecom giants that profit off your personal data, Cape was built from the ground up to protect it. Although it's currently in beta, Cape already provides advanced protections against SIM swaps, metadata leaks, and advanced threats. Cape ensures your

mobile security starts at the network level. No data selling, no invasive profiling, just secure private connectivity, trusted by leaders in cyber security, and super easy to get started in three simple steps. By the way, try Cape risk-free for just $1.50 for your first month. If you like it, then use my 33% off code for the first 6 months of Cape. Make sure to check out

the link in the description. Level four, the bug bounty hunter, aka living the digital dream. Sort of. These modern-day bounty hunters roam from coffee shop to coffee shop. Laptops glowing, hunting vulnerabilities in major websites for a payout. They're the Instagram idols of

the hacking world, sipping lattes while raking in bug bounties. Or so the story goes. In reality, for every $10,000 jackpot tale you hear, thousands of researchers grind for months, sifting through code for a measly $50 reward just to afford their next caffeine fix. They might even camp out at a 24-hour diner fueled by energy drinks and desperation. They've perfected the art of looking insanely busy, headphones on, fingers flying, while secretly debating if that potential XSS vulnerability is worth another 14-hour debugging marathon. their browser bookmarks, a

wild 90% testing tools, and 10% therapy websites to cope with the grind. Level five, the redteamer, aka the hacking ninjas. These seasoned pros are the cyber equivalent of a SWAT team. Trained to storm corporate defenses with precision. They craft sophisticated attacks, think spear fishing emails, custom malware, and zeroday exploits, pushing security to its limits. Their

battle scars come from late night ops like a 3:00 a.m. drill where they cracked a network in under an hour. Their war tales triumphs like outsmarting a firewall with a rogue USB drop and epic fails like the rookie who triggered a real alarm during a test. They know the IT crew will scramble, but they also know Sarah from HR will click that fake bonus check email even at this ungodly hour. They've ditched the dream

of impenetrable systems, embracing the thrill of chaos instead, fueled by midnight energy shots to keep the pressure on. Level six, the nation state operative, aka my job doesn't exist on LinkedIn. We're venturing into shadowy territory where job descriptions are locked in classified vaults and coffee meetings occur in soundproof rooms with armed guards. These hackers work for governments, juggling security clearances that require more paperwork than a home mortgage and can't even hint to their spouse what they did at work. Vague murmurss of office stuff are their go-to excuse. Their missions might

involve tapping into enemy networks or planting digital trip wires. They operate in the silent trenches of international cyber warfare where a single line of code can shift geopolitical power or spark a global crisis. Their skills are the stuff of legend. Their existence is whispered about in conspiracy circles and their stress levels are likely astronomical, fueled by the weight of national security. Level seven, the AP group leader, aka the legendary hackers. These

are the masterminds orchestrating advanced persistent threats. Attacks that unfold over years, not hours, with the precision of a grand chess master. They're patient, methodical, and always three moves ahead. Plotting in secret while script kitties flail at defacing websites with neon graffiti. Their strategies are jaw-dropping.

Infiltrating a power grid to cause blackouts, slipping into a bank's core systems to siphon millions, or embedding spyware in government networks, all while leaving no digital footprint until the damage erupts. Just last night, one group allegedly compromised a European energy firm, a move still under investigation. Their war stories are the stuff of legend, pulling off a multi-year espionage campaign against a rival nation, raking in a $50 million ransomware payout, and a near miss when a careless team member almost leaked a chat log to the NSA. They coordinate teams across continents. Coders in Asia, social engineers in Europe, and malware experts in South America, maintaining operational security so tight it would make James Bond jealous. with encrypted

comms and burner devices swapped like candy. Their campaigns are so sophisticated that their unmasking, like the 2021 Solar Winds revelation, sends shock waves through international headlines, leaving governments scrambling. They know the feds are on their tail. But they also know Jenny from compliance will still fall for that urgent tax refund email. Even now, they're the final bosses of the hacking world, pulling strings from the digital shadows with a cool, calculated demeanor, sipping espresso as the world burns.