---
video_title: "How to Learn Hacking FAST in 2025 (No BS Guide)"
video_id: -TVybdODKO4
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TVybdODKO4
video_date: 2025-04-27
video_description: |
  How to hack
  Get The Hacking Cheatsheets here: https://bit.ly/Pro-Hacking-Cheatsheet
  Setting up Kali Linux on VirtualBox Guide: https://www.kali.org/docs/virtualization/install-virtualbox-guest-vm/
  
  Want to learn how to hack like a professional? In this video, I’ll show you the fastest way to get started with ethical hacking — even if you’re a complete beginner.
  
  We’ll cover everything you need: 
  ✅ How to set up your hacking lab safely using VirtualBox or VMware
  ✅ How to install Kali Linux — the #1 hacking operating system
  ✅ Networking basics every hacker must know (IP, DNS, Ports, and Protocols)
  ✅ The 5 Phases of Hacking: Reconnaissance, Scanning, Gaining Access, Maintaining Access, and Covering Tracks
  ✅ Best tools for hacking: Nmap, Metasploit, Burp Suite, Wireshark, Nessus, Enum4Linux, Netcat, and more
  ✅ How to gather information using OSINT, scan for vulnerabilities, exploit systems, and stay undetected
  ✅ Pro techniques like SQL Injection, Web Application Exploitation, and SMB Enumeration
  ✅ Advanced tips on creating backdoors, using rootkits, and cleaning your tracks like a real hacker
  
  🔒 Disclaimer: This video is for educational purposes only. Always have permission before testing any systems.
  
  ➤ Get the Ultimate Hacking Cheatsheet here (link) – master ethical hacking faster and smarter!
  
  If you’ve ever searched "how to hack" and felt overwhelmed, this is the video that breaks everything down simply, step-by-step. Whether you're aiming to become a cybersecurity expert, a penetration tester, or just want to learn how hacking really works, you’re in the right place.
  
  Hit LIKE if you find this helpful and SUBSCRIBE for more real-world hacking tutorials!
  
  Keywords: hacking tools, how to hack, pro hacker techniques, Kali Linux, ethical hacking, cybersecurity, Metasploit, hacking tutorial, hacking guide, learn to hack, hacker tips.
---
I've helped thousands learn professional ethical hacking. And if you want to master it fast, here's the shortest guide you'll ever need. First things first, you need to get your hacking lab set up. If you don't have a proper setup, no worries. You can easily get started by setting up a new virtual machine on VMware or Virtual Box. This

way, you create a barrier and protect your main operating system, such as Windows, from your hacking lab. Pro tip, set up snapshots on your VM. This functionality gives you a undo button so you can easily roll back to a clean and mission ready hacking lab if you break something. Install Kali Linux. This is the go-to OS for hacking. It comes

preloaded with all the tools you need to get started and then some like end mapap, Metas-Ploit, Burp Suite, and Wireshark. Remember, this video is for educational purposes only. Always ensure you have permission before engaging in any hacking activities. Before we dive into the hacking process and tools, you should get familiar with networking basics. Things like IP addresses, DNS, ports, and protocols. Brush up on your

understanding of how data flows through a network. This will separate you from 99% of beginners who jump in with both feet into hacking without knowing any basics. Now, before we dive into the phases of hacking, I know it can feel overwhelming with all the tools and techniques and commands you have to learn. That's why I've created the ultimate hacking cheat sheet designed to give you a shortcut to mastering hacking faster. Stick around till the end and I'll show you how to grab it in five phases of hacking. Reconnaissance. This

is where you gather information about your target. Scanning. Find open ports and weak points. Gaining access. Exploit those weaknesses to break in.

Maintaining access. Create back doors to stay in secretly. Covering tracks. Erase logs and hide your footprints. Write this down. If there is one thing you

should remember from this video, it's this process. I just gave you the hacker's blueprint. Now, let's dive deeper into the different phases and drop some golden nuggets. Phase one, reconnaissance. This is where you collect all available information about your target before launching any attack.

Knowledge is power. The more you know about your target, the better your chances for success. Passive reconnaissance. In this phase, you gather information without directly interacting with the target. Open source intelligence tools like Showdown and Google Dorking can reveal a treasure trove of information. Showdan is like

Google for hackers. It can show you which devices are publicly exposed to the internet. From webcams to industrial control systems. Just a few clicks can reveal dangerous vulnerabilities. Active reconnaissance directly engaging with the target system. Scanning tools like

NAPAP or Netcat are your best friends here. Use N Map to discover open ports, services running, and the operating system of the target. Never underestimate the power of a simple who is lookup. You can get domain registration details, email addresses, and even physical addresses of your target, which is valuable for social engineering. Phase two, scanning and enumeration. Once you've gathered your

intel, you need to scan for vulnerabilities and enumerate details about your target. Vulnerability scanning. You need tools to check for weaknesses. Nessus and Nikto are great tools to start scanning for known vulnerabilities on the target system. Nessus can scan for 50,000 plus vulnerabilities, but beware, just finding vulnerabilities isn't enough.

Knowing how to exploit them is key. Enumeration. This subphase dives deeper. Use tools like Netcat or Enim for Linux or Linux systems to get detailed information such as usernames, shares, and group memberships from the target. SMB enumeration is a gold mine. You can

gain detailed insights into the target systems network shares, users, and system configurations using SMB client. Phase three, gaining access. Now, this is where the magic happens. If you've done your prep right, you should be able to exploit vulnerabilities and gain access to the system. Exploiting vulnerabilities. Using tools like

metas-loit, you can exploit vulnerabilities in the system. A classic example is exploiting a buffer overflow in software or using SQL injection to get into a database. The metas-ploit framework is a must-learn. It contains hundreds of exploits, auxiliary modules, and payloads for different types of attacks, including reverse shells and web application attacks. Web application exploitation. Web applications are a

common target for hackers. Burp Suite is your best tool here for intercepting HTTP requests, finding flaws like XSS, SQL injection, and CSRF. SQL injection isn't just for getting access to data. With advanced SQL injections, you can escalate privileges and potentially take full control of a system or database. Phase four, maintaining access. Once you

have access, you want to stay in. In penetration testing, this is crucial to mimic what a real attacker might do to ensure they can access the system later. Back doors. Tools like Netcat or reverse shells allow you to maintain access to the target system. After gaining access, creating a persistent backdoor is key.

Even if the system gets rebooted or the target detects an initial intrusion, a back door allows you to access it again. Root kits and malware. Now, we're touching on advanced stuff. Rootkits can modify the kernel of a system to allow permanent administrative access without detection. Detecting and removing these requires advanced knowledge of how an operating system works. Phase five,

clearing tracks. A good hacker doesn't leave traces of their actions, ensuring that the target system isn't leading back to them or corrupting systems. Use tools like log cleaner to erase logs that show your exploits. Time stomping is an advanced technique where you modify the timestamp of log entries to cover your tracks. It's often used to delete evidence of your activities.

Finally, you should clean up. This ensures that no back doors or tools you've left behind can be used after the test. You don't want to leave anything that could be exploited in the future. While it's essential to clean up after yourself, remember when you're doing a penetration test for a client, always make sure they're aware of your activities beforehand and get explicit consent. When I started out, I remember feeling completely overwhelmed by all the tools, commands, and techniques I had to learn. That's exactly why I

created the ultimate hacking cheat sheet to give you a shortcut to mastering hacking as fast as possible. With everything you need to know in one place, you'll save time, avoid frustration, and be able to focus on what really matters. Stop wasting time searching through forums and videos. Get instant access to the exact commands, techniques, and methods that professional hackers use daily. Grab it now from the link in the description.

Happy hacking.