---
video_title: "How To Get Hired As An Ethical Hacker FAST in 2026"
video_id: 2jDMTeKekCk
channel_name: "Privacy Matters"
channel_id: UCVrrEzxFvIDjM0w5a8LKYwg
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2jDMTeKekCk
video_date: 2026-01-24T00:55:47+00:00
video_description: |
  🔥 ZTM Ethical Hacker Course: https://bit.ly/3ZqB34W
  🔥 Get your personalized cybersecurity roadmap: https://bit.ly/4k0TdUr
  🔥All ZTM Courses: https://bit.ly/4qEQQJB
  🎯 Join The Hacker Academy: https://bit.ly/The-Hacker-Academy
  
  Stop wasting years learning hacking the wrong way. This is the exact 12-month roadmap from complete beginner to getting hired in cybersecurity - no bs, just what actually works in 2026.
  
  TIMESTAMPS:
  0:00 - Learn Hacking in 2026
  0:25 - What Separates Beginners from Pros
  1:00 - The 3 Things You Actually Need
  1:13 - Practical Hacker Tips
  2:20 - Weekly Roadmap That Works
  3:20 - Zero to Mastery
  5:12 - Month-by-Month Roadmap (0 to Hired)
  6:36 - The Hacker Academy
  7:25 - Success Mindset
  8:40 - Take Action NOW
  
  FREE RESOURCES:
  TryHackMe: https://tryhackme.com
  HackTheBox: https://hackthebox.com
  
  
  THE 12-MONTH PATH:
  Months 1-3: Foundation (lab setup, beginner challenges, first tools)
  Months 4-6: Specialization (pick focus, bug bounties, advanced projects)
  Months 7-9: Monetization ($5K-$15K side income)
  Months 10-12: Get hired or go freelance
  
  💬 ACCOUNTABILITY: Comment "In the next 24 hours I will ___"
  
  #ethicalhacking #cybersecurity #bugbounty #hacking #pentesting #learncybersecurity 
  
  ⚠️ Educational purposes only. Always get authorization before testing systems.
---
I wasted 3 years learning hacking the wrong way. Jumped between tutorials, collected certifications, ran tools I didn't understand. Then I met someone who went from zero to hired in 8 months. And they showed me the three things that actually matter. Everything else is a distraction. This is what I wish someone

told me on day one. Let's get real for a second. Most hacking tutorials are teaching you wrong. They say, "Install Kali Linux. Run this tool. Follow these

steps." That's not hacking. That's following a recipe. Here's what actually separates beginners from people who get hired. Beginner thinking is, I found 20 vulnerabilities. Professional thinking

is, I found three vulnerabilities that when chained together, let me steal your customer database and expose you to $15 million in fines. See the difference? One is impressive to other beginners. The other gets you paid. The real learning path is simpler than you think.

Most people overcomplicate this. You don't need to master 47 different tools. You don't need to get five certifications before starting. You don't need to understand every protocol in existence. And you definitely don't need to spend $10,000 on courses. You

need three things. Understanding how systems actually work, hands-on practice breaking them, and the ability to explain what you found and why it matters. That's it. Here's what you're doing this week, not next month. This week, day one, see like a hacker. Open

any website you use. Press F12 in your browser. Click the network tab. Refresh the page. You're now seeing what hackers see. Every request your browser makes,

every piece of data being sent. Pick one request. Click [music] on it. Look at what URL it's calling, what data is being sent, what comes back. That's it.

Just observe. You're training your eyes. Day two and three, build something small. Don't just watch tutorials. Build a simple tool. Here's your first

project, a basic port scanner in Python. You'll write code that checks if specific ports are open on a target. This is maybe 15 lines, but you're learning how network scanning works, how to write actual code, and how tools like N MAPAP work under the hood. Day 4 through 7, your first challenge. Sign up for try hackme. It's free. Do the

complete beginner path. Here's the rule. Struggle for at least 30 minutes before looking at hints. Why? Because that struggle is literally your brain forming new connections. Skip it and you're just

copy pasting without learning. End of week one, you should have watched network traffic on three different websites, written your first security tool, even if it's simple, completed at least two try hackme rooms, and taken notes on everything. That's more progress than 90% of people who say they want to learn hacking. Here's the weekly road map that actually works. Monday and Tuesday, build tools. Each week, build

something [music] new. Week one, a port scanner. Week two, a subdomain finder. Week three, a web scraper. Week four, a password strength checker. Keep [music]

them simple. The goal isn't perfect code. It's understanding how things work. Wednesday and Thursday, play defense. Set up a simple home lab.

Virtual Box is free. Kaye Linux is free. Metas-loitable is a free vulnerable machine. Attack the vulnerable machine. But here's the twist. Set up logging and

watch what defenders would see when you [music] attack. This is the secret sauce. Understanding both sides makes you dangerous. Friday through Sunday challenges. Pick one. Hack the box or

try hackme machine. Spend the whole weekend on it if needed. No shortcuts. Struggle through it. Then write up how you solved it. These writeups become

your portfolio. Now look, you can piece this together from free resources. That's what I did. It took me 3 years because I kept jumping around with no clear direction. Or you can follow a structured path. If you really want to

learn how hacking works from the ground up, you need quality content that shows you how these attacks work from the inside out. That's why I recommend Zero to Mastery. Here's specifically why. If you're interested in cyber but not sure which path to take, their career path quiz will give you a personalized road map that tells you exactly what to learn to hit your goals. Whether that's ethical hacking, penetration testing, cloud security, or something else entirely. Their courses teach you step

by step how to become a security expert in 2026. You won't just learn about password cracking or SQL injection. You'll learn how to use the tools yourself, build your own scripts, and understand the networking fundamentals behind attacks. With their project-based learning methodology, you'll actually be building real world security projects as you learn, not just watching videos. But once you start, you're going to get stuck. Everyone does. That's why they

have an active Discord community with over 500,000 fellow students learning right alongside you. These aren't just people who will keep you accountable and share the journey. There are also instructors and TAs in there ready to answer any question, no matter how small. Most online communities are chaotic, but ZTM is organized with channels for every topic. Ethical hacking, password security, job hunting, resume tips, even finding an accountability buddy to stay on track.

And if you're watching this because you want to make this a career, ZTM's Master the Coding interview courses will help you with practice questions, [music] resume advice, and strategies to crush any tech interview. Because zero to mastery isn't just about learning. It's about getting real world experience while you learn, building confidence, and getting results that'll help you turn this into a career. There's a reason they have a 4.9 on Trustpilot and have helped thousands of people land jobs in tech. Grab the exclusive

discount for zero to masteries courses from the links below. Take the quick quiz to find your perfect path. [music] Jump into worldclass courses, learn alongside a massive community, and build real projects with your new skills. Here's what the actual path looks like. Months 1 through three foundation. Set

up your lab environment. Complete beginner challenges on Try Hackme. Build three to five simple tools. Write up everything you learn. Join security communities. By month three, you can

navigate Kali Linux, understand basic attacks, and have a small portfolio. Months four through six specialization. Pick your focus area. Do two challenges per week. Build more advanced tools.

Join bug bounty programs. Submit reports. Most will be duplicates. That's normal. By month six, you have deep knowledge in one area and maybe your first bug bounty success. Month seven

through nine, monetization. Offer free assessments to local businesses. Convert some to paid work, $1,500 to $3,000 each. Set up freelance profiles. Start getting paid for your skills. By month

9, you've made $5,000 to $15,000 from side work. Months 10 through 12, acceleration. Get your first certification, EJPT or PNPT. Apply to junior security roles. Scale your freelance work. Build your reputation

publicly. By month 12, you're choosing between job offers or going full-time freelance. Reality check. This assumes 15 to 20 hours per week of actual practice, not video watching, building, and doing. Okay. So, structured courses

give you the foundation. Zero to mastery gets you the road map, but when you're actually doing the work, you need three things. The exact commands and techniques pros use, someone to ask when you're completely stuck, and a community that keeps you accountable daily. That's why I built the Hacker Academy. This isn't another course you buy and never finish. It's designed for people who are

actually doing the work and need the tactical stuff that courses don't teach. [music] Here's what you get immediately. The Pro Hacker starter kit. 70 plus pages of cheat sheets. These are my actual reference sheets from real penetration tests. When I'm on an

engagement and need to remember the exact end mapap command for OS detection or the right metas-loit payload for a Windows 10 target or how to clean logs on a Linux box, I'm pulling from these sheets. We're deliberately keeping this smaller than those massive Discord servers where your question gets buried. When you join, introduce yourself, where you're at, what you're struggling with, what your goals are. Within 24 hours, someone who was in your exact position 2 months ago tells you exactly what worked for them. As you complete labs, help others, and participate, you unlock bonuses. Level three, free access to

hackifi.io. Let's talk about what actually makes people succeed. Getting stuck is not failure. Last week, I spent 4 hours stuck on a privilege escalation.

Finally figured it out. I was targeting the wrong service. But in those four hours, I tried six different techniques and learned why each one didn't work. That's not wasted time. That's how you build deep understanding. Compare

yourself to past you, not to others. You'll see people on Twitter finding zero days and speaking at conferences. Don't compare your month two to their year five. Instead, ask, "Can I do things this week I couldn't last month? Do I understand concepts that confused me before? Am I making progress? That's

the only comparison that matters. All right, let's wrap this up. You now have the complete road map. But here's the thing. Information alone changes nothing. Now, you've got three resources

to accelerate this journey. First is zero to mastery. Take the career path quiz. The link is below. Get your personalized road map and join over 400,000 students learning together.

There's an exclusive discount in the description. Second is the hacker academy. You get the 70page cheat sheet kit immediately. Join the weekly live Q&A sessions and access hands-on labs. The community link is also in the description. And third is this channel.

Subscribe for weekly hacking breakdowns, real world techniques, no BS. Hit the bell so you don't miss anything. Before you go, make this public. Comment right now and say, "In the next 24 hours, I will." [music] And then add your specific action. Make yourself

accountable because here's the truth. Most people will watch this feel motivated and do nothing. The 5% who actually take action will be in a completely different place in 6 months. Which one are you? Close YouTube. Open

Virtual Box. Start building. I'll see you in the hacker